                                         Document of
                                      The World Bank




                                                                  Report No: 29121

                         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                         (IDA-33030)

                                            ON A

                                           CREDIT

          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR9.9 MILLION (US$13.65 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                              TO

                                          ALBANIA

                                           FOR AN

                            EMERGENCY ROAD REPAIR PROJECT




                                         June 28, 2004




Infrastructure and Energy Services Department
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region


                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2003)

                    Currency Unit = LEK
                             LEK1 = US$ US$0.00952
                            US$ 1 = LEK105

              (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2002)
                        LEK1 = US$0.00833
                          US$1 = LEK120

        (Exchange Rate Effective at Appraisal, November 1999)
                        LEK1 = US$0.00769
                          US$1 = LEK130

                           FISCAL YEAR
                     January 1 to December 31


              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BMS     -     Bridge Management System
CAS     -     Country Assistance Strategy
DCA     -     Development Credit Agreement
DRD     -     District Road Directorate
EIB     -     European Investment Bank
EIRR    -     Economic Internal Rate of Return
EMP     -     Environmental Management Plan
ERRP    -     Emergency Road Repair Project
EU      -     European Union
        -     Euro (currency)
GoA     -     Government of Albania
GDP     -     Gross Domestic Product
GNP     -     Gross National Product
GPN     -     General Procurement Notice
GRD     -     General Roads Directorate
HDM     -     Highway Design and Maintenance Model
IBRD    -     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB     -     International Competitive Bidding
ICR     -     Implementation Completion Report
IDA     -     International Development Association
IFIs    -     International Financial Institutions
IRI     -     International Roughness Index
IS      -     International Shopping
km      -     kilometer (metric system)
m       -     meter (metric system)
MoF     -     Ministry of Finance
MoTT    -     Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications

MTR           -      Mid-Term Review
NBF           -      Not Bank Financed
NCB           -      National Competitive Bidding
NPV           -      Net Present Value
NRSC          -      National Road Safety Council
NS            -      National Shopping
PAD           -      Project Appraisal Document
PC            -      Project Coordinator
PIP           -      Project Implementation Plan
PIU           -      Project Implementation Unit
PMS           -      Pavement Management System
QAG           -      Quality Assurance Group
QCBS          -      Quality- and Cost-based Selection
RDB           -      Road Data Bank
RMP           -      Road Maintenance Project
RRD           -      Regional Roads Directorate
SA            -      Special Account
SOE           -      Statements of Expenditure
SPN           -      Specific Procurement Notice
sq km         -      square kilometer (metric system)
TA            -      Technical Assistance
TEN           -      Trans-European Network
TOR           -      Terms of Reference
UNDP          -      United Nations Development Program
USTDA         -      United States Trade and Development Agency
voc           -      vehicle operating costs
vpd           -      vehicles per day




                           Vice President:    Shigeo Katsu, ECAVP
                        Country Director:     Orsalia Kalantzopoulos, ECC04
          Sector Director/Sector Manager:     Hossein Razavi/Motoo Konishi, ECSIE
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Cesar Queiroz/Olivier Le Ber, ECSIE

                                           ALBANIA
                               Emergency Road Repair Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              7
6. Sustainability                                                                  8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   9
8. Lessons Learned                                                               10
9. Partner Comments                                                              10
10. Additional Information                                                       11
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             13
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             14
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             16
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             18
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             19
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                20
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            21
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution                                                 22
Map: IBRD 30535R

Project ID: P068853                                                  Project Name: Emergency Road Repair Project
Team Leader: Cesar Queiroz                                           TL Unit: ECSIE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 28, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Emergency Road Repair Project                            L/C/TF Number: IDA-33030
   Country/Department: ALBANIA                                                            Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (79%); Central government administration
                            (21%)
                  Theme: Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction (P);
                            Infrastructure services for private sector development (P); Rural
                            services and infrastructure (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 09/16/1999                                     Effective: 03/15/2000                04/14/2000
     Appraisal: 11/10/1999                                         MTR: 06/01/2001                  12/03/2001
      Approval: 12/07/1999                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF ALBANIA/MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS AND
                                           TRANSPORT
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager/Director: Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                               Arntraud Hartmann
Sector Manager/Director:        Motoo Kosnishi-Hossein Razavi                  Eva Molnar-Ricardo Halperin
Team Leader at ICR:             Cesar Queiroz-Olivier Le Ber                   Cesar Queiroz-Elena Kastlerova
ICR Primary Author:             Luis Revuelta


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The project development objective (PDO) was defined in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) as "an
emergency operation aimed at restoring the serviceability of the main route connecting the Adriatic Sea
(Port of Durrës) to Kosovo, and of the Berat - Corovodë national road. Both roads were damaged by heavy
refugee convoys, humanitarian aid, and NATO vehicles during the Kosovo crisis."

The project, which was prepared in accordance with Bank's policy (OP/BP 8.50: Emergency Recovery
Assistance), was defined as an emergency project because the North-South road axis was in such poor
condition and deteriorating at a rapid pace, and because the Road Maintenance Project, Credit 3683-ALB
(RMP), would not be ready before mid-2002. Without immediate support from the international
community, further deterioration would result, comprising road safety and leading to the eventual
impassability of the road. Secondary benefits, which remained unquantified, included the promotion of the
development of the local construction and consulting industries through their involvement in road
construction contracts, and the improvement in access to the north-east of the country, one of the poorest
parts of Albania.

The project was not listed in the Albania Country Assistance Strategy Paper (CAS), dated July 1998,
because it represented a response to a regional emergency that occurred after the last CAS discussion.
However, the project supported the broad CAS objective of poverty reduction, as it would benefit the
poorest and most isolated region (the north eastern region) of the country by improving access to markets
and generating employment in the region. It would also support: (i) the environmental and social objectives
of the CAS by repairing the damage caused by the heavy traffic relating to the Kosovo crisis, and by
expediting the CAS objective of limiting the deterioration of existing assets; and (ii) the CAS objective of
private sector growth by engaging local contractors and technical service providers during the project
implementation. Moreover, the project also dovetailed with the objectives of the Stability Pact of the
Balkan Peninsula countries, since it focused on the rehabilitation of the main corridor connecting Durrës
Port to Kosovo.

There were significant project risks due to the weak political and economic situation in Albania. These
risks included: (i) GoA's commitment to a medium-term strategy and reforms for the sector, which would
guarantee the efficiency and sustainability of the emergency project; and (ii) implementation, procurement,
and financial management arrangements aimed at rapid and effective execution, while ensuring due
diligence, transparency and good governance. The main measures taken to mitigate the risks were: (i) the
letter dated November 1, 1999 (Annex 11 of the Project Appraisal Document, PAD), signed by the
Ministers of Finance and Transport, which detailed the GoA's official and formal commitment to the
medium-term strategy and reforms for the road sector; (ii) the establishment of a separate Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) assisted by an experienced consulting firm (providing supervision engineers and
a procurement expert); and (iii) the establishment of a satisfactory financial management system inside the
PIU, both were conditions of Credit effectiveness. The PIU would be responsible for the overall Project
management and planning, and would report and coordinate both with the General Roads Directorate
(GRD), and with the international donor community to insure that there was no dissonance between the
project and other donors' activities.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objective was not revised.




                                                    - 2 -

3.3 Original Components:
Civil Works - This component included emergency Road Repair works to restore 221.0 km of the national
road network to serviceable condition (US$10.11 million), in the following sections:
   l Berat-Corovode Section (US$1.60 million) ­ work on this section would include patching of
         potholes, improving drainage and replacing portions of the asphalt paving and would be let in two
         contracts [Berat - Polican (22 km) and Polican - Corovode (26 km)];
   l Fushë Krujë-Mamurras-Milot Section (US$1.90 million) ­ work on this 30 km section would
         include patching of potholes, strengthening of shoulders, improving drainage and overlays for some
         portions of the road and would be let in two contracts [Fushë Krujë ­ Mamurras (16 km) and
         Mamurras ­ Milot (14 km)];
   l Qafë Qelë-Fushë Arrez Section (US$1.43 million) ­ work on this 49 km section would include
         levelling of the wearing course, repairing selected concrete works for overpasses and waterproofing
         of structures and would be let in a single contract.
   l Fushë Arrez-Kukes Section (US$5.40 million) ­ work on this 70 km section would include
         levelling with crushed material, the application of two layers of Penetration Macadam and
         earthworks, ditches and slopes to improve drainage in a very mountainous area and would be let in
         four contracts; and
   l Kukes-Morine Section (US$1.20 million) - work on this 24 km section would include levelling of
         the wearing course and repairing of landslide damage and would be let in one contract.

Institutional Support (Goods) - This component included laboratory, office, and environmental mitigation
         equipment, software, and a vehicle (US$0.30 million);

Institutional Support (Training and Consulting Services) - This component included:
   l Project related training, including       financial and environmental management, procurement, and
         relevant technical issues in road and bridge design, construction, and maintenance (US$0.10
         million);
   l Consultant services for the supervision of road works (US$0.90 million);
   l Consultant services for the operation of the PIU (US$0.14 million);
   l Project audits (US$0.03 million);
   l Preparation of design and bidding documents for the second-year program of works (US$0.10
         million);
   l Preparation of Durrës-Morinë Road Feasibility Study (US$0.50 million); and
   l Preparation of feasibility study, and first-year design and bidding documents for a follow-on
         project, the RMP (US$0.50 million).

The total cost of the project was US$14.46 million, including contingencies. It was to be financed by IDA
through a credit (Cr. 3303-ALB, dated November 16, 1999, with a 10-year grace period and 40 years to
maturity) of SDR9.90 million or US$13.65 million equivalent (94.4 % of the Project estimated cost). The
implementation period would be February 2000 through August 2002 or 30 months after Credit
effectiveness. The GoA would contribute US$0.81 million equivalent in local costs, or 5.6% of the project
costs, during the mid-2000 through mid-2003 disbursement period. In addition, an amount of about
US$32,500 would be made available by the United States Trade and Development Agency (USTDA) for
procurement advice during project implementation.

3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised.



                                                     - 3 -

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The operation was not selected for a quality at entry assessment by the Bank's Quality Assurance Group.
The region's assessment was that the quality at entry of the operation was satisfactory. The objectives of
the project, despite its emergency nature, were consistent with the priorities of the GoA and the objectives
of the CAS. The project components reflected the nature of the project and the limited time available for
preparation. The Project was prepared in only three months, and works were spread throughout the network
to provide an acceptable service level and were heavily weighted towards fairly simple activities, that could
be prepared with a minimum of engineering risk, and some inaccuracies in the designs were corrected,
satisfactorily, during implementation, with little delay.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The outcome of the project is satisfactory. The serviceability of about 200 kilometers of the main road
connecting the Adriatic Sea (Port of Durrës) to Kosovo and the Berat-Corovodë national road, were
restored to a serviceable condition, as intended, through selective emergency repairs of the most damaged
sections of these two roads. The overall "approach" of the project was to restore serviceability of the road
through selective emergency repairs and did not intend to provide a new asphalt layer on the total length of
the road.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Emergency Road Repair Works
The repair of the 221.0 km was divided into two consecutive phases to be implemented in two years. Phase
I included six contracts: four contiguous contracts (C1, C2, C3, and C4) on the Northern road, Fushë
Arrëz - Lajdhizë - Shëmri - Kalimash - (Kukës) Kolsh (70.0 km), and two contiguous contracts (C5, and
C6) in the Southern road, Berat - Polican - Corovodë (48.0 km). PHASE II included four contracts: three
contracts (CII-1, CII-2, and CII-3) on the Northern road, Qafe Qele - Pukë - Fushë Arrëz (49.0 km), and
Kukës - Morinë (24.0 km); and one contract (CII-4) in the central road Fushë Krujë - Milot (30.0 km). In
addition, the project included three new contracts: two contiguous contracts C1A and C2A on the Northern
Road, Fushë Arrëz - Shëmri - (Kukës) Kolsh (54.8 km), and the Contract C3A, Berat - Bogove (28.0 km),
on the Southern road (see map). Serviceability was restored on about 200 km of roads, while the
serviceability of the section between Bogove and Corovodë (20 km) was restored by the Albanian army
under a decision by the GoA, which was taken during the early stages of implementation.                  The
implementation of this phase started in June 2000, but was hampered by some inaccuracies in the designs,
together with the low managerial competence of some of the local contractors, requiring some works to be
redone. The PIU and the supervision consultant overcame these flaws with corrections in the designs.

In December 2000, two issues became evident. Firstly, the penetration macadam solution was neither suited
to the traffic nor to the climatic conditions of the area and an asphalt concrete (5-cm thick layer) solution
was required. Second, the new solution would require a new set of unit costs to those included in the
original contracts. Consequently, agreement was reached with every original contractor, regarding the
removal of the penetration macadam layer from all the original contracts, and the works under those
contracts would be restricted to the construction of the non-asphaltic components (mainly earth- and
concrete-works, including sub-bases, culverts, retaining walls, and a few bridges). Subsequently, three new
asphalt contracts - Contracts 1A, 2A, and 3A, were separately tendered by national competitive bidding
(NCB). In view of the funds available, it was agreed that the length to be asphalted would mainly cover
these road sections (82.8 km) where the previous asphalt layer was in worst condition or had totally
disappeared. The delay in the awarding of the contracts, meant that two only started in August 2001 and
the third one in March 2002. They were substantially completed in September 2002. At that time,


                                                      - 4 -

additional works, such as road marking and traffic signalization, were added to the contracts which were
fully completed in spring 2003.

In May 2001, near the end of Phase I and the start of Phase II, the GoA requested IDA assistance in
expediting the delayed completion of Phase I and improving the quality of works and supervision. IDA sent
two missions in June and July 2001 to examine these requests. The issues were further discussed during
the mid-term review (MTR) mission in December 2001. The missions reviewed every aspect of the ten
ongoing contracts, under both phases, and concluded that, although the works could be of a higher
standard, there were of satisfactory quality and in accordance with the designs, taking into account that the
project was intended to implement emergency road repair, rather than reconstruction. The mission also
concluded that the supervision consultant should be more proactive, and rigorous in the case of works that
did not comply with the quality required in the designs, and that some of the works would have to be
demolished and rebuilt. After January 2002, supervision became more effective and the situation improved
significantly. Phase II works and contracts were completed within the original schedule (by mid-2002) and
with satisfactory quality. About 155.7 km were repaired (Phase I and Phase II) to restore the serviceability
of the project itineraries.

The total cost of the road works, US$10.41 million (US$9.56 million IDA; US$0.85 million GoA) is
slightly below the estimate at appraisal of US$11.53 million (US$10.72 million IDA; US$0.81 million
GoA).

Institutional support (Goods):
This component included laboratory equipment, office furniture and equipment, environmental mitigation
equipment, software, and a vehicle and was implemented as appraised. Eight contracts were bid. The
component cost of US$0.31 million compares with the amount estimated at appraisal of US$0.30 million.

Institutional support, training and consulting services:
l Project related training, including financial and environmental management, procurement, and relevant
    technical issues in road and bridge design, construction, and maintenance: Three contracts were
    awarded, and twenty four GoA staff followed a one-week (July 23-27, 2001) seminar on economic
    evaluation using the Highway Development and Management Model, Version 4 (HDM-IV) in Tirana.
    The training and TA for institutional strengthening in the preparation of designs and procurement
    documentation, construction and maintenance activities, and the (start of) preparation for the
    establishment of a RDB, a PMS, and a BMS under the RMP were satisfactorily achieved. In total,
    more than 40 staff weeks of training were delivered, mostly to GRD staff, to build the capacity of
    GRD. The cost was US$0.10 million, compared to an estimated US$0.10 million at appraisal. The
    project (IDA Credit) contributed to the financing of an individual consultant providing technical and
    procurement assistance to the PIU. The Project also included three part-time visits, and the subsequent
    advisory services of a Procurement Specialist, provided and financed (US$32,500) by the United States
    Trade and Development Agency (USTDA). The GRD was satisfied with the services of this expert,
    and requested an extension to his contract which was approved by USTDA.
l Consultant services for supervision of road works:        the supervision provided during Phase I of the
    project was not always adequate. At the request of the GoA, IDA, launched two consecutive
    supervision missions in June/July 2001 to assess and discuss the issue with the newly appointed GRD
    Director. Although some deficiencies were found in the quality of the works (some works had to be
    demolished and rebuilt to achieve the quality required), those did not threaten the overall viability of the
    project and IDA provided recommendations to strengthen the supervision. Every work with a quality
    lower than that specified in the designs was upgraded to the standard of the designs. The quality of the
    supervision improved over the summer 2001 and was considered satisfactory during the MTR mission


                                                     - 5 -

    (December 2001) and thereafter. The contract was later amended to include the supervision of 3 road
    contracts in Tirana awarded early under the RMP while the selection of the supervision consultant was
    still ongoing for that project. The cost of this component, US$1.03 million, compares with the estimate
    at appraisal.
l Consultant services for the operation of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU):             Because of the
    emergency nature of the project, the weak capacity and the high turnover of staff of the GRD, it was
    decided that the project would be implemented by a separate PIU, established within GRD and staffed
    by consultants paid at the market rate for their skills. The operation of the PIU went through several
    changes because of the inadequacies of the staff selected, often from within GRD. However, members
    were difficult to replace because of the scarcity of management, procurement and accounting experts in
    Albania. These circumstances led to frequent delays in the procurement process and subsequently in the
    implementation of the road works, particularly during Phase I. The GoA requested, and IDA agreed, to
    merge the Project PIU with the more experienced PIU of the National Roads Project. This merger took
    place on July 16, 2001 through the appointment of a single director for the joint PIU, and it improved
    the procurement process during remaining project implementation. The cost of this component,
    US$0.25 million equivalent, compares with the estimate of US$0.16 million at the time of appraisal.
l Project audits: The Ministry of Finance (MoF) financed all the audits at no costs to the project. The
    audits were performed annually (for years 2000 through 2003) by an independent auditor. They
    emphasized the points to be corrected, and were issued on time during the first semester of the next
    fiscal year.
l Preparation of design and bidding documents for the second-year program of works:           an international
    consultant undertook the preparation of the designs of the Phase II works. The quality of the designs
    and procurement documentation was satisfactory. The cost (US$0.11 million equivalent) of the designs
    was reasonable and similar to the estimate of US$0.12 million at appraisal. The designs and bidding
    documents of the three asphalt-concrete contracts were prepared by the supervision team.
l Preparation of Durrës-Morinë road feasibility study:          the preparation of the Durrës-Morinë road
    feasibility study started with a significant delay in the agreed Project Implementation Plan (PIP)
    schedule. The selection of consultants had to be retendered as significant deficiencies were found in the
    initial selection process. This led to the need to extend the closing date of the credit to December 31,
    2003. The first draft report, which was received in March 2003, also had to be revised to be fully
    compliant with the terms of reference, and it was approved by GoA in August 2003. It cost US$0.79
    million compared with the appraisal estimate of US$0.57 million.
l Preparation of feasibility study, and first-year design and bidding documents for a follow-on Project,
    the RMP: the preparation of the feasibility study, the designs, and the procurement documentation, for
    the first phase of the RMP, were completed on schedule, and there are presently being utilized. The
    US$0.84 million cost compares with the appraisal estimate of US$0.57 million.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
At appraisal, the economic analysis was undertaken over an appraisal period of ten years for the road
improvement components, which together amounted to 79.7% of the project cost. The analysis was based
on the standard approach in highway appraisal, comparing a 'do-nothing' scenario against a 'do-something'
scenario, involving the repair to the road. The benefits reflecting the reductions in vehicle operating costs
(voc) and road maintenance costs in the latter, compared to the former. The project was also expected to
have other benefits, which were difficult to quantify, including improving the organization and funding of
road maintenance, the promotion of privatization, the generation of employment among the rural poor
living in the project area, a reduction in road accidents, and potential environmental improvements. These
were excluded from the economic analysis, which was undertaken using the HDM-III model.

The full results of the economic analysis at appraisal are presented in section E.1 of the PAD. The road



                                                      - 6 -

repairing works (221.0 km) provided a weighted average Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) of 49%
- ranging from 83% (on the Berat-Corovodë section, 48.0 km) to 24% (Kukës-Morinë, 24.0 km), and a net
present value (NPV) for the project of US$17.48 million. The PAD asserts (Annex 4 of the PAD) that
because of these high returns, the results were likely to be robust to even large changes in the key
parameters, so no sensitivity analyses was undertaken.

After the completion of the project, the economic evaluation was redone by the PIU for the ten completed
road sections, using the HDM-III model, together with actual construction costs and current (Spring 2004)
traffic volumes on the roads. The results of the analysis is a weighted average EIRR of 21% - varying from
14% to 38% among the different road sections with a NPV of US$2.76 million. These results are
somewhat lower than those estimated at appraisal but the discrepancy can be explained by a number of
factors. Firstly, the actual traffic at the time of appraisal was high along these roads, reflecting the
movement of considerable numbers of refugees, aid and military equipment to, and from, the Kosovo
region. The length of time that these movements would continue was unknown at the time of appraisal, as
was the "new" base traffic level after the emergency was over, especially given that the analyst was trying
to forecast over a 10 year period. A second problem with this exceptional traffic, of uncertain duration,
related to the composition of the flow. Normally, heavy traffic comprises around 5-7% of total traffic flow,
but in this case, reflecting the exceptional state of affairs, heavy traffic represented a much greater
proportion of total traffic. The implication is twofold; as damage to the road surface is a function of axle
load, increased volumes of heavy traffic lead to much greater damage to the road surface, which in turn
raised the unit costs of returning the roads to serviceable condition at implementation. The result is higher
unit costs on the affected road sections, where subsequent traffic was lower, resulting in a marked
discrepancy between the NPV and EIRR at appraisal and ICR stages. These results say more about the
difficulty of undertaking an appraisal at a time of such great uncertainty, and the need for greater
deliberation, than about the results of the specific appraisal.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
No financial rates of return were calculated during project preparation since there are no hypothecated road
user fees which would allow the calculation of a meaningful rate of return.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the project is moderate. The involvement of some GRD staff in the
preparation of the PMS, which would be fully established and operational under the RMP, provided a good
base for the subsequent operation of the PMS. The transfer of some of the Project PIU members to an
experienced PIU also provided them with an opportunity to acquire valuable expertise in procurement.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
There were no specific factors outside the control of the GoA or GRD that affected the implementation and
outcome of the project, excepting the impact of the exceptional traffic levels referred to earlier.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
One factor that was subject to GoA's control was the continuous changing of key officials involved in the
project. During the 4-year implementation, there were five changes at Ministerial level in the transport
sector, nine changes at the General Director level in GRD, and three changes of in the Director of the PIU.
This undoubtedly affected implementation, as reflected in the consequent delay in procurement decisions
after every change.

Project implementation was also slightly affected by reduced power supplies. During the latter part of



                                                      - 7 -

2002, the disturbances in power supply hindered the activities of both the Contractors and the Engineers.
By the end of that year, the power supply had fallen to less than six hours per 24 hour day, often for period
of only fifteen to twenty minutes at any one time. The contractors mitigated this problem by purchasing
sufficient power generators for their offices and site operations.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
One factor that was subject to GRD's control was the limited accuracy of the designs and bills of quantities
prepared by a local consultant and GRD for Phase I of the project. The problem was overcome during the
construction stage, but it engendered frequent delays, quality problems, and cost increases as the
supervising team had to undertake further design work to achieve a satisfactory implementation. Long
deliberations by the GRD's technical department in checking and approving designs also caused some delay
in this phase, particularly.

A further issue was the delay in awarding the two asphalt works contracts in the northern region. The
contracts should have been awarded in early spring 2001, which would have permitted the contractors to
commence the asphalt works in the summer of 2001. But for a number of reasons, the contracts were not
awarded until the end of August 2001. This meant that the asphalt works could not be completed before the
onset of winter, leaving the works open and vulnerable during the winter. As a result, the contracts had to
be extended until September 2002 at first, to allow completion of the asphalt works, and then extended
again for few more months to include traffic safety signs on a pilot basis. Nevertheless, the contracts were
completed satisfactorily.

5.4 Costs and financing:
There were some variations in the cost of the project components, particularly in the Phase 1 road
contracts. The original cost estimates for each of the civil works contracts had to be revised during the life
of the project. The project focused on restoring the serviceability of the two sections, Qafe Qele to Morine
and Berat to Corovode, and funding for the repair of these roads was increased for the reasons discussed
earlier. This was to the detriment of the road section Fushe Kruje - Mamurras - Milot which, during the
project, was bypassed by the newly constructed national `North-South' road between Fushe Kruje and
Lezha. Therefore, only minor repair works were determined necessary to the old road for local traffic. Also,
the road section from Kukes to Morine was considered to be in reasonable condition compared to the
remainder of the Qafe Qele to Kukes section and therefore funding was appropriately diverted from the
Kukes-Morine section to the other contracts for repairing the road section between Fushe Arrez and Kukes.
The timely provision of the counterpart funds by GRD was generally satisfactory, and it reflects and
reinforces GoA's determination and commitment to achieving a satisfactory completion of the Project.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of the project is likely. It was designed primarily to meet an immediate need rather than
addressing longer term issues. This short-term goal has been substantially achieved. The GoA displayed its
commitment to a medium-term strategy and reforms for improving the country's national road network,
allocating about 1.2 percent of GDP for road expenditures. This allocation would be adequate to maintain
the road network, provided that most of the roads were in fair to good condition, which is not the case. As a
consequence, external financing is still required to improve the condition of the country's roads. GoA,
through the ongoing RMP, is contributing significantly to this goal; the RMP includes a major restructuring
of the road maintenance organization and the establishment of improved technology and techniques which
are putting future maintenance operations on a more sustainable basis.




                                                     - 8 -

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The transition to regular operations has started successfully, but its completion will take several years.
During the transition period, the road sector will have to absorb and assimilate the new market oriented
organizations, improve the still weak managerial skills, and the use of new technologies and new systems of
working, cooperation and competition. The national road network represents a substantial asset for the
country, and maintenance must be a high priority to preserve the network at the level required by the
economy. The ERRP project contributed to this transition in a substantive manner, which is now being
continued under the ongoing RMP.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
IDA's performance in project identification was satisfactory. An IDA identification mission visited Albania
in September 1999, following the GoA's request, and identified the Project as an Emergency operation,
fully in accordance with Bank's operational instructions (see section 3.1). IDA's performance in the
preparation and appraisal of the Project was also satisfactory. The appraisal decision to create a new and
independent PIU for the Project did result in some procurement delays during Phase I, but its merger with
an experienced PIU at the end of Phase I precluded further delay and engendered additional benefit.

7.2 Supervision:
IDA supervision was satisfactory. IDA swiftly evaluated the results of Phase I (missions of June/July 2001,
and the MTR mission of December 2001), and made recommendations on how to strengthen the
supervising consultants team. This timely advice to the GoA led to more effective implementation for the
remainder of the project.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall IDA performance was satisfactory. IDA was client responsive in identifying, appraising, and
financing the appropriate emergency operation in a very short period of time. IDA was also responsive
during implementation, proposing appropriate adjustments to new circumstances through timely extensions,
and reallocation within and between components.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Project preparation by the Borrower was fully satisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
GoA's implementation performance was moderately satisfactory. The continuous changes of senior officials
hampered implementation during the first 18 months. Overall there were five changes at the Minister of
Transport level, nine changes of GRD General Director, and three changes of PIU Director, with a
deleterious impact on the implementation of the project. With the appointment of the third Director in July
2001, some stability was achieved and implementation improved. GoA also demonstrated commitment to
the project by becoming openly proactive, commenting on the progress of the project and requesting IDA's
advice and help to improve implementation. GoA's contribution increased by 5% (US$0.85 million from
US$0.81 million equivalent) from appraisal and provision of counterpart funding was satisfactory, and on
time. For these latter reasons, overall the GoA implementation performance is considered moderately
satisfactory.




                                                   - 9 -

7.6 Implementing Agency:
GRD established a new PIU to run day-to-day implementation. GRD/PIU performance was moderately
satisfactory because of the high turn-over of key staff and the lengthy decision process during the first 18
months of implementation. In particular, the accuracy of the documentation prepared for Phase I, discussed
earlier, and the limited capacity of some of the staff of the new PIU, engendered some problems in early
implementation, particularly in respect of procurement. However, GRD decision and action in improving
the Phase I designs, placing better qualified staff and time for the preparation of future designs, and the
merging of the two PIUs were appropriate responses to the initial problems. For these reasons, GRD/PIU
implementation performance is considered moderately satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance was satisfactory for the reasons outlined above. The GoA showed a good
commitment to the Project, and GRD took appropriate measures to address the implementation difficulties
manifest during Phase I.

8. Lessons Learned

The following lessons can be learned from the project.

(i) Contract language The Conditions of Contract used for the civil works contracts stated that the
contractual language was Albanian even though the project required the procurement of an international
supervision consultant. This made communication between the resident engineer and the Albanian
Contractors difficult. The necessary interpretation and translation was time consuming and often led to
misunderstandings and mistakes. As a result, the contract language for all civil works contracts undertaken
within the ongoing Road Maintenance Project is English, although an Albanian version of the bidding
documents and contract has been made available to local contractors during bid preparation.

(ii) Management, administration and coordination of the project In 2001, GRD's PIUs were merged to
establish a single PIU for all GoA road projects. Such a single embedded PIU possesses the best
management experience available in Albania, whilst requiring less overhead and personnel cost per project
because of economies of scale, and makes the management of road contracts - and the training of future
PIU members - more consistent and efficient. Ultimately, the project benefited from the best available
domestic knowledge and experience in management, procurement, and accounting in Albania. This is a key
lesson, suggesting that a strong case would need to be made to establish a project specific PIU in future, if
there is an already established competent PIU.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower provided its contribution to the ICR (see Annex 8). The Borrower's comments are reflected
in this ICR.

(b) Cofinanciers:
The USTDA granted US$32,500 for part-time procurement advisory services to the PIU.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
There were no other partners.




                                                   - 10 -

10. Additional Information

The following section provides gathered information on: (i) generation of employment and jobs created by
the Project; (ii) analysis of the generation of employment, and the impact on poverty alleviation; and (iii)
the analysis of the road and bridge repair costs.

Generation of employment and jobs created by the Project

Contract Name - Number - Company                    Duration        Tech.     Labor               TOTAL
Fushe Arrez-Lajdhize - C1 - GECI                    10 months        4          220                224
Lajdhize-Shemri - C2 - COSMAR                       10 months        5          100                105
Shemri-Kalimash - C3 - ARIFAJ+Sha NARr              10 months        3           88                 91
Kalimash-Kukes - C4 - GECI+VELLAZERIA               10 months        4          130                134
Berat-Mbrakull - C5 - 2K                              1 month        5           90                 95
Mbrakull-Bogove - C6 - Sha ASFALTIM Rruga             1 month        4           90                 94
Qafe Qele-Pukes - CII-1 - ARIFAJ+Sha NARr             4 months       3           50                 53
Pukes-Fushe Arrez - CII-2 - GECI                      4 months       4           95                 99
Kukes-Morine - CII-3 - ShaNARR + HAZIRI               4 months       3           95                 98
Fushe Kruje-Milot - CII-4 - ALBSHPRESA                3 months       2           30                 32
Fushe Arrez-Shemri - C1A - PAV.I.                   22 months        5           20                 25
Shemri-Kukes - C2A - PAV.I.                         22 months        5           20                 25
Berat-Bogove - C3A - SALILLARI                      10 months       13           80                 93

Total cost of road works: US$10.41 million (US$6.20 million the ten non-asphalt contracts; US$4.21
million the three asphalt-concrete contracts).

Summary: Based on the data of the above table provided for every contract by the respective contractor
(labor jobs), and by the Supervision Consultants (technical jobs), we obtain the following results:
(i)      Casual employment created for technical staff (all of them local individual consultants): 565
         job-months or about 47 job-years
(ii)     Casual employment created for labor (unskilled local labor): 8,290 job-months or about 700
         job-years
(iii)    Total casual employment created during project implementation: 8,855 job-months or about 740
         job-years
(iv)     Permanent employment created for maintenance of the road works after project implementation:
         one job per 4 km of the repaired 200 km or 50 permanent jobs.

Analysis of the generation of employment, and of its Impact on the alleviation of poverty

The generation of employment within a project offers an opportunity to contribute directly to poverty
alleviation. The PAD endorsed the importance of generating employment through the road works contracts,
and of assessing its importance subsequently. The project disbursed a total of US$10.41 million in thirteen
different contracts and generated 565 job-months (about 47 job-years) among professionals (local
individual consultants) and 8,290 job-month (about 700 job-years) among unskilled workers. The average
salary paid during implementation was US$400 per month for professionals and US$200 per month for
unskilled labor. This amounts to a direct transfer to local employees of about US$1,884,000 or 18.1% of
the total investment in road works. This is below the comparative figure for the average cost of labor in



                                                    - 11 -

international projects of around 20%. The project also generated 50 permanent jobs for maintenance.

Although not analyzed directly under the Project, many of the unskilled workers originated from a 5-km
strip on either side of the road sections included in the project, an area of about 1,500 sq km, along the
155.7 km of road works. Albania, according to available statistics from the United Nations, has an average
rural density of 100 (varying between 175 and 60) inhabitants per sq km, and the average family consists
of five members. The area of the project is the one with the lowest population density in Albania, and the
highest index of poverty (50% of the population survives with less than US$2 per day).

This suggests, based on an average of 60 inhabitants per sq km, and an average 50% poverty index for the
whole project area, that the population in the project area amounts to 90,000, or 18,000 households (1,500
sq km x 60 inhabitants per sq km = 90,000 people/5 = 18,000 families), of which 12,000 families are likely
to fall into the category of poor families. Under the project implementation period (3 years, from mid-2000
through mid-2003) the project created 8,290 job-months or about 700 job-years resulting from the direct
investment in labor of a 18.1% of the road works investment cost. This is a significant contribution to the
alleviation of poverty among 12,000 families.

Analysis of the road and bridge repair costs

Each of the three project roads: (i) the Northern road (Qafe Qele to Morine: 143 km); (ii) the Central road
(Fushe Kruje to Milot: 30.0 km); and (iii) the Southern road (Berat to Corcovade: 48.0 km) were repaired
and asphalted. Repair included return to original status (and, seldom, upgrading to standard network
characteristics); and asphalting included a 5-cm thick wearing layer of asphalt concrete. They are roads,
usually with a 6m carriageway, often without shoulders. The terrains of the three roads are similar (flat to
undulating), and the repair costs can be considered the same or very similar, since in both - flat and not flat
terrain - the repair basically consisted of returning the road to its original status. The repair also included
the rehabilitation of culverts (average, about one culvert every three km), and three small bridges.

The total cost of the road works was US$10.41 million equivalent divided into US$6.20 million for the
repair of 155.7 km, and US$4.21 million for the asphalting of 82.8 km of them; or US$40,000 per km
repaired, and US$91,000 per km repaired and asphalted, respectively. Both costs favorably compare with
the worldwide costs surveyed and recorded in the Bank ROCKS (Road Cost Knowledge System) of June
2002, and therefore may be considered quite low and favorable by international standards. The
international costs vary, for repair to original status, between a maximum of US$93,207 per km to a
minimum of US$10,046 per km, and an average of US$36,068 per km, which favorably compare with the
US$40,000 per km invested in the Project for roads in an extremely bad condition. Similarly, the costs for
repair with an asphalt concrete layer vary from a minimum of US$45,069 per km to a maximum of
US$657,747 and an average of US$262,992 per km, and therefore the US$91,000 per km is also low and
favorable by international standards.




                                                    - 12 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                             1
                Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
(i) Restoring Serviceability of the Durrës to - Satisfactory                      - Serviceability: Satisfactorily restored
Kosovo and Berat-Corovodë roads through:                                          - VOC Savings: Substantially achieved.
Reduction of the vehicle operating costs                                          The reduction in voc is substantial. It is
(voc) by 20%; and Traffic volume increased                                        estimated at an average 15% of the voc
(by 10%)                                                                          before the Project. This result is based on the
                                                                                  effect of the international roughness index
                                                                                  (IRI) - before and after the Project -
                                                                                  calculated through the Bank HDM-III.
                                                                                  Before the Project, the appraised average IRI
                                                                                  for the 221.0 km was 10 m/km.
                                                                                  Currently, the average IRIs are 6 m/km and 3
                                                                                  m/km for the non asphalted roads.
                                                                                  - Traffic Volume: Partially achieved
                                                                                  No traffic volume increase has yet
                                                                                  materialized in the Northern road nor in the
                                                                                  Central road. An increase of about 5% has
                                                                                  been observed in the traffic volume of the
                                                                                  Southern road, according to the traffic survey
                                                                                  recently (April 2004) carried out by GRD.


Output Indicators:
                                                                             1
                Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
(i)  - OUTPUT: Roads improved                 - 200.0 km                          - 200.0 km
     - INDICATOR: kilometers of roads                                             Serviceability of about 200 km of road was
      repaired                                                                    restored under the project through selective
                                                                                  repairs of 155.7 km of the most damaged
                                                                                  sections of these two roads. In addition, the
                                                                                  serviceability of the section between Bogove
                                                                                  and Corovodë (20 km) was restored by the
                                                                                  Albanian army.
(ii) - OUTPUT: GRD's implementation                                               - GRD: Partially Strengthened
       ability strengthened and follow-on                                         During the execution of the Project, and
       project prepared                                                           helped by the Project Consultants and the
     - INDICATOR: Completed road repairs                                          IDA supervision team, GRD strengthened its
      are of good quality and follow-on                                           implementation ability although it would still
      project preparation is adequate.                                            require some attention and further training.
                                                                                  GRD also contributed to the preparation of
                                                                                  the follow on project. The completed road
                                                                                  repairs are eventually of satisfactory quality.
(iii) - OUTPUT - Studies and Training         - 40 sw                             - 40 sw
     - INDICATOR: Studies carried out and                                         Studies (Durrës-Morinë Feasibility Study and
                      Training achieved                                           the RMP studies and designs) were prepared
                      (staff-weeks: sw)                                           by an international consulting firm with the
                                                                                  participation of GRD staff.
                                                                                  Training amounted to 40 sw: 10 sw of two
                                                                                  GRD staff for the preparation of the
                                                                                  Durrës-Morinë Feasibility Study, 20 sw of
                                                                                  four GRD staff for the preparation of the
                                                                                  RDB, PMS, and BMS, and 10 sw spent by
                                                                                  ten GRD staff in a HDM-IV seminar.
                                                                                  Occasionally, during the implementation of
                                                                                  the Project, about fifty GRD staff received
                                                                                  sporadic training attending nine 1-2 days
                                                                                  international seminars which put them in
                                                                                  contact with foreign organizations and
                                                                                  procedures.

1End of project



                                                               - 13 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                            Appraisal    Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                            Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
                        Component                           US$ million   US$ million
A. WORKS: Civil Works Contracts for Repair of the             10.11          10.41            103
Roads Durres-Morinë and Berat-Corovode
B. GOODS: Laboratory, Office, and Environmental                0.30            0.31         103.3
Mitigation Equipment, Software, and a Vehicle.
C. INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT TRAINING AND
CONSULTING SERVICES:
-  Project Related TA and Training including Financial         0.10            0.10           100
and Environmental Management, Procurement, and
relevant technical issues in Road and Bridge Design,
Construction, and Maintenance
-  Consultant Services for Supervision of Road Works           0.90            1.03         114.4
-  Consultant Services for Oper'n PIU + Proc. Advr.            0.14            0.25         178.6
-  Project Audits                                              0.03            0.00             0
-  Preparation of Design and Bidding Documents for the         0.10            0.11           110
Second-year Program of Works
-  Preparation of Durres-Morinë Road Feasibility Study         0.50            0.79           158
-  Preparation of Feasibility Study, and First-year Design     0.50            0.84           168
and Bidding Documents for a Follow-on Project, the
RRMP

Total Baseline Cost                                           12.68          13.84
 Physical Contingencies                                        1.26
 Price Contingencies                                           0.52
                           Total Project Costs                14.46          13.84
                    Total Financing Required                  14.46          13.84


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                      1
                                                  Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB             NCB                2       N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                 Other
1. Works                             0.00            11.53         0.00         0.00       11.53
                                    (0.00)          (10.72)      (0.00)         (0.00)    (10.72)
2. Goods                             0.00            0.00          0.34         0.00        0.34
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.34)         (0.00)     (0.34)
3. Services                          0.00            0.00          2.48         0.00        2.48
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (2.48)         (0.00)     (2.48)
4. Training                          0.00            0.00          0.11         0.00        0.11
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.11)         (0.00)     (0.11)
   Total                             0.00            11.53         2.93         0.00       14.46
                                    (0.00)          (10.72)      (2.93)         (0.00)    (13.65)



                                                  - 14 -

  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 0.00              10.41              0.00             0.00             10.41
                                           (0.00)             (9.56)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (9.56)
   2. Goods                                 0.19               0.00              0.12             0.00              0.31
                                           (0.19)             (0.00)            (0.12)            (0.00)           (0.31)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00              3.12             0.00              3.12
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (3.12)            (0.00)           (3.12)
   4. Training                              0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                0.19              10.41              3.24             0.00             13.84
                                           (0.19)             (9.56)            (3.24)            (0.00)           (12.99)
   Training costs are included in services.
     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
A. WORKS                       10.72         0.81                     9.56         0.85                  89.2     104.9
B. GOODS                        0.34                                  0.31                               91.2
C. SERVICES
-TA and Training                0.11                                  0.10                               90.9
-Superv. of Works               1.03                                  1.03                               100.0
-Oper'n PIU+Proc. Adv.          0.16                                  0.25                               156.3
- Project Audits                0.03                                  0.00                                0.0
-Dsgn. & Bid. 2nd Year          0.12                                  0.11                               91.7
-Durrës-Morinë F. Sty.          0.57                                  0.79                               138.6
- F. Stds. + 1st-y Design       0.57                                  0.84                               147.4
        TOTAL                  13.65         0.81                    12.99         0.85                  95.2     104.9




                                                           - 15 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The Economic Evaluation (Calculation of Economic Costs and Benefits) is based on the following
consistent principles.

The economic analysis is described in Annex 4 of the Emergency Road Repair Project Appraisal Document
(PAD). This component amounted to 79.7% of the project cost. The analysis was based on the standard
approach in highway appraisal, comparing a 'do-nothing' scenario against a 'do-something' scenario,
involving the repair to the road, over an appraisal period of ten years in this case. The benefits reflecting
the reductions in vehicle operating costs (voc) and road maintenance costs in the latter, compared to the
former. The project was also expected to have other benefits, which were difficult to quantify, including
improving the organization and funding of road maintenance, the promotion of privatization, the generation
of employment among the rural poor living in the project area, a reduction in road accidents, and potential
environmental improvements. These were excluded from the economic analysis, which was undertaken
using the HDM-III model.

After the completion of the project, the economic evaluation was redone by the PIU for the ten completed
road sections, using the HDM-III model, together with actual construction costs and current (Spring 2004)
traffic volumes on the roads. The PAD established five road segments, and it calculated the Economic
Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) and the Net Present Value (NPV) for every segment. It also calculated,
most important, the combined results for all road sections, specifically the weighted average EIRR for the
whole Project, the total NPV for the whole Project, and the weighted average NPV per km of the Project.
The results of both (at appraisal, and at completion) Economic Evaluations are comparable because they
refer to the same type of road, and mostly to the same road section.

         Sections                            EIRR                     NPV in million US$
                                             Present (Appraisal)      Present (Appraisal)
Qafe Qele - Fushë Arrëz                      38%     (32%)            1.44    (0.71)
Berat - Corovodë (Bogovë)                    20%     (83%)            0.69    (5.13)
Fushë Arrëz - Kukës                          14%     (30%)            0.57    (4.48)
Kukës - Morinë                               22%     (24%)            0.06    (0.79)

Total project                                21%     (49%)            2.76    (11.11)

WEIGHTED AVERAGE ECONOMIC INDICATORS of the PROJECT
EIRR = 21%         (49%) NPV = US$2.76 million (US$11.11 million)
NPV per km = US$2.76 million: 155.7 km = US$17,700 per km (US$50,300)

These results are somewhat lower than those estimated at appraisal but the discrepancy can be explained
by a number of factors. Firstly, the actual traffic at the time of appraisal was high along these roads,
reflecting the movement of considerable numbers of refugees, aid and military equipment to, and from, the
Kosovo region. The length of time that these movements would continue was unknown at the time of
appraisal, as was the "new" base traffic level after the emergency was over, especially given that the
analyst was trying to forecast over a 10 year period. A second problem with this exceptional traffic, of
uncertain duration, related to the composition of the flow. Normally, heavy traffic comprises around 5-7%
of total traffic flow, but in this case, reflecting the exceptional state of affairs, heavy traffic represented a
much greater proportion of total traffic. The implication is twofold; as damage to the road surface is a
function of axle load, increased volumes of heavy traffic lead to much greater damage to the road surface,
which in turn raised the unit costs of returning the roads to serviceable condition at implementation. The



                                                      - 16 -

result is higher unit costs on the affected road sections, where subsequent traffic was lower, resulting in a
marked discrepancy between the NPV and EIRR at appraisal and ICR stages. These results say more about
the difficulty of undertaking an appraisal at a time of such great uncertainty, and the need for greater
deliberation, than about the results of the specific appraisal.




                                                     - 17 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                             No. of Persons and Specialty                     Performance Rating
                                                 (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)           Implementation Development
                     Month/Year        Count               Specialty                            Progress          Objective

 Identification/Preparation
                Sept 1999                           3    TL, TS, PO

 Appraisal/Negotiation
                Oct 1999                            7    TL, TS, Co, FA, PO, ES, Co
                Nov 1999                            5    RR, TL, TS, FA, PO

 Supervision
                Feb 2000                            3    TL, TS, PO                                  S                 S
                Jun 2000                            4    TL, TS, EC, PO                              S                 S
                Nov 2000                            4    TL, STS, PS, PO                             S                 S
                Feb 2001                            4    TSM, TL, STS, PO                            S                 S
                Jun 2001                            3    TL, Co, PO                                  S                 S
                Jul 2001                            3    TL, STS, PO                                 S                 S
                Dec 2001                            4    TL, STS, PO, Co                             S                 S
                Jul 2002                            3    TL, STS, PO                                 S                 S
                Sep 2002                            3    TL, STS, PO                                 S                 S
                Feb 2003                            3    TL, STS, PO                                 S                 S
                Jul 2003                            4    TL, STS, PS, PO                             S                 S

 ICR
                Mar 2004                            3     TL, STS, PO                                S                 S

Abbreviations: Co = Consultant; EC = Economist; ES = Environment Specialist; FA = Financial Analyst; PO = Project
Officer; PS = Procurement Specialist; RR = Resident Representative; STS = Senior Transport Specialist; TL = Team Leader;
TS = Transport Specialist; TSL = Transport Sector Leader.
NOTE: The supervision teams always overlapped with at least two other projects among the Rural Roads Project, the National
Roads Project, and the Road Maintenance Project.

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                              Actual/Latest Estimate
                                             No. Staff weeks                     US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                          18.0                              50.5
  Appraisal/Negotiation                               24.5                              68.6
  Supervision                                         68.5                            205.5
  ICR                                                  4.0                              12.5
  Total                                              115.0                            337.1




                                                          - 18 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 19 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 20 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Emergency Road Repair Project Appraisal Document, November 10, 1999 - Report No. 19874-ALB
2. Emergency Road Repair Project Development Credit Agreement, dated December 16, 1999
3. Minutes and Records of Negotiations.
4. Every Emergency Road Repair Project Quarterly Report since June 2000 through September 2003
5. Aide Memoires and archived PSRs from January 2000 through March 2004
6. Correspondence of the Emergency Road Repair Project available in IRIS and the ECSIE (metallic)
   Archive.




                                             - 21 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution


                            IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                                       ALBANIA
                                EMERGENCY ROAD REPAIR PROJECT
                                        (I.D.A. CREDIT No. 3303-ALB)
                                                      Prepared by the
                                   IDA-Financed Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
                     Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications, General Roads Directorate

Assessment of Development Objective and Design and of Quality at Entry

1.1      Objective

         The project was established as an emergency operation to repair and restore the serviceability of the main
roads connecting the Port of Durres to Morine at the border with Kosovo and of the Berat-Corovode national road.
The need for this emergency project became apparent after the Kosovo conflict, during which a large number of
refugees, humanitarian aid and NATO convoys put an enormous strain on the Durres (main port) to Morine
(border with Kosovo) road and the Berat ­ Corovode road. Nearly 500,000 refugees entered Albania through the
Morine border crossing, continuing through Kukes to the southern parts of Albania (Shkoder, Tirana, Durres) and
in particular to the Berat ­ Corovode area where two refugee camps were located.

         Simultaneously, humanitarian aid and NATO heavy vehicles brought through the Port of Durres and
Tirana airport were transported to the refugee camps, and later to Kosovo as the refugees returned to their homes,
increasing the daily traffic from 500 to as many as 15,000 vehicles. The intensive heavy traffic during the refugee
crisis had caused these roads, designed for bearing capacity of 2 tons and built using poor standards and technology
in the early seventies, to deteriorate to a critical condition. There were road sections on these routes which had lost
all or most of the asphalt surfacing, decreasing the average speed to 25-30 km/hour and even lower for the obsolete
vehicle fleet during bad weather conditions. In the latter part of 1999 the traffic composition on these two routes
remained heavy, including a number of five-axle trailers and semi-trailers.           By the time that the need for
improvement of these two roads became apparent, IDA resources made available for the rehabilitation of the rural
roads (Rural Roads Project) and rehabilitation and reconstruction of the national roads (National Roads Project)
were already fully committed.

         The single objective of the project was to assist the Government of Albania in restoring the serviceability
of the two above-mentioned roads.

1.2      Revised Objective

         The objective was not revised during the Project.

1.3      Original Components

1.3.1    Emergency Road Repair Civil Works on about 221km of the national road network to serviceable
condition (US$11.53 million)

         This component would include the emergency repairs to 221 km of specific road sections of the national
road network. The two routes to be repaired would include the route between the Port of Durres and the Kosovo
border at Kukes and the N72 national road between Berat and Corovode. The northern route would be divided into
eight (8) contracts and the southern route (N72) into two (2) contracts. The actual road sections proposed and the
scheme lengths are shown in Table 1.



                                                           - 22 -

1.3.2     Goods: Provision of Laboratory, Office and Environmental Mitigation Equipment, Software and
Vehicle (US$0.34 million)

        The goods component would allow for the procurement of laboratory equipment, office equipment and
software, environmental mitigation equipment and a vehicle for the PIU. The environmental mitigation equipment
would include for the acquisition of noise and dust measuring equipment.

Training and Consultants Services:

1.3.3     Project Related Training (US$0.11 million)

          This component would include for provision of technical support to the GRD for necessary training in
project management, including financial, environmental, procurement, accounting practices and relevant technical
issues in road and bridge design and construction.

1.3.4     Consultant Services for Supervision of Road Works (US$1.03 million)

          This component would provide for the hiring of an international consulting team for supervision of works.
The consultant team would include, as a minimum, a Resident Team Leader (Highway Engineer), a Materials
Engineer and an Inspector or Surveyor.

1.3.5     Consultant Services for the Operation of the PIU (US$0.16 million)

          A Project Implementation Unit would be established as an autonomous entity, working on behalf of the
GRD. The PIU would be endowed with full managerial, administrative and financial autonomy in project and
contract management, procurement and contract implementation, project accounting and administration of the
Special Account, and overall project co-ordination. Key staff of the PIU would include the PIU director, an
engineer, an accountant/budget officer, an office assistant/secretary and a driver.

1.3.6     Project Audits (US$0.03 million)

          The Ministry of Finance would be responsible for engaging external private auditors to ensure that the
project audits would be completed in a timely manner. The Ministry of Finance would sign a three year contract
with private independent auditors to audit this project together with the other ongoing IDA financed projects in
Albania.

1.3.7     Preparation of design and bidding documents for the second-year programme of works (US$0.12
million)

          This component would provide for the hiring of an international consulting team for preparation of the
necessary designs and bidding documents for the second year programme of road repairs. The second year
programme would include the roads Fushe Kruje ­ Milot, Qafe Qele ­ Fushe Arrez and Kukes ­ Morine.

1.3.8     Preparation of Durres-Morine Road Feasibility Study (US$0.57 million)

          This component would provide for the hiring of an international consulting team for carrying out a
feasibility of the road corridor between the Port of Durres and the Kosovo border at Morine. The study would
consider at least three route options and would also include an environmental appraisal of the options.

1.3.9     Preparation of Feasibility Study and first-year design and bidding documents for a follow-on project
(Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project) (US$0.57 million)




                                                        - 23 -

          This component would provide for the hiring of an international consulting team for preparation of a
feasibility study for a follow-on project which would address the lack of road maintenance in Albania. The
international consultant would also prepare the necessary designs and bidding documents for the proposed
first-year works contracts.

1.4       Revised Components

        The components were not revised.

Achievement of Objectives and Outputs

2.1       Outcome/Achievement of Objective

          Objective:- To assist the Government of Albania in restoring the serviceability of two main roads
damaged by heavy vehicles during the Kosovo crisis. The first one connects the Port of Durres to Morine at the
border with Kosovo and the second one is the national road connecting Berat with Corovode.

          The objective has been satisfactorily met by the IDA financed Civil Works Road Contracts (see
components below).

2.2       Output by Components

2.2.1     Emergency Road Repair Civil Works on about 221km of the national road network to serviceable
condition

          A total of thirteen IDA-financed civil works contracts have been completed, providing repairs to
approximately 156 km of actual road surfacing and restoring the serviceability of approximately 220km of the
national road network with a total cost of $10.392 million including the Government of Albania (GoA) counterpart
funding. The thirteen works contacts are identified in Table 1.

          Initially a total of ten civil works contracts were foreseen in the Project Appraisal Document, covering the
total 221 km of national road network. But this had to be reviewed after the project started when the Supervising
Consultant raised a question about the technical feasibility of placing the Penetration Macadam road surface given
the lack of contractor experience in this process. It was generally accepted that it would be difficult to continue
permitting passing traffic during the placement of the material, if it was even possible in some sections due to the
narrowness of the road. Eventually the Penetration Macadam was deleted from the Contracts and replaced with a
5cm hot-rolled asphalt wearing course. Subsequently three additional civil works contracts were undertaken which
provided for the placing of the asphalt wearing course to the six first-year contracts.

          Due to the limited availability of funds, the sections of road to be repaired had to be critically reviewed
during the project. This led to some sections which were due to be repaired having to be curtailed. The worst case
was the section from Kukes to Morine, included in the second-year programme. Initially it was intended to repair
the full 24km, but this had to be drastically reduced to only the very worst section for a total length of 1.5km. An
indication of the actual lengths of road repaired compared with the original proposals in the Project Appraisal
Document (PAD) are provided within Table 1.

2.2.2     Provision of Laboratory, Office and Environmental Mitigation Equipment, Software and Vehicle

          Eight contracts for procurement of goods have been completed with a total value of $0.327 million. Five
of these contracts provided necessary equipment for the GRD and PIU. The contracts included office equipment, a
vehicle and financial management and reporting software and hardware for the establishment of the PIU. The
GRD purchased office equipment, computer and printer and a motor power generator for the GRD offices. This
latter piece of equipment was badly needed by the GRD since the building in which the GRD has its offices has
many power cuts making it impossible to work continuously during the day.


                                                          - 24 -

         Two further contracts for provision of `Goods' included the purchase of `Noise and Dust' monitoring
equipment and provision of laboratory equipment for the GRD. The laboratory equipment contract included the
purchase of an equipped-mobile laboratory for use by the GRD out on the construction sites. The final contract
provided for the purchase of some digital mapping required by the GRD.

2.2.3    Project Related Training

         Training has been provided through the project with a total cost of $0.103 million. Training seminars
have been attended in various countries and by a total of over 110 personnel. The training provided through the
project is indicated in the following table:

No.    Subject of Training                                           Location of Training          Number
                                                                                                   Attending
 1     HDM-4                                                         Tirana, Albania                  20
 2     Draft Transport Paper                                         Hungary                           2
  3 IRF ­ Executive Seminar on Asset Management                    Washington, USA                    2
  4 Maintenance Seminar by Louis Berger                            Tirana, Albania                 Over 50
  5 World Bank Procurement Seminar                                 Tirana, Albania                    20
  6 Project Planning, Scheduling & Intranet Project                La Rochelle, France                1
  7 European Transport Conference                                  Birmingham, UK                     2
  8 Traffic Modelling TransCAD Software                            Rome, Italy                        5
  9 Advance Management & Policy Development                        London, UK                         2
 10 Traffic Demand Modelling, Highway Assignment & Public          London, UK                         1
      Transport
 11 Laboratory and Field Testing Concerning Cement, Concrete       Rome, Italy                        5
      and Mineral Aggregates
 12    Road Maintenance and Its Management                           Paris, France                     4
                                                                               Total attending     Over 110

         The Maintenance Seminar organised by Louis Berger was included as part of the preparation of a
Feasibility Study for a follow-on `Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project'. The seminar was aimed at a high
level of personnel and was opened by the Minister of Transport and subsequently was well-attended by personnel
from MOTT, MLGD, MPO (Police), GRD, PIU, Highway Consultants and Transport Operators.

2.2.4    Consultant Services for Supervision of Road Works

         The selection of international supervision consultants took place following IDA Guidelines for the
Selection of Consultants using the Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) method of procurement. The contract
was awarded to the American Consultant "Louis Berger". The initial value of the contract ($1.011 million) has
been increased to take account of the fact that the Works contracts have been delayed and in addition, the
Consultant's contract had to be extended to permit them to supervise the early works contracts commenced under
the Road Maintenance Project for the Municipality of Tirana. The final value of the Supervision Contract is
$1.044 million and the contract was completed in August 2003.

2.2.5    Consultant Services for the Operation of the PIU

         A new Project Implementation Unit was established to manage and control the project. This was a World
Bank condition of the Credit Effectiveness. The PIU operated as an autonomous entity, working on behalf of the
GRD., and was endowed with full managerial, administrative and financial autonomy in project and contract
management, procurement and contract implementation, project accounting and administration of the Special
Account, and overall project co-ordination.



                                                      - 25 -

         The new PIU followed the internal control procedures already in place for the two PIUs implementing the
two ongoing transport projects. The control mechanisms included: (a) operation of a budgeting system and regular
monitoring of actual financial performance with budget and targets; (b) control over assets; and (c) internal and
external audit mechanism. The PIU has produced Quarterly Project Management Reports throughout the period of
the project. These have been generated from the computerised financial management system and submitted to IDA
and the Borrower in a timely manner. The format of reports was agreed with the Borrower and comprised of
financial reports, progress reports and procurement management reports
         .
         PIU staff included a Director, a procurement officer/engineer, an engineer, an accountant/budget officer,
an office assistant/secretary and a driver. The final PIU operational costs amounted to $0.212 million.

         In addition a procurement advisor was provided to assist the PIU through the US Technical Development
Association (USTDA). The advisor visited the PIU approximately every two months. On completion of the
USTDA-funded advisor's services a procurement advisor was hired utilising project funding ($0.030 million). The
Procurement Advisor was already working with the PIU managing the National Road Project.

2.2.6    Project Audits

         The Ministry of Finance engaged external private auditors to ensure that the project audits were
completed in a timely manner.         Initially the Ministry of Finance signed a two-year contract with private
independent auditors to audit this project. The costs for these audits have been included in the total for the PIU
costs. Towards the later part of the project, the Ministry of Finance signed a contract with private independent
auditors to audit this project together with other ongoing IDA financed projects in Albania. No costs were
attributed to this Project for these audits.

2.2.7    Preparation of design and bidding documents for the second-year programme of works

         The selection of international consultants took place following IDA Guidelines for the Selection of
Consultants using the Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) method of procurement. The contract was
awarded to the Italian Consultant "Technital". This component provided for the Consultant to prepare the design
and bidding documents for the three road schemes which were repaired during the second year of the project. The
schemes identified for repair were as follows: Fushe Kruje-Mamurras-Milot (30km); Qafe Qele-Fushe Arrez
(49km); and Kukes-Morine (24km). The Consultant carried out topographical surveys, investigations and studies
in order to prepare the detailed design of the emergency repair works. The Consultant then prepared the Bidding
Documents in accordance with the World Bank Standard Documents for procuring the three Civil Works Contracts
using National Competitive Bidding (NCB). The final value of the Design Contract is $0.110 million and the
contract was completed in January 2002.

2.2.8    Preparation of Durres-Morine Road Feasibility Study

         The Road Corridor between Durres and Morine connects Albania's main port of Durres with Kosovo and
the South Balkans. With the planned expansion of the Port of Durres, it has the potential to substantially improve
trade connections for the South Balkans to the Adriatic, the Mediterranean, and beyond. For Albania, the corridor
has the potential to increase trade with the other Balkan countries, especially Kosovo and Montenegro.

         The first of two existing roads which service this corridor in Albania starts from Durres, follows the
Albanian North-South Road Corridor for approximately 100km. and then, near the city of Shkoder, turns towards
the North-Eastern part of the country and ends at the border crossing with Kosovo at Morine, having a total length
of approximately 220km. This route also forms an important link with the Shkoder to Hani Hotit road connecting
to the Albania/Montenegro border crossing. The second leaves the first at Milot and rejoins it at Puke, following a
valley road to Rubik and then a severe mountain alignment. The second route has a shorter travel distance, but
only a slightly faster travel time.




                                                        - 26 -

         There are multiple problems with the present roads including: indirect alignment, adding significant
travel time to the Durres-Morine journey, major safety issues with hairpin bends and very poor sight distances,
co-mingling with urban mixed-mode traffic in towns (pedestrians, bicycles, and animal-drawn carts), and generally
poor condition leading to slow transit times and even worse safety conditions.

         The portions of the corridor from Durres to Milot (70km.) and from Milot through Lezhe to Shkroder
(60km.) have currently under development, on different alignments, new roads and an extensive reconstruction
programme of existing roads co-funded by several international funding agencies. Such agencies include the
EU-PHARE, the World Bank (WB), European Investment Bank (EIB) and the Government of Italy (GOI). When
completed the new roads would provide at least a 10.5m. asphalt-paved two-lane road, including shoulders, with
good alignments.

         This component provided for the preparation of a study of feasibility of improving the transportation,
average speed, capacity and safety in the corridor with explicit focus on evaluating some alternative alignments for
a new road or mix of new road with improved existing roads between Milot and Morine. An Environmental Impact
Assessment under World Bank guidelines was also prepared as a key part of the study.

         The selection of an international consultant took place following IDA Guidelines for the Selection of
Consultants using the Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) method of procurement. The contract was
awarded to the Italian/UK consultant association of "TECNIC and Mott MacDonald". The final value of the
Consultant's Contract is $0.675 million and the contract was completed in November 2003.

         The selection of the best `Alternative' was established by the Consultant using a procedure that considered
both the environmental and the economic evaluation indicators. The three Alternatives were ranked according to
the indicators and the procedure identified the best Alternative as Alternative 3, which is the most direct route and
would use a combination of the existing roads for approximately 77% of the route and require the construction of a
new road for the remaining 23%. Of the existing roads, 38% is already new construction, but the remaining 39%
would require upgrading.

         The product of the feasibility study is a full justification of the elected improvements (Alternative 3), as
environmentally sound consistent with international practice and in strict accordance with Albanian environmental
requirements and World Bank environmental policies and procedures. As such, the identified best alternative has
been adopted by the Government of Albania as the `Preferred Alternative' and the section of the route between
Milot and Rreshen is to become the subject of a proposed World Bank-funded project to be identified as the
"Transport Project".

2.2.9    Preparation of Feasibility Study and first-year design and bidding documents for a follow-on project
(Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project)

         The selection of international consultants took place following IDA Guidelines for the Selection of
Consultants using the Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) method of procurement. The contract was
awarded to the American Consultant "Louis Berger". The final value of the Contract is $0.852 million and the
contract was completed in August 2003.

         The purpose of the preparation project was to show the Government how it could stabilize the conditions
of serviceability of the road networks, by identifying and measuring the required maintenance interventions, both
routine and periodic. The direct result would be to optimise existing and projected financial resource allocations to
produce better serviceability levels on all roads. In pursuance of better road maintenance management, the
follow-on Road Maintenance Project would be required to specifically look at the part that privatisation of services
and products could play in the road sector in Albania. The emphasis within this component therefore, was to
introduce an all round Road Asset Management System that incorporates a Pavement Management System.

         The component provided for the Consultant to undertake a condition survey of the National Road
Network. The Consultant carried out an assessment of periodic maintenance concurrently with the determination


                                                        - 27 -

of routine maintenance needs. All asphalted roads were surveyed and according to the levels of defect severity and
previous periodic applications, each section justifying an intervention was recorded on the basis of a site
pre-qualification without prioritization. A national plan for required periodic maintenance interventions and/or
strengthening overlays, for inclusion in the Mid Term Investment Portfolio in the Road Asset Management System
was prepared. Economic Rates of Return were then determined to prioritise the road sections for maintenance. The
surveys indicated a significant amount of deferred routine and periodic maintenance and the need for strengthening
overlays.

         For the rural roads component of the project, the requirements were to identify about 1,500 kilometres of
the rural network that is in need of conservation and then to prepare the necessary contract documentation for the
procurement of maintenance interventions for the most appropriate cases - within the constraints of the available
budget.

         The Consultant collected together available background data relating to previous maintenance
interventions - including those funded directly by GoA as well as those by external funding sources. The
Consultant also compiled other important information such as topographical maps at various scales and extensive
social and demographic details. The first step towards the process of identifying prospective road sections for
inclusion in the RMP was the preparation of a `long list' of candidates. From this, a list of 140 candidate rural
roads emerged. The candidate list was formed primarily by extracting the links that:

o        Appeared to be serving the largest concentrations of the rural population in each of the twelve Circles;
o        Had a potential to provide an important community connectivity function, either in lieu of or in
conjunction with, an adjacent National road corridor.
o        Had a direct connection at one (or both ends) to a National road already identified for some form of
maintenance intervention under the National road component of the RMP.

         The candidate lengths amounted to about 1,700 kilometres, well beyond the 1,500 metres stipulated. An
`order of magnitude' cost was developed for each link using individual unit prices developed from first principles
(i.e. using labour, material, transport, overhead and profit components). A cost / kilometre figure was then
developed for each of three basic terrain types in Albania (flat, hilly and mountainous) and each link was then
assigned a cost to match its assessed terrain characteristic. From this work the initial cost estimate for potential
work on each one of the links was derived.

         A priority score was then awarded (high, medium or low) based initially on the estimated population
expected to directly benefit for the improved facility. The Consultant embarked on a series of condition surveys for
the highest priority roads identified and agreed in each Circle. For each of the Circles, the Consultant then went
on to identify one or more of the highest priority links in the groups for inclusion in the RMP. This was done with
reference to the earlier rankings developed, to the Circles' own priority lists and to an additional parameter
relating to population numbers served by each link.

         The final step in the process was to allocate the suggested links to the `Periodic' and `Routine'
components of the Procurement plan. For this purpose, a review of the maintenance `cost per kilometre' of each of
the highest ranked links in each Circle was developed in compliance with the following criteria:

         a)       Links needing significant intervention and having a correspondingly higher estimated cost. This
was interpreted as being over US$ 8,500 / kilometre;
         b)       Links needing lesser remedial intervention and therefore a lower cost - i.e. less than US$ 8,500 /
kilometre.

         Links in category a) were called `Backlog Periodic' maintenance and those in category b) `Enhanced
Routine' maintenance. These names were established simply to help illustrate the degree of deterioration that the
various links had undergone and to allocate the budgets accordingly. The relatively high costs per kilometre
provided an indication that the work required to conserve the rural roads was actually more than just `traditional'




                                                        - 28 -

routine intervention activities such as the filling of potholes and the cleaning of pipes and ditches.

Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

3.1      Factors outside the control of Government or Implementing Agency

         One factor affecting the implementation and outcome of the project was the initially unfavourable
exchange rate between the SDR and US Dollar. This has led to a 5% reduction of IDA financing from US$ 13.65
million to US$ 13.01 million equivalent. Towards the end of the project, the US Dollar began to weaken and this
reversed the losses. The problem then was that the works' contracts were paid to the Contractors in Albanian
LEK, which was now strengthening against the US Dollar and this tended to offset the gains made against the
SDR. However the implementation of the project is not considered to have been noticeably affected by the
exchange rate since all the proposed components have been completed.

3.2      Factors generally subject to Government control

         The factor under Government control, which could have affected the implementation of the project, was
the problem of power cuts. At the end of September 2000 the power cuts started to hinder both the Contractors'
and the Engineer's activities. The situation worsened in late October 2000 when the electricity in the area was only
available for 1 to 1½ hours during the working day (although it was available for 6 hours from 18h00 to 24h00).
By the end of the year, the power supply had been reduced to less than 6 hours per 24 hour day. The problem was
exacerbated by the power being available at random times and only for 15 to 20 minutes at any one time. The
Contractors solved the power cut problems by purchasing sufficient power generators for their site offices as well as
for the necessary site activities. This increased the costs sustained by the Contractors but ensured that the Works
were completed on time. Therefore the Contractors' actions mean that the implementation of the project is
considered to have been only slightly affected by the reduced power supplies.

3.3      Factors generally subject to Implementing Agency control

         The main factor, subject to Implementing Agency Control, which created delays to the project
implementation was the delay in awarding the two Asphalt Works Contracts in the northern region. The contracts
were intended to start immediately after completion of the First-Year Civil Works Contracts. Therefore they should
have been awarded in early spring 2001 in order to allow the Contractors to commence the asphalt operations by
the end of July 2001.

         Unfortunately delay in the two contract procurements combined with a prolonged winter season
dramatically influenced the Agency's initial intentions. The tenders were held in June 2001 and contracts awarded
by the end of August 2001. This made it technically impossible to complete the contracts on time i.e. by the end of
February 2002. This was due to the weather factor. Winter in the northern region of Albania is normally quite
long with low temperatures making it impossible to carry out asphalt works during the period November to
March/April. As a consequence, the Contractor had to be granted an `Extension of Time' in order to finish the
asphalt works by the end of September 2002, i.e. twelve months compared to the original contract duration of
160days (approx. 5 months).

         The implementation of the project is considered to have been partially affected by the delay in awarding
the two Asphalt Works Contracts in the northern region.

Sustainability

4.1      Rationale for Sustainability Rating

         Sustainability of the project is likely. This is because of the GoA's ongoing commitment to improving
and maintaining the Country's national road network. This is demonstrated by the present IDA funding of the
Road Maintenance Project for maintenance of some sections of the national and rural road networks. These


                                                          - 29 -

ongoing maintenance works contracts provide business and employment opportunities for Albanian construction
companies. In summary, continued co-operation between the Bank, other development organisations, the Albanian
government and private sector organisations is necessary for continued sustainability.

4.2      Transition Arrangements to Regular Operation

         It will take several more years yet before transition to regular operation is complete. In part this is
because of the new organisation's weak managerial skills and lack of experience in a market economy, and also
because Albania lacks a permanent civil service. Conversion to new technologies and learning new procedures of
work, co-operation and competition, especially towards road maintenance, would be essential during the transition
period.

Lessons Learned

5.1      Contract Language

         Clause 17 of the Conditions of Contract stated that the contractual language was Albanian, even though
the supervision was provided by an international supervision consultant. This made the communication between
the Resident Engineer and the Contractor, especially with the Contractor's workforce on site, quite difficult. All
correspondence between the RE and the Contractor and any documents had to be translated from English to
Albanian and vice versa by the RE's local staff. The interpreting and translation process was time consuming and
created some difficulties in following the correct procedures. Frequently misunderstandings and misinterpretations
were noticed on site. The lesson has been learned in that the Contract language for the Civil Works Contracts,
now being undertaken within the IDA-Financed Road Maintenance Project, is English. Although an Albanian
version of the Bidding Documents was prepared to assist the local Contractors during the preparation of their Bids.

5.2      Traffic Safety Devices

         The two main roads scheduled for emergency repairs (Fushe Arrez ­ Kukes and Berat ­ Bogove) both
pass through hilly areas. Both roads have a lot of dangerous sections without parapets and crash barriers. The
design of the emergency repair works did not provide for any road safety works due to the financial constraints of
the Project. The lack of traffic signs, road markings and provision of safety devices is a common problem on the
Albanian road network. However during the implementation of the asphalt works contracts for these two roads, a
seminar on road safety, promoted by the MOTT and World Bank, was held in Tirana. This seminar was a
precursor to the proposed Road Maintenance Project, which includes a large component on road safety issues. As a
result the Employer (MOTT, GRD) instructed the two Works Contractors to install some traffic signs, road
markings and safety devices as a pilot scheme for the new Road Maintenance Project.

         The lesson has now been learned by the GRD and the original `Traffic Department' within the GRD has
now become the `Traffic and Road Safety Department'. The tasks of this department now include checking
proposed road schemes to ensure that the proposed signs and markings comply with the Albanian Road Code
regulations.

Borrower and Bank Performance

         The MOT and GRD are very appreciative of the help, work and advice given to them by the Bank's staff
during the implementation of the Project. The contribution and work of the Task Manager, Mr. Cesar Queiroz,
and his assistant Mr. Olivier Le Ber, and their supervision missions have contributed greatly to the final success
and achievements of the Project.




                                                       - 30 -

Table 1: Road Repair Contracts Undertaken

PAD/                Contract               Length at PAD      Estimated Cost    Actual Length      Actual Cost
Actual                                           (km)             at PAD          Repaired        (million US$)
                                                               (million US$)         (km)        See note below
PAD      Berat ­ Polican                         22.0                0.73
Actual (Berat ­ Mbrakull)                                                            12.3             0.999
PAD       Polican ­ Corovode                     26.0                0.87
Actual    (Mbrakull ­ Bogove)                                                        14.9             1.098
PAD       Fushe Kruje ­ Mamurras                 16.0                1.01
PAD       Mamurras - Milot                       14.0                0.89
Actual      Fushe Kruje - Milot                                                      29.0             0.188
PAD       Qafe Qele ­ Fushe Arrez                49.0                1.43
          (2 contracts see below)
Actual Qafe Qele - Puke                                                              22.8             0.606
Actual      Puke ­ Fushe Arrez                                                       19.9             0.985
PAD       Fushe Arrez ­ Kukes                    70.0                5.40
          (4 contracts see below)
Actual Fushe Arrez ­ Lajthize                                                        14.4             1.903
Actual Lajthize ­ Shen Meri                                                          16.9             2.098
Actual Shen Meri - Kalimash                                                          16.4             1.542
Actual      Kalimash - Kukes                                                          7.6             0.827
PAD       Kukes ­ Morine                         24.0                1.20
Actual    Kukes-Morine                                                                1.5             0.146

         TOTALS                                221.0               11.53            155.7           10.392

Note: All actual Contract values are in Albanian Lek and therefore the exchange rate applicable at the time of the
contract has been used to determine the actual cost in US dollars. In addition some sections were subjected to two
contracts (one for the initial road repair works and the second for asphalt pavement works).




                                                         - 31 -

Table 2: Road Repair Contracts ­ Number of Bids & Winning Contractor

                                                                   Amount of           Actual Cost          Cost in
       Contract              Number           Winning            Winning Bid /                              US$ per
                             of Bids         Contractor       Converted to US$                                Km
                                                                  at Contract
                                                                Exchange Rate
Contract No.1                              "Geci Shpk"        Lek 141,490,950       Lek 144,351,690
Fushe Arrez ­ Lajthize          5           (Albanian)        US$ 1,010,649.64      US$ 1,031,083.50         $71,600
Contract No.2                              "Cosmar Srl"        Lek 167,821,607       Lek 149,870,650
Lajthize ­ Shen Meri           6             (Albanian)       US$ 1,198,725.76      US$ 1,070,504.64         $63,300
Contract No.3                           J.V. "NARr ShA"        Lek 120,804,820       Lek 103,774,654
Shen Meri - Kalimash           6          "Arifaj Shpk"         US$ 862,891.57       US$ 741,247.53          $45,200
                                             (Albanian)
Contract No.4                           J.V. "Geci Shpk"        Lek 72,465,785       Lek 64,375,253
Kalimash - Kukes               3       &"Vellazeria Shpk"       US$ 517,612.75       US$ 459,823.24          $60,500
                                             (Albanian)
Contract No.5                               "2K Shpk"           Lek 74,292,080       Lek 81,196,177
Berat ­ Mbrakull               9             (Albanian)         US$ 530,657.71       US$ 579,972.69          $47,200
Contract No.6                           "Asfaltimi Rruga        Lek 89,227,300       Lek 82,260,270
Mbrakull ­ Bogove              8         ShA" (Albanian)        US$ 637,337.86       US$ 587,573.36          $39,400
Contract No.1A                              "PavI Srl"         Lek 196,044,500       Lek 245,843,953
Fushe Arrez ­ Shen             7             (Albanian)       US$ 1,633,704.17      US$ 2,048,699.71         $64,000
Meri (Asphalt Paving
Works)
Contract No.2A                              "PavI Srl"         Lek 153,110,000       Lek 176,014,641
Shen Meri ­ Kukes              6             (Albanian)       US$ 1,093,642.86      US$ 1,257,247.44         $54,700
(Asphalt Paving Works)
Contract No.3A                             J.V. "Granit"        Lek 96,710,000       Lek 127,254,150
Berat ­ Bogove                 3          (Macedonian) &        US$ 743,923.08       US$ 978,878.08          $48,900
(Asphalt Paving Works)                   "Salillari Shpk"
                                             (Albanian)
Contract No.II-1                           J.V. "Arifaj"        Lek 72,327,880       Lek 83,176,482
Qafe Qele - Puke               9       "N. Asfaltimi Rruga      US$ 516,627.71       US$ 594,117.73          $26,100
                                         ShA" (Albanian)
Contract No.II-2                           "Geci Shpk"        Lek 117,287,000       Lek 134,850,391
Puke ­ Fushe Arrez              7           (Albanian)         US$ 837,764.29        US$ 963,217.08          $48,400
Contract No.II-3                        J.V. "NARr ShA"         Lek 17,380,530       Lek 19,987,568
Kukes-Morine                    8       & "Haziri Shpk"         US$ 124,146.64       US$ 142,768.35          $95,200
                                            (Albanian)
Contract No.II-4                           "Albshpresa         Lek 22,571,790        Lek 25,819,631
Fushe Kruje - Milot            11       Shpk" (Albanian)       US$ 161,227.07        US$ 184,425.94           $6,400

                                                                  TOTAL COST       Lek 1,438,775,510

Note: All actual Contract values are in Albanian Lek and therefore the exchange rate applicable at the time of the
contract has been used to determine the estimated cost in US dollars.




                                                       - 32 -

- 33 -

- 34 -

- 35 -

