Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
L-A/-- 36'97
Report No. 12213-UR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
URUGUAY
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT AND IRRIGATION
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NOVEMBER 30, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:        12213 UR
Type: SAR
Country Department IV
Agriculture Operatons Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Thi document ha a rstdcted disrbution and may be used by redpients only in the pedonnmae of
thei officiad duties Its contents may no otheise be dicosed withou Wodd Bank autoizaton.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - New Peso (NU$)
EXCHANGE RATE
(as of July 30, 1993)
US$1.00 = NU$3.993
NU$1.00 = US$0.250
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system has been used throughout the report.



'OR O?flCUAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANCAP           State Petroleum, Alcohol and Cement Company
(Asociaci6n Nacional de Cemento, Alcohol y Petr6leo)
AUSID           Uruguayan Association for the Promotion of Zero Tillage
(Asociaci6n Uruguaya pro Siembra Directa)
BCU             Central Bank of Uruguay
(Banco Central del Uruguay)
BROU            State Bank of the Uruguayan Republic
(Banco de la Repdiblica Oriental del Uruguay)
CCI             Inter-Ministerial Coordinating Council for Project Implementation
(Comisi6n de Coordinaci6n Inter-Ministerial)
CHDCSL          National Commission for the Development of the Santa Lucfa Basin
(Comisi6n Honoraria para el Desarrollo de la Cuenca de Santa Lucia)
CONAPROLE    National Cooperative of Dairy Producers
(Cooperativa Nacional de Productores de Leche)
DF              Forestry Directorate of MGAP
(Direcci6n Forestal del MGAP)
DORNR           General Directorate for Renewable Natural Resources
(Dhecci6n General de Recursos Naturales Renovables)
DINAMA          National Directorate for the Enviromnent
(Direcci6n Nacional de Medio Ambiente)
DINAMIGE        National Directorate of Mining and Geology
(Direcci6n Nacional de Minerfa y Geologfa)
DNH             National Directorate of Hydrography
(Direcci6n Nacional de Hidrograffa)
DRH             Division of Hydraulic Resources
(Division de Recursos Hfdricos)
DSA             Division of Soil and Water of MGAP
(Divisi6n de Suelos y Agua del MGAP)
EA              Environmental Assessment
(Evaluacion del Inpacto Ambiental)
EEC             European Economic Community
(Comisi6n Econ6mica Europea)
ERR             Economic Rate of Return
(Tasa Interna Econ6mica de Retorno)
FAO             Food and Agriculture Organization
(Organizaci6n de las Naciones Unidas para la Agricultura y la Alimentacion)
FAO/CP          FAO-World Bank Cooperative Program
(Programa de Cooperaci6n FAO/Banco Mundial)
FUCREA          Uruguayan Federation of Regional Agricultural Experimntion Groups
(Federaci6n Uruguaya de Consorcios Regionales de Experimentaci6n Agrfcola)
This document has a resricted distribution and may be used by rec.w3ents OB'; In the perfOrmance of ther ofali
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dJsosd without World E-nk  aru..



GDP             Gross Domestic Product
(Producto Intemo Bruto)
GEF             Global Environenal Fund
GIs             Geographic Information System
(Sistema de Informaci6n Geogr fico)
GOU             Goverment of Uruguay
(Gobierno de la RepUblica Oriental del Uruguay)
GTZ             Gesellschaft f(lr Technische Zusammenheit
ICB             Intemational Competitive Bidding
IDB             Inter-American Development Bank
(Bano Inter-Americano de Desarrollo)
INAVI           National Wine Institute
(Instituto Nacional del Vif.O)
INIA            Istitute of Agricultural Research
Onstituto Nacional de Investigaci6n Agrpecria)
JRR             Regional Irrigation Boards
(Juntas Regionales de Riego)
LCB             Local Competitive Bidding
M&E             Monitoring and Evaluation
(Seguimiento, Evaluaci6n)
MERCOSUR        (Mercado Comfin del Cono Sur)
MGAP            Ministry of Livestock, Agriculture and Fisheries
(Ministerio de Ganaderfa, Agricultura y Pesca)
MIEB            Ministry of Industry and Energy
(Ministerio de Industria y Energfa)
,MTP            Ministry of Transport and Public Works
(Ministerio de Transporte y Obras Piblicas)
MVOTMA          Ministry of Housing, Territorial Organization and Environment
(Ministerio de Vivienda, Ordenamiento Territorial y MedioAmbiente)
NGO             Non-Governmental Organization
(Organizaci6n No-Gubernamental)
O&M             Operation and Maintenance
(Operaci6n y Mantnimiento)
OPP             Office of Plannming and Budget
(Oficina de Planeamiento y Presupuesto)
PCR             Project Completion Report
POA             Amual Work Program
(Programa Operativo Anual)
PENTA           Promotion of Non-Traditional Agricultural Exports
(Programa de Promociones no Tradicionales Agropecuarias)
PPAR            Project Performance Auditing Report
PRENADER        Natural Resources Management and Irrigation Development Project
(Proyecto de Manejo de Recursos Naturales y Desarrollo del Riego)
SAMAN           Rice Mills Shareholders Company
(Sociedad An6nima de Molinos Arroceros)
SOE             Statement of Expenditure
(Estado de Cuentas)
SUL             Uruguayan Wool Secretariat
(Secretariado Uruguayo de la Lana)
UEP             Project Executing Unit
(Unidad Ejecutora del Proyecto)
UNDP            United Nations Development Program
(Programnia de Desarrollo de Naciones Unidas)



UlRUGUAY
STAfF APPRASA REPORT
NATURA RESOURCES MANAGEM   ANRRIGAON
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tables of Cnet
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY .........................
I. PROJECT AND SECTOR BACKGROUND .1
A. Agriculure in the Economy .1
The Agricultural Sector's Performance .1
Current Policy Environment for Agricul.re .                           2
B.  Natural Resource Use in Agriculture.                                            2
C.    Main Characteristics of Irrigated Agriculture                                 3
Background .3
Development Potential.                                                4
Major Constraints to Irrigation Development            .5
Environmental Constraints.                                            6
Legal Framework.                                                      7
D.  Agricultural Sector Institional Framework.                                      8
E.    Bankwide Experience in Agricultural Sector Lending .10
Previous Bank Lending in Uruguay .12
Bank Lending Strategy in the Agricultaual Sector .13
II.    THF PROJECT .....................................                                   14
Origin and Rationale for Bank Involvement .........         ........... 14
Project Objectives ............................                             15
ProjectDescription ............................                             16
Natural Resources Management ...........................  16
Irrigation Development ............................. 20
Project Costs and Finaning ............................  24
Costs  ............................ 24
Financing ............................                               24
Procurement .2............................5
This report hicorporates the findigs of an Appraisal Mission that visied Uruguy bwn  June 29 and July 9, 1993.
The mission was comprised of Messrs. Andrds Abramovich (Task Manager) an Reynaldo Pastor of the Bank. It is
also based on the findngs of previous Bank/FAOCP mnissions comprised of Messrs. Peter W _tberg and Michael
Carroll (Bank); Edgardo Moto and F. Shaxson (PAOCP); and Michael Raczasky and Diego Payss6 (Consulta).
Mr. Victor Valle assisted in the production of Ibis teporL The Division Chief is Mr. Mark Wilsoa. The Project
Advisor is Mr. Malcolm Rowat. The Country Deprment Director is Mr. Ping-Cheung Loh.



Cost Recovery in Irrigation Projects  ....................... 27
Disbursements ..................................... 30
Organization and Implementation ....................              30
Accounts and Audits ..................... 32
Monitoring and Evaluation ....................                    33
Benefits ....................                                     34
Economic Analysis . .......................... 35
Environmental Inpact ....................                         35
Environmental Screening ....................                      35
Risks ....................                                        37
m.   SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ... 37
Recommendations .....................                             41
ANNEXES:
A.   The Irrigation Subsector
B.    Micro-Catchment Development Program
C.   Demonstration Farms
D.   Applied Research Program
E.    Geographical Information System (GIS)
F.    Forestry Development Support
G.   Summary of Proposed New Medium-Size I&D Schemes
H.   Selection Criteria for I&D Subprojects
I.    Institutional Framework
J.    Project Organization and Management
K.   Monitoring Program on Water Use Efficiency and Soil Conservation
L.    Fiscal Impact
M.   Environmental Aspects
N.   Supervision Plan
0.   Progress Performance Indicators
P.    Schedule of Training and Technical Assistance
Q.   Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements
R.   Cost Estimates
S.    Allocation of Loan Proceeds
T.    Documents to Project Files
MAP: IBRD No. 25074



URUGUAY
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT AND IRRIGATION
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower                Republic of Uruguay
Loan Amount:            U'.$41.0 million equivalent
Terms:                  Repayable in 15 years, including five years of grace at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Project Objectives:     The main objective of the proposed natural resource oriented
project would be to develop and implement a soil and water
management strategy. The latter would target irrigation
development, as a way to increase, diversify, and sustain
agricultural output and exports. The strategy would specifically
focus on: (a) supporting environmentally sound investments in
rehabilitation and development of irrigation/drainage schemes
and related service infrastructure; (b) improving surace and
ground water use efficiency; (c) establishing a well-balanced
operation and maintenance (O&M) and capital cost recovery
policy; (d) setting the stage for improved natural resource
management practices by supporting water and soil
management/conservation, and priority applied research and
technology transfer subprojects; and (e) providing technical
assistance for forestry development and non-traditional
agricultural export activities.
Project Description:    Components include: (a) Natural Resource Management,
comprising: (i) pilot development schemes in micro-catchment
areas of the Santa Lucia River Basin to gain experience in the
management of ecologically fragile zones; (ii) demonstration
farms in selected agro-ecological areas suffering soil degradation
and erosion problems; (iii) a Geographical Information System
to provide the groundwork for improved land use classification
aid management in the country; (iv) applied research and
technology transfer activities focussed on modern techniques of
soil and water management; (v) special studies; (vi)
strengthening of policy planning, evaluation, and monitoring
capacity at the level of the Directorates of Natural Resources at
MGAP, and Hydrography at MTOP, respectively; and (vii)
technical assistance for forestry development. (b) rrigation
Development, comprising: (i) the rehabilittion and



- ii -
modernization of existing public irrigation and drainage (I&D)
schemes where use, maintenance and admistration would be
transferred to users under appropriate capital cost recovery and
O&M arrangements; (ii) construction of new medium-size
collective irrigation and drainage schemes for the benefit of user
groups under appropriate capital cost re-.overy and O&M
arrangements; (iii) construction of selected small farmer
irrigation infrastucture (i.e., small-scale earthills, irrigation
and drainage canals and tubewells); (iv) water harvesting 'pilot"
program at the farm level to help develop an optimal surface
water use strategy; and (v) technical assistance for feasibility
studies of irrigation investment projects, and for production,
processing, and marketing of (mostly irrigated) non-traditional
expor, products to be produced under these I&D schemes.
Implementation of the two components would be suppored by
technical assistance to be provided by the project through the
Project Executing Unit (UEP).
Benefits:               The project would serve as a vehicle to assist the Government of
Uruguay to develop and implement a soil and water management
strategy leading to irrigation subsector growth. The main
project benefits would include: (a) expansion of the irrigated
area benefittmng mostly medium and small farmers in rainfed
areas; (b) increased productivity and investment in higher-value
export crops resulting from an expansion in the availability of
secure irrigation water; (c) enhanced small farmer income and
welfare; (d) improved public and private resource allocation by
introducing a comprehensive capital cost recovery and O&M
policy; and (e) improved natural resource management and
conservation practices leading to sustained agriculural sector
growth.
Povrty Category:        Not applicable.
Risks:                  The institutional capacity to execute and coordinate the project,
especially the naural resources assessment and management
aspects, may prove inadequate. This risk would be mitigated by
a strong focus on institutional strengthening and development,
and the inclusion of specific, programmed actions to fill
identified capacity gaps.



- li -
PROJECT COST SUMARY:
Protec Com WON Lni                                          Fo             Total
US$ million
A.    Natural Resource Management
"Pilotr Microatchment Arm                       0.8           1.9           2.7
Demonstation Farms                              0.4           0.6            1.0
Applied Research and Technology Transfer        5.7           3.5            9.2
Geographical Information System                 0.4           0.5            0.9
Insttutionat Stengthening                       0.2            1.3           1.5
Naural Resouroe Mngement Studies                 -             1.5           1.5
Feresthy Development                            1.0            1.0           2.0
Component Sub-Total                             8.5          10.3           18.8
B.    Irrigation Devdopment
Rehabilitation of Existing I&D Schemes          1.9            1.9           3.8
New Medium-Siz, I&D Schemes                    16.7           11.1          27.8
Small Farmer Irrigation Infratrture             2.8           2.5            5.3
Water Harvesdng ^Pilot^ Program                 6.4            -             6.4
I&&D Feasibility Studies                         -             1.7           1.7
Non-Traditional Export Crop Promotion           1.3           0.5            1.8
Component Sub-Total                            29.1           17.7          46.8
C.    Project Execuing Unit (UEP)                      0.3            1.9           2
Total Baseine Cost                                    37.9           29.9          67.8
Physical Contingencies                          0.1           0.3            0.4
Price Contingencies                             3.1           2.7            5.8
Total Project Cost                                    41.1           32.9          74.0
ROJECIINANCING PLAN:
kocal        Forei          ToMal
US$ million
Government                                     12.3           12.2          24.5
Project Beneficiaries                           8.5            -             8.5
Bank                                           20.3          20.7           41.0
Total                                          41.1          32.9           74.0
ESTIMATED IBRD DlSBURSMENTS (USS minion)
IBRD FY              1994       1995      1996       1997       1998      1999
Anmual                 6.5 1'       7.4       8.2        7.8        6.2       4.9
Cumulative             6.5         13.9      22.1       29.9       36.1      41.0
/     Includes an initial deposit to the Special Account of US$3.5 million and up to US$3.0 million in
retroactve financing for expnitures incurred after July 1, 1993.



U,RUGUAY
STAFF APPRAIAL REPORT
NATUALRESOURtCE MANAGFIET ADM
DEVEL O PROJEI
I. PROJECT AND SECOR BACKGROUND
A. Agh.j~eIn the Ecoomy
The A4riculural Sector's Performance
1.1   The agricultural sector in Umguay contributes about 10% of GDP, direcdy employs
16% of the work force, and makes a major contribution to foreign exchange earnings.
Sectoral exports, including processed agricultural raw materials, with an annual average
value of nearly US$1,000 million, represented over 80% of toul export value in the late
1980s. During 1970-81, the sector grew at less than 1% per annum, whereas GDP as a
whole grew at nearly 3% per annum. Following the recession of 1982-85, which resulted in
a sector output decline of over 12% in real terms, thd agricultural sector and the rest of the
economy have yet to reun to the output level of 1980/81 despite the positive grwth rates
shown since 1985. During 1985-1990, agricultural GDP grew at an average rate of 2% per
1.2 Although the composition of agricultural output and exports has been changing during
the 1980s, given the natural resource base of the country, the agriculural sector is sfill
largely dependent on the performance of the livestock subsector, which has traditionally
accounted for nearly two-thirds of agricultural output and 70% of agricultural exports. Thus,
the stagnation of the livestock subsector explains to a large degree the poor performance of
the sector as a whole. The large decline in area under cultivation of traditional crops, due to
the removal of artificial price supports, has also adversely affected the sector's performance.
1.3   The decline in area has been particularly sharp in the case of wheat and maize, which
decreased by 44% each over the last decade, although total wheat output fell by only 4%
dur'ig that period as marginal producers were eliminated. More recently a new
enuitymiaeurial class, more inclined to capital inteusive techniques than traditional producers,
has been marketing non-traditonal agricultural exports such as rice, soya beans, barley,
citrus and some horticultural products, whose combined exports were nearly US$160 million
in 1990. In recen years wood products have also been added to these non-traditional
exports. The relatve importance of wood production in Uruguay was rather marginal in the
past, with total exports totalling no more than US$250,000 per year. However, with the new
stimulus to expand forestation and forest euports, supported under the Bank's Second
Agricultural Development Project (Ln. 3131-UR; US$132.4 million total cost), total annnal
forestry exports ineased to nearly US$4 million in 1990/91.



-2-
Cumett kbUc ERYkRumm    c41aw
1.4   The present Government has reaffirmed its commiment to the process of structual
reform and an open economy as the basis for economic development. Along those lines,
Uruguay has taken decisive action in support of free capital markets, market determined
exchange and interest rates, freedom of exchange transactions, and reducing or eliminatwg
price controls or subsidies. Furthermore, agriculturl policy is now focussed on capitalizing
the codntry's comparative advantage. Whether this will result in accelerated agricull
investment and output will igely dtpend on the private sector's confidence in the
ustainability of the reforms.
1.5   The primary objective of the Goverment's agricultural strategy is to increase
productvity, output and exports, while preserving the country's natural resource base and
achieving a balanced distribution of benefits across the economy. In recent years,
encuraging results from a number of agricultural export products, including dairy, citrus,
malting barley, rice and fish, indicate potential for significant diversification and that the
-priae sector is capable of responding to a favorable economic climate. The explicit long-
term strategy is diversification. The progressive removal of remaining market distortions,
the generation of public goods through improved research-based technology, technical
assistance, and infras     development, plus Government support for private investment
should reinforce this trend.
1.6   The Govermment financial sector reforms have not yet mcceeded in extending the
maturity of domestic instuments; the capital market remains underdeveloped and there is
itte long-ter  ilnancing. Limited availability of term financing could jeopardize the private
sector drive towards diversificat; )n and the development of new exports. However, term
financing constrai  would be significantly mitigated through the Private Sector
Development Project to be cofinanced with IDB, which is expected to become effective by
December 1993 (prior to effectiveness of the proposed Naural Resource Management and
Irrigation Development Project). The Global Credit Project would provide the necessary
financial resources to the banking system to ensure that sufficient long-term credit would be
available to producers to realize the export potential that has opened up as a result of trade
and policy reforms.
B. Natural Resource Use In Agriculture
1.7 Uruguay has a total land area of 15.6 million ha of which about 86% are under
permane  pasture, 4% under forest cover and only 1.3 million ha (8%) are presendy under
cultivation. Non agricultural land amounts to only 2% of the territory. About 4 million ha
are potenftally suitable for cash crops. However, there is a need to rotate with pasture to
avoid soil degradation, thus ihniting cropping to 1.6 million ha in any one year. Most of the
agricultural land is currently cultivated under rainfed conditons but could benefit from
supplementary irrigation if water became available.
1.8   Although extensive production systems predominate, paridularly in the livestock
areas, and average fanm sizes are increasg, there is evidence of localized over-use of land
in crop prodction and some overgz , with the consequent degradation of soils and



-3-
erosion. About one-third of the counry's total area, including some land under pasure, is
affected by some degree of soil erosion. But the more severely affected areas, showing
moderate to severe soil erosion problems, are those devoted to intensive agricuture in the
crescent around Montevideo, which includes parts of the Santa Lucia River Basin (i.e., the
D-partments of Canelones, Florida, and San Jose) representing nearly 9% of the country's
total area. In these areas, but particularly in Canelones, the smaller size of holdings forces
fanners to cultivate land intensively, with little regard for soil conservation. Consequently,
despite the country's gentle topography, it would seem that inappropriate land-use and
cultivation practices were responsible for loss of soil fertility and structure. While the extent
of soil degradation has not yet reached alarming proportions, the problems are likely to
become more serious as current sectoral policies succeed in encouraging a more intensive and
diversified agricultural production.
1.9   The main rainfed cropping area, the Litoral, while not constrained by the small size
of the average farm, is an area of relatively intensive crop production that has also seen a
shortening of crop rotation over time and, consequendy, is also suffering from soil
degradation. The short life of improved pastures has imposed a short crop rotation of one or
two years of crops alternating with only tree or four years of pastures in the region. The
outcome of this practice is accelerated land degradation, with high risk of some aeas aroud
the country soon becoming unproductive (which has already occurred around Montevideo) if
measures are not taken to reverse the trend.
1. 10 There are about 4.5 million ha suitable for forestry production in Uruguay; however,
in the late 1980s, of the 620,000 ha under forest cover there were only about 170,000 ha
planted with Eucalyptus, pine trees, and other industrial species and the average rate of
planting was about 3,000 ha a year. This figure has increased to about 14,000 ha a year
shice 1991, and a preliminary estimate of approximately 20,000 ha in 1992, mainly as a
result of a new incentive framework implemented by Government.
1 .11 In terms of relative importance, irrigated land covered about 160,000 ba in 1992, or
less than 1% of the county's land used for crops or livestock. Although marginal compared
to rainfed agricultre and livestock production, the irrigated area has grown in recent years
largely in response to eWort oppornmities for rice and nontraditional export products, such
as fresh fruits and vegetables, whose combined area increased from 150,000 ha to 200,000
ha between 1980 and 1989. Growth, however, has taken place without much regard for
appropriate natural resources management.
C. Main Characterisfics of Irrigated Agricultur
Backmound
1.12 Mean annual rainfall exceeds 1,000 mm in most regions of Uruguay. However, due
to a combination of eraic and irregular distibution, high potental evapotranspiration during
the summer period (November-February), and predominantly shallow soils with limited wat
holding capacity, the productivity of rainfed agriculture is frequently limited by water deficits
of variable duration, affecting both yields and quality of crops. As a result, supplemeny
irrigation is generally reqired to obtain adequate production levels of rice, sugarcane, and



- 4 -
horticultural and fruit crops, with rainfed agriculture mostly limited to extensive, low
investment crops such as winter cereals, maize, sorghum and fodder crops.
1.13  The irrigated area has grown from about 50,000 ha in 1970 to an estimated 160,000
ha in 1992 (para. 1.1 1), as a result of the private sector's response to import substitution and
new export opportunities. Rice expanded significantly since 1990 and is the major irrigated
crop, representing almost 80% of the irrigated area. Following in importance are sugarcane
with 8%, orchards with 6%, and horticultural crops with 4% of the irrigated area. The
remaining 2% refers to maize and fodder production. Export value of irrigated crops totalled
about US$120 million in 1990, or just over 10% of the agricultural sector's total exports.
1.14 The private sector has been the driving force in irrigation development in Uruguay.
Public sector participation has been limited to the construction of some small schemes for
land settlement projects (i.e., Colonia Espafia: 815 ha, and Tomes Bertetta 360 ha) and some
small- and medium-sized irrigation works (e.g., India Muerta 10,000 ha; Canel6n Grande,
1,100 ha potentially irnigable; Aguas Blancas, 120 ha potentially irrigable). Some of these
schemes are dilapidated due to poor maintenance, while others have never been used for lack
of conveyance infrastructure. However, compared to the country's potential, growth in
irrigation investment has been disappointing and restricted mainly to large farmers. The
main reason behind this seems to be the relatively high risk of irrigation investment as
perceived by farmers in general-especially by small-and medium-sized producers-and the
organizational problems attached to the execution of irrigation works that would serve several
producers.
1.15 The Government is keen to continue diversifying the agricultural sector's output away
from livestock and extensive crop production and to intensify the use of arable land. To that
end, the modernization of the sector, with emphasis on the country's comparative
advantages, appears a key element. Under this framework, the promotion of private
investment in irrigation and adequate natural resources management is seen by the
Government as a priority. Furthermore, irrigation is perceived as the main tool to encourage
both a more intensive and enviromnentally sound use of agricultural land and the adoption of
modern technologies by producers. The notion is to profit from the export opportunities that
the non-traditional crops seem to have. With the same objective in mind, the Government is
also proposing to rehabilitate or complete the existing state-owned irrigation schemes,
transferring their use and administration (i.e., operation and maintenance) to the
beneficiaries.
Development Potential
1.16  Despite the lack of precise estimates of the potentially irrigable lands in Uruguay,
frere would seem to be agreement that a significant proportion of the 1.6 million ha currently
cultivated under rainfed conditions could benefit from supplementary irrigation if water were
made available and adequate natural resources management techniques were applied. The
type of works required to develop new sources of irrigation varies from region to region and
from product to product. In the north western part of the country, for example, where small
farms prevail, irrigation development is likely to be based on the use of both ground water
from the Salto aquifer and water from rivers and streams. In the north-eastern regions,
where the size of the farms is larger and the topography is adequate for dam constuction,
gravity-based irrigation schemes are likely to be the norm. In the southern part of the



- 5 -
country, the Raig6n aquifer will be the most important source of irrigation water for the
expansion of intensive production such as deciduous fruits and horticulture based on smal
farm strucure. In the eastern legion there are no major aquifers and irrigation expansion
would have to be based on pumping water from regulated nvers and steams and the
construction of new small water catchments (i.e., earthfills) for gravity based i kgation.
Farm structure and topography both work in favor of tis kind of irrigation system. An
overview of the irrigation subsector is presentd in Annex A.
1.17 In the past, profitable investment opporunities in irrigation could be found in those
crops in which the country had clear comparative advantages (rice, citrus), or when domestic
marketing oppormnities for off-season products existed (horticulure), c; in those crops for
which high protection was offered by govement policies (sugarcane). Given the
Govermen's export oriented development policy, future growth of irrigated agricultur is
likely to contue based on private initiative. This growth would be largely oriented towards
the development of those crops that have already established themselves in the export market,
e.g. rice, citrus and some deciduous fruits and horticultural products. With the required
infrastrucum (particularly irrigation) to ensure quality and timely delivery of the final
product, many commercial farmers could become out-growers to supply the unsatisfied
demand of exporters of nontraditional horticultural crops. A number of such exporters are
crently offering assistance to potential suppliers, by providing agricultural inputs (i.e.,
seeds, chemicals, and ferdlizers) and technical advice on crop management practices. The
pace at which this development takes place will depend on the Government's ability to
maintain an incentive structure conducive to expanded agricultural exports as well as a
commitmen to support expanded private investment in agriculture.
1.18  Irrigation development has been spearheaded by a small group of entrepreneurial
amers, particularly rce growers, and some agro-indusril companies. Co-existing with
these entrepreneurial farmers, however, is a wide range of more traditional farmers, who
usuafly have limited experience with irrigated crops, but see irrigated agriculture as the only
means of escaping the constraints of the domestic market. However, these farmers seem
unable to develop their farms into a modem commercial operation due to technical and
financial limitations. Their production practices and constraints vary by region and type of
crop.
Maor Constraints to r3igation Derelopment
1.19 One of the main technical constraints to greater and more intensive land use by
agriculture and the development of nontraditional exports is the lack of irrigation. However,
investment in irrigation is constrained by the negative effects that the private sector's lack of
confidence about the permanent nature of Government policies and the uncertainties about the
future course of the economy have on investment, aggravated by their perception of the high
risk of irrigation investment under those conditions.
1.20 There will be cases where direct access to rivers or lakes is not possible and a
common infraucture to supply water to a group of several small-and medium-size farms
would be required. While the areas involved in each case would be relatively small, the cost
of the investment would be high from the individual farmer's viewpoint. Further, the
medium-term maturity of investment for some of these nontraditonal exports (e.g. frit-
trees) and the need to have some kind of producer organization for the execution and



-6 -
subqun operation and maintce of the irrigation works, combined with the
uncertaiies typical of a new activity, would make such an investment a high risk venture
for small-and medium-size frmers. Under thse conditions, the Government can act as a
catalytic element for the oranization of producers, providing an adequate regulatory
framework, facilitating access to financial resources, and even sharing part of the risk of the
proposed investment with the water users.
1.21 Much of the past evolution towards improved irrigation and water distribution
methods (e.g. drip/trickle systems) was stimulated by private, commercial companies
intested in sales of specialized equipment. While this move towards a more sophisticated
irrigation system will continue, a large part of future advancement in irrigation could come
from improvement in gravity distribution systems, which are unlikely to be of interest to
private industry. Hence, there is a need for Government support to develop technologies
suitable for this type of irrigaton in those areas where it is economically viable.
Additionally, some of the existing irrigation schemes were designed for sugar production
(e.g., Colonia Espafia) and would require redesigning to diversify production into new
cropping systems. Furthermore, future irrigation developments should also involve farmers
with limited skldls, who would have no access to private consulting firms to develop
appWriate irrigation technologies.
1.22 Finally, while production techniques are well known by large producers of export
crops, this is not the case with most medium- and small-size producers. There are some
independen agronomists who are familiar with these technologies and are already providing
techical assistance services to producers, but their number is limited. Similarly, although
progressive fairmers, mainly dedicated to high-value crops for export, use sophisticated and
highly efficient on-farm irrigation methods, a large mmber of them use traditional methods
and overall efficiency is low.
1.23 Moreover, in the case of most farmers, natural resource management tschniques have
not been incorporated into their production packages, thus, not all agricultural production
ssms are sustainable under the curent cultural practices. Reconversion of traditional
monoculture agriculture in the West 1itoral to cultivated pasture-crop rotation systems is an
improvement in terms of soil conservation, as are the diversification programs leading
towards a change from monoculture sugarbeet cropping to cultivated pastre-horticulture
stms in the soueast of the country, as well as the expansion of forest plantation, which
are contng to better land use. The more widespread introduction of improved land and
water managent practices, however, is currently constained by the limited knowledge
about crop rotations adapted to the specific needs and development potential of small
fmes. Another limiting factor is the lack of information about existing economically
viable production systems that link soil and water conservation and irrigation or raifed
development to increase productivity and income.
nemkomo Conrint
1.24  In Uruay, there are indications that a process of soil degradation, erosion and
frtilky decline is taking place because of intensive cropping and some overgrazing. While
the problem has not yet reached alarming proportions, MGAP estimates nevertheless indicate
that some 1.5 million ha, or 9% of the total land in the country, is affected by moderate to
severe soil erosion. Additionally, in the development and operation and maintenance (O&M)



-7-
of the irrigation subsector, a number of standard environmental issues have been identified,
such as soil degradation and water contamination from agrochemicals under intensified
agriculture, wasteful use of water, deteriorating quality of irrigation water, some
sedimentation of reservoirs, and damage to biodiversity. Through environmental assessment
and the application of the required correction measures, the proposed project would address
such issues.
1.25 Over the past two decades there has been accelerating pressure on water resources
from the development demands of agriculture (rice in particular), hydroelectricity, urban
water supply, industry and tourism. The projected expansion in small and medium water
catchments for irrigation, hydroelectricity and pota. le water supply, and the generation of
sewage and other wastes discharged to water bodies may lead to severe competition for
available water supplies and to increasing demands for investment to reduce growing levels
of contamination. In the case of the eastern wetlands, expansion of irrigated rice is also seen
as threatening a unique ecosystem and an important flyway for migratory birds. These issues
have recently become a matter of international concern, largely as a result of the Ramsar
Treaty, which officially protects about 435,000 ha of wetlands. The proposed project would
not support in any way irrigation activities within the Ramsar Treaty area or other reserves
as they stand now or as they may be modified in the futnre. Further, in the envirnmenl
assessments of subprojects proposed in the departments of Rocha and Treinta y Tres,
attention wil be given to potential downstream impacts on aUl officiaRy reserved wetland
areas and those proposed for reserves.
1.26 The current capacity of central government agencies and local authorities to carry out
envirmental impact assessments and monitor the application of corrective measures that
might be suggested by those assessments is rather weak. To mitigate the idenified
insttutional constraints, a wide range of technical assistance activities has been programmed
under the proposed project to strengthen the capacity of public and private
institutions/organizations to effectively and efficiently analyze and manage environmental
issues (paas. 2.17 and 2.67).
LAW Framework
1.27 Water Cod. Uruguay's Water Code deals mainly with the norms that regulate water
rights and ownership. It also defines the respo -sibilities of the Water Authority (Ministry of
Transport and Public Works) that inter alia issues private water use rights. Although, in its
last two sections, the Water Code refers to rules and regulations related to water and
riverbank conservation and exploitation, it does not have any specific reference to irrigation
water.
1.28 Existing norms (i.e., Water Code, and Accounting and Financial Administration
Law), are sufficiently broad to allow an adequate implementation of an irrigation
development program as the one proposed under the project. Nevertheless, the Govermment
is currently promoting a new irrigation law in an attempt to modernize the existing legal
frmework for irrigation development in the country. The new Irrigation Law, once
approved, would not change the principles of the existing Water Code, but rather it would
focus on and strengthen operational aspects, introduced under the project, aimed at
improving the efficiency and effectiveness of water use in the irrigation subsector. Under the
proposed project, specialized technical assistance would be provided to assist the Govermment



-8-
in evaluating the need for any possible adjustments to the proposed new Irrigation Law,
which may be required to ensure future equitable and well-balanced distribution of available
water resources (para. 2.36).
1.29 Soil and Water Conservation Law. This law defines the responsibilities of the
Ministry of Agriculture in relation to soil and water management and conservation, as well as
the economic sanctions applicable to farmers who do not comply with the soil and water
conservation norms. The technical norms for soil conservation by type of lands, and the
norms for land reclamation and water use and management are included in the regulations
approved by Parliament in 1990. The existing legislation (Ley 15,239) regulating the use,
management, and conservation of soil and water for agricultural purposes, provides the
legal/administrative framework to strengthen the technical foundation and help incorporate as
common agricultural practices, soil management and conservation activities to be carried out
under the project. Institutional capacity would be strengthened through technical assistance
to the Directorates of Natural Resources at MGAP, and Hydrology at MTOP (para. 2.17).
D. Agricultural Sector Institutional Framework
1.30  Public Sector Institions The Ministry of Agriculture (MGAP) through its
Department of Natural Resources (DGRNR), which includes the Division of Soil and
Water (DSA), is responsible for soil conservation and irrigation development. In practice,
however, very little has been done in both fields. Apart from soil maps for the whole of the
country prepared in the 1970s, the Division's main activities have been: (i) the registry of
land under cropping; (ii) the evaluation of erosion problems in cropping areas and the
organization of a soil and water conservation campaign; (iii) some research on water
management; and (iv) awarding of irrigation permits, and extension activities, mainly related
to soil conservation and soil and water management, undertaken through T&V programs,
field days, and short seminars. Additionally, DGRNR runs a laboratory for soil, water, and
plant analysis.
1.31 The Natdonal Directorate of Hydrography (DNH) of the Ministry of Transport and
Public Works (MTOP) is responsible for issuing water rights (with the prior approval of
MGAP's DGRNR) and for running an information network through its hydrological stations
located throughout the country. The Directorate is well equipped and staffed, and is
effective in its functions. The control of water quality used to be under the jurisdiction of
this Directorate but has now been transferred to the recently created Ministry of Housing and
Environment (MVOTIMA).
1.32 The National Dirctorate for the Environment (DINAMA), within MVOTMA, is
the agency responsible for the control of water quality and industrial liquid effluent. Given
its relatively short life it is difficult to assess its efficiency. Most recently, responsibility for
the management of environmental issues associated with the agricultural sector has been
assigned to DGRNR within MGAP. The National Directorate of Mining and Geology
(DINAMIGE) located within the Ministry of Industry and Energy (MIE), is responsible for
groundwater survey and exploitation and other geological studies and drilling activities.
Another institution relevant to the proposed project is the National Commission for the
Development of the Santa Lucia Basin (CHDCSL). CHDCSL is an honorary commission



-9-
created in December 1990 to promote sustainable development and coordinate the activities
of the various public offices operating within the Santa Lucia River Basin; encourage the
protection and development of min-watersheds; and promote the introduction of appropriate
land management practices within this basin, which includes some areas with irrigation
development potential. The Planning and Budget Offlee (OPP), dependent on the
Presidency, is responsible for the overall programming and public budget allocations across
sectors. Additionally, OPP coordinates the various goverunent bodies responsible for
monitoring of environmental issues. A detailed description of the agricultural sector
institutional framework is given in Annex I.
1.33  Agricultural Support Services. Several public institutions are involved in providing
support services to agricultural production in Uruguay. In terms of crop and soil Research,
the semi-autonomous National Institute for Agricultural Research (INIA) is the most
important with five research centers, namely: La Estanzuela, Treinta y Tres, Las Brujas,
Salto Grande and Tucarembo. Although more limited in scope, the Faculty of Rural Science
of the University of the Republic also conducts resarch programs in its three research
centers located in Salto, Cerro Largo, and Paysandu. Forestry Research has been mainly
concentrated in MGAP's Forestry Directorate (DF), in cooperation with the Faculty of Rural
Science. Although Extension and technical assistance services are mainly provided by the
private sector, a number of public agencies operate extension programs aimed mostly at
small- scale operations, including Plan Agropecuario, JUNAGRA, Plan Citricola, Animal
Health, Plant Health, and the Directorate for Promotion and Development (all within
MGAP), the Bank of the Republic (BROU), the Colonization Institute, and local
municipalities.
1.34 Regional irrgatlon Boards. These boards were created by Decree' to promote
better coordination between farmers and the Water Authority and resolve any conflicts that
might arise in relation to water distibution for irrigation purposes. Water use rights
applications first must be presented to these Regional Irrigation Boards and then suDmitted to
the Government Water Authority (DNH within MTOP). Regional Irrigation Boards
traditionally included an official from the Ministry of Transport and Public Works (who
presides), two farmers' representatives, and two representatives of the land-owners.
Recently, the Ministry of Livestock, Agriculture and Fisheries also has a representative in
each of the Regional Irrigation Boards. There are five official Regional Irrigation Boards
located in the main rice production regions: Artigas, Tacuarembo, Treinta y Tres, Cerro
Largo, and Rocla. The Regional Irrigation Board of the southern region was established in
1992.
1.35 The main objective of the Regional Irrigation Boards is the allocation of farmers'
rights to use river water for irrigation. Rivers are usually not regulated, therefore, during
summer, competition for water use increases significantly. Under these circumstances,
although these Regional Ifrigation Boards have a wide range of responsibilities, such as
identification of projects and promotion of technology for increasing water use efficiency,
their major activity is the distribution of water permits during dry periods.
1.36 Private Sector Institutions. The role of the private sector in the delivery of
production support services is primarily related to extension and technical assistance,
1.    Decree 442/970 of the Mimstry of Transort and Public Works, daed 1970.



- 10-
although certain specific research programs are also carried out by private organizations.
These include barley, sugarcane, and rice research progams either conducted or contracted
with INIA. Private extension services, accounting for over 60% of total assistance received
by farmers, is either provided by individual consultants or by specialized institutions. With
the exception of Cooperatives and FUCREA (the umbrella organization for some 75
extension groups) these institutions generally provide commodity-specific assistance. The
most important ones are the National Cooperative of Dairy Producers (CONAPROLE), the
Rice Mills Shareholding Company (SAMAN), the Wool Secretariat (SUL), the National
Wime Institute (INAVI), and the recently established Zero Tillage Association (AUSID).
1.37  Water Users Associons. Irrigation in Uruguay has been developed mostly by
individual farmers. Collective irrigation systems are usually found only in the sugarcane
area and in the eastern rice region; these include a small number of farmers and in general
do not have any kind of organization. The exception is the Colonia Espafia Irrigation
System, which has an Irrigation Board to operate and maintain the irrigation facilities,
including pumping stations and canal networks. This irrigation system is state-owned but is
completely managed by private farmers.
E. Bankwide Enerience in Agricultural Sector Lending
1.38 Natural Resources Management. It was frequently assumed in the 1960s, that large
stocks of under-used land, water and forest resources existed and should be brought into
production quickly, to accelerate economic development. The issue of sustainability came to
the fore in the 1970s as borrowing countries increasingly queried such patterns of resource
use. However, this has had little impact on the selection and/or design of agricultural
projects. Economic growth, and economic efficiency with equity, continued to be tne main
tuhst of project design, sometimes at the expense of an explicit concern about conservation
of the natural resource base, and the multi-sectoral, long-range, strategic and operational
context.
1.39 An OED study of some 335 completed projects concluded that natural resource advice
should be a central element in the design of country strategies and that the Bank should help
countries incorporate resource management concerns into macro-economic planning. This
implies considerable time and effort in dialogue, consensus building, and database
development as a pre-requisite for systematic resource management actions which often
traverse social, institutional and political sensitivities. The proposed project recognizes the
problem of soil degradation and conservation, focussing on its potential impact on: loss of
productivity of agricultural land ("on-site" effects), and damage to reservoirs and waterways
off the farm ("off-site' effects).
1.40 IrrIgation Development. A vital component of agricultural diversification is
technological improvement of which irrigation systems are a key example. From 1974 to
1986, the Bank lent almost US$40 billion for agricultural projects and adjustment actions.
Around one-third, or US$1.0 billion per year, was invested in irrigation. After 1986,
lending for irrigation declined sharply, to an average 16% of agricultural lending. However,
in FY91, irrigation and drainage lending had risen again to about 29% and appear to be
returning to traditional levels.



- 11-
1.41   OED impact evaluations of completed irrigation projects worldwide show that
although many had beneficial effects, especially on food producton and improved incomes,
their operational performance fell short of expectations particularly at full development, and
their sustainability in many cases is doubtfl due to poor quality construction and inadequate
maintenance. The physical i tucture has often deteriorated leading to long-term declines
in production and low water use efficiencies. nadequate O&M funding and institutional and
organizatonal problems have contributed to poor performance.
1.42 Borrowers often disengaged too early from projects, leaving irrigation and drainage
systems incomplete and land development unfinished, while complementary services have
been inadequate and/or seriously delayed. In addition, some projects suffered from under-
estmated costs because engineng designs were only partdally completed at appraisal; cost
overruns due to delays in completing these designs, difficulties in preparing tender documents
and evaluating bids; and slower than estimated civil works construction and delivery of
equipment. The proposed Natural Resource Management and Irrigation Development Project
stresses the need for project planners (i.e., government and water users) to carefully assess
water resources within a comprehensive subsector framework before the design and
implementation stages.
1.43 Finally, cost recovery from irrigation projects has not been satisfactory due to lack of
Government commitment, unreliable water supply, and poor O&M. This situation has often
been worsened by the heavy burden of direct and indirect taxes already imposed by
governments on the farming sector. The main lessons on cost recovery indicate the need for
continuous dialogue with Government through sector work and lending which may be a
better instrument than project covenants to ensure that cost recovery objectives harmonize
with socio-economic conditions and national policy on cost recovery. Second, profitable
farming should be a precondition for cost recovery; and unless water supply is reliable, it is
unlikely that improved cost recovery can be achieved and sustained. The proposed project
works towards financial and technical sustinability by transferring many responsibilities
from public irrigation authorities to irrigation water users.
1.44 The Bank's response to the lessons arising from its experience has been to emphasize
institution-strengthening, the lower-cost option of project rehabilitation, adaptive research and
technology transfer, consensus building on cost recovery policy among interested parties, and
improved agronomic performance. Interventions are fiequently national or regional in scope.
An increasing number of loans concentrate on organizational, policy, and financial reforms to
improve institutions and reduce the burdens on government.
1.45 Along these lines, major project activities include more detailed guidelines, training
and information (at all levels), and the creation and strengthening of water user bodies.
Important resource managt components in association with irrigation actions include
controlling erosion, siltatioat, waterlogging, and salinity. Because technological
improvements in irrigation systems have expanded production opportunities and facilitated
agricultral diversification, technological development and innovation were emphasized in
project design.



- 12 -
Preous Bank LAwding in Urugma
1.46 The current lending portfolio in Uruguay includes 13 projects and US$345.0 million
in commitments as of July 1, 1992 with infrastrucue projects predominating. Bank lending
to the agricultural sector has been almost continuous since 1960, including seven loans for
livestock improvement through supervised credit for pasture improvement and livestock
production, the last of which closed in 1981.
1.47 The Second Agriculture Development Project (Ln.. 3131-UR) was the most recent
agriculture sector loan becoming effective in 1990. Its primary objective is to increase
agricultural output, especially that of export products, by providing long-term financing for
farm development and agro-industry, and institutional support in key areas. In addition, the
project promotes increased efficiency in agncultural lending and the provision of techimcal
assistance. Financial resources under the credit component of the loan are overcommitted
and approximately 90% disbursed. Institutional support financed under the project is slighdy
behind appraial forecasts mainly due to minor adjustents made durng implementation.
1.48 Lessons form Bank past experience in the agricultural sector indicates inter aia that:
(a) agricultural technology generation had been reasonably successful, but its transfer fell
short of expectation; (b) pasture management, natural resource conservation and institutional
obstacles merited greater attention: (c) existing technology generation and transfer insdtution
(the Agriculture and Livestock Commission) was not capable of solving increasingly complex
technological problems; (d) subloan indexing was imperfect and had not fulfilled its
objectives; and (e) the choice of a credit subsidy, rather than a fertilizer subsidy, had placed
emphasis on pasture establishment at the expense of maintenance. Many of the gains made
earlier in technology generation (i.e., introduction of improved pasture technology) were lost
due to overgazing and inadequate ferdlizer use. Slow progress ard inadequate coverage
were believed to be precipitated by unstable sectoral policies and adverse international
commodity prices.
1.49 Based on this experience, special attention was given during project design to: (a) the
need for oversight of the content, suitability and momentum of technical packages lest they
acally contribute to natural resource degradation; (b) core implementing institutions which
need sustained Govermnent support while suffering the impact of part-time workers; and (c)
(by implication) poverty alleviation and agricultural diversification. Likewise, the proposed
project recognizes the need for technical packages envisaged for widescale application, to be
tested and proven at the farm level. Consistent with this premise, the proposed project
would support the adoption of improved technology (including natural resource management
practices) through on-farm research and technology validation, integrating research and
extension teams with producers who will play an important role in testing and selecting
appropriate technologies adjusted to their needs.
1.50 In general, Bank projects across diverse sectors in Uruguay (eight projects have
PPARs) have revealed that low Government salaries, institutional deficiencies in state
enrprise, a scarcity of well-tained entrepreneurial staff and their frequently only part-time
availability due to having to work at several jobs, all affect project initation and execution.
The recent Country Implementation Review (CIR) noted the beneficial effects of full-time
special units for project execution, with managers for each component. Further, very slow
implementation of infrsruc   projects due to complicated bidding and award processes



- 13 -
indicates that bidding procedures for major works should be agreed upon before loan
approval.
1.51 In light of this experience, during project preparation emphasis was given to the need
for improved coordination between Govermnent agencies, clearly defining project objectives,
and eliminating overlapping institutional responsibilities. Overall project management will be
the responsibility of a small Project Executing Unit (JEP) made up of specialized local
consultants. Technical assistance will be proviaed through UEP to improve implementation
and evaluation capacity of the line participating sector agencies (para. 2.67). In addition, the
Government of Uruguay has made a special effort to improve its project implementation
capacity. Specifically, current legislation (Art. 42, Law 15,903) stipulates that procurement
procedures established in international contractual agreenents will prevail over local
procurement methods.
1.52 Finally, an important issue for future resource conservation actions in Uruguay is the
weakness of the institutional, policy and legal framework for addressing environmental
issues. Multiple agencies, often contradictory regulations, lack of a strategic perspective or
national policy and poor enforcement could complicate future project planning. To mitigate
this limitation, durng project preparation the Government has taken administrative action to
regulate and consolidate existing legislation (paras. 1.28 and 2.33), thus providing the basis
for enviromnentally sound irrigation subsector growth. The existence of many environmental
NGOs, some large enough to execute substantal programs, and a moderate research and
aning capability in academia, may prove integral to the success of ftumre Bank efforts.
kLeding Stategy in the  i lral Sector
1.53 There has been only limited awareness of resource management issues in the
agricultural sector in Uruguay until recendy. However, the trend towards a diversified
agriculture and more intensified use of cropland has stimulated a greater appreciation of soil
degradation and erosion problems resulting from inappropriate cultivation practices,
especially in rainfed areas. As some of these areas are potentially irrigable, the resource
management issue will arise in any future irrigation development program. Therefore, future
agricultural development efforts will have to include appropriate technical packages to
address erosion along with incentives for farmers to adopt soil conservation measures in both
rainfed and irrigated agriculture. The proposed project would combine actions to address
degradation while expanding the irrigated area. By linking the protection of key water
catchment areas with the downstream development of sustainable rainfed and irrigated
agriculture, the project would test technical packages and gain experience that could form the
basis for a nationwide land management program.
1.54 To reduce the risk of negative effects from irrigation investment, a precondition for
their financing would be the completion of a feasibility study, combining appropriate naturl
resources management techniques and environmental impact assessment to demonstrate
technical, economic and environmental viability. Further, as this is intended to become
standard procedure for the approval of all irrigation investment in the futre, the Ministry of
Agriculture would be strengthened to enable it to supervise environmental impact studies of
proposed sub-projects and monitor their enviromnental effects during execution (para. 2.17).



- 14-
1.55 Although the private sector would remain the driving force behind any irrigation
development program, Govermnent actions to promote expanded private investment in
irrigation would be essential to achieve a rapid and significant response from producers, and
to ensure the participation of small and medium-sized farmers. While irrigation investment
is expected to continue largely in rice-growing areas, the public sector financing envisaged
would attract small and medium-sized farmers willing to grow other export-oriented irrigated
crops, but for whom organization is difficult and the initial risks too great. Moreover, as a
result of the Government policy reforms, sugarcane fatmers who operate state-owned
irrigation schemes would require technical and financial assistance to diversify their
production by rehabilitating their irrigation infrastructure. The project would support these
diversification efforts.
1.56 The proposed project would also support the Govermnent's expressed wish to
rehabilitate irrigation works currently under state control and transfer their use, operation,
and maintenance to the private sector. As a means to ensure that investments do not actually
subsidize and promote inadequate O&M practices by private users, agreements would be
reached with beneficiaries specifying standards for O&M and remMdies for non-compliance
(paras. 2.24, 2.28, and 2.29). Government would be required to set overall parameters for
cost recovery and implement a credible system for collection (i.e., through decentralized
agencies such as the Bank of the Republic of Uruguay).
1.57 As an essential complement to investments in irrigation infrastructure, the project
would also include specific components to support the sustainable development of irrigated
agriculture. This will include the generation and transfer of technology by developing a
comprehensive applied research program and strengthening extension services through
training and technical assistance (para. 2.12). In addition. the project is envisaged to include
technical assistance support to farmers in post-harvest and marketing aspects of-mainly
irrigated-nontraditional products (para. 2.38). Government involvement at this stage would
help achieve more effective management of water resources through a balanced set of
policies and institutional reforms that will both harness the efficiency of market forces and
strngthen public sector agencies' capacity to efficiently carry out its essential regulatory
role.
H. THE
Orin and Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.1   Qgin.  The proposed project has its origins in Uruguay's Irrigation Subsector
Report prepared by the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program (FAO/CP) in December
1990 and the Resource Management and Irrigation Development Program Report of the
Mistry of Agriculture (MGAP) in May 1992. The scope of the project was defined during
a preparation mission carried out in September 1992, after the sector authorities confirmed
the priority they assigned to improved water and soil management and conservation practices,
and enaced irrigation potetal in the country. During a pre-appraisal mission in May
1993, the Government's proposal to modernize the irrigation subsector and strengthen natural
resource management/conservation was reviewed. The project was appraised in June 1993.



- 15 -
Negotiations with a Uruguayan delegation headed by the Minister of Agriculture, took place
in Washington from October 12 to 21, 1993.
2.2   Ratbnal. The proposed project would be the Bank's first in natural resource
management and irrigation development in Uruguay. It conforms to the Bank's lending
strategy for Uruguay, especially in its support for infrastructure and services designed to
enhance productive potential and export growth. Further, it adheres to the recommendations
of the Bank's 1988 Agricultural Sector Review, wbich called for a greater public role in
promoting agricultural diversification and exports. The project would enable the Government
to act as both catalyst and overseer in irrigation expansion within the confines of a rational
resource management program.
2.3         While the primary objective of the Government's agricultural strategy is
increased productivity, output, and exports, the long-term goal is diversification. The
challenge is to intensify cropland use, while developing and encouraging farmers to adopt
appropriate, sustainable farming systems that would raise farm income without compromising
the preservation of the country's soil and water resources. The existence in Uruguay of
water resources that are not adequately harnessed means that there needs to be a prudent
strategy for irrigation, which could provide greater flexibiity and control than a purely
rainfed system. Such a strategy is therefore a key tool for sectoral diversification and export
expansion.
2.4         Bank involvement would: contribute to a more orderly development of, and
transition to private sector management of irrigation; stngthen private sector productive
capabilities through sustainable soil and water resource practices; support improved
environmental impact assessment in the sector; and improve public resource allocation.
Finally, Bank financing would help country dialogue and assist the Government to implement
a sound and consistent cost recovery policy. Overall, the proposed project would provide a
vehicle to consolidate public investment prograing and management, which in the past has
failed to take account of the interdependencies among agencies, jurisdictions, and sectors.
Prolj    Objectives
2.5   The main objective of the proposed project would be to develop and implement a soil
and water management strategy focussed on irrigation development in order to increase,
diversify, and sustain agricultural output and exports. This long-term objective would be
achieved by: (a) increasing the level of sector investment in rehabilitation and development of
new irrigation/drainage schemes and related service infrastucture following sound technical
and environmental pracdces; (b) strengthening the technical foundation and regulatory
framework to improve surface and ground water use efficiency; (c) establishing a well-
balanced operation and maintenance (O&M) and capital cost recovery policy; (d) supportng
agricutural diversification, and setting the stage for improved natural resource management
practices by financing priority applied research and technology transfer subprojects as well as
soil and water management/conservadon "pilot" subprojects, thereby assisting the
government in developing an overall sector strategy in Uruguay; and (e) providing technical
assistance for forestry development and non-traditional agricultral export activities.



- 16-
aProject Descrtmion
2.6    The two components would be: Natural Resource Management and Irrigation
Development.
(a)   The Natural Resource Management component (US$20.7 million) would: (i)
support the development of "pilot" micro-catchment areas in the Santa Lucia
River Basin to gain experience in the management of ecologically fragile
zones; (ii) establish soil and water management demonstration farms in
selected agro-ecological zones where potential soil degradation problems have
been identified, (iii) develop a Geographical Information System (GIS) to
improve land use classification and management in the country; (iv) support
project related applied research and technology transfer activities; (v) prepare
natural resource management/conservation studies; (vi) strengthen sector policy
planning, evaluation, and monitoring capacity at the level of the Directorates
of Naural Resources, and Hydrography, respectively; and (vii) provide
technical assistance for forestry development.
(b)   The Irrigation Development component (US$50.8 million) would: (i) support
the rehabilitation and modernization of existing public irrigation and drainage
(I&D) schemes where use, maintenance and administration would be
transferred to the users under appropriate capital cost recovery and O&M
arrangements; (ii) provide for the construction of new medium-size collective
irrigation schemes (civil works and communal pumping equipment) for the
benefit of user groups; (iii) support the construction of selected small farmer
irrigation infrastructure (i.e., small-scale earthfills, irrigation and drainage
canals and tubewells) at the farm level; (iv) introduce a water harvesting
"pilot" program at the farm level to help develop an optimal surface water use
strategy; and (v) provide technical assistance for irrigation and drainage
feasibility studies, and production, processing, and marketing of (mainly
irrigated) nontraditional export crops. Implementation of these two
components would be supported by technical assistance provided by the project
through the Project Executing Unit (UEP) (US$2.5 million).
Natural Resources Management (US$20.7 million, 28% of total cost)
2.7 There is already a substantial volume of data on appropriate natural resources
managemen practices available in the country. Nevertheless, most of it has not been fully
tested on a commercial scale. The proposed project would provide the required technical
assistance to process and analyze the available information, with the view to develop
technical packages suitable for the country's various agro-ecological zones. The main
objectives of the actions to be executed under this component are to encourage the adoption
of adequate natural resources management and promote sustinable agricultural production.
To achieve its objective the component would provide both the Government and producers
with essential information through the development of pilot programs in soil and water
management/conservation, demonstration fanns, applied research, the establishment of a
Geographical Information System, forestry development, institutional strengthening and
studies. This component would represent the first phase of a natural resources initiative.



- 17 -
2.8   "Pilot" Micro-Catchmnt Progr_M (US$3.1 mllnion). The project would provide
financial resources in the form of a grant to encourage farmers to undertake on-firm
investments and agricultural production practices designed to reduce soil degradation and
erosion. About 350 small farmers are expected to benefit from these micro-catchment
development programs within the Santa Lucia River Basin. Four micro-catchment areas
within the Santa Lucia River Basin, were selected during project preparation for the
implementation of pilot natural resources management development schemes. These are: (i)
Cafiada los Alamos, 1,188 ha, and about 60 producers; (ii) La Feliciana, 1,518 ha, and 11
producers; (iii) Canel6n Grande I covering 9,028 ha, and approximately 220 producers; and
(iv) Tala, 6,257 ha, and 58 producers.
2.9 Areas have been selected to be representative of the various farming and socio-
economic conditions prevailing in the region and thus have a potential demonstration effect.
The format and content of a draft grant agreement to be signed between the Govermnent and
beneficiaries of the "pilot" program was discussed and agreed during appraisal. Specific
technolr-jical packages would be recommended for the various groups of producers, aimed at
increasing their income while making current management practices more conservation-
effective. A detailed description of these actions is given in Annex B.
2.10   The strategy to be adopted would involve the organization of farmers in the selected
micro-catchment areas within the Santa Lucia Basin, who would addition.lly receive training
and technical assistance (US$2.0 million) for the promotion of appropriate technological
packages designed to conserve natural resources and sustain agricultural production. These
packages would include the establishment of adequate erosion control measures, conservation
tillage methods, improved land use planning, soil and water management, and diversification
of production systems. The project would also finance civil works and equipment
(US$300,000) to carry out the pilot program. On-farm soil conservation and I&D works will
be packaged and procured through service contracts. On-farm irrigation, tillage, and other
equipment (with the exception of small water treatment supplies) at the farm level, as well as
recurrent costs (US$800,000) will be financed by the Govermnent. Draft contracual
arrangements between UEP and CHDCSL for the execution of the pilot micro-catchment
program were agreed during appraisal and submitted to the Bank for final review, prior to
negotiations. Also during negotiations agreement was reached that, ar a condition of
disbursement, the Government and beneficiaries would enter into subgrant agreements
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.3).
2.11  Demonstraion Farm in Selected AgroUEcological Zones (US$1.1 million).
Complementing the actions to be promoted within the Santa Lucia micro-catchment pilot
program and the small farmer I&D schemes (para. 2.8 - 2.10), the project would also
support the establishnent of about five soil conservaton/management demonstration farms
(of approximately 900 ha to 1,000 ha each) in each agro-ecological region charactrized by
existng or potential soil degradation problems. Based on the experience gained through the
demonstration farms financed under Loan 3131-UR, the units selected for demonstration
purposes would receive technical assistance and training (US$600,000), and soil conservation
tillage equipment (US$320,000), the latter from DGRNR, to incorporate improved soil, crop
and livestock management technologies aimed at developing sustaminable rotations and
production systems on a commercial scale. Through both mass media and tareted extension
mechanisms, the results obtained are expected to be disseminated to the entire farming
community of the region. Recurrent costs (US$200,000) for the implementation of the



- 18 -
demonstration farms would be financed by the Government. Draft contractual arrangements
for the establishment and operation of the demonstration farms were agreed during appraisal
and submitted to the Bank for final review prior to negotiations. Eligibility criteria for the
selection of the soil management/conservation demonstration farms would be included in a
Project Manual to be attached to the Loan Agreement (par. 2.69 and 3.2 (f)). As a
condition of disbursement against the soil and water management/conservation
Demonstration Farms, the Govenmment (through UEP) will enter into a service agreement
with the corresponding farmer under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para.
3.4). The scope and operation arrangements for the demonstration farms are described in
Annex C.
2.12 Applied Research and Technology Transfer (US$10.0 million). The project would
finance high priority research proposals drawing from national and international experience
to adapt at the farm level existing technologies, focussed on natural resource management
and conservation, and irrigated agriculture (Annex D). The Government, with the assistance
of INIA would carry out the applied research program. The project would support an
ongoing demand-driven approach to technology generation and transfer which begins with
applied research and ends with the adoption of a given validated technology adapted to the
farmers' needs. The applied research and technology transfer program would also provide
the technical bases for encouraging appropriate land use and soil and water conservation
practices. INIA would be responsible for the implementation of about 70% of the proposed
applied research program. For this purpose, the Government would enter into a subsidiary
grant agreement with INLA to transfer the necessary funds for the execution of its part of the
program (US$4.2 million). The remaining 30% of the applied research subprojects (US$2.0
miflion), preselected during project preparation, would be contracted out to specialized public
and private institutions (i.e., Faculty of Rural Science, DSA, and AUSID). The project
would finance 50% of the total cost of these research contracts. Recurrent and incremental
operaing costs for the Applied Research and Technology Transfer Program (US$3.8
million), would be financed by the Government. Signing of the subsidiary grant agreement
eween the Government and INIA for the implementation of part of the Applied Research
and Technology Transfer Program would be a condition of Loan Effectiveness (para. 3.2
(a)). Research contracts would also be signed between the Government and the Faculty of
Rual Science and AUSDI, in terms satisfactory to the Bank.
2.13 The program is expected to provide technological recommendations to specific
requirements of farmers regarding the efficient utilization of water resources and
management of irrigated crops. Further to the research projects already identified and
budgeted, for which detailed terms of reference have been prepared for initiation during Year
1 of the project, additional funds have been included to undertake specific research projects
to address particular technological problems encountered dunng the implementation of the
ifrigation schemes and the natural resource management initiatives (micro-catchment
development and demonstradon farms). Technical assistance (US$400,000) will be provided
to support the establistment of a small soil conservation unit within INIA, with a view
towards introducing a ntw program oriented approach to technology generation. As a
condition of Loan Effectiveness, the referred soil conservation unit would be established no
later than June 30, 1994 (para. 3.2 (a)).
2.14 A total of 16 projects have been initially proposed by the different institutions, that
are primarily oriented toward the adoption of resource (mainly soil) management and



- 19-
conservation techniques in the various agro-ecological conditions of the country. Regarding
crop and irrigation teehnology, a preliminary program comprising an additional 24 individual
projects has been prepared. The final inventory of research subprojects was reviewed and
agreed during negotiations (para. 3.1 (a)). TORs and individual, pre-selected research
proposals will have prior review by the Bank.
2.15  Technology transfer in cropping techniques under imgated conditions would be
mainly provided by the existing private institutions and cooperatives. The applied research
and technology transfer program would nevertheless assist in improving the quality of
extension services to farmers by supporting the proposed technical assistance and training
program to INIA as well as technology transfer activities related to the applied research,
micro-catchment development (para. 2.8), and demonstration farm (para. 2.11) activities.
The project would also provide sinilar support to the beneficiaries of all irnigadon schemes
to be developed (para. 2.26) or rehabilitated (para. 2.22). In all cases, technical assistance
would focus on resource management, crop diversification, and irrigation technology issues.
2.16 Geographical Infomation System (USS1.0 miliion}. The Project would finance the
development of a computerized data base of the geographical distribution of renewable
natural resources and their characteristics that would provide the basis for agro-ecological
zoning and recommendations for appropriate land use in Uruguay (Annex E). The Program
would rationalize the existing data collection centers and provide an integratd geographical
information system, including updated hardware and software (US$480,000), to be used as a
naural resource management tool by all interested institutions and private investors, in
addition to the required trainig and technical assistance (US$420,000). Reurrent costs for
the implementation of the GIS (US$100,000) would be financed by the Government. During
negotiations, agreement was reached on the action plan for the implementation of the GIS
(para. 3.1 (b)).
2.17  Institutional Strengthenine (US$ 1.7 million}. The main responsibility for project
implementation would be within MGAP and MTOP (through its Directorate of Hydrography)
which in turn will play an important role in the allocation of water rights and the
construction of main irrigation works. An analysis of the capacity of the various institons
was carried out as part of project preparation to determine the ability to implement the
various activities. As a result, some deficiencies were identified in instittional capacity,
particularly in the General Directorate of Renewable Natural Resources within MGAP, for
which technical assistance and training programs have been defined (Annex P).
2.18 To improve coordination between the main ministries involved in project execution,
an Inter-Ministerial Council (CCI), headed by the Minister of Agriculture, was created and
supported by a strong Project Executing Unit (UEP) (para. 2.65). The project would
strengthen implementation and project monitoring capacity of the Forestry Directoate (D)F)
and the Directorate of Natual Resources within MGAP. Further, the project would also
provide technical assistance and training on soil and water management/conservation  the
water users' associations that would be organized or benefit under the project. With these
objectives in mind, the project would provide about 150 person/months of technical
assistance and training (US$1.4 million)-including 40 person/months of local consultancy
(or US$140,000)-to improve planning and monitoring capacity at the level of the Minister
of Agriculture, as well as the neary communication equipment and vehicles
(US$200,000) to disseminate the results of the various pilot and research subprojects to be



- 20-
financed under the project. Recurrent costs (US$100,000) would be financed by the
Government.
2.19 Natural Resource Management Studies (US$1.6 millionl. As part of its efforts to
improve management and conservation of the country's natural resource base, the project
would finance special studies in the following areas: (i) assessment of the resource
availability and exploitation potential of the aquifers of Raig6n and Salto; final TORs for
these groundwater studies were agreed during negotiations (para 3.1 (c)); (ii) evaluation of
the quality of water for irrigation; (iii) water management plans at the level of the various
nicro-catchment areas where private producers intend to finance small earthfills; (iv)
evaluation of water use efficiency under different irrigation practices; (v)
environmental/economic assessment of the water harvesting pilot program (para. 2.33); final
TORs for this study were also agreed during negotiations (para. 3.1 (c)); and (vi)
preparation of a possible follow-up agricultural sector/natural resources management project.
2.20 Forestry Development (US$ 2.2 million). The project would provide technical
assistance and training (US$1.6 million) in forestry development for the Directorate of
Forestry (DF) to continue the activities that are currently being developed under
Loan 3131-UR, and thus contribute to mitigating potential soil degradation problems througb
better utilization of forest resources. The main areas of interest under the proposed project
would be those related to the introduction of new species and to the management of existing
plantations, including: (i) forest inventory, fire control, pest control and logging; (ii) wood
drying and processing; and (iii) management of agro-silvopastoral systems. The project
would also finance the necessary field and laboratory equipment (US$220,000) to support the
proposed forestry development activities. Recurrent costs, including incremental operating
costs (US$380,000) would be financed by the Government. The action plan for forestry
development activities, is presented in Annex F.
kiation Development (US$ 50.8 million, 69% of total cost)
2.21 Under this component, the project would finance: (a) rehabilitation and modernization
of existing State-owned I&D schemes; (b) construction of new medium- and small-size
irrigation schemes and on-farm works (i.e., small-scale earthfills, irrigation and drainage
canals and tubewells); (c) development of water harvesting "pilot" schemes at the farm level;
and (d) technical assistance to assist producers to identify new market prospects for-mainly
irrigated-nontraditional export crops. The project would also finance the required feasibility
and engineering studies, design and construction supervision, and environmental impact
assessments. The level of investment in the three categories of irrigation projects to be
finanCed would be determined by demand.2 Notwithstanding the programmatic approach of
the project, indicative investment figures are given below for each projected activity.
2.22 Rehabilitation and Modernization of Existing I&D Schemes (US$ 4.0 million).
This category of subprojects, which would cover an area of about 2,000 ha, includes existing
State-owned irrigation projects where financial responsibility for their administration and full
O&M would be transferred to the users under terms satisfactory to the Bank. Prior to the
transfer, however, these subprojects would have to be rehabilitated to improve the efficiency
2.    Investment proposals for irrigation schemes to be executed during the first year of the project are
analyzed in Worling Paper 7 (available in the technical file).



- 21 -
of their operation. The inventory of works under state ownership to be rehabilitated and
modernized under the project, include: Canel6n Grande I (US$1.1 million), Colonia Espatia
(US$1.2 million), Canel6n Grande II (US$700,000), and Chingolo, Colonia Tomas Berreta,
and other prospective state-owned irrigation projects whose technical viability, enviromnental
soundness, and farmers' will to undertake financial responsibility for administration and
O&M will be verified (US$1.0 million). As a condition of Loan Effectiveness, the
Government would issue and publish in the official gazette (Gaceta Oficial) a regulatory
decree of Article 34 of the Accounting and Financial Administrative Law (Ley de
Contabilidad y Administraci6n Financiera) authorizing special procedures for transferring the
use, administration, and maintenance of I&D schemes included under the project (para. 3.2
(b)). A draft of the above-mentioned regulatory decree was discussed and agreed during
negotiatioins and attached as Annex 1 to the Minutes of Negotiations (para. 3.1 (d).
2.23 Rehabilitation works to be financed under this component would include: (i) deferred
maintenance and repairs of main structures, such as headworks or pumping station facilities
and main water conveyance structures; (ii) improvement of water distribution and drainage
structures in the secondary and tertiary networks at the communal level; and (iii) farm outlets
as well as any additional-up to the farm gate-investment required to adapt the existing
irrigation works to the requirements of a diversified agricultural production.
2.24 Under Uruguayan law, the use, operation and maintenance of public irrigation
schemes could be transferred to the users through a concession. Prior to the beginning of
rehabilitation works, and as a condition of disbursement against this project activity,
agreements for the transfer of water use, administration and O&M satisfactory to the Bank,
would be signed between the Government and the project beneficiaries (para. 3.5). During
its first two years of execudon, the project would finance the rehabilitation of I&D
infrastruture in Canel6n Grande I (1,100 ha) and Colonia Espafia (750 ha). In the
subsequent years and subject to the outcome of the respective feasibility studies, the proposed
project would finance the rehabilitation of the other state-owned irrigation projects (para.
2.22). Rehabilitation of the Laguna Negra and India Muerta state-owned I&D schemes, have
not been considered in the project because they are located within an environmentally fragile
area (Rocha Wetlands).
2.25 As a condition of disbursement against the construction of I&D schemes financed
under the project (paras. 2.26 to 2.29), the Government would issue and publish in the
official gazette, two regulatory decrees of the Water Code guaanteeing: (i) water availability
(during construction and thereafter) to beneficiaries of I&D schemes included in the project;
and (ii) that all I&D works would be carried out according to project objectives and priorities
as established in the Loan Agreement (para. 3.6). Drafts of both regulatory decrees were
agreed during negotiations and attached as Annexes 2 and 3 to the Minutes of Negotiations
(para. 3.1 (e)).
2.26  Nbew Medium-Sized rigation and Drainage Schemes (USS 30.0 million), would
expand the total area under irrgation by about 15,000 ha. These I&D scheme proposals
would be submitted by groups of farmers to UEP (para. 2.65) for screening and further
consideration by an Intenninisterial Coordinating Council (para. 2.65) (CCI). The
project-through UEP-would assist farmers with the preparation of the respective feasibility
studies and environmental impact assessment (US$500,000) of the investment proposals.
Three new medium-size irrigation schemes covering approximately 6,700 ha, have been



- 22 -
selected for execudton during the first two years of project implementadion; these are
lUMECAL for horticulture and fruit tree production (1300 ha.), and Fraile Muerto (4,000
ha.), and Roman Grande (1,400 ha) for grain and forage production.
2.27 The selection of these subprojects during project preparation was demand-driven and
based on preliminary information regarding their technical and economic viability. A
summary of expected I&D schemes to be financed under the project is presented in Annex
G. The Bank would finance civil works inluding primary and secondary I&D and service
infrastructure (US$1 1.0 million) and communal equipment (pumping stations) (US$16.0
million). Land acquisition (US$2.5 million), on-farm equipment, and implements would be
financed by the Government. No resettlement is foreseen under the project.
2.28 Prior to the initiation of the civil works, and as a condition of disbursement against
each new medium-size I&D scheme, a capital cost recovery and O&M agreement satisfactory
to the Bank, would be signed between the Govermment and user groups (para. 3.7). A
prototype contract agreement was dicussed and agreed during negotiations (para. 3.1 (f)).
Eligibility criteria for the selection of proposed I&D subprojects, including capital cost
recovery decision matrix are described in a Project Mlanul to be attached to the Loan
Agreement (para. 2.69).
2.29 Small Farmer Irrigation Infrastructure (US$5.8 milion), would entail on-farm
small civil works (US$2.0 million) and communal equipment (US$3.8 million) (i.e., small-
scale eartbfills, irrigation and drainage canals, and small pumping stations). The
construction of tubewells at the farm level or communal pumping stations plus conveyance,
distribution and drainage networks would benefit an area of about 5,000 ha. Satisfactory
evidence that the conclusions/recommendations of the groundwater studies of the Raig6n and
Salto aquifers (para. 2.29) are being implemented, would be a condition of disbursement
(pan. 3.8 (a)). Also, as a condition of disbursement against this project activity, a capital
cost recovery and O&M agreement satisfactory to the Bank, would be signed between the
Govermment and small farmers (para. 3.8 (b)). A prototype contract agrement was
disussed and agreed during negotiations (pan. 3.1 (g)).
2.30  Water Harrest  "Pilot" Proag   (US$ 6.9 million). This pilot program would
include earth movements for water catchments (i.e., earthfills) at the farm level, mainly to
benefit farmers operating in rice growing areas. It intends to develop the groundwork to
improve surface water use efficiency and effectiveness in the country following sound
environmental practices. Along these lines, aU works to be financed under this "pilot"
program would be screened according to natural resource management/conservation technical
criteria at the selected river basin level, which in turn would not exceed approximately 8,000
ha of irrigable land.
2.31 The proposed subprojects within the "pilot" program would include an environmental
impact assessment and a water management plan at the level of the micro-catchment area
where these irrigation schemes would be located (para. 2.33). In addition, regardless of
size, subprojects would be eligible for financing under the project only if they comply with
the agreed selection critena (Annex H) inckded in the Project Manual to be atached to the
Lean Agreement (para. 2.69). All eligible subprojects would have to have a minimum of
12% economic rate of return (ERR).



- 23 -
2.32 Average size of these small projects will vary depending on the private producers'
interest and production potential. Given the relatively small size of these schemes, no full
feasibility studies would be required, but a technical description of the project and some cost-
benefit analysis would be carried out.
2.33 As a condition of disbursment against the Water Harvesting "Pilot" Program, the
Government would complete, in terms satisfactory to the Bank, an environmental/economic
assessment study (paras. 2.19 and 2.31) quantifying the enviromnental externalities associated
with a systematic development of small water catchments (earthfills) (para. 3.9). Final TORs
for the referred study were agreed during negotiations (paras. 2.19 and 3.1 (c)).
2.34 I&D Feasibility Studies (US$1.9 millionD. The project would also finance feasibility
studies to be undertaken during implementation, with resources allocated mainly to potential
new I&D schemes (paras. 2.26, 2.29, and 2.30) on a point system that would inter-alia favor
subprojects that would benefit small and medium-sized farmers and have strong beneficiary
support. Engineering studies and final design would be financed as part of the irrigation
schemes' investment costs.
2.35 All I&D subprojects would be environmentally screened (para. 2.82) and, if required,
would have to have the respective environmental impact assessment carried out and
mitigating measures identified. In addition to the application of the agreed selection criteria,
the selected investment proposals would be ranked by the net benefit-investment ratio derived
from the net benefit stream used for estimatng the internal rate of return. Water Harvesting
I&D sub-projects would be submitted by private producers to the UEP for screening and
forwarding to CCI (para. 2.66 - 2.67), and subject to capital cost recovery agreements
satisfactory to the Bank.
2.36 The project would also finance a study of the current legal/administrative framework
regulating irrigation water use in Uruguay. The objective of this study would be to review
proposed legislation for the irrigation subsector, currently under discussion at the level of the
Senate's Agriculture Committee, and ensure its conformity with the regulatory framework
supported by the project (para. 1.28). The referenced study would provide the stage for the
Government to identify possible adjustments to the proposed legislation which could be
introduced, as necessary, prior to its approval by the General Assembly. The project would
also finance a more comprehensive watershed management study in Uruguay, aimed at
establishing the groundwork for modernizing and rationalizing the Government's overall
water policy.
2.37 To reduce the risk of assigning public funds for the development of economically
marginal I&D schemes and to ensure that the assumptions regarding expected benefits from
proposed investments meet the test of the market, the proposed project would stress the
participation of beneficiaries in the preparation, selection and execution of proposed sub-
projects, as was done with the irrigation schemes proposals that have already been identified
during preparation for execution during the first year of project implementation (para. 2.25).
2.38  Non-Traditional Export Crops Promotion (US$2.2 million). Subsequent to an
assessment of the ongoing Non-Traditional Export Program being implemented by PENTA
under Loan 3131-UR, the project would provide technical assistance and training (US$1.1
million) to carry out marketing surveys and feasibility studies. MAG's PENTA program



- 24 -
would be responsible for the implementation of this subcomponent. The proposed technical
assistance and training activities are intended to help farmers and private potential investors
interested in either adopting improved post-harvest technologies or expanding exports of non-
traditional (mostly irrigated) agricultural products. Administrative and other recurrent costs
(US$1.1 million) would be financed by the Government. The assessment of the PENTA
program would be carried out during the project mid-term review (para 2.73 - 2.74) planned
for the third year of project implementation (September 1996). As a condition of
disbursement against this activity, the Goverunent and the Bank would agree during the
project mid-term review, on a specific action plan based on the assessment of the PENTA
program financed under Loan 3131-UR (para. 3.10).
Project Costs and Financlug
Costs
2.39 The total cost of the project, including contingencies, taxes and duties, is estimated at
US$74.0 million, of which about US$32.9 million (44%) represents foreign exchange costs.
Price contingencies, estimated at US$5.8 million (or 9% of baseline costs), have been
included at a rate of 3.1% per annum between 1993-1999. Physical contingencies, except
for the applied research component and protected I&D works, have been estimated at
approximately USU400,000 based on 5% contingencies on all components. According to the
data available for the subprojects to be executed during the first year of implementation, the
cost of rehabilitation of I&D infastructure would fluctuate between US$1,000 and US$2,000
per hectare; small rice irrigation earthfills would represent an investment of about US$ 1,000
per hectare, while the costs for the development of medium- and small-sized new irrigation
schemes for horticulture or fruit tree production (Jumecal) are estimated at US$3,500 4,500
per hectare, and for grain and forage production (Fraile Muerto and Roman Grande) at
US$700 to US$1,300 per hectare. A project cost summary, and total project costs by
component and disbursement category, are presented in Annex R.
2.40 The proposed US$41 million Bank loan would be made to the Govermnent of
Uruguay at the standard variable interest rate for a term of 15 years, including five years of
grace. The proposed loan for US$41 million equivalent would finance about 62% of total
costs, net of taxes and duties. Bank financing would cover: (a) 60% of eligible civil works;
(b) 80% for eligible equipment for all components; (c) 100% for vehicles and eligible office
technology equipment; (d) 100% of technical assistance, (i.e., feasibility and enviromnental
assessment studies and engineering design), training, and special studies; (e) 50% of research
contracts; and (f) 100% of the costs of administering the UEP during the life of the project.
Eligible expenditures for the early phases of project implementation from July 1, 1993 to the
date of loan signing would be considered for retroactive financing up to a maximum of
US$3.0 million to maintain the momentum gained during preparation.
2.41 All land acquisition (US$2.8 million), recrrent and incremental expenditures (US$
5.8 million) (for project-related staff and activities) as well as duties and taxes (US$7.8
million) would be financed solely by the Govermment of Uruguay. During negotiations the
Government confirmed that adequate and timely counterpart flmding will be made available
to MGAP, MTOP, INIA, and UEP for the implementation of the project (para. 3.1 (h)).



- 25 -
Project beneficiaries would finance the costs of on-farm investnents including inputs, and
irrigation and tillage equipment (estimated at US$8.5 nw.-.ion equivalent).
Plwcrement
2.42  During negotiations it was agreed that the proclement of works, goods and
services financed under the project would be undertaken ih accordance with Bank guidelines
and using Bank standard bidding documents and contract fonn for ICB and consulting
services (para. 3.2 (i)). Similarly, LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank were discussed
and agreed during negotiations (para. 3.2 (i)). A favorable opinion on the format of
standard Bank bidding documents, furnished to the Government prior to negotiations, was
submitted to the Bank by the competent Uruguayan administative court (Tribunal de
Cuentas) during negotiations. All procurement of goods, works and consulting services
financed by the Bank would be carried out by the Government and INIA, as the case may be,
with the assistance of UEP (para. 2.68).
2.43 During negotiations, the Govermnent confirmed that in case of conflict between local
legislation and the Bank's procurement policy, the latter would prevail if appropriate
provisions are included in the Loan Agreement (para. 3.1 (j)). Such special provisions
would be included in the procurement schedule to the Loan Agreement.
2.44 The special provisions would be the following:
(a)   neither foreign firms nor consultants would be obliged to enter into joint
ventures with local firms for carrying out civil works, supply, selection of
equipment, or consulting services;
(b)   contracts will be awarded to the "lowest evaluated biddert;
(c)   foreign bidders would be allowed to participate in Local Competitive Bidding
(LCB) for goods and works;
(d)   no prior registration of bidders would be required for ICB, and if so required
by local legislation, the information to be requested will be of such nature that
will not discourage foreign bidder participation;
(e)   price adjustments for equipment would be allowed even if these changes in
prices are lower than 15%;
(f)   bidding process will not be cancelled even in the case that less than three bids
are received, unless otherwise agreed with the Bank;
(g)   bidders would not be required to legalize bid documents with consulates,
except when needed prior to signing the contract; and
(h)   the use of local personnel would not be imposed on foreign contractors, except
for unskilled labor.



- 26 -
2.45  aiLWorks, including irtigation schemes and micro-catchment development, would
generally be small, remote, and dispersed, both geographically and over time, and are
unlikely to be of interest to foreign bidders. Civil works consist mainly of: construcion of
irrigation and drainage networks and their related stuctr, service roads, dikes, pumping
station infrastructures, water harvest  infraructure (i.e., earthfills), and soil conservation
(soil movement) works and infrastructure.
2.46 Contmacts for civil works estimated to cost at least US$250,000 but not more than
US$3.0 million each, and for a total amount of about US$ 10.8 million equivalent, would be
awarded on the basis of Local Competitve Bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to the
Bank. In all cases LCB procedures would be open to foreign bidders. Civil works contracts
for less than US$250,000 would be procured on the basis of shopping procedures acceptable
to the Bank, including a minimum of three quotadons from qualified firms, subject to an
aggregate limit of US$7.7 million. These would consist of investments in individual
schemes, to be carried out by the private sector, which would generally include water
harvestng infrastruture, soil movements, small pumping stations, on-farm infrasucture and
wells, and would be tendered on the basis of the normal procedures of the beneficiaries. To
m=nimize adverse impact on the environment during construction, specifications in the
bidding documents for the major works would include clauses under which contractors would
be required to prevent, miimize, or mitigate environmental damage.
2.47       . Goods would include pumnping and irrigation equipment, vehicles,
computers (including software) and other office equipment, laboratory equipment, extension
aid equipment, agricultural equipment, spare parts and training materials. Most of the
pumping and irrigation equipment would be procured in the first two years of the project,
and could be grouped into packages of at least US$250,000 each and procured by
iternational competitive bidding (ICB) in accordane with Guidelines for Procrement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (May 1992). Contracts for goods procured under ICB
would total US$10.7 million. Where ICB procedures are used, and for bid evaluation
purposes, a preferential margin of 15% would be given to domestic manufacturers in
accordance with Bank Guidelines. Goods procured under contracts esdmated to cost less
than US$250,000 equivalent each, which in the aggregate would not exceed US$9.3 million,
would be suitable for procurement through LCB under procedures acceptable to the Bank.
The mmaining goods, which cannot be grouped into bid packages of US$50,000 equivalent,
would be procured on the basis of price quotations from at least three qualified suppliers,
provided that the aggregate amount of such procurement does not exceed US$0.7 million
equivalent.
2.48  Consulffng Services. Preparation of studies and designs, institudonal strengtenin,
technical assistance and training activities, amounfing to about US$17.5 million, would be
carried out by nadonal and foreign consultants, contracted in accordance with Guideines on
the Use of Consulants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency (Augst 1981). Of this amount, approximately US$8.0 million would be transferred
to INIA for the implementation of its part of the Applied Resch and Technology Trasfer
Program (para. 2.12). FA, DSA and AUSID would be contracted directly by MGAP to
cary out the agreed research subprojects (Annex D) on grounds of their past and current
involvement in soil and water management/conservation activides, and their satisfactory
performance.



-27 -
2.49 Review of Procurement. Civil works contracts to cost US$0.5 million or more, and
goods contracts under ICB, and LCB estmated to cost US$200,000 or more, as well as the
first contract for works and the first for goods below the aforementioned respective limits,
would be subject to the Bank's prior review of procurement documentation before invitations
to bid were issued and contracts awarded.
2.50 Because of the nature of the Irrigation Schemes to be financed under this loan, it
would be difficult to estimate the precise number and value of contracts that would fall above
the prior review threshold. Of the available data on possible schemes, roughly 60% would
be subject to prior review. Additionally, the review will result in a coverage of about 60%
of the total estimated value of goods contracts. The balance of contracts would be subject to
post-review by the Bank after contract award applying a sampling of at least 5%.
2.51 The Bank would review all documentation for consulting services included in the
project. For consultant contracts with firms costing less than US$100,000, and up to an
aggregate amount of about US$2.6 million, the Bank prior review would cover only the
corresponding terms of reference before contracting and conduct a selective post-review of
support contract documents during supervision.
2.52 As a condition of Loan Effectiveness, the Government would submit a legal opinion
from an official legal authority in the Uruguayan executive branch stating that the terms of
the Loan Agreement with the Bank (including terms and conditions for the proement of
works, goods, and consultant services (para. 2.42)) are valid and binding in Uruguay
(para. 3.2 (c)).
2.53 Table 1 summarizes the project elements and their estimated costs and proposed
methods of procurement.
Cost Recovery in Irrigaion Projects
2.54  Operation and Maitenance. Given the limited level of I&D infras
development in Uruguay, there are few multi-rm irrigation schemes operating with water
users' associations. However, in the case of those in existence, user groups cover the full
cost of O&M and in some cases are directly responsible for these operations (e.g., Colonia
Espaia). In other I&D schemes, O&M is carried out by a private company (e.g., India
Muerta). The project emphasize financial autonomy and water user managemet of the
proposed I&D schemes. The rationale for public sector involvement, and less than full
recovery of capital investment, is mainly based on environmental extrnalities. The main
objective is to assist the Government to design and implement an irrigation subsector strategy
aimed at improving public resource allocation, and discouraging wasteful use of water and
degradation of the natural resource base.
2.55 For investments financed under the project, beneficiaries would be responsible for
O&M and would cover the full cost of these operations through the collecuon of water
charges based on irrigable area. To ensure against providing negative incenives for poor
O&M, standards for operation and maitenance would be defined and would form an integral
part of the agreement to be signed between the water users and the state regarding the
construcion of the respective irrigation and drainage subproject (paras. 2.24, 2.28, and
2.29). For both state-owned and new projects, a trnsition period would be defined during



- 28 -
which water users' associations wou4d be given technical assistance in organization and in
O&M activities (para. 2.67).
Table 1. Su  ary of Proposed Procurement Aruumemts S-
|  (OS  lttfion efwlvalent)
._________    Proc  ent Method                              l
Project Eltnts
lee           LCB         Other '         IIF f'         TOTAL
1. Uorks 5                                            10.8            7.7          3.95          22.4
I ________________________      _____                 (5.7)         (3.7)                        (9.4)
2. Goods                                10.7           9.3           0.71i          4.65          25.3
(7.6)         (6.6)          (0.7)                      (14.9)
3. Consultancies:
- Studies                                                          3.8                         3.8
(3.8)                       (3.8)
- Technical assistance                                             9.5                         9.5
(9.5)                       (9.5)
- Applied Research                                                 2.0                         2.0
Contracts                                                     (1.0)                       (1.0)
- Training (seminars                                               1.7                         1.7
and workshops)                                                (1.r7)                      (1.7)l
4. Training (study trips and                                          0.3                          0.3
scholarships)                                           _         (0.3)                        (0.3)
5. Land Accisition                                                     _             2.8           2.8
6. Recurrent costs:
- UEP operation                                                    0.4                         0.4
(0.4)                       (0.4)
- Other                                                                          5.8           5.8
TOTAL                               10.7          20.1           26.1          17.1          74.0
l __________________________            (7.6)        (12.3)         (21.1)                       (41.0)
Note:    Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank loan.
Y'       Totals include taxes and contingencies.  Amounts in parentheses show allocation from loan
proceeds. Values may not coincide with those presented on Arnnx P, due to rounding.
uother" includes private investment procurement, local shopping and consulting services.
f'       Not Bank-financed procurement.
5'       Estimated distribution, actual distribution would be defined during implementation.
5'       Items financed by producers.
Includes vehicles and eligible office technology equipxnt.
2.56   The exclusive reliance on taxation of incremental benefits to achieve cost recovery is
not a reliable system because farmers bear little risk if the investment fails to achieve its
objectives. The project would stress collection-through a decentralized agency, i.e.,
BROU-of O&M and 30% to 40% of direct new investment costs. The percentage of capital
cost recovery would be determined on a case-by-case basis according to the users' real
repayment capacity. A draft of the final decision matrix for determining levels of capital
cost recovery, was discused and agreed during negotiaftons (para 3.1 (k)), and
incorporated to the Project Manual (para. 2.69). An estimate of the fiscal impact of selected
subprojects is presented in Annex L.
2.57   Inv.estmnt  Direct capital cost recovery would be based on the cost of investment,
eimated after final design has been completed. This amount would be divided by the
number of beneficiaries in proportion to the irrigated area allocated to them. Grace and



- 29 -
repayment periods would be negotiated on a project-by-project basis, but would not exceed
four years grace in the case of farners involved in fruit tree production and two years for
other farmers. A maximum of 25 years repayment would apply depending on farmers'
capacity to pay. Repayment would be indexed by the wholesale price index. The rate of
interest would be determined by the Interministerial Coordinating Council (para. 2.65), but it
will not be less than the interest rate on medium-term certificates of deposit (in Pesos)
calculated by the Central Bank of Uruguay. The Coimnission would also establish the level
of payment during the grace period and would define a discount rate on total debt to
encourage pre-payment.
2.58 The level of direct capital cost recovery would be negotiated with the beneficiaries for
each individual investment. It would be between approximately 30% and 40% of the total
cost; except in the case of the Water Harvesting "Pilot" Program (para. 2.30) or other
private on-farm I&D schemes (paras. 2.26-2.28), which may reach up to 70%. If the
irrigation investment were to benefit small farmers in marginal areas (e.g., Santa Lucia
Basin) (para. 2.8), the level of direct cost recovery could be below 30%, subject to Bank
approval.
2.59 Negotiation packages with users, including direct cost recovery targets, for proposed
investments to be financed under the project would have to be reviewed by the Bank and
approved subsequent to negotiations with beneficiaries. If the overall :evel of direct cost
recovery differs more than 15% from proposed targets, the change would have to be justified
and agreed by the Bank before the agreement could be signed with the beneficiaries. Major
divergence would suggest that assumptions used in internal rate of return calculations were
overly-optimistic and that the net incremental benefit-cost ratio was incorrect. Consequently,
the ERR would have to be recalculated and the irrgation schemes ranked again.
2.60 For the market to ration demand effectively, beneficiaries must believe that
government will recover its investment costs. In the case of Uruguay, the risk of non-
compliance on direct capital cost recovery would be minimized by having a decentralized
agency (i.e., Banco Republica Oriental del Uruguay) collect the debt of water users.
2.61 Efforts would also be made to recover some of the investment costs indirectly through
taxes on incremenal gross agricultural output (the value-added tax rate is currently 22%) and
through the property tax set at 1.3% to 2.7% of assessed value, depending on the range
within which the property falls. In addition to the property tax, there are municipal rates,
that are about one half of the property tax. If no tax exceptions applied, up to approximately
42% of investment costs, on average, could be recovered indirectly through taxation (see
Annex L). In the case of large- and medium-sized farmers, the combination of direct and
indirect cost recovery could increase the overall capital cost recovery figure to between 70
and 80% (30% to 40% direct, plus approximately 42% indirect). For beneficiaries of the
Water Harvesting "Pilot" Program, direct plus indirect cost recovery could reach 100%.
2.62 As indicated in para. 2.54 above, less than full direct capital cost recovery for on-
farm investments to be carried out under the Water Harvesting "Pilot" Program (para. 2.30),
is mainly based on environmental externalities. These externalities would be quantified on an
environmental/economic assessment (paras. 2.19 and 2.33) of the water harvesting pilot area,
thus contributing to integrate land use policies and practices with water management strategy.
The Government of Umguay increasingly recognizes that environmental considerations need



- 30-
to be built into agricultural development projects, particularly to those issues related to soil
and water resource conservation. To accomplish this, a set of clearly defined policy actions
combined with a well balanced public investment program is needed to take advantage of the
efficiency provided by market forces while strengthening the users' commitment to natural
resource conservation.
2.63 Proper management of surface water is critical for the sustainability of agricultural
production systems, water quality, and related eco-systems. These include a combination of
market-i.e., financial-incentives, regulatory policies, and enforcement capability. At this
early stage of irrigation development in Uruguay, when a subsector regulatory framework
needs to be secured and the legal/administrative foundation and incentive framework for
sustainable agricultural conversion established, the Government's active participation
becomes essential. Under the project, the mainly regulatory role of the public sector would
be stressed, while the users' involvement in the design, financing, and administration of the
proposed I&D schemes would provide a cost-effective means of improving the limited
monitoring and enforcement capacity of public agencies.
Disbursements
2.64 Loan proceeds are expected to be disbursed over 6.5 years (Annex Q), consistent with
the standard disbursement profile for Bank-financed agricultural projects in Uruguay. Up to
US$3.0 million in eligible project expenditures would be financed retroactively to July 1,
1993, to maintain momentum gained during preparation and to permit the initiation of works
during the off-season for agriculture. The closing date will be December 31, 1999. Prior to
Loan Effectiveness, the Government would establish a special account in the Central Bank
(BCU) to cover expenditures eligible for Bank financing under the project to be managed by
UEP (para. 2.67). As a condition of Loan Effectiveness, the Government would establish,
operate and maintain in a commercial bank a project account or accounts for purposes of
depositing the Borrower's counterpart funds. Such account or accounts would maintain at all
times a minimum balance of US$400,000 equivalent (para. 3.2 (d)). The Bank would
initially deposit up to US$2.5 million, which is equivalent to an estimated four months of
average disbursements. Disbursements would be made on the basis of Statements of
Expenditure (SOE) for all expenses except those covered by contracts requiring prior review
by the Bank. Disbursements for contracts requiring prior review would be fully documented.
Relevant documentation in suppor. of SOEs would not be submitted to the Bank, but would
be retained by the implementing agencies. Copies of such documents and disbursement
applications would be supplied to the project executing unit (para. 2.65) by the implementing
agencies and would be made available to Bank supervision missions. The special account
would be replenished through normal reimbursement of project expenditures.
Organization and Implementation
2.65 Prolject Mnagement. MGAP would be the implementing agency for the natural
resource management component, and MTOP for the irrigation development component of
the project. INIA would execute part of the Applied Research and Technology Transfer
Program (para. 2.12). Overall project management would be the responsibility of a Project
Executing Unit (UEP) that would provide technical back-up, and execute the CCI decisions.
Since the proposed project would have actions involving various sub-sectors and agricultural
institutions, an Intenninisterial Coordinating Council (CCI), headed by the Minister of



- 31 -
Agriculture and comprised of the Minister of Transport and Public Works (MTOP) and the
Director of OPP, was established by executive decree No. 529 of 6/29/1993. CCI would
define policies and adopt the decisions related to implementation and supervision, including
the execution of the Annual Work Program (POA) and related activities. Agreement was
reached during negotations on the POA for the first year of project implementation
(attached as Annex 2 to the Implementation Letter (paras. 2.74 and 3.1(1)). During
negotations, it was also agreed that draft POAs for each succeeding year would have to be
presented to the Bank for approval by September of each preceding year, and carried out
thereafter (para. 3.1 (1)).
2.66 CCI would review annual operating programs and semi-annual reports and would
make proposals for modifications, as necessary. In addition, CCI would arbitrate those
issues which are either of an inter-institutional nature or are not the responsibility of any
particular executing agency. It would meet a minimum of four times a year.
2.67 CCI would be assisted by UEP (pars. 2.65), headed by an Executive Secretary who
would report directly to CCI and participate in its meetngs, acting as its secretary, and
would liaise directly with the Bank at the operational and technical levels. The head of UEP,
who would be an Agricultural Economist with ample experience in project preparation and
manrgement, would be assisted by a multidisciplinary team comprising an agronomist
specialized in irrigated agriculture, an irrigation (civil) engineer with proven experience in
procurement of goods and services, a specialist in natual resources management, and an
accountant plus support staff. The Unit would require two vehicles for field travel, three
computers, communication and office equipment. Additionally, the UEP would have funds
for hiring an estinatd 29 months of specialist consultants for EAs, technical backstopping,
transfer of technology, applied researh assistance and other implementaion-related matters
including operating and tavel expenses of the consultants. Asuans were obtained
during negotiations, that the operating budget for the UEP would be submitted to the Bank
for review and approval by September of the preedig Umguayan fiscal year (para. 3.1
(m)). The UEP was formally established by MGAP (Minsterial Resolution No. 450/93 of
7/7/93). Prior to negotiations, the head of UEP, and core technical and support staff were
appointed. Assurances were obtained during nego     that the Unit's staff would
continue to be contracted in terms satisfactory to the Bank, and that funding for the UEP
would be made available in the amounts necessary and in time to ensure appropriate project
administration (para. 3.1 (n)).
2.68 The UEP would: (a) implement and coordinate the agreements of the CCI; (b) arrange
for the preparation of irrigation investment proposals imcludg environmental impact
assessment, their review and the preparation of the annual investment programs; (c) prepare
project background information so that CCI can define annual implementation programs; (d)
facilitate the efficient coordination of components among the various implementing agencies;
(e) consolidate the POAs of implementing agencies, monitor program implementation and
provide periodic reports to the CCI; (f) recommend measures to resolve divergences of
project components from the program; (g) monitor the use of program funds; (h) assist the
executing agencies in the preparation of bidding documents for the procurement of goods,
works and consulting services to be financed under the project; and (i) centralize the
information regarding natural resource management that the various sub-component under
that hading will generate, and publish jointly with DGRNR and CHDCSL, periodic reports



- 32 -
with this information. A summary of the project organization and management, is presented
in Annex J.
2.69 As a condition of Loan Effectiveness, the Governnent would cause UEP to sign
cooperative technical agreements with the line agencies (i.e., DGRNR, DNH, DF,
CHDCSL), in terms satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.2 (e)). Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that MTOP would provide the necessary technical support on
procurement and supervision of civil works to be financed by the project (para. 3.1 (o)).
Investment proposals would be gathered at the regional level by the Regional Irrigation
Boards which would submit the respective project profiles to UEP. This Project Executing
Unit would analyze and prioritize the proposed project ideas according to agreed selection
criteria and then submit them to CCI for a decision on whether financing for feasibility
studies is warranted. The feasibility studies would be carried out by private consulting firms
and be supervised by UEP. After completion of corresponding feasibility studies, the UEP,
in collaboration with DGRNR and DNH would review the draft studies and provide
comments on technical, economical, institutional and environmental aspects prior to issuing
their final version. As a condition of Loan Effectiveness, the Government would prepare
and approve, in terms satisfactory to the Bank, a Project Manual describing the eligibility,
and capital cost recovery criteria as well as the environmental screening procedures to be
followed in the selection of I&D subprojects (paras. 2.26 and 2.29), and demonstration farms
(para. 2.11) (para. 3.2 (f)). UEP would analyze the final results of the studies and would
rank those projects that meet the minimum economic criteria and environmental standards,
and submit them to CCI for approval prior to final design and construction. The list of
selected projects would be discussed with the Bank during the Annual Reviews (para. 2.73)
and would then be integrated into the follcwing year's project implementation program
(POA). These reviews would be held no later than June 30 of each year, three months
before the Government discussions on their annual budget.
2.70 Environmental impact assessment would be contracted by UEP in collaboration with
DGRNR and DINAMA. DGRNR (within MGAP) would be responsible for monitoring the
implementation of recommended actions regarding neutralizing possible negative
environmental aspects in any single irrigation project. Project activities in the Santa Lucia
Basin will be coordinated by UEP and CHDCSL (para 2.8), which would be the overall
coordinator with the various governmental institutions present in the region. Technical
assistance activities related to forestry development and promotion of nontraditional export
crops (paras. 2.20 and 2.38) would be executed by the Forestry Directorate, and the PENTA
Committee within MGAP, with the support of UPCT (Unidad de Proyectos y Cooperaci6n
TWcnica of MGAP) and the overall coordination of UEP.
Accounts and Audits
2.71 Executing agencies (MGAP and MTOP) and UEP would maintain separate accounts
to record their expenditures under the project using an agreed plan of project accounts. A
plan of accounts for overall project administration was discussed during negotiations (3.1
(p)). For each respective component of the project each implementing agency and the UEP
would have to establish an accounting procedure acceptable to the Bank. Each executing
agency will maintain records of project expenditures and send copies of those records to the
Project Executing Unit (UEP), which will maintain consolidated accounts. Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs) will be prepared by the implementing agencies coordinated by UEP.



- 33 -
These SOEs will be signed by the authorized representative of the respective implementing
agency. Copies of supporting documentation for SOEs provided by the executing agencies
would be maintained by UEP and made available to visiting Bank missions and independent
auditors, who at their discretion would make direct visits to the executing agencies for the
purposes of the overall audit. UEP would be responsible for final preparation of
disbursement applications to be signed by the Government's authorized representative. A
complete statement of disbursements made against each project component and activity would
be submitted to the Bank on a quarterly basis. Agreement was reached during negotiations
that project accounts, including the special account, and SOEs would be audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank following terms of reference approved by the
Bank (para. 3.1 (q)). As a condition of Loan Effectiveness the Borrower would
demonstrate that MTOP, MGAP and the UEP have the capability to adapt accounting
procedures, and to maintain and control project accounts in a manner satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 3.2 (g)).
Monitoring and Evaluation
2.72 Monitoring would be based on the objectives and targets defined in the POAs, an
instrument that integrates all management functions of the proposed project into one single
tool: programming, budgeting, work organization and distribution of tasks, personnel
management and monitoring and evaluation. The UEP would coordinate the annual
development of the POA to be reviewed by the Bank and approved by the Borrower (i.e.,
CCI). It would have the responsibility for issuing, not later than three months after the end
of each respective period, semi-annual reports on progress of implementation of each project
component, which would be submitted to CCI, and through the Minister of Agriculture, to
the Bank. If implementation progress is not satisfactory for any of the components, UEP
would propose remedial action to be adopted by CCI in agreement with the Bank.
2.73 Annual reviews to be held no later than June 30 of every year, starting in 1994,
would be used for setting investment plans and establishing requirements for complementary
services. Overall project performance would also be assessed during the annual reviews. An
in-depth mid-term review would be carried out at the end of the third year of project
implementation in FY96 (June 1996) to: (a) assess progress in implementation measured by
performance objectives; (b) verify the continued validity of the project design in light of
implemenDtation experience; and (c) undertake necessary adjustments in project objectives,
design, and implementation arrangements. This review would be based on a mid-term
evaluation to be carried out by independent consultants at least two months prior to the
arrival of the Bank mission. Scope and content of the annual and mid-term reviews were
discussed and agreed during negotiations (para. 3.2 (r)) and incorporated as Annex 3 to a
draft Implementation Letter to the Loan Agreement.
2.74 The mid-term review will be used to take stock formally of the lessons from the
various pilot activities (paras. 2.8, 2.11, and 2.30) and studies (paras. 2.19 and 2.34) to be
supported by the project. This mid-term review would provide the stage for the Government
to articulate the subsector development strategy supported by the project, including possible
adjustments in the institutional/policy framework which might be advisable. Project targets
and follow-up actions to be discussed during the annual and mid-term review, will be defined
in accordance with the Project Performance Indicators (Annex 0). Such Project Perfonnance
Indicators, the GIS Action Plan, the Annual Work program (POA), and matters to be



- 34 -
discussed during the anmal and mid-term reviews were included in an Implementation Letter
to the Loan Agreement, discussed and agreed during negotiations (para. 3.1 (s)). A
detailed description of the areas to be addressed in the annual and mid-term reviews, is
presented in the Supervision Plan (Annex N).
2.75 Ex-post evaluation of rehabilitated and new irrigation projects, and of the pilot
program for the introduction of natural resources management techniques, would require
studies of physical performance of the investment and production systems and their socio-
economic impact. These evaluations would be contracted out to consulting firms or
university research centers. A preliminary evaluzJon would be carried out dunng the third
year of the project and presented to the mid-term review meeting. The terms of reference of
the study would be prepared by UEP and agreed with CCI and the Bank by the end of the
first year of project implementation. A summary of the monitoring program on water use
efficiency and soil conservation under the proposed I&D schemes, is presented in Annex K.
2.76 A major effect on sustainable agricultural growth will stem from alternative
production technologies that focus on more efficient and adequately designed natural resource
management practices. The introduction of a demand-driven approach to the rehabilitation
and expansion of the country's I&D infrastructure will stimulate vertical and horizontal
linkages across the public and private sectors, which will sustain long-term investment, rural
employment, and natural resource conservation.
2.77 While providing the means to support the development of a regulatory framework and
technical foundation to reduce potential agro-ecological imbalances and preserve the
country's natural resource base, the project would help to diversify production and increase
the competitiveness of the agricultural sector. The proposed investment program is expected
to benefit some 15,000 farmers or 25 percent of the entire farming community of Uruguay.
The main project benefits include: (a) increased production as a result of the expansiot of the
irrigated area by up to approximately 30,000 ha cultivated mostly by small and medium-size
farmers; (b) increased productivity based on higher crop yields due to the availability of
secure irrigation water, higher quality, and shifting investment to higher-value export crops;
(c) enhanced small-fhrmer income and welfare; (d) introduction of technical criteria that
would increase the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of water resource use; (e) improved
public and private resource allocation, introducing a comprehensive and consistent capital
cost recovery and O&M mechanism; and (f) improved soil and water management and
conservation practices leading to sustained agricultural sector growth. To examine the
potentidal impact of the project at the farm level, four feasibility studies of irrigation
investment proposals were analyzed during project preparation, including nine illustrative
farm models representing: (i) horticulture farms ranging from 4 ha to 30 ha; (ii) fruit tree
fms (17 ba); and (iii) a lage rice/livestock farm. Results-presented in working paper No.
7 (Muestra de Proyectos de Inversion de Riego)-showed a robust return on investment.



- 35 -
Economic ANsI
2.78 An overall economic rate of return has not been calculated due to the programmatic
nature of the project. However, the project would have a major impact on medium and
small-sized-farmers in the irigated areas and would improve the quality of life of a
significant proportion of small farmers located in the marginal areas of the Santa Lucia
Basin. A 12% rate of return is the minimum required for public investment; however, most
projects are likely to have substantially higher returns. Most potential investments currently
under review have estimated ERRs above 20%. The main assumptions adopted for the
calculation of these ERRs were the same as those used in the study on competitiveness of
Uruguayan agricultural products prepared by the MGAP with the assistance of the
Gesellschaft fir Technische Zusammenarbeit (GTZ), the German Govenmment Technical
Assistance Agency.
Environmental Impact
2.79 Most of the project's components are geared to improve resource management to
reduce degradation of soils, enhance productivity and efficiency in agriculure, and preserve
biodiversity (wetlands). In the development and operation and maintenance (O&M) of
irrigation projects, a number of standard enviromnental issues have been identified, such as
soil degradation and water contamination from agrochemicals under intensified agriculture,
wasteful use of water, deteriorating quality of irrigation water, some sedimentation of
reservoirs, and damage to biodiversity.
2.80 Through environmental assessment, steps will be taken within the project to address
the above issues at each stage of the project cycle; during identification of options to expand
agricultural output, initial project selection, feasibility analysis (with design modification to
mitigate negative impact where necessary), constuction, and monitoring and evaluation
(M&E) of the operational phase. In this process, particular attention will be given to
institutional questions in dealing with long-run intersectoral conflicts in the management of
water resources.
2.81 Activities would include strengthening local irrigation organizations and government
agencies directly associated with these organizations, promotion of beneficiary participation
in subproject design and implementation, and clarification through research, field testing and
extension of the equity, efficiency, and sustinability dimensions of intensification of land
and water through multiple uses.
Environmental Scree
2.82 Under the proposed project, all subprojects eligible for financing would be subject to
an environmental impact assessment to detect current and potential environmental problems
and recommend appropriate changes in design or mitigating measures (para. 2.70).
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that necessary steps would be taken by the
Government to ensure that environmental issues would be adequately considered in the
selection, design, construction, and O&M of irrigation schemes, as well as all other works
financed under the project, including agreement on enviromnental screening procedures as
outlined in Annex M, paras. 10 and 11 (para. 3.2 (t)).



- 36-
2.83 The potential for conflict between irrigation and preservation of wetlands represents a
special case in the managing of environmental aspects of the project. Under the 1971
Ramsar Treaty, the Govermnent of Uruguay agreed to set aside 435,000 ha as a wetlands
reserve. This was ratified in 1984 as a 325,000 ha reserve, excluding 110,000 ha of the
water area in the Uruguayan sector of Laguna Mann. By that date, much of this area had
already been modified by flood control and irrigation works, and additional areas were
modified subsequently. Further, significant wetland areas outside the Ramsar Treaty limits
have been similarly modified over the past two decades. The result has been an escalation of
conflicts arising witiin agriculture (upstream versus downstream users) and between
agriculture and environmental protection, both inside and outside the Ramsar reserve.
2.84 In response to this situation, three initiatives have been taken in an attempt to resolve
the conflict. First, DINAMA was charged in 1991 with leading an interagency task force to
define the precise area of undamaged or recoverable wetlands to be reserved. This is
expected to provide the basis for an eventual request to modify the Ramsar Treaty. The
revised area has been set at 140,000 has which falls mainly within the original Treaty limits.
Second, an inter-agency commission was established in 1991 to study the various conflicts in
a 360,000 ha area along the right bank of the Rio Cebollati in the Department of Rocha.
This study encompassed most, if not all, of the Ramsar Treaty area within the department
and a significant area outside the Treaty limits. This commission, consistent with the
findings of the above task force, will make a series of recommendations on hydraulic works
to resolve current conflicts among farmers, enable further irrigation development, and protect
certain natural areas that may be witiin or outside previously defined reserve areas. Third,
parallel with state efforts to specify and resolve the areas of conflict, a group of NGOs, with
external fumding, have a project underway to map all wetland areas that may be considered
in a "reasonable" state of preservation or worthy of reclamation. This map should be
completed by mid 1994, at which time it is expected that the group would lobby for official
designation of the whole area as reserve.
2.85 The project would not finance any irrigation or drainage acdvity within the present or
future Ramsar Treaty wetland areas nor in other protected wetland areas of the country.
Environmental criteria to be followed in the selection of I&D subprojects financed under the
proposed project are outlined in Annex M. In addition, any proposed I&D subproject
located in important wetland or riverine areas would be submitted to the Bank for prior
review and approval.
2.86 If the environmental aspects associated with the intensification and expansion of
irrigated agriculture are to be effectively managed, the institutional capacity must be
strngthened to generate information on the social, economic and ecological trade-offs
involved, and to facilitate dialogue among the vested interests in reaching decisions on water
policy and policy implementation. In this regard, fte studies of the Salto and Raig6n
aquifers to be funded under the project are expected to make a contribution. The capacity of
central government agencies, regional offices, and regional irrigation boards to apply
enviromnental procedures in the subproject cycle will be critical to the implementation of the
irrigation component.
2.87 UEP, in consultation with DGR1 R, would have the prime responsibility for screning
and recommending irrigation and drainage development proposals and overseeing the
feasibility, design, and constuction phases (paras. 2.69 and 2.70). The beneficiary groups



- 37 -
and the respective irrigation boards will have a major role in defining subproject proposals
and will be responsible for O&M after construction. The National Directorate of
Hydrography (DNH) would recommend the use of water for irrigation after evaluation of
existig and potential multiple uses. It is expected that under the new environrmental law,
DINAMA will have oversight authority in the implementadon of environmental assessment
(EA) requirements, quality of EA work, and setting water quality standards. The Minister of
Transport and Public Works, on recommendation of DNH, is ultimately responsible for
approving water resource allocation and related civil works according to a priority
frmework pre-established by law (i.e., potable water supply, followed by hydroelectricity,
then irrigation). OPP will have final authority over the adequacy of EA as a prerequisite to
approval of publicly financed subprojects and works.
2.88 A wide range of activities is underway and programmed to strengthen the capacity of
public and private entities to deal with enviromnental questions. DINAMA will receive a
US$1.1 million grant from the Inter American Development Bank (IDB) and a US$0.3
million grant from the European Economnc Community (EEC). The UNDP and UNEP are
also active and the Global Enviromnent Fund (GEF) recently approved a US$3.2 million
project on wetlands that includes institutional strengthening. Many bilateral agencies are also
funding insitutional support activities in various government agencies and NGOs. In
addition, NGOs have received extensive support from domestic sources as well as external
foundations and NGOs. A significant increase in technical capacity within the country can be
expected over the next two years.
Ridk
2.89 The institutional capacity to execute and coordinate the project, especially the natural
resources assessment and management aspects, may prove inadequate. This risk would be
mitigated by a strong focus on institutional strengthening and development, and the inclusion
of specific, programmed actions to solve capacity gaps.
mi. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
3.1 During negotiations, agreement/assurances were obtained from the Government on
the following:
(a) final inventory of research subprojects to be financed under the project (para.
2.14);
(b)   action plan for the implementation of the GIS (para. 2.16);
(c)   final TORs for the hydrological and enviromnental studies of the Raigon and
Salto aquifers and the Water Harvesting pilot area, respectively (paras. 2.19 (i)
and (ii), and 2.33);
(d) a regulatory decree of Article 34 of the Accounting and Financial
Administrative Law (Ley de Contabilidad y Administraci6n Financiera)



- 38 -
authorizing special procedures for transferning the use, administration, and
maintenance of I&D schemes included under the project (para. 2.22);
(t)   draft regulatory decrees of the Water Code guarnteeing: (i) water availability
(durmg construction and thereafter) to beneficianes of I&D schemes compnsed
in the project; and (ii) that all I&D works would be carried out according to
project objectives and priorities as established in the Loan Agreement (para.
2.25);
(I)   prototype capital cost recovery and O&M agreement to be signed between the
Government and water users of New Medium-Size I&D Schemes (para. 2.28);
(g)   prototype capital cost recovery and O&M agreement to be signed with
beneficiaries of Small Farmer Irrigation Infrastructure (para. 2.29);
(h) adequate and timely counterpart funding would be made available to MGAP,
MTOP, and UEP for the implementation of the project (para. 2.41);
(i)   procurement of works, goods and services financed under the project would be
undertaken in accordance with Bank guidelines and using Bank standard
bidding documents for ICB and contract fonns for consulting services.
Similarly, agreement was reached on LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank
(para. 2.42);
(j)   in case of conflict between local legislation and the Bank's procurement policy,
the latter would prevail if appropriate provisions are included in the Loan
Ageement. Such special provisions would be included in the procurement
schedule to the Loan Agreement (para. 2.43);
(k)   final decision matrix for detrmining levels of capital cost recovery on I&D
infrastucture (para. 2.56);
(t)   POA for the first year of the project, and for each succeeding year to be
presented to the Bank for approval by September of the preceding year (para.
2.65);
(m)  UEP's operating budget would be submitted to the Bank for review and further
approval by September of the preceding Uruguayan fiscal year (para. 2.67);
(n)   UEP's staff to be appointed in terms satisfiactory to the Bank, and funding for
the Unit's operatiDg made available in time to ensure appropriate project
administaton (para. 2.67);
(o)   MTOP would provide the necessary technical support on procurement and
supervision of civil works to be financed under the project (para. 2.69);
(p)   a plan of accounts for overall project administration (para. 2.71);



- 39 -
(q)   project accounts, including the special account, and SOEs would be audited
anmually by indWendent auditors acceptable to the Bank following terms of
reference approved by the Bank (para. 2.71);
(r)   scope and conten of the anmual and mid-term reviews (para.2.73);
(s)   an Implementation Letter to the Loan Agreement, including Project
Performance Indicators, the GIS Action Plan, the Annual Work program
(POA), and matters to be diussed during the anmal and mid-tem reviews
(para. 2.74) and;
(t)   neceary steps would be taken by the Government to ensure that
environmental issues are adequately considered in the selection, design,
construction, and O&M of I&D schemes and other works financed under the
project, including agreement on environmental screening procedures as
outlined in Annex M, paras. 10 and 11 (para. 2.82).
3.2    As conditions of Loa Effectiveness, the Borrower would:
(a)   sig a Subsidiay Grant Agreement with INA for the implementation of its
part of the Applied Research and Technology Transfer Program (para. 2.12)
and establish a soil conservation unit (para. 2.13);
5U)  issue and publish in the official gazette, a regulatory decree of Art. 34 of the
Accounti  and Financial Administration Law authorizing special procedures
for transferring the use, administration, and maintenance of I&D subprojects
(pam. 2.22);
(c) submit a legal opinion from an official legal authority in the Uruguayan
executive branch, stating that the terms of the Loan Agreement with the Bank,
are valid and binding in Uruguay (para. 2.52);
(d)   establish, operate and maintain in a commercial bank a project account or
accounts for purposes of depositing the Borrower's counterpart funds. Such
account or accounts would maintain at all times a minmum balance of
US$400,000 equivalent (para. 2.64);
(e)   cause the UEP to sign cooperative technical agreements with the line agencies,
in terms satisfctory to the Bank (pam. 2.69);
(f)   approve, in terms satisfctory to the Bank, a Project Manual describing the
eligibility cdteria and environmental screening procedures to be followed in
the selection of I&D subprojects and demonstion firms (para. 2.69); and
(g) demonstrate that the MGAP, MTOP, UEP and INIA have the capability to
maitain and control project accounts m a manner satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 2.71).



- 40 -
3.3   As a condition of disbursement against the Pilot Micro-catchment Program, the
Borrower would enter with Beneficiaries into subgrant agreements satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 2.10).
3.4   As a condition of disbursement against the soil and water management/conservation
Demonstration Fanns, the Borrower would enter into a service agreement with the
corresponding farmer under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 2.1 1).
3.5   As a condition of disbursement against the rehabilitation of existing I&D schemes,
the Borrower would sign with water users, agreements satisfactory to the Bank, for the
transfer of water use, administration and O&M of such schemes (para. 2.24).
3.6    As conditions of disbursement against the construction of new I&D schemes, the
Borrower would issue and publish in the official gazette, two regulatory decrees of the Water
Code guaranteeing: (i) water availability (during construction and thereafter) to beneficiaries
of I&D schemes comprised in the project; and (ii) that all I&D works would be carried out
according to project objectives and priorities as established in the Loan Agreement (para.
2.25).
3.7   As conditon of disbursement against the New Medium-Size I&D Schemes, the
Borrower would sign with water users a capital cost recovery and O&M agreement
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 2.28).
3.8   As condition of disbursement against the construction of Small Farmer Irrigation
Infrastructure, the Borrower would:
(a)   provide evidence that recommendations resulting from the assessment of
Raig6n and Salto aquifers are being implemented in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank (para. 2.29); and
(b) sign with water users a capital cost recovery and O&M agreement satisfactory
to the Bank (para. 2.29).
3.9   As condWion of disbursement against the Water Harvesting "Pilot" Program, the
Borrower would complete, in terms satisfactory to the Bank, an environmental/economic
assessment quantifying the-environmental-externalities associated with a systematic
development of smallwater catchments (earthfills) (para. 2.33).
3. 10 As condWion of disbursement against the Non-Traditional Export Promotion
Program, the Borrower would agree with the Bank, during the mid-term review, on a
specific action plan based on the assessment of the PENTA program financed under
Loan 3131-UR (para. 2.38).



- 41 -
3.11 Subject to the above conditions and assUrances, the proposed project would be suitable
for a Bank loan of US$41.0 million equivalent, repayable in 15 years, including five years of
grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
November 30, 1993.



-43-                              Annx A
URUGUAY
NATL RESOURCE MANAM= AN3D 009GA1 IO
l}EVELOPff ,PRQJE
A. GENERALBCfiQ
The Need for IhAtio
1.   Although the mean anmnal precipitation is above 1,000 mm in most parts of Uruguay,
potenal monthly evapotranspiration exceeds mean monthly ainfall during at least the four
summer months (November to Febary) of the year. This deficit grows from North to
South and its impact is furdher increased by the irregularity of mean monthly rainfall
patterns. Dry periods are common, especially during the main crop growing swason betwe
October and April. Under these conditions rained agriculture with winter and/or early,
short season crops is possible, but supplemeny irrigation is reqired for production of rice,
sugarcane, and most summer crops, such as maize and horticulture species. Although fnrit
trees grow under natural rainifall, irrgation is requred to ensure productivity, timely
production and the quality demanded by local and foreign markets.
2.   Irrigaton demands vary with climatic conditions durng the growg season and
prevailing soils. Deep soils of good water holding capacity demand less freqent irgaim
an use rainl more efficiently. However, most cultivated land in Uruguay have low water
storage capacities due to shallow soils (soils with a sballow A horizon underlied by a heavy
texured layer with little or no root peneraon), or light texures, which futher increases the
benefits of spplementary irrigation.
I ad and Water iI
3.    Unrguay has a total land area of 15,6 million hecares of which about 86% are under
permanent pau, 4% under forest and only 1,3 million heres (8%) are presently under
cultivation. Non agricultural land amounts to only 2% land area. About 4 million hectares
are potentially suitable for cultivation, but need to rotate pasure widt crops to avoid soil
degradation which would limit cropping to 1,6 million hectares in any one year. Most of
this land is currently culuvated under rainfed conditions but could be iringated if water was
available.
4.    Uruguay's main watersheds are: (a) I-a  Merin, (b) Rio Negro, (c) Rio de la
Plata, (d) Rio Santa Lucia, (e) Oc6ano Aindco and (f) Rio Uruguay. Most of the
watersheds are covered with pasture, have gently sloping topographies, with slopes of less
than 15%, and soils of low water storage capacities and infiltration rates because of
impervious layers close to the soil  ufce or lght textr  over basaltic matial. These
conditions combined with high innsity raifl lead to high mn-off and consequey to
laIge fluctations of river water levels and river flows.



-44-                                 Annex A
5.    Surface water resources require storage facilities for efficient use. Large reservoirs
on the Uruguay river (Salto Grande) and the Rio Negro (Dr. G. Terra, Rinc6n de Baygorria
and Constituci6n) supply hydro-electric power plants. Publicly financed medium sized
storage facilities include the Canel6n Grande reservoir (23 million cubic meters) in the Santa
Lucia river basin, originally constructed for urban and industrial water supply but recently
freed for irrigation; India Muerta (128 million cubic meters), which irrigates about 10,000 ha
in the rice producing areas of the Department of Rocha; and Minas de Corrales (45 million
cubic meters) with a potentially irrigable area of 3,500 hetares. Additionally, there are
about six reservoirs financed by private producers (Casarone, Bueno y Galgena, Castellu y
Barrios) with a total storage capacity of 117 million cubic meters built specifically for
irrigation purposes.
Reservoir          Storage           Area with
Capacity          1igation
(miions n3)         potential
l _______________    _____________         (000's   ha)
Canel6n Grande             23.0                  1.1
India Muerta              128.0               10.0
Corrales                  45.0                 3.5
Luis Alver                 25.0                2.0
N. Casarone                17.0                 1.2
Bueno y Galgena            16.5                 1.2
Castelfi y Barrios         13.5                 1.0
Total                 245.0                18.9
1/ Amea identified so far as suitable for irrigation.
6.    An additonal number of small water catchments (earthfills) for irrigation have been
comstructed mainly under pnvate initiative. The exact number is not known but the
Directorate of Hydrology (DH) of MTOP registers 315 earthflls with a total reservoir
capacity of 782 million cubic meters.
7.    Irrigation in Uruguay is, and future expansions will be, mainly based on surface water
resources and new irrigation developments wiU require medium and small size storage
facilities to meet the increasing water demands during the main crop growing season. A
strict contol of water use would be required for an optimum use of the available surface
water resources and to avoid interference between different irrigation developments.
8.    Information on ground water is scarce. Hydrogeologic studies are limited to a 1:2
million hydrogeological cartography and the country lacks a systematic control of well
construction and ground water extraction. Although the use of groundwater for irrigation is



- 45-                                        AnnexA
of secondary importance on a nationwide basis, it could have a major local impact in case of
uncontrolled exploitation of the Raig6n and Salto aquifers, which are widely used for
irrigation of horticulture crops. These aquifers should be studied and controlled to avoid
interference of wells, contamination and salt water intrusion due to over-exploitation.
Extent of Irrigation
9.      The private sector has been the main driving force in irrigation development in
Uruguay. Public sector developments have been limited to small projects (i.e. Colonia
Espafia 750 ha, Tomas Berretta 360 ha, Aguas Blanas 125 ha) and to the India Muerta
project originally conceived for 12,000 hectares. Public sector projects generally suffer from
deferred maintenance and require rehabilitation. It is the Govermnent's intention to further
encourage private initiatives in irrigation development and to rehabilitate state owned
schemes and transfer use and administration of them to the beneficiaries.
10.    The irrigated area has grown from about 50,000 hectares in 1970 to almost 160,000
hectares in 1992. Rice is the major irrigated crop and represents 78.8% of the irrigated
area, followed by sugar cane with 6.1%, horticulture crops with 4%, top seeded and
cultivated pastures with 3.2%, citrus with 3.2%, and deciduous fruit trees with 3% . The
remaining 1.7%  refer to summer crops such as maize. The development of the irrigated area
since 1970 is shown in the table below.
kVrigat  Areas by Crop
crop                Irrigated Area                  I of Irrigated Area
(ha)                lasd an Total Area for Each crop
1970 v    1980 '    1991192         t9 190    180          1992
Total        52,277    94,746         158,504
Top seeded      ---      2,201          2,500        -          0.30          0.33
pasture
Cultivated      591      1.175        2500          0.08       0.20          0.51
pasture
Rice         35,691    70,000         124,904       100       100           100
Sugar Cane    8,398    10,155          9,600         95.4     100           100
other grain     638      1,810          3,000                   0.60          1.6
crops
Hro   lture   4,484     5,304          6,300         7.2       11.1          14.0
crop
Fruits        2,116     3,638      Deciduous         7.2       11.7   Deciduous
Trees  4,000                       Trees  33.0
Citrus 5,000                       Citrus  24.0
Vineyard        359       463            700          1.9       3.0           5.8
Source: Mission estimates based on official statistics and on data by the Rice
Producers, Association.
y       Total surface refers to crops, pastures, fruits and horticulture production
which are irrigable due to production conditions. Natural pasture is not
included.
2       Source: Censos Generales Agropecuarios 1970 and 1980.
Preliminary estimations of the Technical Staff for Program Preparation based in
consultancies and qualified sources of information as well as in Censo
Agropecuario por Muestreo 1986", MWAP.
i/      Including potatoes.



- 46i                              Annex A
Soil and Water Conservation
11. The prevailing irrigated soils have a tendency to lose soil structure and porosity under
intensive cultivation, which leads to insufficient root aeration, lower infiltration rates and soil
moisue storage capacities, increased run-off and erosion and surface crusting. The loss of
organic matter also affects soil fertility. Irrigation development should therefore consider
crop rotations, which include pastures and the incorporation of organic matter in the fonn of
green manure, to reduce the above-mentioned effects.
12.   About 30% of the Uruguayan crop and pasture land is affected by slight, moderate or
severe erosion, mainly due to overgrazing of natural pastures, intensive cultivation, use of
inadequate rotations and poor tillage practices. The destruction of watersheds leads to more
accentuated peak and low flows in the natural water courses, increased erosion, silting of
reservoirs and loss of pasture lands. The Ministry of Livestock and Agriculture recognized
the problem and started in 1970, an ambitious soil conservation program oriented towards
construction of terraces and introduction of credit for grain production subject to the use of
contour cultivation methods (strip cropping).
13.   Within ten years the program constructed terraces on almost 10,000 hectares, and
inroduced contour leveling and strip cropping on about 82,000 hectares. However, the
rsult was disappointing as the program did not address the main problem and did not include
the introduction of agronomic practices which would secure soil structure stability and avoid
deterioration of infiltration rates. Today, extended crop - pasure rotations for conservation
of the organic content and physical characteristics of the soils are widespread. Vertical and
minimum or zero tillae practices are being introduced in the western part of the country
along the Uruguay river. Intensive horticulture uses atimal manure and general cropping
green manures. Soil and water conservation practices in orchards include contour plantations
on wide terraces and reduced tillage by using herbicides on the rows and establishing of
sodded grasses in the inter-rows.
14.   Substantial volumes of water are lost to the Rio de la Plata, Laguna Merin and the
Atlantic Ocean during periods of heavy rainfall. Topographic conditions would allow for a
country-wide small and medium reservoir construction program to increase the overall water
use efficiency. However, an improvement in the efficiency of surface water conservation
and use requires an effective control of available water resources, water use and rights. DH
issues water use rights, mantains an inventory on surface water resources and issues annual
publications with statistical data. Information on riverflows are systematically collected and
immediately processed. However, DH has been unable to include all storage reservoirs and
pumping sations along the rivers in its program. The difficulty arses when the private
sector builds dams and/or pumping stations without the use of official credit from BROU,
who would request a priori approval of DH. In this case DH lacks information and as a
result, conflicts due to interference between irrigation infrastructure are becoming more
frquent.
15.   The National Directorate of Mining and Geology (DINAMIGE), located within the
Ministry of Industry and Energy, is responsible for ground water surveys and exploitation
and also carries out other geological studies and drilling activities. DINAMIGE should also
control the instllation of wells, monitor ground water exploitation, and forward the



-47-                                  Annx A
statistical data to DH for inclusion in its data bank. However, this is not the case and at
present there is no control on groundwater extraction and interference between wells,
contamination and salt water intusion constitute a real danger in the heavily exploited
Raig6n and Salto aquifers.
B. DESCRIPTION OF THE MAIN IIRIGATED AREAS
16.   At present irigation is mainly limited to the norhern, eastern and southern regions,
which are characterized and differentiated mainly by prevailing soils and water resources,
type of prodcers and producer organztions and existing infrastructre, rather than by
climatic conditions. The three regions account for 95% of the national irrigated area. In the
westem litoral and center regions, agriculture involves livestock production through extensive
grazing of natural pastures and mixed rainfed grain and livestock production. However, part
of these areas and specifically the western litoral has some potential for development of
irrigated rice and citrus plantations.
Irrated Area by Main Rgions and Crops
(ha)
Rice     suar    Citnr   Decidiamm   orticulture   Others   Total
___________            tane    ____      Fruits      crap
North       30,469    9,600     1,750                1,000      1,000   43,819
East        94,435                                              1,000   95,435
South                            250     4,000       5,300      1,700   11.250
Center                                                          2,000    2,000
vest                            3,000                           3,000    6,000
Litoral
Total      124,904    9,600     5.000    4,000       6,300      8_700  158,504
The Northern Region
17. The northern region includes part of the departments of Artigas, Salto, Tacuarembo
and Rivera and covers almost 25% of the national territory. The area has a mean annual
rainfall between 1100 mm and 1300 mm and mean monthly temperatres range from 13-C to
270C. Annual potential evapotranspiradon averages 1300 mm. Most of the area has shallow
clay soils over basalto and is suitable for extensive grazng only. Irrigation developed mainly
on the better soils along the Uruguay, Cuarem and Tacuarembo rivers. The total irrigated
area amounts to about 44,000 hecrs, with rice accounting for 70%, sugarcan  for 22%
and citrs and horticulture crops for dt  remaining area.
18.   The private sector developed the flat lands in the Tauarembo and Uruguay river
basins, where about 200 prducers farm some 30,000 hectares with rice. Small- and
medium-sized dams and pumping statons on river banks supply earth canal conveyance and
distribution networks and irrigate 9,000 and 21,000 hectares, respectively. Field irrigation
consists of the flooding of paddy fields. The rice area of the northern region is expected to
increase in the near futre because of availability of suitable land, well-textured and easy to
till soils, and an adequt  _opq_      *e constmcion of medium- and small-sized
tv ;St>,-t:.'   .;



- 48 -                             Annex A
reservoirs. An estimated additional 30,000 hectares of rice in rotation with pasture could be
developed.
19.   Ahnost 400 farmers and one state owned enterprise (ANCAP) cultivate about 9,600
ha of sugar cane on complex light to heavy textured soils along the Uruguay river.
Individual farms average about 20 ha in size. ANCAP manages 1400 ha of sugar cane for
alcohol production. Government plans call for the privatization of ANCAP, including its
industrial facilities. The main irrigation water source for this sugar growing area is the
Uruguay river. Water is pumped and distributed through earth canal networks and fields are
irrigated by gravity, in contour furrows. About 60% of the sugar cane area has collective
irrigation networks and important areas are forced to diversify their production as a result of
Government's open market policies (e.g. Colonia Espafia).
20.  Irrigated citrus plantations occupy about 1800 ha of mostly sandy soils in the
department of Salto. Citrus farmers require irrigation to meet the high quality demands of
the nternational markets. Most plantations are private developments which draw water from
small- and medium-sized reservoirs or through pumping from natural water courses and
irrigate with localized irrigation methods.
21.   Private farmers developed about 1,000 ha for production of pre-seasonal horticulture
crops for local markets near Salto and Beila Union. Exports of mainly berries to Buenos
Aires started on an experimental basis. Cultivation takes place in greenhouses or under low
cost frost protection systems (quinchos). Production units are normally small, with farmers
drawing their irrigation water from wells and irrigating by localized irrigation methods. The
only collective system is CALAGUA, located in Bella Union, which was originally designed
for production of 3,000 ha of sugar cane and is now diversifying towards field crops and
horticulture. Expansion of irrigation for citrus and horticulture production in the northern
regions will be based on development of water resources for irrigation of presently rainfed
farms, rather than bringing new land into cultivation.
The Eastern Re ion
22.   The eastern region comprises parts of the departments of Cerro Largo, Treinta y
Tres, Rocha and Lavalleja and covers about 12% of the national territory. It includes the
Laguna Merin and part of the Rio Negro and Atlantic Ocean basins. The area has an
average annual rainfall of between 1,000 mm and 1,200 mm and the mean annual potential
evapotranspiration ranges between 900 mm and 1,200 mm. Mean monthly temperatures vary
from 120C during the coldest and 24C during the hottest month. Private sector initiative
developed the region into the main rice growing area of the country where about 500 farmers
cultivate some 95,000 hectares of rice annually on the flat lands along the Yaguaron,
Tacuari, Olimar, and Cebollati rivers. An average producer farms about 200 ha of paddy.
Because of the type of soils, irrigated cropping is limited almost exclusively to rice
production and only about 1,000 ha are dedicated to maize, soybeans and irrigated pasture.
23.   Heavy and poorly drained gleysols with a high organic matter content dominate in the
southern part and lighter textured plansols and solods with a low organic content in the north
of the region. About 63,000 hectares are served by pumping stations located on non-
regulated rivers and lagoons and the remaining 32,000 hectares by small, and medium-sized



-49 -                              Annex A
dams and by the large India Muerta reservoir. The latter is a public sector project which
allows for annual cultivation of 10,000 ha of paddy in rotation with pastures. The public
sector also constructed drainage works to benefit some 100,000 hectares. Almost 40% of the
irrigation systems are collective, each serving between 5 to 20 producers.
24.   There is sufficient land available to incorporate an additional 30,000 hectares of rice
under a 2 year rice - 6 year pasture rotation. However, the availability of water at
reasonable distances from potential rice producing areas is a major constraint for new
developments. Construction of small- and medium-sized storage facilities and regulation of
the main rivers would be a possible solution. Rice production could also be increased by
shortening the prevailing 2 year rice - 6 year pasture rotation to a 2 year rice - 4 year pasture
rotation.
The Southern Region
25.   The southern region covers the departments of Colonia, San Jose, Canelones and
Montevideo. The average annual rainfall amounts to about 900 mm, potential
evapotranspiration varies from 1,000 mm to 1,200 mm per year and mean monthly
temperatures range between I1 C and 230C. Most soils are medium textured and of limited
depth, underlain by mostly silty material. The topography is smoothly undulated with under
4% slopes.
26.   For many years this area has supplied the Montevideo market with cereals,
vegetables, fruit, and milk products. However, about 100 years of intensive land use caused
degradation of physical soil properties and subsequent erosion of extensive areas in the
northeast of this region. The total irrigated' area amounts to 11,000 hectares including 5,300
ha of horticulture crops, 4,000 ha of orchards with deciduous fruit trees and 250 ha of citrus
plantations. Irrigated fruit and horticulure farms are generally small. About 2,000 fruit and
vegetable producers farm an average of 5 ha each under irrigation. The one exception is
"Mi Granja", a large private development, dedicated, among others, to production of apples
and peaches under drip irrigation.
27.   Private initiative accounts for most of the irrigation development in this region and
presently sophisticated localized irngatton methods are replacing more traditional furrow and
sprinlder irrigation methods. About 50% of the irrigated area uses ground water; for the
remaining area farmers collect water from small streams and waterways. During the last ten
years irrigation of deciduous orchards expanded significantly, mainly to increase productivity
and quality of fruit and enable farmers to compete in the local and international markets.
28.   Water shortages and lack of capital are the main constraints for further irrigation
development in this region. The main water source is the heavily exploited Raig6n aquifer.
There is a real danger that, in the absence of an effective control of ground water
exploitation, interference between individual wells may increase and ground water
contamination and salt water intrusion develop into a main constraint to agricultural
production. Expansion of irrigation with surface water must be approached on an overall
basis, as most holdings are too small to offer adequate sites for construction of a storage
facility or the latter would occupy a large proportion of the agricultural land.



-50 -                              Annex A
C. MAIN FEATURES OF IMRIGATED CROPS
29. Uruguay's area under rice increased from 31,000 to 125,000 hectares since 1971 in
response to relatively low cost irrigation water, availability of suitable land and a strong
demand in the inutnational markets. Similarly, rice exports grew from US $ 7 million to
US $ 114 million since 1971 and today represent between 5% and 10% of all agriculturad
exports. Most of the Urguayan rice exports (94%) are sent to Brazil.
30.   Uruguayan rice is known for its quality; about 95% of all plantings are of the long
grain Patna type. Yields average around 4.5 Ton. of paddy per hectare and depend mainly
on climatic conditions. Delays in land preparation due to rainfall and excessive water in the
fields often result in late summer flowering and reduction of yields due to lower temperatures
and less sunlight.
31. Rice is normally grown in rotation with pastures, generally two years of rice followed
by six years of pasure. In many areas this rotation, whose main purpose is to avoid weed
control with expensive herbicides and soil conservation, could be shortened to 2 years of rice
followed by 4 years of pasture. Most rice growers are entrepreneur sharecroppers who
operate under anal contracts and pay about 8 to 10 bags of paddy (50 kg/bag) for land and
20 bags for water. Land and water may have different owners and their joint cost represents
about 30% of the producers' gross income. Rice growers normally farm 150 ha each, and
move their machinery and workers on a yearly basis. Farming operations are fully
mechanized. Water consumption varies widely from 7,000 mn3 to 20,000 rn3 per hectare.
Irrigation efficiencies are low as rice farmers pay a fixed amount and are not charged by
volume of water actually used.
SugE
32. In response to Government's past subsidies aimed at reducing sugar imports, the area
under sugar cane grew from 7,000 ha to 9,000 ha and yields from 4,8 to 6,8 tons of sugar
per hectare over the last decade. However, with the present open market policies, these
subsidies will disappear and farmers will be forced to diversify their prduction. Irrigation
systems consist normally of a main pumping station on the Uruguay river bank, and a
distribution system of earth canals, secondary pumping ulits and compensation reservoirs,
and have to be adapted to the needs of future crop diversification.
33. Sugar cane is a monoculture with replanting every 4 to 5 years. Generally, early (NA
6344) and late (TUC 6818, TUC 6819, FAM 6318) varieties are combined in order to exend
the harvestng period. Contour furrow iigaton is widespread. Individual farmers with an
average of 23 ha produce under comact with the main sugar cane cooperatve CALNU,
which also supplies the ncessary inputs, machinery services and technical assistance. The
state owned ANCAP company manages 1400 ha mainly for alcohol production and, in
response to prevailing open market policies, plans to privatze its planation and industrial
facilities.



- 51-                              Annex A
citrus
34. The area of irrigated citrus increased substantially during the last deca-4e as a result of
subsectorial policies aimed at improving the competitive position of Uruguayan products in
the international market, and now reaches some 5,000 ha. External market demands for high
quality fruit as well as the need for qualitative and quantitative stability and timely delivery
have encouraged farmers to invest in sophisticated localized irrigation systems. Citrus export
rocketed from US$ 0,5 million in 1972 to US$ 22 million in 1992. Today about 25% of the
country's citrus plantations have irrigation systems and according to the National Citrus Plan
Commission (CHPC) 6,000 ha will be brought under irrigation in the short term, and an
additional 5,000 ha in the near future.
35. Climate and soil conditions in the north western litoral and in the south west of the
country permit the production of high quality fruit which competes without major problems
on the European off-season market. Main constraints are the risk of frost and water deficits.
During the 1988/89 drought period citrus production dropped significantly and led large
farmers and companies who represent about 35% of the area under citrus, to install irrigation
systems in about 85% of their plantations. Small farmers (10 to 20 ha) in the traditional
citrus growing area around Salto are interested in improving their orchards to become
competitive. These improvements would include planting of new genetic material, irrigation
and introduction of advanced soil and water management practices.
36.   The impact of irrigation on yield and quality has been recorded by high technology
farmers and research carried out by the university under contract with private producers.
The study concluded that in case of Valencia oranges, increases of 20% to 40% in yields and
35% to 65% in the proportion of exportable fruit can be attributed to irrigation.
Deciduous Fruit Trees and Grapes
37. Since 1980 deciduous fruit trees occupied about 12,000 hectares, with apples
accounting for 51%, peaches 18%, and pears 16 % of the total production. In 1980 less than
10% of these plantations were irrigated. Today the area under irrigation has increased to 33
percent. Montewideo was the traditional market for deciduous fruit. Its demands were fairly
constant and prices related directly to volumes available. Thus years of large supplies and
low prices were compensated by years of low supply and high prices and production without
irrigation remained a reasonably profitable undertaking.
38.   Present open market policies imply a more aggressive competition with supplies from
other countries and farmers are encouraged to invest in irrigation to increase their
productivity and quality and therefore their competitiveness on the local market. Yield
increases due to irrigation of about 40% in the case of apples and peaches have been
recorded. Exports, mainly to Brazil, are still limited. The following table sununarizes
exports of deciduous fruit during the last 5 years.



-52 -                                   Annex A
1987 _    |    198 ;      |   1989 !'V      1990 1    |    1991 V     l
Product
Kgs.    USS    Kgs.    USS    Kgs.   USS   Kos.   US$   Kgs.    USS
1.25    0.98     34    25.3          -         -      -       -      -
AppapLesS    172.5   76.9             -  615.2   217    8.3   3.1   647.8    315
Pears     1954.4   807.5    886   367.8   1822    840   2089   1036   968.3    470
Quince    842.9   184.3   1098   299.3   452    125    894   159   1462    262
Ptums      20      14    102.5    71.8    206    148      SO    35   80.5       69
Peaches     2.9    4.2      3.8    2.8    74    59   20.4   19.7   90.6         71
TOTAL      2994    1088    2124    767   3169   1389   3062   1253   3249   1187
I/ Figures represent thousands of units.
Source: JUNAGRA (MGAP), 1992.
39.   In general, export efforts will only become feasible if enough volumes are produced
and adequate packing, cool storage and marketing infasucture enter into operation. So far,
MI GRANJA has planted 577 ha under computerized drip irrigation, including 303 ha of
apple trees, 74 ha of pear trees, 42 ha of peach trees and other fruit trees, for export to
Europe and USA, and other cooperatives (e.g. JUMECAL and UFRUCA) plan to introduce
irrigation to improve their productivity and quality and compete in the intermational market.
40.   About 12,000 hectares of grapes are cultivated in Canelones and around Montevideo.
The total area has been decreasing over the last 20 years but farmers replaced the old
varieties by hybrids and officially certified virus free materials. These new plantations
doubled the yields of the old vineyards and thus production levels have been maintained and
price distortions avoided. In 1990 only about 6% of the area under grapes, mainly table
grapes in the Bella Union area, were equipped for irrigation. The production of table grapes
focusses on internaonal   rkets and production under high levels of cultivation and post
harvestig technology have led to promising export experiences.
41.   The main constraint to expansion of irrigation in deciduous orchards and vineyards is
the availability of water resources and limited investment capacity of the producers. Ground
water is scarce and the generally small production units do not offer adequate topographic
sites for individual storage facilities which in addition would occupy a significant part of the
farmers' land. Collective systems would improve the efficiency of land and water use, but
their design and organization are more complex and thus escape the farmers' implementation
capability.
Horticltue
42.   Horticultural products are mainly marketed locally. Major production areas extend
around Montevideo (Canelones and San Jose) and in the areas of Salto and Bella Union
which have a micro climate that is suitable for production of early tomatoes, sweet pepper
and melons ahead of any other part of the country. The latter producers apply modern and
sophisticated technologies and initiated exports of strawberries from Salto to Buenos Aires.
43.   The exisence of a vegetable packing, cold storage and freezing plant
(GREENFROZEN) finaced by IDB and presently under-utilized, would support any



- 53 -                                Annex A
expansion of horticultural production in areas under sugar cane, and facilitate future exports
(i.e. Colonia Espaila). During the 1988 -1991 period average annual exports amounted to
about US$ 72,000.
1988 1'       1989 1       1990        1
Product      Kss.    USS   Kgs.   U#   Kgs.  USS  Kos.  USM
Garlic                      98.9  98.9  24.6  47.9  31.7  24.8
onions       236.4   49.9   99   22.3  27.1  0.9    -        -
Strawberries   5.7   5.7     2    2.3   5.4   8.2   2.9 - 25.5
TOTAL        242.1   55.6   199.9  123.5  57.1   57  5.6  50.3
I/ Figures represent thousands of units.
Source: JUNAGRA (MOAP), 1992.
44. The total area under horticultural production decreased between 1980 and 1990 from
58,000 to 40,000 hectares probably due to the replacement of small low technology
producers by more efficient farmers with improved cropping technologies. Volumes supplied
to the local market remained fairly constant. About 14% of the area dedicated to horticultwe
is under irrigation (sprinkler and drip) which, as in the case of orchards, improves the
productivity of the farm and the quality of the produce. Similarly, domestic market
consants and absence of adequate marketing infrastructure for exports limit the expansion
and more rapid adoption of irrigation in the case of horticultural crops. Research and
technical assistance organizations (INIA, JUNAGRA), jointly with farners, initiated pilot
production and export programs for melons to Europe and sweet onions to USA.
Corn and Forage
45. Maize occupies some 74,000 hectares of which only 3,000 hectares are under
irrigation. Ylelds of up to 10 tons of grain per hectare have been obtained under efflcient
irgation and with good cultivation practices. However, irrigation of maize is only
financially attractive if investment costs are low (less than US$ 1,000 per hectare) and yields
reach top levels. Furrow irrigation or low cost sprinkler equipment may make irrigation
attractive, but extended conveyance systems, large pumping lifts and/or the use of self
propelled irrigation equipment are seldom financially justified. Intensive daity farms are
experimentng with irrigation of corn for silage which would improve their feed basis during
the winter month and increase milk production when the milk prices reach their highest level.
46.   Maize for both grain and silage are grown in rotation with pastures, the latter either
for graing, hay production or seed production. Such a diversified system reduces the fixed
cost and therefore improves the financial viability of irrigation. Irigation of pastures may
also be increased if farmers take advantage of irrigation systems designed for rice production
under rice - pastre rotations.



- 54 -                                         Anmex A
Main Irrigated Crops
197D8         139801        1|            1990          1992
Cerels t d Irdsntriel Crap 
RICe                                35.7          54.6          85.7          82.5         125.0
Sugar cane                          8.4            9.9          11.4          12.9          12.0
Naize                                              1.8           1.6           3.0           3.0
Other, including pasture               -             -           0.8           2.5           2.8
Suk-totat                        4".1           66.3          96.5         100.9         142.6
Uortifaltural Crops
Potatoes                             1.3           0.8           1.2           1.2           1.2
Tomatoes & sweet corn                1.0           1.1           1.2           1.5           1.4
Other                                2.2           3.4           2.9           3.5           3 6
Stb-total                          4.5           5.3           5.3           6.2           6.2
- ienm     Crqn
Citrus                                -              -           2.5           4.0           4.5
Deciduous fruit trees                2.1           3.6           3.3           4.5           5.0
vineyards                            0.4           0.5           0.7           1.0           1.0
R Sb-total                         2.5           4.1           6.5           9.5          10.5
TotSl                             51.1          15.7         110.3         116.6         159.5
SoUre: The Asciacfdn Cultivadores de Arroz provided data on areas under rice, the remaining figures
ore based on various sources of official statistics and data collected In the fieLd.



- 55 -                             Annex B
NATURLAL RESQU&C1SM-MAAGEN   AN MIG1
IC:RHENPT DEVELOP   PROM
A. ITBQPD1UCIION
1.    Soil degradadon has become an issue of main concern, as it affects the country's
development potential in the long run. Among the most severely affected areas showing
moderate to severe soil erosion problems, are those which have been devoted to intensive
agriculture in the crescent around Montvideo, including parts of the Sana Lucfa River Basin
(i.e., Canelones, Florida and San JosO). In these areas, particularly in Canelones, small-size
holdings have forced farmers to cultivate land intensively in the past vith little regard for soil
cnservation. Consequeny, despite the country's gende topography, it would seem that
inappropriate land-use and cultivation practices have been mainly responsible for losses of
fility and soil stucre. While the extent of soil degradation has not yet reached anming
proportions, the problems are likely to be aggravated if agtural diversification policies
are not accompanied by a sound natural resource management strategy.
2.    There is already a substatial volume of information on appropriate naual resources
managm ent practices available in the county. Most of it has not left the research stations
and has not been fully tested on a commercial scale. The proposed project would provide
tecnical assistance to proces available infomation on natural resources management with a
view towards developing technical packages suitable for the country's various agro-ecological
zones. The project would have an intrdisciplinary approach aimed at comple     and
nforcing already-available research data and relevant reach projects already in
progress.'
3.    The most significant land management problems are somewhat similar in various parts
of Uruguay. They rewire iputs from several conventional disciplines in the search for
soiutions (such as basic and applied aspects of: physical, chemial and biological branches of
soil science; plant sciences; micro and macro-econocs). Their resolution merits takig an
overall view of soil and water conservation issues, putting together a coherent program of
applied research to be underaken by vaious specialized bodies. Along these lines, it would
be importnt to ensure a multidisciplinary approach to technology generation and transfer,
avoiding problems caused by different agencies wodring indenely of each other and
without attempting to inter-mesh their programs towards a common purpose.
4.    Principles and practices of better land use and management, validated within the
micro-catciet (SAR para. 2.8) and demonstration farms (SAR para. 2.11), are expected
to have wider applications, not only with respect to non-rigated production per se but also
wih respect to catcbment areas upstream of irrigation schemes in other parts of the country.
1.    See Donuto de Trabjo 4, uvestgaci6 en Maneo deSuelos y Riego (on fie).



- 56 -                             Annex B
It is expected that improvements in land use and management in accordance with adequately-
validated recommendations will increase farm output and income. This will allow an
increase in living standards for nrual families in the micro-catchnment areas, while reversing
the present trend of soil degradation.
5.    Given the severity of the poential soil degradation problem and the economic
significance of the Santa Lucia River Basin, it has been decided to select that area as the
main focus for a pilot program in natural resources management in nicro-catchment areas.
6.   In the Santa Lucia Micro-catcbment Progran, the main "iterdisciplinary coordinator"
will be the farmer, by whom all agricultural research results will be ultimately tested and
validated. In the technical context of the National Honorary Commission for the
Development of the Santa Lucia River Basin (CHDCSL), four micro-catchunents, which are
considered to be representative of differng conditions within the larger catchiment of the
Santa Lucia River, have been selected. It is proposed to focus on their recuperation,
stabilization and development by identing, testing and applying appropriate
recommendations for their proper use and management, so that they may in time become
self-demonstrating areas. From these initial areas, famer-validated iovements will then
be ifradiated outward into urrounding areas and into similar situons in more dista
localities.
7.    Some 350 farmers within the four micro-catchment pilot areas will benefit from the
program. The project would provide financial resources in the form of a grant to encourage
farmers to undertake on-farm investments designed to reduce soil degradation and erosion.
The selected areas are representative of the various farming and socio-economic conditions
prevailing in the region and thus have a pontal demonstration effect. The strategy to be
adopted would involve the organization of farmers in the selected miro-cachments within
the Santa Lucia basin, who would additionally receive taining and technical aistan  for
the promotion of appropriate technological packages designed to conserve natural resources
and sustain agricultural production.
8.    The conclusions expected to be reached from the implementation of these pilot
schemes, combined with the results from the demonstration farms (SAR para. 2.11) will
provide reliable and representative data which could be extrapolated to various other areas in
need of improved natural resources management, within and outside the Santa Lucia River
Basin. In tun, this experience will help the Govemnment to design and implement an
environmentally sound sector development strategy.



- 57 -                             Annex B
B. THE NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT IN SELECTED MICRO-
CATCHMENTS IN THE SANTA LUCIA RIVER BASIN
General Background on Santa Lucia
Ihvsical Characteristics
9.    Location. The Santa Lucia catchmnent as a whole lies between 55000'W and 57010'W,
33040'S and 3450'S, and covers 13.500 kin2. The four micro-catchment areas tha have
been identified witiin this basin as representative of the natural resources management issues
facing the whole River Basin are Cafiada de los Alamos, Arroyo la Feliciana, Arroyo Tala,
and Canel6n Grande.
10.   Climate. The climate of the Santa Lucia region is defined as humid temperate, with
mean annual rainfall of 1,I00mm irregularly distributed throughout the year. February and
September are the wettest months, both recording between 9% and 11% of total amnual
rainfall. April and December are the driest months, with generally less than 6% of rainfall
in each. The mean temperature of the coldest month is 1 C and of the hottest month 230C.
Potential evapotranspiration is around 860mm per year. In the northeast of the catchment it
is reported that the water deficit may reach 50-60mm in summer, while having an excess of
about 200mm in spring.
II. Runoff. Variations in streamflow are indicated by those reported for the main Santa
Lucia River - from 2.700 m3/sec to 5m3/sec, with a mean of 28m3/sec. By extrapolation of
data from gauging stations on the Rio Santa Lucia, Rio Santa Lucia Chico, Rio San Jos6 and
Arroyo Casupa, estimates have been made of maximnum rates of runoff across the whole
catchment, which range from 8.70-15.59 liters/sec/km2. Graphing of recorded streamfow
information indicates in very general terms that the smaller the catchment, the higher the
specific runoff.
12.   Estimates of runoff made at gauging stations in the Santa Lucia catchment indicate
that mean runoff from different parts of the catchment represents between 274 and 491mms.
- or up to almost 1/3rd. - of annual rainfall. Mean annual rainfall is not a good direct
indicator of quantities of soil moisture for crop growth, since allowance must be made both
for the fact of the mean being skewed by a few, very wet years, and for the effects of runoff
in diminishing potential soil moisture.
13. Topo2raphy. Most of the micro-catchments lie at altitudes below 130 meters above
sea level and have a gently undulating topography, with natural slopes very seldom in excess
of 8%. Micro-relief may locally be steeper due to gullying or to tillage practices which, not
following the contour, may have produced accentuated, artificial micro-fratures up- and
down-slope. Stream gradients are generally less than the lateral slopes, though may be
steeper in the furthermost reaches of the micro-catchments within each micro-cachment.



- 58-                              Annex B
14.   Soils. In the Santa Lucia catchment as a whole, soils have formed principally from
sediments. They are generally leached with varying severity of imperfect internal drainage.
They include Gleysols, Planosols, Solonetzes, Arenosols, in lower positions. Brunosols and
Vertisols, blackish in color and of silty clay loam texture, occupy upper positions. On side-
slopes, soils are Brunisols which are greyer and more leached. The upper soils are of good
fertility, with high nutrient-retention capacity, and pH neutral to moderately acid. Some
areas have phosphate deficiencies, and low content of organic matter.
Production Suport &Srvices
15.   There are some extension services currently provided by Government. Also, certain
technical advice may be obtained through membership of cooperatives or comparable
organizaons which may be product-focussed or providing overall agricultural service in a
particular geographical area.
16. Animal improvement services are offered by the Secretariado Uruguayo de la Lana,
the Asociaci6n Rural del Uruguay and other private institutions. Milk producers are
represented by the Asociaci6n Nacional de Productores de Leche. Vegetable, fruit and grape
producers associate in the Confederacion Granjera. There are several single-product small
associations. Research services are provided by the Instituto Nacional de Investigacion
Agropecuaria (INIA). The University's Agronomy Faculty in Montevideo is also prominent
in agricultural research of relevance to the Santa Lucia region.
M - d e
17.   Grapes of good quality for wine production are bought and processed by "bodegas"
handiing more than 250,000 liters/yr. About 15% of fiuits and vegetables are consumed on
farms; about 16% are sold to retailers or direct to consumers; the remaining 69% are
generaPy sold to wholesalers. Prices of fruit and vegetables are generally determined by the
transactions at the Mercado Modelo in Montevideo. Produce of excellent quality may be
sold under contract to supermarkets within the country, or to exporters through packing
companies.
18.  In the Santa Lucia area many farmers sell produce through intermediaries, who either
buy outright or undertake to sell the produce on behalf of the seller. Such a system is most
prevalent where farmers may not have means of transport to take their own produce to
markets, or where they are far or isolated from the main markets in Montevideo.
19.   Fmit and vegetable products for industializaon are either produced by the
processors themselves, or bought through contracts with farmers' groups, cooperatives and
individual growers, in most cases using the specialized varieties, dates of planting and
harvest, and indices of maturity which are specified by the processors. This specialized
production revolves chiefly around tomatoes, asparagus, peppers and oregano.
20.   Most of the milk production in the Santa Laia River Basin is sold to the national
dairy cooperative (CONAPROLE). Some of the milk is sold as "quota" milk at a bigher
price fixed by Govemment, and the rest of it as milk for iialiation at a lower price,
determined by market forces. Milk derivatives account for 43% of aU marketed milk.



- 59 -                             Annex B
Home-made cheeses account for 98% of milk processed on the farm. For lack of
standardization of quality and of labelling, market prices for such products are relatively low
when sold directly to consumers in local markets such as San Jose; those of better quality
may command higher prices from intermediaries for selling-on in other markets.
Socio-economic Aspects
21.  Information about the situation in the micro-catchments could only be inferred from
data for the Sector Census. By special arrangement, detailed infonmation about the four
individual catchment areas alone was extracted from the 1990 Censo Agropecuario.
However, as tihe complete results of the census have not yet been published, it is not yet
(March 1993) possible to make direct comparisons between 1980 and 1990 even at the level
of the larger Sector Census.
22.   Population. If national trends measured between 1961 and 1980 continue, and
assuming the same trends are representative of each of the four micro-catchbmt pilot areas,
then there may have been a reduction in the mumber of farm families, and a small increase in
the ratio of laborers to farmers. With the decrease in rural population, a larger proportion of
those leaving the farm were female. By the end of 1980, 58.1 % of the nation's agricultural
population was male, and 41.8% female.
23.   Education. Taking as a sample Caiiada de los Alamos, in 1990, 70% of farmers and
60% of their spouses had some primary education, 10% and 30% had some secondary
education, and 5% and 0%, respectively, had some university education. Levels of school
attendance by children were also considered to be relatively good. These levels are in fact
higher than those found in Canelones Department in 1980.
Farm Size and Land Tenur
24. At the time of the Census, in Sector Census 2021 - within which Cafnada de los
Alamos is located - 76.8% of farms were less than 50 ha. In the micro-catchment area of
the Santa Lucia River Basin in 1990, 86.6% of farms were less than 50 ha, and occupied
48.7% of the micro-catchment area. Conversely, farms over 100 ha in size comprised
13.3% of all farms, but occupied 51.3% of this area.
25.  In terms of numbers of farms, more than half occupy only 13% of the total area.
Conversely, over 60% of the area is divided between only 13% of the number of farms.
While more than 50% of farmers are owners, more than 50% of the land is held under a
"combination" form of ownership.
Land Use Patern
26.   About 40% of the Santa Lucia River Basin is under perennial vegetation with little or
no disturbance by tillage; about 9.2% is under fruits and vines; 30.3% is under annual crop
production; 17.3% is under planted pasture (which is of only short - 2 to 3 years' - duration
related to weed invasion), and 2.6% is considered non-productive.



- 60 -                             Annex B
27. Of perennial crops, 84% are vines and 16% fruits. Of tilled crops, 53% are annual
forages, 26% vegetables, 10% cereals and 11% industrial crops. Forests cover 35%S of the
area, and 65% is under natural vegetation. Of permanent pastures, 65% is natural pasture,
32% planted pasture, and 3% improved natural pasture.
28.   Wheat is the most widespread crop in the micro-catchment area, but mainly on farms
of more than 100 ha. Maize is generally confined to holdings of less than 50 ha. Potatoes
are grown on all sizes of farms. Cucumbers are grown only on larger farms, while other
horticultural crops (e.g., sweet potatoes, sweet corn, onions, sweet peppers and garlic) are
grown on farms less than 50 ha. Forage species are primarily oats, maize (for grazing and
silage) and grain sorghum. Permanent crops are table grapes, peaches, "membrillos",
apples, cherries and pears; all these are produced on farms less th  50 ha in size.
Eucalyptus spp. are preferred for forestry plantings.
29.   Three distinct groups of farmers occupy the micro-catchment area. The most
nmerous are grape-growers, cultivating a variety of low yielding and moderate quality
varieties. The second most numerous group is more heterogeneous, producing fruits and
vegetables. A range of crops are produced, predomnantly peaches, apples, membrillo, pear,
potatoes, cucumber, onions and garlic. There is some specialization in the last two crops.
The third group are dairy farmers.
30.   Characterization of farm systems is presented as a series of farm models derived from
individual-farm data in the micro-catchment area, collected during the 1990 census and
specially extracted for the project by the Direcci6n de Investigaciones Agropeuarias (DIEA
of MGAP). These data were updated and expanded with a survey in 1992 of 25% of
frmers in the micro-catchments (see Annex C). The accuracy of the data has been checked
with advisers from CONAPROLE and JUNAGRA.
31.   These updated models (1992) cover the following types of farm:
(a)   fruit and vegetables on a farm of 12.8 ha, representing 18.3% of producers
and 11% of the area;
(b)   grapes on a farm of 7.6 ha, representing 38.3% of producers and 13.8% of
area; and
(c)   milk production on a farm of 60 ha (with 55 head of cattle) representing
20.0% of producers.
32.   Models of the same farms have been constructed retrospectively for year 1980, so as
to provide some idea of the evolution which may have occurred in the period 1980-1992,
though it is recognized that data for 1992 are much more accurate than those for 1980 (taken
from grosser Sector Census units). The data, assumptions and methodology employed in
conswtctig the models - both to typify past trends and to make future projections - are
provided in earlier reports produced by CHDCSL (CHDCSL, Dec. 1990).



-61 -                              Annex B
33.   Statistical data from the survey indicate that:
(a)   In terms of soil conservation practices, only 5% of farmers questioned said
they cultivated on the contour and 5% turned ploughed soil upsiope;
(b)   15% of those with animals practice continuous grazing, implying that 85%
operate types of intermittent/rotational grazing; 45% do not "clean" their
pastures by burning; and
(c)   36% of the area received some fertilizer in 1990, the majority of it applied on
land under 'combination" type of tenure. Almost no farmers use organic
manures. "Occupants" of land did not use any fertilizer. Where fertilizer was
applied, the amount per ha varied between 30.2 and 72.7 kg./ha, the larger
amount being applied on farms over 100 ha.
Irrgation and Drainage
34.   5% of farmers surveyed have small dams capable of water storage, while 20% have
small structures to trap runoff for water supplies for animals.
35.   There are apparently 26 water-pumps capable of pumping 30,000 liters/hour, and 2
pumps with capacity between 30,000 and 100,000 I/hr., in the catchment.
36.   Apparently there are no agricultural drainage systems in the micro-catchment.
Farmao
37.   Only 70% of farmers devoted fill time to their farms, the remainder having off-fam
occupations in addition to farm work. On the other hand, only 30% of wives worked full
time on the farms, as did sons and daughters. Farm family members provided 75% of all
farm labor. Hired labor was entirely male, the majority over 35 years of age. The
implications are that off-farm income is important for maintaining a sufficient standard of
living by many farm families in the catchment.
Farm Income
38.   The farm models indicate that in 1990 farm incomes were low: on a 9.3 ha
grape/root-crop farm, using traditional technologies, the net margin was estimated at
US$3,166 per year, or US$341.5 per ha; on a 12.8 ha fruit/vegetable farm the net margin
was estimated at US$4,011, or US$313.3 per ha; on a 7.6 ha vine farm, the figures are
US$720 or US$94.7 per ha; and for a 60 ha dairy farm the figures are US$4,044, or US$67
per ha.
Farlmrs' Involvement in Organizations
39.  It is reported that in the micro-catchment there has been an increase in participation
between 1990 and 1992 in SALUCAL, the local agricultural cooperative concerned with
grapes and horticuluWal production. In 1992, it appears that 30% of farmers belong to some



- 62 -                             Annex B
producer group - 80% of these belong to CONAPROLE, the national dairy cooperative.
Some 55% apparently do not belong to any farmers' organization, and only 5% belong to
Savings and Credit cooperatives.
40.   Of those not yet belonging, 35% were interested in belonging to a producers'
cooperative, 10% to a general agricultural cooperative and 10% to farmers groups. 40% of
farmers said they wanted advice and technical assistance, 10% wanted credit, and 45% were
uncertain what type of service they would like.
C. MAIN PROBLEMS AND LIMITATIO_NS
Low Net Farm Income
41.   One of the key problems affecting vegetable, fruit and milk producers within the
Santa Lucia River Basin is their need for increased productivity and income, while improving
and stabilizing the ongoing water and soil degradation process. A second issue related to
farm income is the horticulture and fiuit producers' need for improved quality of their
produce in accordance with export market demands. In addition, production and income
stability for milk producers in particular are closely tied to their ability to improve
productivity of their currently degraded winter pastures. Financial incentives would have to
be introduced if natural resource management/conservation practices are to be implemented
and preserved on a long-term basis.
Natural Resource Degradation
42.   Under the soil, climate and land management conditions which characterize the area
of micro-catchments within the Santa Lucia River Basin, a key technical problem is believed
to be that of poor soil structure of the A horizon. This physical constraint is probably caused
by compaction derived from excessive grazing and use of heavy equipment under wet
conditions. Compaction of the surface few mms. of soil alone has been worsened by very
intense rainfall impact on uncovered and tilled soils.
43.   Compaction affects (a) the quality of the soil as a rooting environment (with particular
respect to aeration, to adequate storage and availability of soil moisture during rainless
periods, and to retention and release of plant nutrients); and (b) runoff and consequent soil
erosion (with particular respect to loss of potential soil moiste, to removal of soil
materials, to quality of water in streams and rivers, and to severity of floods downstm).
Excessive runoff and soil loss by erosion have been consequences of structural degradation
rather than a cause of it.
44.   A key problem in the general areas represented by the micro-catchments is how to
intensify production and avoid soil compaction derived from heavy machinery utilization.



- 63 -                             Annex B
D. PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY
45.   Continuing degradation of soil resources will lead simultously to increasing costs
and to declining yields. On smaller and less efficient farms, incomes may decline to such
low levels that the farms are sold or abandoned, having litfle residual productive value.
46.   One of the program's cbjectives is to develop a set of recommendations leading to
appropriate management and conservation of land resources, thus generating sustainable
improved standards of living of rural families in the Santa Lucia catchment.
47.   The proposed program would have three main characteristics:
(a)   Take a multi-disciplinary approach to farm management. This would involve
recommendations for improving net farm income while making the neessary
provisions for naural resource conservation;
(b)   Collaborate with the farmers in an iterative process of validation and
refnement of the technical recommendations being made; and
(c) Impiiove farm-families' understanding of processes involved in sustanable use
of the natural resource base.
The Four Micro-catchments as Agppled Research Areas
48.  It is envisaged that the micro-catchments selected within the Santa Lucia River Basin
will initially in fact be effective Applied Research areas, rather than pure demonstation
areas, since there are as yet many uncertaintes about how farmers are going to react to the
recommendations which the project staff may make. Some suggested improvements are new
and untested: e.g. re-aligmnent of fences to re-divide farms into areas which are
homogeneous with respect to land use capability. Other techniques, such as contoured grass
strips, while being known to be technically effective, may not be acceptable in economic
terms either as a fodder resource by farmers with animals or as a soil and water conservation
technique by those without animals. Yet again, other soil conservation practices have been
recommended in Uruguay in the past but with very limited adoption: e.g. contour banks, or
using land strictly according to its capability.
Farmers as Partners in Testin and Validation
49. In such a process of validation it is hoped that the fanrers in the micro-catchments
may be seen as equal partners with the specialists and advisory staff in searching for, tesig
and validating improved practices which will have sustainable benefits, rather than merely as
"target groups" to which recommendations will be directd. In this context, the importance
of developing two-way communication and feedback, in both directions, among farmers,
advisers and reserhers cannot be too strongly emphasized. The proposed project should
give careful consideraton to the best means of achieving this dynamic interaction.



- 64 -                              Annex B
Actions Proposed
50. Grape-growers. Quality improvenment is proposed to be achieved by the partial and
gradual replacement of current varieties with those of better wine-making characteristics,
suitable for processing and sale at better prices by commercial enterprises. It is also
suggested to introduce high-quality varieties of tradable grapes for sale on both the local and
the export markets. Irrigation is proposed for this enterprise.
51.   Growers of fruits and vegetables. Greater specialization in fruit production is
proposed. Emphasis will be placed on peaches, which have good market prospects in the
region, and for which both the technology and production costs are suitable for those not yet
very familiar with fruit production. It is proposed that 50% of the planted area should go
under localized irrigation. Growing of vegetables would be maintained, with increasing
emphasis on onions and garlic, much of it under sprinkler irrigation.
52.   Small-farm milk producers. It is proposed - for those with more than 30 ha of land -
that higher stocl ng rates and production per animal should be sachieved by increasing the
proportions of planted pasture and annual forage, and planting two ha of maize with furrow
irrigation. Better use of long-term pastures with summer crops and short-term planted
pasures will be encouraged. Maize, in substitution for sorghum, would be irrigated to add
to the available fodder. Milk production from less than 30 ha of land is considered
uneconomic, and present producers on these sub-economic farms will be encouraged to go
into improved production of fruits and vegetables.
53.   LaMe-farm milk oroducers. To allow increases in stocking rate and higher
production per animal, it is proposed that an increased proportion of the extensive areas of
natural grazing should be brought into rotations of planted pastures with winter crops and
maize. The latter would be produced under irrigation.
54.   Farm planning. It will be recommended to producers of crops and pastures, either
separately or in combination, that the most efficient use of their farms' soil resources can be
achieved by planning and managing the farms' uses according to a priori assessments of land
capability and suitability for proposed enterprises.
55.  Improved management practices. Complementing current conventional production
practices, improvements and additions would be recommended which improve the
conservation-effectiveness of current practices, as well as providing more specialized
conservation measures to act as "back-ups" against irregular climatic events - particularly
rainstorms - of excessive intensities.
56.  Imroved management practices. Grass strips would be recommended between rows
of perennial fruits for soil surface protection and for maintenance of water infiltration
capacity under rainfall and irrigation via soil structure maintenance and improvement.
Contour-planting would be recommended for both new plantings and the associated inter-row
grass strips. With incorporation of legumes in the mixtures (where appropriate) free addition
of nitrogen would improve growth of both the crop and the grass strips.



- 65 -                              Annex B
57.   Contoured grass strips would also be recommended where appropriate on cropping
land on all farm types, where according to width and spacing would act solely as sediment-
filters and runoff-infiltration strips or additionally as contoured segments of strip-crop
rotations.
58.   Regular additions of organic materials and associated plant nutrients would be
recommended via ploughing-in of green-manure/cover crops once every four years on farms
with vines, fruits and/or vegetables. Soil recuperation in systems for producing annual fruits
and vegetables will be emphasized with the use of 2-year breaks under alfalfa and possibly
other species.
59.   For both recuperation and maintenance of soil structure, and addition of recycled
nutrient materials, application to fields and orchards of organic manures (e.g., cattle dung
and slurry, other organic materials and composts), will be recommended for all production
systems.
60. The maintenance of soil structure will be emphasized with the formal rotation of
crops and planted pastures. For degraded pastures the cropping break permits soil loosening
and weed control, while for degraded cropped soils the pasture break, if sufficiently long and
effective, restores collapsed soil structure.
61.  In addition to recommendations for contour-tillage and contour-pltnting of both annual
and perennial crops on the contour, recommendations (preferably within the context of such
plans) would include also: the layouts of soil- and water conserving measures such as
contoured grass strips (already mentioned), contoured conservation banks ("terraces"), bench-
terraces, and properly managed grassed waterways for safe disposal of runoff. The plans
would provide recommendations for conservation-effective alignment of access routes,
measures for gully control, and for water conservation ponds and, at communal level, of
dams. Recommendations for improvements in fencing would relate to both delineation of
homogeneous areas for inclusion or exclusion of grazing animals and to protection of dam
walls and areas immediately upstream of tanks and dams to minimize degradation of water
quality. The associated provision of drinking points for cattle at predetermined sites
throughout the pastures would assist in pasture management and the minimization of
damaging concentrations of cattle.
62.  In collaboration with research and experienced farmers, recommendations will be
provided on systems of reduced tillage methods with a view to both reduction of costs,
reduction of damage to soil structure, maintenance of organic matter levels, and maintenance
of suitable porosity for infiltration of water from rain and irrigation.



- 67 -                            Annex C
MRUGMAY
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT AND IRRIGATION
DEVLOPMET PRCT
DEMONSTRATION FARMS
1    Program Objective
(a)  to introduce soil management and conservation technological packages, adapted
to the five main agro-ecological regions of the country;
(b)  to select production systems that are economically feasible and environmentally
sound;
(c)  to recover lost fertility in the majority of soils under agricultural use;
(d)   to improve the efficiency of tilling in relation to soil characteristics and to
control/eliminate weeds that affect artificial pastures; and
(e)   to apply and develop production systems that improve the productive level of
degraded soils.
2.    Selection Criteria of Action Zones. The main criteria would be soil types,
vegetative, and topographic differences identified in the Soil Survey Chart of Uruguay. The
different zones in the country have their own characteristics regarding soils, vegetation and
climate which would determine the optimal management strategy adapted to such
characteristics. The selection criteria would also take into consideration the need to have
duly represented those areas of traditional intensive agricultural use, affected by different
degrees of erosion.
DiaMosis of Selected Areas Situation
3.    Natural Resources. Consistent with the general criteria for area selection, four units
of soils representing the different edaphologic conditions of the country have been identified.
The selected soil units are CHAPICUY, YOUNG, CANADA NIETO and IIBERTAD. The
total area of the selected units represents 6.36% of the national territory (1,119,360 ha),
representing 29.5% of the country when referred to the total potential agricultural land
(excluding rice planting areas). Based on the information contained in Uruguay's Soil
Classification Map, these are the main characteristics of the zones where the demonstration
farms will be:
(a)   Chapieny Unit: The soils within this unit, covering an area of 300,000 ha
(1.7% of the country), mainly cover the department of Paysandd. These are



- 68 -                             Annex C
soils formed over sandy clay and sandy sediments from cretaceous formations.
The landscape consists of strong and soft hills with sedimentary knolls and
associated bluffs. Vegetable cover is thick, with a predominance of summer
species and parks of thorn and carob trees in the plains associated with
drainage works.
Prevailing soils: Typical Brnmosoles Subeiutricos (litvicos) ArFr/Ar and Typical
Argisoles Subeiliticos Ocricos Ar.
Soil aptitude: winter and summer crops.
Main limitations are: (a) hydric erosion risk; (b) degradation of physical
properties, and prior erosion; and (c) fertility losses.
(b)   Young Unit: The soils of this unit, over an area of approximately 242,000 ha
(1.38% of the country), cover the departments of Paysandd and Rio Negro.
These are soils developed over medium texture quaternary sediments covering
the Fray Bentos Formation. The surface is characterized by soft and strong
hills. Vegetation consists of predominandy winter pasture with thick cover.
Prevailing soils: 7ypical Brwwsoles Eutricos Francos (ArAc).
Soil aptitude: winter and summer crops.
Main limitations are: (a) erosion risk; and (b) fertility losses.
(c)   Caflada Nieto Unit: Covering an area of about 131,800 ha (0.75% of the
country) this soil unit appears in the departments of Soriano and Colonia.
Soils are developed on sandy clay sediments related to the Fray Bentos
Formation, and limy clay sediments of the Libertad Formation. The surface
consists of hiUls and knolls with mixed pasture vegetation associated to park
forests. Prevailing soils are moderately deep typical Brunosoles SubOutricos
ArFr.
Soil aptitude: winter and summer crops.
Limitations: (a) erosion risk; and (b) fertility losses.
(d)   Libertad Unit: (Ombdes de Lavalle and Tarariras Regions). This unit is
found in the departments of Soriano, Colonia and San Jos6. The unit has an
area of 118,700 ha (0.67% of the country). Soils are developed over Libertad
Formation sediments. Surface consists of soft hills with large valleys and
associated high plains. Vegetation is winter/summer pasture with thick cover.
Prevailing soils are Brunosoles Eutricos/typical SuNutricos/L(*vicos LILAc.
Soil aptitude and limitations: These are soils with a high productive potential,
very apt for winter and summer crops. Their main limitation is excess
humidity in winter due to drainage problems associated with heavy textures.



- 69 -                              Annex C
Phsent Use of the Land
4.    The most important characteristic affecting land use in Uruguay is the reduction of
condmtous agriculture, replaced by agricultural crops which started the introduction of
pasture rotation. Therefore, land use is more directed towards livestock and dairy
production, with a reduction of the area devoted to winter and summer crops. As to the
Southern units, such as Libertad, there is an increase in production of annual fodder and
pasur  associated with milk production.
Identifcati  of Problems and their Possible Causes
5.    The prncipal problems affecting the physical properties and fertility of soils in the
selected areas are the following:
(a)   soil erosion evidenced by lost horizons and the formation of gullies, registered
at national level specially in the areas of more intensive agricultural use;
(b)   soil degradation with negative effects on structure, organic matter and fertility,
worsened by problems of compactness and crusting; this is a complex process
with an interrelationship of properties which change the soil hydric behavior
and its subsequent management; and
(c)   in many cases the degradation and erosion problem is accompanied by weed
invasion hard to control (Bermuda grass, thistles, etc.) which generally begin
to thrive when soil productivity decreases, making it more difficult yet to get
these areas back on production.
6.    According to diagnostic studies carried out in different areas of the country, the main
causes for the stated phenomena are:
(a)   unawareness on the part of the producer that erosion may cause serious
deterioration to the use and potential productvity of agricultural land under
production. In general, when the producer discovers the damage there is little
he can do to reverse the situation;
(b)   exhaustive use of the soil, without restoring or preventing the drop in
productive potential;
(c)   the sharecropper system has had a great incidence in soil degradation, although
presently the portion of agriculture under this system has decreased; besides,
today leaseholders are more controlled by agricultural credit supervision; and
(d)   in general, it was concluded that a high proportion of agricultural producers
have modernized their equipment and improved their technological level in
pest control and phytosanitation, as well as their use of modern varieties. In
spite of this, farmers in general have not yet advanced in adopting sound soil
management pracdces aiming at improving productivity within a framework to
preserve its properties and characteristics in the long term.



-70 -                               Annex C
nuagement practices aiming at improving productivity within a framework to
preserve its properties and characteristics in the long term.
7.    During the 1960's, efforts were made to promote the adoption of conservation
techniques inspired by the American systems of broad-base terraces. However, most of the
terraces built were abandoned, and erosion problems were worsened by the lack of
mnaintenance.
8.    CIAAB experiences in rotation trials and production systems replicated by La
Estanzuela in different areas of the country, provided the groundwork to incorporate local
experiences and rotation trials with improved pastures. Likewise, research trials in run-off
plots carried out in Aguas Blancas (D.S.y A.) and La Estanzuela (CIAAB), showed the
effects of appropriate tilling and rotation systems in reducing soil losses.
9.    Efforts have been made to include conservation measures in investment plans to be
financed with credit lines from BROU. These promoted vertical tilling tools, and the
dissemination of reduced tilling systems and some experiences with direct sowing carried out
by La Estanzuela and private organizations such as AUSID. Although these soil
conservation practices and methods have been introduced at different levels, in general they
have been characterized by the lack of sufficient applied research support.
Analysis and Conclusions of Succsses and Failures
10. It is evident that technology transfer programs applied in the past fell short of
expectations. It is also a reality that there has been a lack of continuity on the part of the
Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Fishery in focusing on natural resource conservation
as the mainseam of sustainable agricultural growth. According to the successful experience
of leading producers in different areas of the country, a group of practices may be defined
whose success in erosion control has been proven in the field. These practices must be
supervised and adapted to the particular situation by the consulting agriculturist. These
practices include:
(a)   contour tilling;
(b) spacious pasture-covered drainage;
(c)   elimination of disk plows and disk harrows;
(d) hierarchization of vertical tilling in accordance with soil characteristics;
(e)   reduction of tilling; and
(f)   planned crop and pasture rotations.



-71-                                                  Amex C
Seleion and Disgosis of Demonstration Farms
11.      Selection criteria.  Selection criteria for each area must adjust to the following
general parameters:
Farm Location and Characteristics
UNrr/DEMr.                       SOULS                     TYPE OF FARM                      PROBLEMS
Chaiuy (Ch)                   ypiOca Brnisoes Sublfricos   Agriculte-Livestock             Serious ersion problems and
Pysan  Dept.                 ArIFr/Ar                       emphasizing cattle production  degradation of these soils,
which are easily erosionable
ypicl Argisoles  sWunicos                                     but easy to manage. The need
to resort to tong otations was
raised
Young (Yg)                   Typical Banosoles Euineos Fr   Agriculture-Livestock          Soil erosion and degradation
Rfo Negro Dept                                              emphasizing gamin production   problems due to intensive use
and inadequate management
Cabada Niero (CWN)           Typical BOnosoles Sub&Vios   Agriculture-Livestock            Tbis is an intensively
Soriano Dept.                ArFr                           emphasizhn grain production    agricultua area, specially in
the past, with erosion and
degradation problems due to
the added susceptibility of these
soils. Medium rotations are
planned for this area.
Liberdad (L)                 Brwzosoles Ewricostl3pical     Agricultral area par           Problems due fundameny to
Colonia Dept.               S&u#oslvicos                    excellence, with intensive     management and soil
fodder producdon for wool      degmdadon. Short rotions
Region : Ombties             LILac                          production (muton)             ae planned.
de Lavalle                  __
Region 1: Taauiras           Ditto                          Agriculture oriented to daity   Soil degradation and erosion
production and shot life       problems, soil management in
pasures                        critical periods of excess
humidity. Compactness and
lack of stcure.
Organization and Operation of Demonstration Farns
S1ci op                . The selection of demonstration farms will be carried out through
public bidding among interested parties. A selection committee will be established, made up
by DGRNR and the Projects Executing Unit (UEP). The farm selection criteria and the
subsequent contractual arrangement with the farm owner will conform to the following
conditions:
12.   Producer and Far  Charactics. Preference will be given to producers
satisfying one or more of the following characteristics:
(a)   between 25 and 55 years of age;
(b)      direct responsibility in decision-making regarding daily management of the
farm;



- 72 -                             Annex C
(c)   income must come mostly from the agricultural activity;
(d)   producers residing in their farm; and
(e)   producers already keeping physical production and econonic registers of their
enterprises.
13.   Farm charac i:
(a)   Tenure. The producer must have the tenure of the farm confirmed for a
period of not less than six years, in order to accomplish the whole
development program.
(b)   Production system and minimum equipment. The potential agricultural area of
the farm should not be less than 50%. The model of present production
should include crops and yields representative of the area soils. With the
purpose of implementing specific soil management and conservation practices,
the selected farms must have tractors with 70 HP as a minimum, in addition to
the other implements normally required for tilling and sowing operations.
(c)   Borrowmna. The total debt of the producer (physical or juridical person) at the
time of presenting his proposal (principal plus earned interest) may not be
more than 25% of farm total equity, excluding land value and improvements,
and the payment schedule should not exceed 20% of the farm's annual gross
income at present production levels.
(d)   Location. To be able to fulfill the proposed demonstration purposes, the farm
must be located on a national highway, or a departmental or local road
accessible any time of the year.
14.   Documents to be submitted by applicants of the demonstration farms:
(a)   application form;
(b)   notary public certificate indicating the farm area and the juridical relationship
maintained with the property owner. If a leaseholder, copy of the lease
contract must be attached;
(c)   sworn affidavit of the producer's equity position on date of application;
(d)   copy of the sworn statement before DICOSE as of June 30, 1989;
(e)   CONEAT document with CONEAT Index and Real Value Index;
(t)   aerial photo on a 1:20,000 scale;
(g)   photocopy of owner's ID or that of the administrator in the case of a
corporation, as stated in point 5.1.7;



-73-                               Annex C
(h)   last Capital Tax payment receipt or negative;
(i)   last IRA or IMAGRO payment receipt;
(j)   last Social Security Bank payment receipt;
(k)   last Real Estate Tax payment receipt;
(1)   certificates on the farm and the owner(s) for:
(i) inhibitions record; and
(ii) mortgage;
(m)   sworn affidavit of the owner(s) about other incomes aside from those coming
from the farm; and
(n)   at the time of submitting the proposal, the owner, or administrator in the case
of companies, must present his Civic Document with evidence of having voted
or other evidence in substitution thereof, or payment receipt for the
corresponding fine.
15. Terms of the Agreement. The agreement will be signed between the owner of the
selected demonstraon farm and the UEP on behalf of MGAP. The agreement will define
each party's responsibilities and obligations, directed to guarantee the fulfillment of the
project objectives, and would include in addition to the terms and conditions set forth in
Section II of Schedule 6 to the Loan Agreement, the following:
(a) The General Directorate of National Resources (DGRN) within MGAP
assumes the obligation of delivering to the demonstration farm in consignment,
through the UEP, the set of goods determined in the Plan for the Development
of Demonstration Farms, to be used for demonstration purposes in soil
management and conservation practices. In general, the project will not
finance traction and harvesting machinery nor any equipment used in cattle
raising activities;
(b)   The project will finance the total cost of the specialized technical assistance, in
addition to the incremental cost of the consulting agriculturist of the farm up to
a maximum of 150 days/year;
(c)   The goods provided by the project will complement the machinery of the
demonstration farm and may include the following items: conservatonist tilling
(chisel-subsoiler plow, vertical tilling harrows), stubble chopper, special
planters (direct sowing), soil levelling, and layout and constructon of
stucus for erosion control (reversible plows, scrapers, etc.);



- 74-                             AnnxC
(d)   After the activities to be carried out in the demonstration farm in question
(farm subproject) have been finished, MGAP, if so decided, may transfer to
the demonstration farm the residual value of the acquired mnachinery;
(e)   Acquisition of the goods and the hiring of the consulting services must be done
in accordance with the conditions stated in the Loan Agreement signed
between the Bank and the Government of Uruguay;
(f)   If the Bank and the Government of Uruguay, jointly or unilaterally, decide to
cancel the disbursements under the project, or the Bank decides to suspend
disbursements under the project, the UEP and the DGRN on behalf of MGAP
will not assume any obligation for expenses either made or commited by the
producer to carry out the Development Program, whether they be included in
the UEP capital contributions or those of the producer himself;
(g)   The UEP will provide technical assistance jointly and in coordination with the
technicians responsible for the preparation and fulfillment of the Development
Plan; and
(h)   The UEP will carry out a semiannual evaluation of the Program development
and a final evaluation on its completion.
16.   Oblilons of the demonstration farm owner. Under the agreement, demonstration
farm owners would be committed to:
(a)   carry out a Development Program included in the Annex to the Services
Agreement and according to the stated timetable;
(b)   carry out the management and operations of the farm according to the
Development Program;
(c)   rely on the technical assistance of a duly qualified agriculturist for the duration
of the Agreement;
(d)   carry out the repairs and maintenance of the goods delivered in consignment
by DGRN;
(e)   comply with the responsibilities regarding sanitary, taxation and administrative
matters, and those of any other nature required by law and regulations;
(f)   keep in separate accounts all operations carried out to fulfill the Development
Program in accordance with UEP's instructions;
(g)   make available to the UEP all the technical and economic information
necessary for a correct evaluation of the Program development; and
(h) allow access to technicians, producers and any other persons appointed by the
UEP for demonstration events and/or to observe the Program results, and



-75 -                              Anne C
carry out the required field experiences for their evaluation, as well as any
other scientific activities. These activities will be coordinated between the
UEP and the farm owner. The producer agrees that the UEP may use the
results of the program for training and technological dissemination as it may
deem convenient.
17.   Resonble paries. Each party will appoint two persons who will be the
representatives of each party in the Services Agreement. Any changes would be notfied to
the other party in advance.
18.   Puration. Duration of this agreement will be five (5) years from the date it is
signed.
19.   Non.funlflent. Excepting a case of force majeure, failure of compliance by any
party of any of the obligations stated in the contract, will give the other party the right to
rescind it. If the producer has failed to comply with any of his obligations under the
Services Agreement, the producer will have to reimburse to MGAP the amounts received, its
value updated according to the consumer price index variation plus a 6% (six per cent)
annual interest earned from the date the amounts were delivered, as provided for in Decree
Law NO 14,500 of March 8, 1976. If the MGAP fails to comply with any of its obligations
under the Services Agreement, it will have to indemnify the producer for any damages he
may have suffered.
20. Changgs. For justified reasons from a technical or economic point of view, the
Contact and Program may be modified by agreement between the parties, prior approval by
the IBRD.
21.   Sbei domidles and notfcatdons. The parties establish as special domiciles for all
effects derived from the contract, those mentioned in the appearance to sign it, and they
accept as valid all notifications made by collated telegram to such addresses.
Man4ement of the Demonstration Farms
22.    sLt priofrty tcs will be:
(a)   preparation of the Soil Aptitude Chart of the farm;
(b)   preparation of the Development Plan;
(c)   planning and implementation of the erosion control program (contours,
additional structures and reduced tilling system); and
(d)   elimination of microrelief (levelling).



- 76 -                             Annex C
23.   Second priority tasks will-be:
(a)   adaptation of the agricultural equipment to the production system and soil
characteristics;
(b)   fertility recovery (correction of nutrient level, specially phosphorus at a
minimum of 8 ppm, and correction of soil acidity where necessary); and
(c)   weeds eradication and control.
24.   Tentatve mans for demonstration farms management will be as follows:
(a)   Farm in Chapicuy: In general, annual crops are restricted to old pastures
which are renewed through agricultural crops. Technological level goes from
improved to high. As a complement, the Development Plan will include the
increase of fodder production and its utilization through direct grazing, silos
and haying, increasing, in this way, meat and wool production. The
Development Plan will be characterized by:
(i) Types of rotations: It is estimated, 2 to 3 years of pastures, followed
by two agricultural crops (one summer and one winter crop);
(ii) Soil management: Management oriented to minimize tilling and to the
utilization of tools contributing to the recovery of physical properties
and to simplify tilling (reversible plow, chisel-subsoiler,
vibrocultivator, etc.). Elimination of disk harrows and disc plows;
(iii) Recovery tasks: Levelling of cultivated fields to eliminate microrelief
and hills. Recovery of soil fertility levels; and
(iv)  Systematization: Parallel and level bands systems accompanied by
alternate crops. In situations of greater risk, the system of temporary
terraces may be used.
(b)   Farm in Young: According to the soil aptitude, the plan for this farm will be
based on increased grain production in the anmnal agricultural area, moving the
technological level from improved to high. The agricultural area will be
increased through a sequence of well planned crops. In addition, emphasis
will be given to increased fodder production, diversifying its utilization
through silos, hay and direct grazing, according to the needs and tim of the
year. The Development Plan will include:
(i)  Soil management characterized by:
a.   tendency to minimum tilling;
b.    efficient use of equipment;
c.    recovery of soil physical properties;



- 77 -                              Annex C
d.    use of direct tilling, in principle on the second crop in a double-
crop rotation; and
e.    elimination of disk harrows and disk plows.
(ii) Recovery tasks which will focus on:
a.    levelling of cultivated fields and elimination of microrelief;
b.    gradual eradication of weeds; and
c     recovery of fertility levels.
{iii) Systematization which will include:
a.    parallel and level bands systems;
b. alternate crops;
c.    special emphasis on the correct and ample design of pasture-
covered drainage; and
d.    eventual use of temporary terraces for the areas of greater
erosion risk.
(c)   Fanm of Cafnada Nieto: Medium rotations are being planned, with two years
of crops and three years of pastures. To the extent that weed problems created
by Bermuda grass are controlled, the tendency would be to extend the
rotations. The Development Plan will include:
(i)  Conservation systems of very wide pastre-covered bands are planned,
with careful management to avoid weed dissemination. It will be
complemented with a strict design of ample and pasture-covered drains.
Levelling of cultivated fields for microrelief elimination;
(ii) Soil management practices to reduce tilling and introduce direct sowing
will be organized. Strategic tlling with reversible plow as a means to
fight Bermuda grass will be applied. Summer crops will be managed in
alternate bands, and the same for the combination of long and short
cycle (late) winter fodder crops. In the case of high erosion risk, the
system of temporary terraces and wide bands will be used; and
(ii) Recovery tasks will include levelling of cultivated fields, Bermuda
grass control and fertility recovery.
(d)   Farm of Ombdes de Lavalle: It is planned to substantially increase grain and
fodder production. Enhance the technological level from moderate to high,
and the use of irrigation in the production of maize and fine seeds. The
Development Plan will include:
(i) Type of rotation: short rotation of grain crops (maize and barley), and
production of legume fodder and seeds;



- 78 -                               Annex C
(ii) Soil managemnt: There is a tendency to minimize tilling and perform
direct sowing. Every now and then and according to the evoluuion of
physical properties, the green mass will be buried, for instance, red
clover;
(iii) Recovery tasks: Levelling of cultivated fields, weed eradication and
fertility recovery; and
(iv) Svstematization: Since this is a low erosion risk area, it will be
sufficient to use pasture-covered bands.



-79 -                              Annex D
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT AND IRRIGATION
DEVELOPEN PROJECT
APPLIED RESEARCH PROGRAM
A. INTRODUCTION
1.    The objective of PRENADER's research component is to support the existing
research lines and create a new technical basis for their transfer to the agricultural sector,
thus obtaining the development of a conservationist agriculture in rainfed areas as well as in
land under irrigation. Due to the fact that rainfed production prevails in most areas under
cultivation in Uruguay, modern methods are not applied in the use and management of soils
and irrigation water, with the exception of rice and sugar cane. Similarly, traditional
extensive agriculture (including vegetable and fruit production) has not prioritized soil
conservation and producivity despite the technical and political efforts made in that
direction.
2.    To prepare the present Project Research Program, a collection was made of the
technical proposals from the principal institutions capable of fulfilling the roles of applied
research and technology transfer, which were grouped in the following subjects:
(a)   Soil Management and Iripgation Research;
(b)   Soil Management and Soil Conservation Research;
(c)   Training; and
(d)   Technology Tranfer.
B. RESEARCH iNSTITUTIONS
School of Agronomy
3.    The School of Agronomy integrates the series of Schools of the University of the
Republic. It is a public organization with autonomous administration, teaching being its main
objective. Its activity is national in scope. Presently it has research agreements with other
public institutions and with private enterprises. Its main headquarters for teaching and
research are located in the city of Montevideo. It has a network of research and teaching
experimental stations in the departments of PaysandO, Salto and Cerro Largo. An
experimena area may soon be established in the locality of Joanic6, departme  of



- 80-                              Annex D
Canelones. uis organizational chart includes a Soils and Waters Area, integrated with
disciplines coordinated with teaching and research in both specialties.
National Institute for Ariculturad Research tINIA)
4.    The National Institute for Agricultural Research (Instituto Nacional de Investigaci6n
Agropecuaria - INIA) is the main agricultural research center in the country. It is a semi-
private institution, with Government representatives and producers' associations. Its
administration includes rules for domestic and external non-governmental relationships.
5.   Its principal duties are the generation and transfer of agricultural technologies. It
receives technological proposals from the Regional Advisory Councils (Consejos Asesores
Regionales - CAR), from the regional Working Groups, from the policy outlines of its Board
of Directors and from its technical staff. Within its organization, the Areas and Programs
sector has the responsibility for planning, follow-up and evaluation of research. It supports
other sectors in the survey of proposal and execution of projects.
6.    Its technical-financial organization is made up of the National Directorate, the
Administration and Finance Management and the Regional Directors. The latter have direct
responsibility in project execution at their respective experimental stations.
7.    It has an Information and Dissemination Management Unit acting as an advisory unit
to the National Directorate, with the responsibility of programming, executing, following up
and evaluating technology transfer. INIA has five Experimental Stations in the departments
of Canelones, Colonia, Salto, Tacuaremb6 and Treinta y Tres.
8.   In addition to its own projects, it participates in research projects with other public
and private institutions, with resources that represent 10% of its annual budget. It is called
the Agricultural Technology Promotion Fund (Fondo de Promoci6n de Tecnologia
Agropecuaria).
Soils and Waters Directorate (DSA) of MGAP
9.    The Soils and Waters Directorate (Direcci6n de Suelos y Aguas - DSA) is an agency
of MGAP's National Directorate of Renewable Natural Resources (Direcci6n Nacional de
Recursos Naturales Renovables). DSA has research agreements with public and private
institutions. It has Regional Offices in the departments of Paysandd, Salto and Tacuaremb6.
Uruguavan No Illage Association (AUSID)
10. AUSID (Asociaci6n Uruguaya Pro Siembra Directa) is a private organization for
research and transfer, established in June 1991. Its duties are experimentation and
technology transfer on soil management oriented to clarify the advantages and disadvantages
of sowing without cultivation. Their members explain that the establishment of AUSID was
prompted by displeasure over the poor technical assistance from other research institutions on
the subject of direct sowing. AUSID headquarters are located near the city of Mercedes, in
the department of Soriano.



- 81 -                             Annex D
C. llGE!RLQ
11.   Uruguay trains agricultural technicians at two levels: university professional level, and
technical or semi-technical level from other non-professional training institutions such as
Universidad del Trabajo del Uruguay (UTU), belonging to the Ministry of Culture, and one
or two private institutions.
12.   On the subject of irrigation, the School of Agronomy offers a very general and not
too intensive education program. The level is even lower in the other institutions. One of
the UTU schools in the city of Mercedes offers a non-professional short course on surface
irrigation.
13.   The private companies selling irrigation equipment normally offer technical support in
design preparation. However, they do not participate in the use of water nor in the
evaluation of the initial work conditions of the equipment after its installation in terms of
efficient and uniform application of the water-bearing stratum. The problem worsens when
the fertilization-irrigation systems are used with the resulting inadequate distribution of
nutrients.
14.   As a consequence of the foregoing, the economic evaluations on the use of irrigation
are not clear. While in some cases overirrigation occurs thus increasing costs and in many
instances reducing production due to an excess of water, on other occasions during critical
periods the sources of water are insufficient or the systems undersized. Even companies with
agriculturists as technicians and permanent advisers, also face the same previously described
problems. In the area of soil management and conservation, the situation is similar to that in
irrigation. The soil, this badly used natural resource, shows its gradual and less noticeable
degradation at producer level.
15.   Training is deficient and the technical advisers show lack of conviction in the
technological application of irrigation and soil management. C. Victora (see Annex) shows
how the technical advances in soil conservation start in 1940 with Ing. C. Finn, as soon as
he airives from the United States, at the time when terracing was being applied in that
country; in 1970 Ing. E. Marchesi, also coming from the United States, introduces the
system of belt contours; and finally Ings. R. Puentes y F. Garcia, returning from their
graduation in the USA introduce with great energy the covered soil system and minimum
working of the soil.
Rsearch Program Objective
16.   The program would help to generate and adapt soil and water
management/conservation techniques, providing the technical groundwork for a coherent
natural resource management strategy in Uruguay.



- 82 -                            Annex D
D. TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER
17. Within the public sector, the enterprises with technology transfer responsibilities in
Uruguay are MGAP, INIA, School of Agronomy, AUSID. Other private companies looking
after communities with specific crops also have an important role in technology generation.
The private independent technicians in agricultural extension cover a great variety of
activities and techniques. Technical advisers of private producing companies handle
management related aspects and not always do their objectives adequately weigh the
importance of natural resource conservation.
18.   The possibility of improving natural resource management as an integral part of
agricultural production programs in Uruguay will depend to a Large extent on the level of
support to specific tmnsfer projects of the already established institutions, and the
government's support will create a favorable climate for the development of new private
consultancies in soil and irrigation management.
E. USE OF-THE PROGRAM's FUNDS
19.   The purpose of the Applied Research Program is to serve as an instrument to support
technologies adapted to the new demands of the private agricultural sector. In the preceding
context, in order to achieve the fulfillment of their role, the research and the technology
tansfer units must possess at least the same direction and speed established by the demand.
The Program's available funds must meet the demand of the research and transfer institutions
in order to make possible the achievement of their technological objectives.
F. RESEARCH PROJECTS
Prioritizaton of Submitted Projects
20.   The Technical Team for Program Preparation received an orientaton regardig
prioritization of the research projects submitted to be executed in the 6 years of the Program.
The Soils and Waters Directorate and the FAO/World Bank Technical Team partcipated in
determining the priorities. During project preparation, 40 research proposals were selected
according to farmers' needs and the country's overall natural resource conservation strategy.



- 83 -                             Annex D
21. Such research subprojects were identified as follows:
(a)   Research in Natural Resources:
(i)  Tillage and rotation systems                         9 projects
(ii)  Soil management and conservation                     7 projecs
Total                                         16 projects
(b)   Research in Irrigation Technolog:
(i)  Irrigated crops                                     14 projects
(ii)  Irrigation techniques                                9 projects
(iii)  Technology transfer                                  1 project
Total                                         24 projects
22.   Summary of Ne-selected Research SubDrojects
(a)   Soil Worlk-g and Rotation Svstems:
(i) INL4-Treinta y Tres.
Tide:       Soil Management n Lomadas del Este (Reference No.
Objective:   Produce technologies with a minimum or zero tilage
maintaining the productive and economic sustainability of
the agricultural and cattle raising systems in Lomadas del
Este.
(ii) Soils and Waters Directorate.
Title:      Evaluation of Conservationist Pracdces and Machinery
(Reference No. 44).
Objectives: Become acquainted with the efficiency of different types
of machinery under different conservationist practices,
and relate them to changes in soil characteristics, their
physical properties and  ren      productivity.
(iii) AUSID Project.
Title:      Experimentation and Demonstration Regarding Redutdon
and Elimination of Tillage (Reference No. 41).
Objectives:  Prove through experiments the bypothesis that in the long
run the reduction and eventu  elimination of soil
working could be an important factbr in the productive
and economic sustainability of agricultural production
systems.



- 82 -                             Annex D)
(iv)  INIA-Treinta y Tres.
Title:      Evaluation of the Method Using Direct Sowing and/or
Reduced Tillage in Rice (Reference No. 2).
Objectives:  Evaluate the advantages and disadvantages of practicing
direct sowing and/or reduced tillage with different rice
plantings, by comparison with conventional tillage
practices.
(v) INIA-La Estanzuela.
Title:      Management of Diseases in Wheat and Barley Under
Conservationist Agricu!ture in Uruguay (Reference No.
3).
Objectives:  Evaluate the epidemiologic variables in conventional
cultivation, in crop-pasture rotations. Develop
technologies for the control of diseases in wheat and
barley with zero tillage.
(vi) INIA-La Estanzuela.
Title:      Management of Soil Physical Restrictions in Crop
Development in kgriculture with Zero Tillage (Reference
No. 4).
Objectives:  Develop technologies that redLce or eliminate the
physical soil restrictions to root development under
production systems with no cultivation.
(vii) INIA-Treinta y Tres y Tacuarembo.
Title:      Agricultural-Cattle Raising Rotations for Treinta y Tres y
Tacuaremb6 (Reference No. 6).
Objectives:  Create technologis for soil management in crop-pasture
rotations to improve physical and economic sustainability
of the productive systems.
(viii) INIA-La Estamuela.
Title:      Crop-pasture Rotation Systems Under Irrigation
Conditions in the Agricultural Area of the Western and
Southern Littorals of Uruguay (Reference No. 7).
Objectives: Define new crops-pasture production systems, combined
with the use of irrigation and incorporation of more
intensive practices optimizing resource allocation and
conservation.
(ix) INIA-Tacuaremb6.
Title:      Intensive Production for Crop-Livestock Farms in the
Northeast of Uruguay (Reference No. 19).
Objectives:  Adapt technologies for the intensive production under
irrigation of grams and fodder in pastures-crops rotations
preserving the soil and increasing the economic return.



- 85-                              Annex D
(b)   Soil Management and Conservadon:
(i) INIA-La Estanzuela.
Title:      Dynamics of the Soil Organic Matter in Different
Agricultural Systems (Reference No. 5).
Objectives:  Quantify part of the entry and exit processes of organic
C and nitrogen in different agricultural rotations.
Quantify the fractions (light/heavy) of organic matter and
relate it to the mineralization processes. Contribute
elements to assist in planning new rotations schemes and
improve the recommendations on fertilizer use.
(ii) School of Agronomy.
Tide:       Adjustment and Extension to Other Zones in Uruguay of
the Universal Soil Loss Equation (USLE) (Reference No.
34).
Objectives:  Produce information to adjust and extend the use of the
USLE or alternative models, as support for decision
maidng at farm level, also to serve as instrument for
national scope policies on conservation of the natural
resource soil.
(iii) School of Agronomy.
Tide:       Effect of Soil Physical Properties on Crop Bebavior
(Reference No. 36).
Objectives:  Determine the minimum level of soil distubance in
agricultural-fodder sequences, compatible with a grain
production based on the efficient use of naWal
resources.
(iv) Soils and Waters Directorate.
Title:      Evaluation of Soil Use Impact on Catchment Basins
(Reference No. 44).
Objectives:  Evaluation of soil use impact, its interaction with the
physiographic characteristics on the losses of soils and
hydric parameters.
(v) Soils and Waters Directorate.
Title:      Adjustment and Application of Mathematical Methods to
Soil Degradation and Productivity (Reference No. 43).
Objectives:  Quantify soil productivity reduction caused by erosion
and degradation using mathemadcal methods (e.g.,
EPIC) adjusted to the agroecological conditions of
Uruguay.



-86-                                Annex D
(vi) Sojis and Waters Directorate.
Title:      Soil Characterization by Erodibility (K factor of EUPS)
and Infiltration with Simulated Rain Techniques
(Reference No. 45).
Objectives:  Obtain data on run-off. infiltration and sediment
production (erodibility, risk of erosion) for the soils of
the country, starting with the more heavily used
agricultural soils.
(c)   Crops under Irrigation:
(i)  INIA-Las Bmjas.
Title:      Introduction, Evolution and Selection of Stocks in
Deciduous Fruit Trees (Reference No. 20).
Objectives:  Evaluate behaviors and quantify productivity related to
different plantings and stocks factors of deciduous fruit
trees.
g-ii IMA-Las Bmjas.
Title:      Fertilization and Irrigation of Deciduous Fruit Trees
(Reference No. 21).
Objectives:  Adapt vegetal nutrition and irrigation methods to market
demands.
(iii)  INA-Las Brujas.
Title:      Soil Management in Deciduous Fruit Trees (Reference
No. 28).
Objectives:  Improve soil management technology in deciduous fruit
trees under irrigation.
(iv)  INID-La B_ruias.
Title:      Semi-cowmmercial Horticultural Production System in
Crop Rotations (Reference No. 22).
Objectives:  Develop technologies for management of crop rotations
under irrigation, including horticultural crops.
(v)  INILA-Bas-uas.
Title:      Productive and Economic Analysis of Horticultural Crops
under Irrigation (Reference No. 23).
Objectives:  Produce technologies for water and fertilizer use
management under drip irrigation in plantings of
industrial type or double purpose tomatoes and sweet
pepper.



-87 -                              Annex O
(vi) INIA-Las Brmus.
Title:      Fertilization and Irrigation of Strawberries (Reference
No. 24).
Objectives:  Develop the fertilization technology of strawberries under
intensive cropping techniques.
(vii)  INIA-Las Br_jas.
Title:      Onion Production System (Reference No. 25).
Objectives:  Develop technologies for irrigated onion production using
minimum tillage techniques and other management
methods adapted to small farms.
(viii)  INIA-Las Brujas.
Title:      Garlic Production Techniques (Reference No. 26).
Objectives:  Develop technologies for high yield garlic cultivation and
economic evaluation as a product for regional export.
(ix)   Mt-Las Bruias.
Tidle:      Cultivation Practices on Deciduous Fruit Trees
(Reference No. 27).
Objectives:  Develop technologies on deciduous fruit trees,
intensifying the use of productive factors to the
maximum limit of marginal profit.
(x) INIA-Salto Grande.
Title:      Irrigation and Fertilization of Citrus (Reference No. 33).
Objectives:  Develop technologies for water and fertlizer use
management to attain maximum production of dry matter
in young trees and maximum economic benefit in rees
with exportable production potential.
(xi)  School of Aumnom' - IMA - CALNU Project.
Tide:       Soil Management in Horticulture (Reference No. 35).
Objectives:  Evaluate a long-term production system with different
sources of organic matter on four types of soil: Brunosol
Eutrico Fr. Ac.lBella Uni6n Quatemary; Argisol
Fr.Ar.Salto; Brunosol Subeutrico Fr.L./Libertad
Canelones and Vertisol Ac.L./Libertad Canelones.
(xii) School of A_ronomy.
Title:      Soil Management in Vineyards and Peach Trees
(Reference No. 37).
Objectives:  Maintain and enlarge evaluation of ests on management
Of soils and nitrogenous ferdlization on vineyards. These
tests include three soil managements: (a) total herbicide,
(b) buried green mamnre, (c) green manure, cut and kept
on the surface as mulch, and three doses of 0, 50 and
100 kg/ha of Nitrogen. For peach trees, perform two



- 88-                               Annex D
tests with similar objectives as the above. One of the
tests will be perfonned under irrigation.
(xiii) School of Agronomy.
Title:      Effect of Irrigation on Yield and Quality of Corn
(Reference No. 38).
Objectives:  Produce technologies for corn cultivation under
irrigation.
(xiv) School of Agronomy.
Title:      Effect of Irrigation on Yield and Quality of Cotton
(Reference No. 40).
Objectives:  Develop technologies for cotton cultivation under
irrigation. Study the effect on yield and cotton fibre
quality at the moment of applying water. Study the
effect of different quantities of water on yield and fibre
quality. Study the technical and economic efficiency in
cotton production, of two irrigation methods, by
sprinkler and drip.
(d)   Irrigation Techniques:
(i) INIA-Las Brujas.
itle:       Soil and Irrigation Management for Horticultumal
Production Systems in Different Regions of the Country
(Reference No. 30).
Objectves:  Evaluate the distribution along the year and the effect on
soil productivity, of different sequences of crops in
different zones of the region and potentil zones for
horticultural and fruit production differentiated by type of
soil and productive characteristics (field size,
entrepreneurial level, degree of mechanization, etc).
(ii) INIA-Treinta y Tres.
Title:      Water in Rice Cultivation (Reference No. 12).
Objectives:  Determine water requirements of the crop in the different
phenological and management phases. Study the effect
of irrigation water management on yield, industrial
quality and seed germinative power for difflerent
plantings. Determie the effect of water management on
crop development.
(iii) INIA-Treinta I Tres.
Title:      Evaluation of Summer Crops in Rotation with Rice
(Reference No. 1S,.
Objectives:  Evaluate plantings under irrigation of corn as grain, corn
as fodder, and beans, adaptable to rice-growing soils of
the region.



- 89 -                             Annex D
(iv) INIA-Treinta y Tres.
Title:      Recovery of Small Marshes and Irrigation Water in
Lomadas del Este (Reference No. 16).
Objectives:  Study and define the convenience (or not) of a system of
superficial run-off and irrigation water management in
the area of Lomadas del Este.
(v) INIA-La ELstanzuela.
Title:      Use of Manure and Irrigation in Intensive Milk
Production Systems (Reference No. 17).
Objectives:  Develop technologies for irrigation and manure
management in order to increase production of digestible
dry matter per unit of physical and economic resources
employed to obtain it. Evaluate planned systems to
recycle polluting effluents from cowsheds.
(vi) INIA-La Estanzuela.
Title:      Experiment Ficld to Support the Production System
Under Irrigation (Reference No. 18).
Objectives:  Develop technologies to manage crops, varieties, sowing
densities, weed control, etc. under irrigation.
(vii) INIA-Tacuaremb6.
Title:      Management of Horticultural Production Under Irrigation
(Reference No. 47).
Objectives:  Develop irrigation technologies associated to soil
management for horticultural items produced in the open
and under cover.
(viii) INIA-Tacuarenbo.
Title:      Management of Fruit Orchards Under Irrigation
(Reference No. 30).
Objectives:  Develop irrigation technologies more suitable for sandy
soils, in regard to the other cultivation factors of
deciduous fruit trees.
(ix) School of Agronomy.
Title:      Research in Fruit Trees Irrigation (Reference No. 31).
Objectives:  Quantify the answers of the principal fuit tree species to
supplementary irrigation, and generate infiormation at
national level for a more rational utilization of this
practice and other related management measures.



-90                               Annex D
(e) lEhnolgvTQ nfir
(i)  INIA-Las Bruas
Tidle:      Promotion of the Fruit-horticultural Technological
Change Oriented to Foreign Markets (Reference No. 29).
Objectives:  Develop technological transfer methodology based on
demonstration areas in the fruit horticultural field. The
methodology vill include the productive and economic
aspects of semi-commercial production systems. It will
provide farmers with the technical factors of
implementation and will show the productive and
economic incidence in validating the technologies adapted
or generated by the research. It will quantify the level of
adoption in the farms by productive and quality indexes,
and those of productivity related to the more resticting
factors, or to a management necessarily more efficient of
the farms selected for the evaluation.
(t)   Other Water ivanaWement Research Proposals are expected to be carried out
by the Faculty of Agronomy (Reference No. 39) and the D.S. y A. (Reference
No. 41)



-91-                                        Annex D
G. IUP+T
23.    Based on the budgets submitted for each research proposal by the responsible
institutions, the following table summaizes the esimated cost of the Applied Research
Program:
Table 1. Research 1       M         INIA and Researchts
-.          -                                   __    _    ___ _         .. =I       _ _ __ _     _ _
Institution    Ref.   Cons.  Ooods   Vebicles   Works  Inputs  Pubi.   Contr.   Opeating    ToW
NO                  1                                    Field     Costs
Wor
(UJS$1000)      Wr           
School of      34    140   32.5       12.5    70                        8          5      268
Agonomy        35    230   60         25                               12         30      357
36    200   27                  1.5                      7.5       12      248
37    120   28                  2                       10         30      190
38/40    140   17                  1.5                     9          8       175.6
_________      39    240   70.2        12.5    82.5                      7.5      20       452.8
Soilsand       41           13.5                      30               S0         35       128.5
Waters         32     50   35                         IS               40         30      170
Dirate         43     70   12.5                       10                          10       145.5
44     62   20                         15               14         10      165
45    100   41                         10               15         20      221
AUSID          46     80   44A                S0      45         40    32         40      331
INIA            1      11                     11       4                           6       32
2                                      0.6                         2.6      3.2
3     28   21                          1                          11       61
4           53        50              17.2             18         34.8    173
5           17.5                      11               14.4       12.7     55.6
6     54  135                 85      22.5                         3      245.5
7          111                        36.2                        30       177.2
12            1.9                       9                          4.5      15.4
15     20   19                         12.5                        10       61.5
16     50   25                277      50               24         8        43A
17           44                45       5                         25       119
18           32.5              37      20                           5       94.5
19     50   44                         56                          0       100
20     11                              24.7                        15.3     51
21     24   32                 29      73               34         40      232
22     18                     IS0      30                           0      198
23            4.5                       7.5             20          4.9     36.9
24     30    3.9                       40               20         10      103.9
25     30   25                          7.2                         0       62.2
26     30   74.5                       69A              20         24.3    218.2
27                                     14.5                         4       18.5
28            1.5                       3.2              2          2.2      8.9
29     55   40.6                       10               20          2.5    128.1
30           90                        25               20          0      135
31    31.5   13.8                      14.5             21.6        1.5    217.9
33    138              20              34.5                        83.5    276
47     4S                    1 340    135.2                         0      520.2
Total 6,631.1
Contingencies   768.6
Incr _ental Salaries 2,600



URUGUAY
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEM  AND IRRIGATION DEVELOENPO
Table 2. Appi                     h: i
Brakdmn of Totals iocudg Co _ngcs
(UWO100)
Totas  luding Conoigencies
(US$Wooo)
_ _    _    _    _    _    _    _    _    _    _    _    _ _               .    ~            Duties
Foreigl  (Excludiog    &
Year I    Year 2     Year 3     Year 4     Year 5     Year 6     Total    Excage   Taxes)        Taxes       Total
1.  lqvestametC
Civil Wosk                     253.0      445.8      647.8      369.9       78.0       -       1.794.6      -        1,420.6     374.0    1.794.6
Equpmem                        142.2      2SI.3      205.1      155.8       -          -        754.3      528.0      135.8       90.5      754.3
Technic Asisanc                257.9      265.9      274.2      282.7      291.4      300.5    1,672.6    1,505.4     167.3       -       1.672.6
Skiblpntal                     653.1      963.0    1,127.1      80K4       369.5      300.5    4,221.5    2,033A    1,723.6      464.5    4,221.5
H. BIEB
Incremenda Slarits             406.4      419.0      432.0      445.5      459.2     473.4    2,635.4       -       2,635.4       -       2.635.4
Others                          172.7     176.1      183.6      189.3      195.2      201.2    1,120.0      -       1,120.0       -       1.120.0
Sub-tDtd                       579.1      597.1      615.6      634.7      654.3     674.6    3,755.4       -       3,755.4       -       3,755.4
TOTAL                             1,232.3    1,560.0    1,742.7    1,443.1    1,023.8     975.1    7,977.0   2,033.4    5,479.0      464.5    7,977.0



-93-                               Anmex D
H. TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER
24. Technology Transfer activities will include:
(a)   meetings with Working Groups. Working Groups act as advisers to the
Regional Advising Councils (CAR), take note of progress achieved and
propose research actions at the project level for the mid and short term
programs;
(b)   meetings with regional technicians. This is an activity oriented to technical
up-dating with presentation and discussion of results;
(c) meetings with regional technicians. These are meetings in which generally
producers and technicians participate, reviewing progress achieved and visits
to places where tests are being performed or of interest regarding development
of the technology under investigation;
(d)   written dissemination. INIA disseminates written information at several levels,
ftom collectible loose information sheets to technical-scientific publications. It
covers practically all training levels required by the technological acceptance.
Each Experimental Station has the equipment for less formal written
dissemination to assure a faster treatment of the subject with the producer and
the technician requesting such information;
(e) oral and televised dissemination. INIA participates in radio and TV
dissemination with different subjects of interest. Normally each rtsearch stage
is registered on video-tape for its later massive dissemination in specifically
contracted for radio and TV space; and
(f)   publications and documents. INIA renders a dissemination service of
international research documents to regional technicians. The infstructure is
made up of a communication system via PC, CAB Abstracts, CRIS,
AGRICOLA, Current Content and other subscriptions to publications of
greater interest to each experimental station.
25.   The School of Agronomy has in its role the basic component of knovwledge transfer
for a modern educational background in national research. It is expected to disseminate the
resuts of the different applied research subprojects through technical notes, information
bulledts, summaries of thesis and reports on research progress. Another transfer mechanism
will be through Technical Field Symposiums, Seminars and Exhibitions on Research Results.
26.   AUSID will prepare research progress reports, that will be submitted to members of
the Association and the general public. It will publish partal and final research results.
AUSID will be the seat for School of Agronomy students preparing their thesis on research
rearding soil management m sowing with reduced soil working. The basic transfer method
will be through extension and technical updating symposiums and meetings.



-94 -                              Annex D
27.   The Soils and Waters Directorate has a system of publications to disseminate
information. Technical updating meetings tabe place all over the county. Through
PRENADER specific projects will be developed in the areas of farm, agriculture, irrigation,
etc. While applied investigation is the technological support of project development, the
research institutions may prioritize summoning the organizations executing the projects on the
subjecXt of dissemination and transfer.
28.  It is proposed that the UEP establish as a requisite to the participating research
institutions in the stage of definite formulation of their respective projects, a comnmitment to
prioritize calling or convening the executors of productive projects to technical meetings,
semnars, etc. and to the distribution of publications related to research projects integrating
the Research Components Program. It will also be established for new projects and
institutions whose results, in opinion of the IJEP, will be of national benefit. Without
excluding the possibility that a given research project may be exclusive of the agriculuural
enterprise developing it, only the UEP will have access to the follow-up without its results
becoming public domain.



- 95 -                             Annex E
URUGUAY
NATURAL HESORCE MANAGEMENT AGATION
DEVELOPMNT PROJC
(EOGRCAL OON SYSTM(GIS)
A. BACKGROUND: PRESEN1 SITUATION OF MAIN GOVERNMENT
INSTITUTIONS AND UNIVESITY DEPARTMENTS
INVOLVED IN GIS9-RELTED ACT
1. There are about one million cadastral parcels in Uruguay of which about 200,000 are
in the rural areas. The information about the rural area parcels are already entered into a
computer database at CONEAT. The information about the remaining 800,000 urban area
parcels awe available on microfiche.
Available MaMs
2.    All the cadastal maps at 1:20,000 scale for the whole country have already been
completed. They consist of 1200 map sheets. The maps are in Gauss-Kruger Projection.
Only about 20 sheets were digitized to carry out some tests. About 30-70 m. gaps were
found between the sheets. It is believed that the sheets have about 50-70 m absolute error.
This error can be fixed, because the triangulation network is already in place.
Military Geographic Service (Servicdo Geofrfico Militar)
Abfale -MaD
3.    The Military Geographic Service within the Ministry of Defense has completed about
3/4 of the 1:50,000 and all of the 1:100,000 topographic maps. It also has 14 LANDSAT
photographs covering the whole country, although digital imagery has not been processed.
Directorate of SoiLs and Water (Direcci6n de Suelos y Aguas)
4.    The following Soil maps were digitized:
(a)   Using ILWIS: Northern zone of Uruguay (Departments of Artigas, Salto and
part of Paysand, Rivera, Cerro largo and Tacuaremb6) at 1:1.000.000 scale,
carried out as part of the SOTER Project with ISRIC.



-96-                               Annex E
(b)   Using IDRISI: Soriano and Colonia Departments at 1:1.000.000 scale within
the framework of INIA Project.
(c)   Southern part of San Jos6 Department at 1:100.000 scale as an ILWIS taining
exercise.
Available Maps
5.    The DSA has prepared soil maps at 1:1,000,000 scale for the whole country and at
1:100,000 scale covering about 15% of the country, mostly in the south, plus many thematic
maps mostly at 1:1,000,000 scale.
Directorate of Forery (DMeccd4n Forestal)
6.    Several forest maps have been made so far. The first one, which was published in
1980, is at 1:200,000 scale and is based on 1:40,000 scale aerial photographs taken during
1966-1967. On this map, new plantations were plotted manually. It contned tiree classes:
natural forest, artificial forest and no forest.
7.    Another map for the whole country was made at 1:100,000 scale in 1987 by visual
interpretation of satellite photographs. Most of the work was done at INPE in Brazil. The
classes were: Pine, eucalyptus, natual forest and no forest.
8.    A third forest map was made in 1989, mainly by updating the 1987 map, again by
visual classification of satellite imagery with the participation of Arianna Sorrentino and
Maiz De Los Angeles from the Agricultural University.
CONEAT (Comisi6n Nacional de Estudios Agroecondnmcos de ia nerra)
9.    Within CONEAT, the commission responsible for agro-economic surveys in MGAP,
there is an Information Systems Unit.
!hXaboas
10. The Information System Unit of CONEAT has a tabular database, which contains a
large amount of information about the rural cadastal units in Uruguay. For each unit (parcel)
the database contains the following information:
(a)   Cadastral unit mmber;
(b)   Surfice area;
(c)   Percent areas of soil types covering the unit;



- 97 -                             Annex E
(d) Productivity index (an index also referred to as CONEAT index indicating
productivity of the unit based on the surface area and percentages of its soil
cover, etc.); and
(e)   Owner's name, etc.
11.   When requested by the owners of a rural cadastral unit, CONEAT prepares a report
which contains anl the information about the unit, a description of its different type of soils,
and a sketch of the field which is manually prepared from the available charts described in
item below.
Available MaMs
12.   There are about 1200 cadastral charts at 1:20,000 scale which were prepared by the
Directorate of Cadastre. In addition to cadastral information they also contain soils
information provided by the Directorate of Soil and Water (Direcci6n de Suelos y Aguas),
MGAP. The soils information were obtained by interpretation of aerial photographs at
1:40,000 scale. These charts are available only in hardcopy, that is not digitized and not
linked to the tabular database electronically.
National Directorate of TonotEaphv (Direcci6n Nacional de ToNoqrafa)
Hardwre and Software
13. The Directorate of Topography in the Ministry of Transport and Public Works
(MTOP) has at present a DECstation 5000/125. Additionally, they have 4 Digitizing table, a
Hewlett-Packard 8 pen plotter, and a Laser printer.
14.   The software that they are currently using includes a Multiuser workstation, a
database management software, and PATHWORKS software for connection of PCs to
DECstation. They plan to digitize all the 1:50,000 topographic maps prepared by the
Military Geographic Service.
Diectoate of Hydrographv (Direcci6n de Hidrogandf
Database
15.   The DNH has a tabular database stored under RDB, which contains the data
periodically obtained from the 200 meurement stations located along the steams. The
stations measure both the level of water and the speed of flow, which are used to calculate
amount of discharge. The measurements are made 2-3 times a day by automatic data loggers
and transmitted by portable equipment. For some parts of the country, the data is available
since the beginning of the Century. At present, the total amount of data is about 450 MB.



- 98 -                            Annex E
16.   This database is used mainly for making projections of the amount of available water
and plan water allocations to the users. The database is also used by other agencies for
designing dams, bridges, and irrigation systems.
17.  Using a graphics software available on the PC terminal, they often do evaluations of
changes in the measured parameters within a given period, comparisons between stations for
simultaously measured parameters and preparation of frequency curves.
18.   The only maps which are available are those indicating the locations of measurement
stations.
B. ANALYSIS OF THE PRESENT SITUATION
Available MaMs
19.   As indicated in the previous section, topographic and cadastma maps are available at
the scales needed. In fact, the Directorate of Topography plans to digiize 1:50,000 scale
maps without the elevation contour lines. Topography maps at 1:1,000,000 scale, including
rather coarse contour lines (every 300 m), will be soon available in digital form at FAO GIS
Center for all of South America and can be provided when needed.
20. Most of the thematic maps needed are already available, at least at 1,000,000 scale,
but need to be digitized. Moreover, it would probably be necessary to digitize 1:100,000
scale topo maps including the contour lines of the areas where the future projects will be
implemented.
A^ddit,iona MMp Required
21.   Since the cost of making new maps is rather high, no new maps should be made
unless needed for a specific application. For making maps like temperature and rainfall
isolines, the data needed are already available at the Meteorology Institute in the form of
point measurements. Most GIS software is capable of making isolines maps using such point
data. Therefore, such maps could be made after the GIS becomes operational. This
technique is not limited to meteorological maps only but can be applied to any type of isoline
map using point data.
22.   One thematic map that is currently needed is a land-use map which can probably be
made for most of the country using the infmation available from satellite imagery. It
appears that two sets of LANDSAT photographs are available at the Military Geographic
Service and the Directorate of Forestry. It may not be possible to make the land-use map by
visual interpretation of the satellite photographs, especially if a large number of classes need
to be distinguished. Therefore it would definitely help to supplement visual interpretation
with digital image analysis in any case. A few digital LANDSAT scenes are available
already. For improving the classification accuracy, it may be necessary to use digital images
obtained in two different seasons. Unuguay is covered by 14 LANDSAT scenes. Therefore,
28 images would be needed if the whole country is to be covered for two different seasons.



-99-                               Anmex E
The actual number needed would probably be less than that, because in some areas seasonal
vaiations may not be important or quarter images may be sufficient. The PC ERDAS VGA
image analysis system available in the MHELUP has limited capabilities and could not be
used for processing a large number of images. Despite this, upgrading this system to a
workstation version or acquiring additional satellite imagery is not being processed at this
time, for the following reasons:
(a)   The staff of the Mistry of Housing and Environment have not yet evaluated
the available satellite photographs and the digital data. They should first find
out what can be done with them and detennine what is really needed at least in
terms of additional data. Also, it seems that they have not evaluated the
satellite imagery classification work done for making the forest maps either;
and
(b)   Upgrade of ERDAS software to the workstation version and the satellite data
even for 14 scenes would cost a large fraction of the total CGIS budget. It is
not certain that capabilities provided by them can be used effectively during
the first phase. However, this upgrade should definitely be considered for a
second phase of the GIS program.
Available Iardware
23. Directorate of Topography is setting up a large and modem GIS faciilty. The
Computer Center at the University of the Republic also has modern computer facilities
altbough not exacdy geared for GIS. The Directorate of Cadastre has two new powerful
VAX computers but they are not in use yet. Moreover, this Directorate is using only one of
three PC ARC/INFO systems they have for lack of qualified staff. The VAX system
available in the Directorate of Hydrography is an outdated system and needs to be upgraded.
Other available systems are small PC based systems.
Availble Software
24. Several institutions already have ARC/INFO. However, they all have only the basic
module of the software. No institution has the GRID, TIN, NEIWORK and the COGO
modules. The Directorate of Topography is the only instittion with a multiuser workstation
level ARC/INFO. There are also 9 other PC level ARC/INFO at four institutions: 4 copies
at the Directorate of and Topography, 3 copies at the Directorate of Cadastre and one copy
each at the Ministry of Housing and Enmironment and the Surveying Department of the
Republic University.
25.   The Computer Center of the University has the GRASS software on a workstation.
This is a raster type GIS software available in the public domain from several institutions in
the U.S. at a nominal fee.
26.  ILWIS raster PC GIS software was acWired by two institutions in March 1992,
namely by the Directorate of Soil and Water and the Directrate of Foresty. The former
also has another raster software for the PC called IDRISI.



-100-                               Annex E
27.  It is estimated that almost all of the GIS applications that have been done so far are
limited to some attempts to experiment with the system and to do training. Only the
Directorate of Cadaste has digitized about 20 maps and even there the only work that has
been done with the digitized data is checking for map positional errors. The real power of
GIS is its capability to overlay maps and carry out modelling studies. However, during
project preparation it did not appear that such studies have been done in any of the GIS sites
so far. The Directorate of Topography plans to digitize all the 1:50,000 topographic maps,
which is a substantial task, but their system was not operational yet.
Avalabl Staff and Const_ants for the Development of a GIS
28.   There ar only a few government officials with some training or experience in GIS.
In act, some institutions like the Directorate of Cadastre is not able to use most of the
available equipment, for lack of qualified staff. Experience of most of the staff is limited to
some training projects on PC systems. However, there are a large number of staff with
sufficient background in computers and related areas such as remote sensing, some of which
have already d3ne some GIS work with the PC GIS available. Consequently they are well
aware of the limitations of their systems. Similarly, they are likely to know their
requirements for furher training. This staff can be easily tained to form the core GIS staff
needed. It should be noted that the Directorate of Topography has already started to train
several staff in ARC/INFO and other software- needed for operation of a GIS.
C. A POSSIBLE STRATEGY FOR TIE DEVELOPMENT OF A GIS FOR
NATURAL RESOURCES MNGMN
Appkicaton of GIS in the Mana _ment of Natral Reources
29. Management of natural resources requires the collection, analysis and dissemination of
massive amounts of different kinds of information: information about topography, land-use,
soils, water, climate, vegetation, animals and infrastructure; figures on population, income,
health and nutrition, just to name a few of the many types of information involved.
30.  In general, this information is in one of two forms: attribute data (e.g. statistics,
numerical or texual information) contained in tables, lists, catalogues, etc.; and geographical
information, contained in various Idnds of maps.
31. The resources planner's problem is how to compare and combine selected information
from these two kInds of data base, in order to relate a given geographic location to its
specific attnbutes (such as slope, soil type, vegetative cover type, etc.) or to assess the status
of one particular area in relation to other areas, (which of two areas would be more suitable
for a given crop, for example).
32.   Computer technology has long since made it possible to handle and analyze statistical
infrmation, but only recenly has technology been developed which can conveat maps into a
computer-usable digital format and allow the simultaneous operation of both the geographic



-101-                               AnnxE
spatial data and related attribute data. This now makes it possible for the resource planner to
tapidly prouce a combination of maps and tables that show "were gand "what".
33.   The ultimate use of GIS lies in its capability for modelling: constuctin models of tbe
real world from digital data bases, and usg tese models to simulate the effect of a specific
process over time for a given scenario. Modelling is a powerful tool for analyzng trends and
identing factors that affect them, or for displaying the posslble consequences of planning
decisions or projects that affect resource use and manugement.
Cenkwhomn of the Databases and Xt  G   Falith
34.   The Directorate of l[opogrphy ad the Diretorate of Cadstre already have
ARC/INFO based GIS and the capacities of their systems are probably sufficient for the next
sever years. Although their activities are not directly related to management (if naural
resources, the maps they digitize can be used for that purpose.
35.   The instittons which are directly related to management of natural resources are:
(a)   Diretorate of Forestry in MGAP;
(b)   Directorate of Soils and Water in MC'AP;
(c) Directorate of Hydrography in MTOP; and
(d)   Land-Use Plaming Unit in the Ministry of Housing.
36.   These institudons have only limited GIS facilities. Therefore, the project would
prov  the hardware/software facilites they need and also provide support to train their
staff. A Cental GIS (CGIS) would be set up for these four institions. The CGIS would be
managed, operatd and used by the staff of these institutions.
37.   The project would also assist:
(a) the Directorate of Topography within MTOP in upgrading the outdated VAX
II computer they have. This system cannot be maintained any longer and its
failure can cause serious problems. The cost of this upgrading has been
etimtd at about US$40,000; and
(b) the Directorate of Cadastre (decentralize institution) in putting the two unused
VAX computers and two PC ARC/INFO systems to use by providing taining
to their staff.
The Rationale for Cealizng GIS F4i0lbt  and   ties
38.   Most decisions affecting natural resource mnagement are iery cross sectoral.
They require trade-offs between sometimes conflicting sets of priorities. The use of ntural
resurces should not only be economically efficient but also sustainable. Therefore,
rsource-use planning has to integrate information from many sources such as diffrerent types



-1 O2 -                             Annx E
of maps and statistical tables. This integated approach has to be implented staing from
strategic planning at the national level down to the departent or even project level. The
flow of information should be not only between fthese te levels, but also between different
sectors.
39.   This requireent of the integration of multsectoral information is the best
justification for centralizing GIS databases and activities. Only a ctal database, where all
the data are integrated in the same strucure, format and the coordinte system, can
efficiendy serve the needs of moCern auto,nated resource use planning.
40.   Other advantages of centraizing the GIS activides and databases could be sunmard
as follows:
(a)   Improvement of the communication between the sectors, decision making
institutions and the institutions which are responsible for making maps or
collecting statistical data.
(b)   Sharing expensive equipment. If the facilites are decentralized, then each unit
woud need its own tape drive, plotters, digitizers, high capacity disks,
prnters, etc. Sharing these equipment would reduce the costs.
(c)   Sharing systems and database management and pm ing staff. These are
highly techimcal staff and cannot be trained easily. Each GIS site requires at
least one such staff. Therefore, centlizing the GIS facilities would reduce the
number of such staff needed.
41.   Most of the argumems against centalizing a GIS are related to administrative matters
involving decisions regarding the location of the GIS, the resonsibility for its manageme
and development, and the allocation of the various workstations and the digitzers between
different insiutions. However, these potenal problems do not outweigh the advantages of a
centalized GIS.
42.   As a result of the analysis carried out during project preparation, it is ommnded
that the CGIS be located at the Directorate of Soil and Water witin MOAP, given their level
of specialization in mapping techniques. However, this is a subject to be analyzed further
(dunng annual and mid-term reviews) in the light of Govermment strateg regardwg GIS
operators and users.
43.   The CGIS would be developed in two stages. During the first two-year phase, basi
hardware/software and trainiDg would be acquited and the available 1:1,000,000 scale maps
would be digitized. Also modalides of data exchange with Directorates of Topography,
Cadastre, Meteorology and CONEAT would be explored and some pilot projects would be
completed. At the end of the first phase the needs of CGIS would be evaluated in terms of
new maps required and new hardware and softwar to be acquired. Additionally, the
evaluation would determine the need for furher training and techimcal assistance for:
(a)   Makig  new maps;



- 103 -                             AnnexE
(b)   acquiring new hardware/software;
(c)   futher training of the users; and
(d)   futher consulacy.
On the basis of tWs evaluation, the activities to be carried out during the second phase,
which would take two years, would be defined.
eletbion of the CGIS Softw
44.   At FAO GIS Center the main GIS software is ARC/INFO Other software used in
FAO are PAMAP, ILWIS, IDRISI and TYDAC/SPANS and ERDAS. Among these
ARC/INFO is the most comprehensive and is available almost on aU hardware platforms. But
it is also the most difficult one to learn and use. PAMAP is also a very good software and
available mainly on UNIX platforms bcaue  they discontinued upgrading the VAX version).
SPANS used to be arailable only on PCs. Now it is available also on IBM 6000 and some
other UNIX workstations. However, its digitizing and plotting capabilities of the previous
version had some limitations. ILWIS and IDRISI are available only on PCs. IDRISI and
ERDAS are image procesing software rather tman GIS because they camot be linked to a
database.
45.   Even though the selection of any major software is a complicated and highly techical
task, this is not the case for the GIS software for the centralized system in Uruguay. The
recommendation has been to use ARC/INFO for the following reasons:
(a) It can meet the functional requirements of the project;
(b) It is the most widely used GIS software in Uruguay already, therefore, many
persons are already familiar with it;
(c)   Despite what the software companies say, data exchange between different
types of GIS is a difficult and time consuming problem, not to mention that it
often degrades the data. Therefore, there are many advantages to havmg the
COIS software compatible with the GIS software used at the Directorates of
Topography and the Cadastre, which are both ARC/INFO; and
(d) It is the main GIS software used at the FAO GIS Center at HQ and the FAO
Regional office for Latin America and the Caribbean.
46. Concerning the potential difficulties of learning ARC/INFO, these have been largely
overcome by the innovations introduced by its author, ESRI, to the latest version (ver. 6.1).
These innovations include:
(a)   a sophisticated dashboard type menu system;
(b)   an entrely new raster component called GRID;



- 104 -                            Annex E
(c)   an easy to use inquiry module called ARCVIEW; and
(d)   a tutorial software for teaching ARC/INFO.
47. Moreover, the Directorate of Topography has already started a training program in
ARC/INFO. Therefore there will be at least a few experts in government offices soon.
48.   Selection of ARC/INFO for the CGIS would not imply elimination of other software
available e.g. ILWIS, IDRISI in the govermment offices. These software can still be used to
complement ARC/INFO.
Selection of the CGIS Hardware
49.   FAO experts have recommended a RISC/UNIX type workstation as the main
computer for the CGIS. According to experts, the PC version of ARC/INFO has many
limitations compared to the workstation version and is quite slow when processing large
maps. Secondly, the TIN and GRID modules of ARC/INFO are not available on PCs yet;
and finally, workstations provide much better graphics capabilities, such as the X-windows
which is required by some ARC/INFO modules.
S0.   Among the various workstations available, the project should consider one which is
compatible with the latest version of ARC/INFO.
51.   Non-RISC and non-UNIX type workstations are not considered here because of the
higher performance/price ratios of the RISCIUNEI machines and the recent trends in GIS
software which highly favor the latter.
D. THE GE PROGRAM
General Descritioln
52.   The project would finance the acquisition of new equipment, and up-grade of existng
hardware and software. Additionally, the project would include fimds for taining existing
staff and for technical assistance. Incremental staff requirements would be only one system
analyst, the rest of the personnel required to run the GIS would come from existing staff in
the various institutions involved. Some office space adapted to the requirements of the CGIS
equipment and staff would also be financed under the project. The activities/items to be
financed under the proposed program are detailed below.
Detailed Activities/Items
HadaeSoftwr
53.   Given the number of potential users, at the beginning three workstations would be
acquired. One of them would have a large disk capacity for serving as the main unit and a
24 bit display for supporting other software if needed in the future, such as ERDAS. The



- 105-                              Annex E
other units would have only 8 bit displays, which are sufficient for supportng ARC/INFO
Other hardware needed are:
(a)   one 2AO size digitizer;
(b)   one AO size digitizer;
(c)   one AO size 8 color pen plotter;
(d) one laser printer;
(e)   two PC486 system for data exchange with other PC GIS software and for
using PC based softwe such as Lotus 1-2-3, dBase, etc.; and
(f)   one color hardcopy device for screen prints.
All the above equipment should be connected in a local area network.
54. Additionally, the project would finance the follownng software:
(a)   ARC/INFO workstation license for three users (mcluding TIN, GRi1D and
ARCVMW); and
(b)   Various PC software (Lotus 1-2-3, d Base IV etc.).
55. A System Analyst, with background in computers and experience in operating system
software would be financed by the project.
Trn    of the CGIS Stai
56. Training courses would be organzed in Montevideo to train the staff who would be using
the CGIS. During the first phase of the project, the courses would cover the following areas:
(a)   Fundamentals of cartography (one week);
(b)   UNIX basics for ARC/INFO users (one week);
(c)   Principles of database management systems (two weeks);
(d)   Fundamentals and capabilities of GIS (one weeks);
(e)   ARC/INFO basic module (12 weeks);
(f)   ARC/INFO TIN module (two weeks);



- 106 -                             Annex E
(g)   ARC/INFO GRID module (two weeks);
(h) Applications of GIS to management of natural resources and land use planning
(10 weeks).
Shorter versions of the courses (iv) and (viii) would be organized for the natural resources
decision makers.
57.   Some of the courses could be taught by the staff from the Military Geographic Service
(course No. (i)), the Surveying Department (No. (i)), and the Computer Center (Nos. (ii) and
(iii)) of the University. The other courses would be taught by consultants 3 and 4 or
professional instructors.
58.   About 2 staff members from each of the four Institutions and the Directorate of Cadastre
would participate in these courses. Therefore the total number of participants will be about 10.
Of:ice Space Requirements of the CGIS
59.   The minimum space requirements of the CGIS is as follows:
(i)    Main computer room                      40
(ii)   A Storage and plotter room              15
(iii)    3 offices of 16 m2 each (for 6 staff)  48
Total                                 103  ri2
60.  In the space requirements it is assumed that the database manager position would be filed
by one of the applications staff and that the CGIS manager would not need an office, as it is
only a part time post and also he would already have an office at one of the four institutions
above. The system/digitzing operator would have a desk in the computer room.
Techbnical Aesistance
61.   During the first phase of the project one local and two international consultants would
be needed for the implementation of this project component in addition to the instructors and
Systems Analyst mentioned above. These consultants are:
62.   Consultant-1. This consultant would convert the strategic plan proposed in this document
into an action plan in case it is approved. He would be hired for about 6 weeks and would
prepare the TfORs of the other consultants.



- 107 -                            Annex E
63.   Consultant-2. Would be hired locally on a part-time basis for supervising the site
preparation and installation of the HW/SW. The System Analyst could probably carry out these
duties if he is hired sooner.
64.   Consultant-3. Would be an expert in ARC/INFO with some teaching experience, and
would be responsible for teaching ARC/INFO to applicatons staff and for developing the
database. The consultant would prepare a proposal and an action plan for the second phase of
CGIS development. He/she would be hired for about 7 months and should arrive in Montevideo
in time to check installation of the HW/SW for clearing their acceptance (in cooperation with
the Consultant-2 and the World Bank Office).
65.   Consultant-4. Would be an expert in the management of natural resources and land-use
planning with a minimum of two years of experience in the applications of ARC/INFO in these
areas. The consultant would teach courses in these areas and assist in doing a pilot project.
He/she would prepare a guidelines and a work plan for the CGIS for analyzing the natul
resource management problems in Uruguay which may require immediate action and the
definition of outlines of the GIS procedures for solving these problems. He/she would also
determine the new maps needed and make an estimate of the funds required for their production,
and make recommendations for the second phase of the CGIS. The consultant would be hired
for about 4 months.
E. TOTAL COST AND PHASING OF THE GIS COMIPONENTf
Acties and Cost of PhaseI
Activities
66.   A detailed action plan needs to be prepared by the Consultant-1. An outline of some
the Phase-I activities are given below to be able to define a rough timetable:
67. Hiring of Consultant-I for 6 weeks and Contracts for Acquisition of
Hardware/Software. Sometimes there are unexpected delays in the contracts procedures.
Therefore, the other activities below such as hirfag of the consultants and issuing the site
preparations contract should be held until approval of the HW/SW contract request. If
ARC/INFO and a particular Workstation make are selected, then it would be necessary to
request waiver of bids in favor of them.
68.   Site Preparation Contract for the CGIS Equipment. This could be a local contract.
69.   Contracts for the Consultant-2. the Systms Analyst and the instructors: and
Contracts for the Consultants 3 and 4. Consultant-2 should start about 2 weeks before
completion of the HW/SW installaton. Consultant-4 should start a few weeks before the
Consultant-i leaves so that he/she can be briefed by the latter.



-108 -                                           Annex E
70.    Aaining Coures. This is the main activity of Phase-I and should start shortly after
arrival of Consultant-3 and contimue at least on a half-day basis until deparure of Consultant-
4.
71.    Workshop for Decision Makers. It is important for decision makers to learn what
kinds of tools GIS provides for management of natural resources. It is probably best to
organize this workshop when both Consultants 3 and 4 are in Montevideo.
72.    Schedule of the activities are depicted in Figure-1 which also indicates the estimated
periods for the contracts procedures.
FAtimate Cost
73.    Budget estimates for the GIS are given in Tables 1 and 2 below:
TAble 1.
(USS)
1.    Persormel:
Consultants 1-4, Systems Analyst, Instructors           160.000
2.    Contracts:
i)   CGIS site preparation (raised floor, UPS, air
conditioning, office furniture, etc.,)                   25,000
ii)  CGIS Hardware (as listed in para. 53) and two years
of maintenance after expiry of the warranty             170,000
Mii) CGIS Software (ARC/INFO with TIN and GRID modules
for three workstations and upgrades for two years)      40,000
iv)  Upgrade of the VAX-II computer at the Directorate
of Hydrography and maintenance for two years            40,000
3.    Supplies:
Two years supply of plotter papers, pens, tape,
cartridges, etc.,                                       20,000
4.
Mid-term evaluation                                            24,000
5.    Strengthening of
i)   Directorate of Water                                     56,000
if)  Directorate of Territorial Distribution (NUOTMA)         56,000
iii) Directorate of Hydrography                               56,000
Sub-Total                                                    647.000
Physicat Contiasercies (5X)                                   32,350
TOTAL                                                  679,350
Acities and Cost of Phase II
74.    Towards end of Phase I an evaluation of the project should be carried out to
determine what should be done duriDg Phase II. The following activities and budget can be
consiered for this phase:



- 109 -                                       Annex E
Tablk 2.
cost
1.   Expanding tVe hardware and software of the CGIS:           85,000
2.   Consuttants/Instructors for further training of CGIS
users:                                                    14,000
3.   Study tours for CGIS users and the natural resources
decision makers (persons at USS6,000 each):               36,000
4.   New thematic maps:
- Consultant                                              15,000
- Satellite imagery                                       15,000
5.   Assisting digitizing of the Cadastral maps by providing:
- a consultant for development of an efficient procedure  15,000
- HardWare/Software                                       15,000
6.   Hardware maintenance contract for two years                50,000
7.   Software upgrades for two years                            20,000
8.   Supplies                                                    5,000
Stb-Totat                                                270,000
Physicat Contingencies (5OX)                              13,500
TOTAL                                            283,500
75. The total cost of Phase I and II of the component, including physical contingencies
would be approximately US$11.0 million.
F. ORGANZATION AND MANAGEMENT OF THE GIS
76.    The CGIS Would be managed by a board which would meet about every six  monts.
Members of the board would be appointed by the CGIS user institutions.
77.    The CGIS should have the following staff:
78.    Manager. This is a part-time post, which would be filled by one of the senior staff
members of the four insttutions using the CGIS. The Manager does not need to have
raining in computer science, but he/she would have to have a background in natural
resources. The Manager would report to the CGIS board. The post can be held on a
rotation basis by the staff of the four institutions. During the development phase the manager
would be assisted by the consultants hired.
79.      yms Analyst. Would be responsible for the technical maners related to operation
of the CGIS and would provide technical support, as well as training on the use of the
systm, to the application staff. The person responsible would have a background in
computer science and would be fhmiliar with the operating system software of the
workstion. He/she would report to the CGIS Manager. If not initially familiarized with
ARC/INFO, he/she would be trained by the project.



- 110 -                             Annex E
80.   Because of lack of staff, the post of the System Analyst could not be filled by the
staff of any of the four user institutions at the moment. However, the possibility of hiring
one of the staff of the University on a half-time basis for at least one year should be
considered.
81.   Database Manager. Would be responsible for development and maintenance of the
database. He should have a background in natural resource management, but would be
trained in ARC/INFO along with the applications staff.
82.   Applications Staff. They are the main users of the CGIS. They would apply GIS
techniques to the solution of natural resources management problems. These staff would be
selected from the GIS or Information System staff of the four user institutions and the project
would provide the training needed by them. They would act as liaison officers between the
CGIS and their respective institutions. Initially, only one staff member would be chosen
ftom each of the institutions, to reduce the office space requirements at the CGIS, although
more than one should attend the training courses. Applications staff would be trained to
digitize their maps if a digitizing operator is not available.
83.   stemdigitizin          . This is a general service type post. The operator would
assist the Systems Analyst in the day to day operation of the system and in making data
backups. He/she would also assist the application staff in digitizing maps. This is not an
essential post and its duties can be split between the Applications staff and the Systems
Analyst.
84.   The CGIS Manager and the Applications staff would be identified and appointed as
soon as the CGIS is approved by all parties. This staff would keep their current posts at
their respective institutions.



- ill -                            Annex F
URUGUAY
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT AND IRRIGATION
DEVE LOPMENT PROJECT
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT COMPONENT
I. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
1.    The Forestry Directorate intends to develop a 5-year program that would continue the
activities of the forestry component of Loan 3131-UR and that would include complementary
activities aimed at addressing the needs of a rapidly growing forestry sector. Implementation
of the technical assistance. training and institutional strengthening components progressed
well, partally due to FAO's management of the funds. Therefore, in this follow-up project,
that would follow along the Imes of the original project, would aim to complete the technical
assistance, training and institutional strengthening activities during the early phase of the
follow-up project, followed by the implementation of the applied research and
complimentary studies, as described below.
treugthening the Forestr Directorae
2.    The proposed institutional strengthening activities would involve a taining program
for the Forestry Directorate (FD) technical staff within MGAP, which would include 10
scholarships of up to six months each to improve expertise in Forestry, Pests and Diseases,
Forestry Management, Forest Economics, Timber Technology, and Forest Mensuraton, and
10 short-term scholarships (up to three months each) in complementary areas. The project
woud also provide:
(a) Technical equipment ar-d construction needs for the Toledo Technical Center
(specialized laboratonies, training center, germ plasm bank) and for the
Forestry Directorate regional offices and Montevideo headquarters;
(b)   Internaional Technical Assistance to strengthen the Forestry Directorate
technical units and the applied research program. This would involve 16 man-
months of select international consultants in areas such as Forest Grazing,
Forest Inventories, Pests and Diseases, Forest Fires, Forest Industries,
Genetics and Improvement, Land Reclamation and Environment Inpact; and
(c) National Technical Assistance to act as the counterpart of the international
consultants and to support the regular program of the Forestry Directorate and
the Project itself. For this purpose, 9 specialties with a total of 16 person-
months and 5 one-year scholarships would be provided during the length of the
project.



-112 -                             Annex F
SVrengthen  of the Ap-Iled Research Prorm
3.    This activity aims to provide the technical information needed to facilitate the
decision maldng process of the private sector and of the Forestry Directorate. Research
would be implemented by national and interational research agencies following the
adminisrative procedures set out by the first project. The main research areas would include
yield assessment with permanent plots, pests and diseases control, agro-sylvo-pastoral
systems, weed control, and timber technology and tansport.
TeWnical Assistance for Private Investors
4.    The project would provide:
(a)   Short-duration (i.e, 15 day) taining tours for 31 mid-level supervisors and
technicians. Training subjects would include: management of medium and
small-scale industrial units, wood harvesting techniques, and wood
preservation and drying.
(b) Overseas training of 25 specialized workers and 7 training courses in various
technical areas of the timber industry.
(c)   Local training by international instuctors giving short courses (5-6 days) for
professionals, technicians and workers in: the use of aerial photography in
inventories, forest evaluation, quality control, industial safety, mechanized
timber farming, pruning and tinning.
5.   In additon, the project would provide for the programming of trips abroad,
preparation of materials for technology transfer, local seminars with agricultural producers
and assistance of private missions coming from abroad. While only project costs are
inclhded in the cost tables, additional resources would also be provided by the private sector.
International Adveriffsement of the Sector
6.    The project would provide for a specialized technical team to prepare a strategy to
promote the Uruguayan forestry sector and products in select countries.
Pject 
7.    The Project would be implemented by the Forestry Directorate (DF/MGAP), which
would therefore be the national counterpart agency. An expert with international experience
will serve as the principal technical administr of the project.
I. INTRODUAICION AND BACKGROUND
8.   In 1990, under the World Bank's Second Agricultural Development Project, an
instittional strenging activity was initiated to help promote the establishment of a
critical mass of tree plantations in the country. That project (Loan 313 1-UR) was designed



- 113-                              Annex F
to: (a) assist forest owners to export forest products; (b) initiate the financial incentive
scheme provided in the forestry law; and (c) provide credit assistance for plantation
establishment and for the development of small industries. The project was also designed to
help facilitate costs of plantation establishment and improve the sector's technical and
economic understanding through technical assistance, training and applied research.
9.    The current administration formulated a forest development strategy that includes a
target to establish 200,000 ha of plantations in 5 years. The incentives provided for in the
current legislation-i.e., partial reimbursement of reforestation costs, tax and fiscal
incentives, two promotional credit lines, and a reforestation investment mechanism through
debt conversion-also became effective.
10.   The technical assistance, traing and technological transfer activities of
Loan 3131-UR got started through a project co-financed with UNDP and executed by FAO.
Since the beginning of this project, private investor response has been very positive: the area
planted annually has been increased as anticipated, from an historical average of 2,000 ha/yr
to 8,000 ha in 1990 and 10,000 ha in 1991. The estimates for 1992 and beyond appear to
confirm an increasing trend in activity. At the same time, the industrial sector has been
stimulated by the creation of a consortium of sawn timber exporters, the opening of new
markets for domestic sawn wood and logs, and the establishent of new industries.
11.   The Bank Project sponsored intational and national consulta to prepare research
programs, establish infonnation systems, produce technical discussion papers and manuals,
and participate in technology transfer seminars. The project also sponsored training in the
form of 29 scholarships for Umguayan professionals and 13 training courses for 500
workers. Under the project, the FD has acquired needed vehicles and other technical and
office equipment.
12.   After 26 months of effectiveness, roughly the entire program has been completed.
Those targets for research and training activities associated with wood processing and
industrialization were not completed due to the lack of trained specialists. Because of their
importance, these research and training activities will be carnied out through this follow-up
project.
13.   With the incentives and credit facilWies provided for by the Forestry Law, there has
been increased interest in the establishment of new plantations and in forestry sector
investments in general. To maintain its role as promoter and supporter of forestry
development, the Government must contnue to obtain more information on the economics of
forest farming and on wood processing technology, as well as on the real possibility of future
markets for wood and some of its byproducts. The Forestry Directorate must also improve
its capacity, including the regional offices to support this rapidly expanding sector and the
technical assistance demands made upon it. This accelerated development pace in the
forestry sector also makes it essential that training, technology generation and transfer,
research and dissemination of information be contued and expanded.
14.   With the termination of the UNDP/FAO Project in December 1992, and with it the
training, technology transfer and technical assistance activities sponsored by Project 3131,
the Government approved a new budget provision under which UNDP contributes



- 114 -                            Annex F
US$70,000 to allow for the continuation of the technical assistance, training and
dissemination activities for a period of 6 months, starting January 1993.
15.   Other essential forestry development activities, not included in project 3131-UR
would also need to be included in a follow-up project. Some of these activities correspond to
a contnuation of those being carried out to date under the Project, and new ones which begin
to appear as a consequence of the increased level of development of the forestry sector.
16.   The original Bank project comprised three basic lines of activities: (a) Institutional
Strengthening of the Forestry Directorate, (b) Private Sector Promotion and Assistance, and
(c) Applied Forestry Research. The continuation project proposes a group of activities
along similar lines to those of the first project, with the conviction that they lie within the
public sector jurisdiction for facilitating the development of the forestry sector.
mI. PROGRAM ACTIV1     UNDER THE -NATURAL RESOURE
MM-AGNfLENTE ANIRG~ATION DEVELOPNMENT PRJ_ECT
A. Strengthening the Foresty Directorate
17.   Under the first Bank Loan (3131-UR), the Forestry Directorate was highly successful
at attracting private investment in the private sector. Foreign promotional efforts were also
successful at attracting productive investments to Uruguay through the foreign debt
capitalization mechanism. Specifically, five reforestation projects to plant 60,000 ha at a
total cost of US$48.5 million-of which US$23.5 are covered through the exchange of
external debt securities for Treasy Bonds or BCU debt instruments-were approved in
1991. But because of this success, the demands for technical assistance from the Forestry
Directorate has increased enormously. A group of well-trained and properly equipped
professionals, with access to information sources, are needed to answer the technical
questions and to fulfill the duties that the Forestry Law requires of the Fortry Directorate
for this dynamic sector.
Tchnical EAuipment for the Foresry Directorate
18.   The project would provide for technical equipment for the Toledo Technical Center,
the regional offices and the Montevideo headquarters, as follows:
(a)   Toledo Technical Center. MGAP's Toledo Technical Center is located 18
km from Montevideo (Alejandro Gallinal Nursery). The Forestry Directorate
manages 50 ha and the following activities: forest seed distribution,
germplasm production, cold storage, and forest pests program. A technical
development plan has been outlined aimed at strengthening this program and to
improve the delivery of services to the Private Sector and carry out joint
activities for genetic improvement (seed bed gardens) and applied silviculture
with the National Institute for Agricultural Research (INIA). The project
would provide for a laboratory for seed analysis and certification, a forest
entomology and pathology lab, a training center, and experimental field



-115 -                              Annc F
equipment and material. Because this Center is an adequate place to offer
specialized training courses and demonstrations, technical workshops and field
symposiums at a lower cost and with greater facilities than those in other
places, it would be equipped for training. A total of US$158,450 has been
estimated to support the Toledo Technical Center.
(b) Strengthening of Regional Offices. With the increasing demands placed on
the Forest Directorate, the present regional offices, which stared operating in
February 1992, would need to be strengthened to cover the region (which
includes an area of 70,000 km2, one million ha of priority forest area, and a
radius of 250 km from Tacuaremb6). In particular, strengthening is needed
for technicians and equipment for the offices already established (Young -
Tacuaremb6 - Montevideo), thus avoiding the need to open new Regional
Offices. The Project would reiforce equipment for mobilization,
dissemination of information, audio-visual aids, processing and fles, library,
communications and technical equipment for on site measurement, and offices,
for an estimated total cost of US$60,000.
(c) Main Headquarters In Montevideo. In accordance with the Forestry Law,
and in consideration of the rapid increase in area planted (8,500 ha regisred
in the last season) in all parts of the country, a systemized national registry is
needed. The existing data bank does not satisfy the planning and decision
maaing needs of both the Public and Private Sector. To meet these needs, a
National Forest Inventory Office would be established to register and map the
locations and basic information (volumes, ages, growths and yields by species,
etc.) of plantations. The Project would support this Office through the
provision of initial basic equipment. The central headquarters would also be
equipped for extension and promodon activities (seminars, workshops, field
symposiums, talks) aimed at the private sector. Accordingly, costs of some
US$54,000 haver been estimated for the cental headquarters.
In total, the cost for equipping the Forestry Directorate is estimated at US$272,450, as
detailed in Table 1.
In-unonal Tecdical Assistance for tbe Forestr Directorate
19.   The protect would provide Technical assistance to:
(a)   transfer new technologies and specialized information to the Sector;
(b)   support and give direction to the Technical Units of the FD;
(c)   allow the continuity of the regular program while Uruguayan professionals are
trained abroad; and
(d)   strengthen applied research and local training.



- 116 -                            Annex F
20. The Project would include a total of 14 person-months of TA in technical specialties
such as Forest-Grazing, Agrofrestry, Forest Soils, Forest Inventories, Pests and Diseases,
Forest Farming, Transportation, Forestry Industries, Extension, Land Reclamation and
Enviromental Impact. The total budget for this category has been estimated at US$160,000.
21. The Land Reclamation responsibility, as provided for by Forestry Law No. 15939. is
one of the FD activities with a great volume of work. The planted aeas and the amount of
subsidies were as follows:
Area                     Amount of Subsidy
Planted       No. of        (roundfigures)
Year       (ba)        Projects           (US$)
1989        5,561        26              540,000
1990        7,000        40              240,000
1991       12,000        135            1,200,000
Estimated amount based on US$100/ha to be paid during 1992.
22.   Given the activity of the sector, there is an increasing need to be efficient in verfying
the field data with the present FD staff. A more efficient control methodology has already
been tested in the first project and will be consolidated in this follow-up project.
Naffonal Technical Assistance
23.   Together with international technical assistance, this activity is aimed to sregthen the
tecbnical capacity of the FD. This would involve the mobilization of specialized or
experienced national professional capacity to act as the counterpart of the proposed
internaional personnel to support the regular functions of the FD and to assist in the
management of the Project. The project would also anmnally hire 6 advanced students with
foresty specialization who would support the FD technical staff and at the same time gain
in-service training. This personmel would be selected through competitive contests and
background evaluation by an ad-hoc Selection Committee. The project would provide nine
specialties for a total of 16 person-months at an estimated cost of US$122,000.
Oater dE  suDport
24.   The project would provide for FD participation in international evens such as
Conventions, Seminars and Technical Meetings, generally organized by the United Nations
and specialized agencies (e.g., FAO's World Forest Congress, IUCN, COFO, FAO's Poplar
Committee), or other public and private international institutions, whose scope is the
development of forests and associated resources.



-117-                              Anns F
TrIn Of ED Thcl Stalu
25. A training program for FD professionals would be developed, consisting of short-term
scholarhips (up to 6 months) in specialized foreign centers, aimed at sharpening the
technical skills of FD staff. This is justified by the need to have a group of specialists
capable of handling the increasingly complex and demanding workload of the forestry sector.
The project would include 10 study programs of up to 6 months (Silviculure, Pests and
Diseases, Forestry Mangement, Forest Economics, Wood Technology, Forest Measurement
and Inventories, and Extension Methods), and 10 study programs of up to 3 months each
(Data Collection and Analysis, Forest Products Marketing, Photo Intepretation, Simuation
Models, Agroforesty Systems, Soils, and Watershed Management).
B.  9rengthin the Applied Parcb Program
26.   Uruguay is far from having sufficient information on applied technologies for site
specific production and planting systems, plantation management, wood processing, and
transportation and marketing. And the technological advances that have been made are not
reWadily available to the public. The objectives of the Applied Research Program therfore
are to: provide the technical information needed for the decision making process of the
Directorate itself, assist the private sector with key production information and build a data
bank to alow for technical improvements, both at the level of forest farming and at the wood
utilization level. In general, this Program intends to provide a readily accessible database,
capable of delivering locally verified information and rtco endations, thus avoiding
unproven "foreign prescriptions" as much as possible.
27.   The first project under Loan 3131-UR initiated a series of silvicultural reseach
initiatives. Currently, ten species selection and production trials are being implemented with
the participation of local research agencies. The PD has prioritized lines of work where the
epected information may be useful to the greatest mnmber of users and in the minimum
possible time, where possible using participation and cooperation mecbanisms with the direct
beneficiaries of the infbrmation (i.e., private sector). For this, a close Forestry Directorate:
Private Sector working relationship was initiated (as summarized in the following table), and
which will be strengthened by the continuation project.
28.   Division of Responsibilities for Rsearch Activities:
Directorate of Forestry                   Private Sector
Preparation of experiental design and  Manpower, installatio, upkeep and
operation manual                       maintennce
Research areas                         Heavy equipment, land preparation
Technical direction, meaurement and    Other inputs
monitoring
Measuring equipment and some inps



- 118-                              Annex F
29.   In addition, the project would include a series of studies (product transportation,
forestry directorate and markets) designed to support the research program. This would also
include research activities related to permanent plots, pests and diseases in Pines and
Eucalyptus, drying of sawed eucalyptus and pine lumber, frost resistance in eucalyptus
varieties, effect of plantations on soil, and support of graduation thesis in the University of
Uruguay School of Agronomy. National capacity would be sought for the implementation of
these activities, however, the bidding would also be opened for international experts. The
total cost of this activity is estimated at US$175,000.
C. Technical AssIance for the Producer Sector
30.   During the development of the first project, Tecbnical Assistance activities to the
private sector focussed on the grouping of companies for commercial goals (e.g., creation of
an export consortium) or as producer groups with shared management, once the development
stage was achieved. Service companies (production of plants, planting services, fire control,
germplasm center) were also strengthened, visits abroad were organized, and field days and
technical seminars were conducted. These activities were designed to support the training
needs of mid-level leaders in the primary industrial sector, transfer technologies and search
for external and complementary supports. But the private forestry sector is made up of
actors with very different characteristics and needs. While some international companies are
setting up operations using high technology, the majority of operations are medium and small
size entrepreneurs just stardng this activity and others who historically have worked towards
the local market only. These operations are now faced with the need to incorporate new
technologies that would make them competitive with international markets. The continuation
project would provide the needed technical support to these evolving forestry enterprises,
under a cost sharing arrangement.
31.   Specifically, the project would support:
(a) Training of mid-level swpervisors and technicians. This would involve study
tours (of approximately 15 days) organized and scheduled by the project in
coordination with local companies and host enterprises (e.g., Wood
Corporation of Chile, Wood Industrialists of South Africa, Brazil, etc). The
project would organize the study program in coordination with the host
enterprises and would finance the travel expenses. The Uruguayan company
would pay per diem (including health insurance and contingencies) of the
trainee during the stay abroad. The project would train 31 participants at an
estimated cost of US$11,600. Training subjects would include: operation of
medium sized sawmills, harvest management, drying of sawn timber,
chipping, box and pallet plants, and other medium and small industrial
processes;
(b)   Technical training of select manpower. The project would support the
technological upgrading of industial units through the training of operators.
Specific technical skills would be acquired in specialized training centers.
Seven training courses of a duration of about 40 to 60 hours each would be



-119 -                               Annex F
provided, at an approximate cost of US$28,300. The Uruguayan company
would cover the expenses for the travel and per diem costs. Training would
involve bandsaw use, crosscut saw use, sharpening and maintenance
workshops, dryer operation and maintenance, and operation of planers;
(c)   Training of personnel in Uruguay. It is expected that some training activities
will be conducted in-country, with the assistance of international instructors.
This would be short- term courses (5-6 days each) in subjects (e.g., aerial
photography for forest inventories, forest inventory, quality control in forest
products, industrial safety, chain saws operation, and pruning and thinning
techniques) of interest to professionals, mid-level technicians and workers
directly involved with the producer sector. An attendance of 8-10 persons per
course is expected. The project would finance the participation of the
instructor, help with the production of teaching material, and the coordination
and administration of the course. Producer groups or companies would fund
transportation and per diem for their participants. The cost of this activity is
estimated at US$20,000;
(d)   Study Tours. The project would sponsor study tours to familiarize producers
with the experience in other countries, facilitate contacts with similar
enterprises, and facilitate the participation in specialized seminars, exhibitions
and equipment shows. A total cost (if US$34,000 is estimated for this activity,
which includes 2 industry shows, 4 specialized seminars and 2 scheduled trips;
(e)   Extension aid Dissemination. The project would support the preparation of
technical publications and the dissemination of technical manuals, booklets and
leaflets, prepared by the Technical Units of the FD. These publications would
provide instructions on current technologies useful to producers, technicians
and professionals in the sector. Material related to pine, eucalyptus and poplar
silviculture, wood technologies, products markets, ferdlizers, pest control, fire
prevention, and industrial safety would be prepared and disseminated. The
periodical "Uruguay Forestal' would also be strengthened and videos and
audiovisual aids designed to promote domestic and foreign investments. The
total esfimated cost for this activity is US$50,000;
(f)   Local Seminars with Aericultural Producers. The project would sponsor the
preparation and coordination of reforestation seminars for traditional
agricultural producers, designed to interest them in forestry-for-profit activities
on their land. Through seminars, round table discussions and workshops, a
substantial number of landowners and livestock owners in each Department
would be provided with information on: the Forestry Law, characteristics of
available credit, international forest products market, and rate of reurn on
forest investments. The project would provide the relevant written material,
audio-visual aids, transportation and per diem allowance for international
personnel. There would be at least one meeting per Department dunng the
life of the Project. The estimated cost of this activity is US$19,000; and



-120 -                             Annex P
(g) Private missions from abroad. Along with the growth of the Uruguay forest
sector, its promotion abroad and PD's attendance at several international
forums, there has been a rapid increase in the number of technical and
commercial missions from abroad who wish to be informed on what is going
on in the country. In most cases, the FD acts as host and, because this
responsibility is expected to increase, then will be an increasing need to hire
services, prepare briefing kits and provide ad-hoc counterparts. At an
estimated cost of US$10,000, the project would support this activity.
D. Promotion Abroad of the ForestR Sector
32.   A balanced development of the Forestry Sector requires a promotional effort to
interest foreign companies to invest in plantations and industries and to purchase Uruguayan
forestry products. To facilitate this process, the project would contract specialists to:
(a)  identify key countries to receive advertisement information;
(b)   prepare a marketing strategy for key counties;
(c)   prepare meetings and promotional materials; and
(d) train FD staff on public relations methods.
33.   A consultant would evaluate the situation in different countries and identfy those
having a nartual financial or market advantage for making joint investments. Based on the
results of tis first stage, a markedng strategy would be developed to reach each of these
markets. For this, promotional materials and audiovisual aids would be prpared, and
seminars and meemngs would be coordinated. The project would also sponsor
communication skills training for staff of the FD, the Foreign Service and the Foreign Trade
office (of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs). This acdvity is estimated to cost US$120,000.
n. PRQJECR MANAGEMENT
34.   This 5-year program would be implemented by the FD, which would nominate a
national coordinator. A senior technical advisor would be contracted for the duration of the
project to help the PD National Coordinator manage the technical and financial aspects of the
program. The current agreements with the School of Agronomy (URU) and the National
Forestry Corporation (Chile) would be continued and strengthened, both of which have
proven to be very effective. Likewise, similar mechanisms of cooperation should be sougbht
to incorporate other national and interational institutions (e.g., IBDF/Brazil, SF/Canada,
SF/South Africa, ICONA/Spain, INIA-LAT/Uruguay, and IF/SERCOTEC/CIDERE/Chile)
qualified and willing to assist the project.
V. COST'
35.   Esdmated costs for the forestry development activities are presented in Table 1 below:



URUGUAY
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT AND IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 1. Foresty Develonment: Detiled Costs
Totals ncluding Contingencies                   Brdowrn of Totals Including Contingencies  Sunmary Divisions
(US$'000)                                             (US$'000)
Local    Duties
Foreign  (Excluding    &                       Expendire
Year I    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6    Total   Exchange   Taxes)    Taxes      Total Componem  Account
I.   bnesmn Coss
A. Consuawies
Senior Adviser          64.0    131.9    136.0        -         -         -        331.9    298.7      33.2      -         331.9    FO         TA
Studies/Research         5.3      27.5      52.1      60.8     56.6      -         202.3      -       202.3      -         202.3    FO       STUD
Speciaists (INTERN)     -         66.0      54.4      42.1      57.8     -         220.3    198.2      22.0      -         220.3    PO         TA
Specalist (NACION)      -         11.0       8.5       8.8      15.1     15.5       58.8      53.0       5.9     -          58.8    FO         TA
Sub-total                    69.3    236.4    251.1      111.6    129.5       15.5     813.3    549.9    263.4        -         813.3
B. Taininx
Workhops                86.9    139.5    130.8        87.1    107.2       -        551.5    220.6    330.9       -         551.5    PO         TR
Study Tours             -         26.4      27.2      28.0     28.9      29.8      140.4      56.1     84.2      -         140.4    PO         TR
On-d.e-jobTraining      -         19.8      20.4      21.0     21.7      22.4      105.3     42.1      63.2      -         105.3    PO         TR
Sub-total                   86.9    185.7    178.4    136.1    157.8         52.2      797.1     318.8    478.3       -        797.1
C. Baui2Dtm
VebIcles                42.7      22.0      22.7      -         -        -          87.3     69.8      17.5      -          87.3    PO        VH
Office Equipmem         14.9      30.8      26.1      -         -        -          71.8      50.2     12.9       0.6       71.8    FO         EQ
Computers               17.6      -         -         -         -        -          17.6     12.3       3.2       2.1       17.6    FO         EQ
Labs                    38.4      -         -         -         -        -          38.4     26.9       6.9       4.6       38.4    FO        EQ
Pild Equipment           8.5      -         -         -        -         -           8.5      6.0       1.5       1.0        8.5    FO        EQ
Sub-total                   122.1     52.8      48.7      -         -         -        223.6    165.2      42.0      16.4      223.6
Total Investment Costs          278.3    474.8    478.2    247.7    287.3         67.7   1,834.0   1.034.0    783.7       16.4    1.834.0
U. Recuwrent Costs
A. Onaut  Costs
Office Rental           -         -         13.0      13.4     13.8      14.2       54.3      -        54.3      -          54.3    FO        OFR
Mministrstion           -         -         16.8      17.4     17.9      18.5      70.6       -        70.6      -          70.6    FO        0TM
Sub-oal                      -        -         29.8      30.7      31.7     32.7      124.9      -        124.9     -         124.9
B. Maw1                      5.1       7.3      16.2      16.7      17.2     17.8       80.3      16.1     56.2       8.0       80.3    FO        TV
C. Vehicles 0&M              12.2     18.9      32.4      33.4      34.4     35.5      166.8      66.7     63.4      36.7      166.8    FO        VOM
Total Recurnt Costs              17.3     26.2      78.4      80.8      83.3      85.9     372.0      82.8    244.5      44.7      372.0
TOTAL                           295.6    501.0    556.6    328.6    370.7    153.6   2,206.0   1,116.8   1,028.2         61.1    2,206.0                          a



- 122 -



- 123 -                                              Annex G
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMN AND RRIGATION
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Suqna of Proposed New Medium-Sized I&D Schemes
(Prelimnary Estimates)
Irr ed                             US            Statu  f
PBOJea                              Locati        Arear (ta)           Crop            c(0           Peration
JUMECML          Cooperabtve         Me91a-                 1,300      Orchards           5,500 w       Feasibilhy
Jumecal             Montevideo
FRAILE          Fames' Woking        Fale Muerto-           4,000      Rice, maize,       2,600  !      Pre-
MUfI            ILague F.M.          Cerro Largo                       fornge                           feasibility
ROMAN           Coopeative           Tres Bocas             1,400      Rice, maize,       1,800   '     Peasibiliq
GRANDE           CADYL               Rio Negro                         forage
COLOWNIA         Prduces of          Colonia Rubio            400      Rice, maize,         S0o         prliary
RUn O           Colonia Rubio        Salto                             forage                           design
CUBNCA           Prducers Grup       Santa Lucia              n/a           ttia          1,200         Draft
SrA. LUCIA                           Microegion                                                         proposal
CALSAL          Cooperative          Salto                  1,000      Rice, maize,       1,200         Dft
CALSAL                                                fomge                            proposal
CALCE            Cooperative         Carmelo                  300      Hortiultual,       1,500   '     Preliminar
Col. Esuefla        Colonia                           maize, forage                    proposal
VALDENSE         Soc. Fomnent        Col. Valdense            300      Horticultur.a      1,500  ?      P mny
Col. Valdense       CoIonia                           maize, forage                    proposal
SAN PEDRO       Coopeve              San Pedro              1,000      Maize, forage,     1,000         Prelinary
San Pedro           colotoa                           horticulura                      proposa
CERRILLOS        Producers Group     Cerrillos              1,000      Horticlural        2,500         Preimiay
Candones                                                           proposal
COLONIA          Pwducers Group      Col. Wilson              400      Ho ral             1,500         Pie-
WILSON                               San Jos6                                                           feasibiliy
CALOL            Cooperadve          Ombues de                300      Maize, forage,     I 1,0  v      Preliminary
Ombues de Lavafle    Lavalle - Col.                   hordaulual                       pmposa
CALPANDO        Cooperative Pado    Pando                     200      Hordcultural       1,000  v'     Prelay
Caneones                                                           Proposal
T. TiES         Olimar Iigaton       Treinta y Tis          3,750      Rice               3,000   '     Preliminay
Board                                                                                  proposal
YUCUTWA          Poducrs Group       Artipas                1.000      Rice               120           Prelmiary
PWO
CALE"LC          Cooperaive          Colorado                 200      Hordcultural       1,000   '     Plimay
Colorado            Calenoles                                                          proposal
CADOL            Cooperative         Dolores                  300      Maie, forage,      1,000   '     Prelminy
Dolores             Soiano                            hoticultura                      proposal
UFRUCA          Fruit Growers        Juanico                 500       Owhards            2,000         Prelm
Coopertv            Canelones                                                           proposal



-124 -                                               Annex G
Irrigated                         USS        ,   at  oa
fo4ecBe__          dk__ r_es        Locatola      Area/Yenr ()        Crops            ('00)        Preparatiok
CONCORDIA    Producers Group        Soriano                  200      Hornculrtau         800   '      Preim
proposal
LOS CEMBOS    Civil Societ          Teintia y Tres         1,200      Rke               1.000          F easility
Los Ceibos
DELLEPIANE    Delepline Bros.       Tuinta y Ties            g00      Re                  210      __s
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ I  I__ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _  design
TOTAL                                                  I19,550        -33.010
1/ Total project cosL
a2  Cost of works and communal equipmeexclusively.



-125 -                             Annex H
URUGUAt
NATURAM RESOURCES MANAGEMENT AND IRRIGATION
DEVELOPIMENT PROJECT
SELECTION CRIERIA FOR I&D SURPROJECTS
A. GENERAL FEATU
1.    The proposed Natural Resources Management and Irrigation Development Program
would finance: (i) minor I&D works (i.e., with an investment under US$250,000), and (ii)
medium size I&D works (with an investment above $250,000), up to an aggregate amount of
about US$12.7 million equivalent.
2.    The present project manual refers to the selection criteria to be applied to those
subprojects conaining construcon and/or rehabilitation of minor and medium size civil
works (SAR paras. 2.26-2.29), thus:
(a)   Selection of subprojects with access to pre-investment funds to finance
feasibility studies. Said studies will be a pre-requisite to possible financing of
subproject design and execution; and
(b)   Selection of subprojects which would involve the constuction of new or the
improvement and rehabilitation of existing I&D infrastructre, and whose
design and execution will be financed with funds from the Natural Resources
Management and Irrigation Development Project (PRENADER).
3.    All I&D subprojects would be prioritized according to the potential beneficiaries'
interest and their commitment to have an active participation, even cofinancing, in the
execution of the studies and the construction of I&D infrastructure.
4.    The Project Executing Unit (UEP) will prepare and standardize the necessary
background information of all subprojects meeting the application requisites, to be submitted
to the Intministeral Coordinating Committee (CCI) for further consideration by this body.
Based on the selection criteria described in the present document, CCI will approve and the
Bank will review, the proposals to be executed annually within the project. For that purpose
the Bank and CCI will hold annual programming meetings as part of the annual project
reviews.



- 126 -                            Annex H
13. SELECT10 OF PROIECT PROPOSALS FOR  RE-INVESTMENT FUNDS
5.    The Regional Offices (OREMI) of the Ministries of Transportation and Public Works
(MTOP) and Livestock, Agriculture and Fisheries (MGAP), will receive the investment
proposals for l&D subprojects to be submitted by both, the private sector and the regional
offices of govertnment agencies requiring pre-investment funds to carry out the cotresponding
feasibility studies. Following a technical report from the Regional Irrigation Boards
(regarding technical and engineering aspects and agricultural matters), the OREMIs will
jointly analyze the proposals and send them with their report to CCI through the UEP for
further consideration and analysis. All investment proposals will include a project profile
with the basic data as indicated in the rules which the UEP will publish to that effect. Under
the overall coordination of UEP, the Regional Offices of MGAP and MTOP will have
updated information on average I&D infrastructure construction costs, production costs,
yields and agricultural prices in order to make a fast verification of the project information
submitted by the interested parties.
Pre-Requisites for Pre-Investment Funds
6.    Application for pre-investment funds may only be submitted for those proposals
having a project profile approved by the UEP, with the advice of the Regional Irrigation
Boards, and a feasibility analysis of the water use rights performed by MTOP (i.e., DH),
also advised by the Regional Irrigation Boards. Environmental impact assessment would be
carried out under the supervision of UEP in collaboration with DGRNR and DINAMA (SAR
paras. 2.69, 2.70 and 2.87). Projects in the protected area committed by Uruguay in the
1971 RAMSAR Treaty, may not apply.
Selection of Suboroect Proposals
7.    Based on the background information submitted by the interested parties, CCI will
decide every year which sub-projects will receive project funds to carry out the
corresonding feasibility studies. To make that selection, CCI will apply the criteria for
assignment of points and selection defined in the Table attached to this document. Rejected
proposals may be re-submitted, if appropriate.



- 127 -                                           Amex H
Tamle 1. Sledoni Cd}tera of klsatio  IR"jecs in
TI andng for Fesiity Studies
Requirements previous to the          1.  Profile ot projects approved by regional Jurisdiction
feasibility stu*d               2.  Feasibilit  of u e ri gts
Selection             Appraisal          Points                   Qualification Concepts
Criteria            _ (X          __         _      _   ___ _ _ _ _ _ _____                   _   _
1. Local Interest               20               20         Contributizons of mwre than 508  of the study
- Contrfbution                                           cost by beneficiaries and/or community,
towards cost of                                        municipat and regional funds.
study                                       15         Contributions of more than 30X of the study
cost by beneficiaries, and/or commufty,
municipal and regional funds.
10        Contributions of more than lOX of the study
cost by beneficiaries and/or community,
municipal and regional funds.
5        Contributions of loss then IOX of the study
cost by beneficiaries and/or coomunity,
municipal and regional funds.
O        Beneficiaries, the cam,unities, the
municfpalities, or the region make no
t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~contributions for the stud cost.__
2. Erwironmental                10                10        Ninimum to none envirormental impacts are
Aspects                                                  foresen.
- Limitations                                  5         Negative environmental impacts of easy
for                                                    sotutfon are foreseen.
envi roremntal                               0         Negative enviromentat inpacts of complex
impact                                                 solution are foreseen.
Note: Projects
inctuded in the
RANSAR, 1971 area
will not be accepted.
3. Economics                    10                                                                Cost per
Aspects                                                                                           MS._H
- Investment cost                             10         New work                                2.000
as per profile                                         Rehabilitation                            S00
(US$111)                                    6          New Work                               d.OO
Rehabilitation                         <1.000
3         New Uork                               *.00
Rehabilitation                         <2.000
0         Mew Work                               >4.000
Rehabilitation                         >2.000
4. Social Aspects               20                10        Project will benefit more than 500 properties
- Property                                               or families
directly                                     6         Project will benefit more than 300 propertfes
benefitted                                             or families
3         Project will benefit more than 100 properties
or families
0         Project will benefit less than 100 properties
or families
- Number of direct                            10         More than one beneficiary per irrigated Ha.
beneficiaries                                6         More than 0.7 beneficiaries per irrigated Ha.
by area                                    3          More than 0.5 beneficiaries per irrigated Ha.
0         Less than 0.5 beneficiaries per irrigated Ha.



- 128 -                                              Annex H
Tabte   Selection Criteria of b   atlon Projects Requiring
.ancin&   for Feaibility Studies
Setectian              Apptaissl            F                         ualiftcation Concepts
Criteria    _             (1)         _                   _ l
5. Technical Aspects             10                   5           Studies of Less than 5 years, with
- Quality and                                                  reliable information.
reliabitity of                                  3            Studies of more than 5 years, with
previous                                                     reliable information.
studies.                                        1            Insufficient information about the
project.
O           There is no technical information of
the project.
- Interference
with existing                                   5            There is no interference with any
infrastructure                                               infrastructure.
3           ProJect affects less important
infrastructures.
I           Project affects infrastructures of
easy replacement.
0           Project affects highways, basic
.______________  _services    towns.
6. Legal Aspects                 10                   5           Usage rights established or under
- Usage rights                                                 negotiations.
0           Possibility of establishing right
5           Complex expropriations are not
exp)ected.
0           Complex expropriations are expected.
7. Specific Aspects              20                  10           Great interest of the Goverment in
of Planning                                                    the human beneficiaries.
- Benefited                                       6            Beneficiaries are iportant to the
sectors                                                      Government
3           Beneficiaries are not a priority for
the Government.
0           No interest of the Government for the
beneficiaries.
- Regional                                        10           Nigh influence in the general
Priority                                                     development of the region.
6           Moderate influence in the general
development of the region.
3           Low influence in the general
development of the region.
0           No influence in the general
development of the region.
C. CRITERMA FOR THE SELCION OF PROJECTS TO BE EXECUTED WT
FUNDS FROM TE NAUA RESOVRCES MANAGEMENT AND
IRRIGATION DEVELOPmENT PROGRAM
PiVedures
8.    The UEP will submit to CCI annually the background information on subprojects
competg for the investment resources.  The proposals selected from  that group will be
financed with project funds duing the following year. This financing will include the final
design and the execution of the work.



-129-                               Annex H
(a)   Only those sub-projects with a feasibility study and a study on environmental
impact may participate in the selection process for construction and
rehabilitation funds. Both studies must be duly approved by MTOP's
Hydrography Directorate and MGAP's Soils and Waters Directorate, with the
technical assistance of the Irrigation Boards;
(b) All sub-projects must be economically (social prices) and financially (private
prices) feasible. The economic (social) return rate must be equal to or higher
than 12%;
(c) Only those sub-projects whose designs and operational and maintenance plans
meet the requirements and propositions contained in the corresponding studies
on environmental impact, will be considered;
(d) Only those sub-projects having the support of the potential beneficiaries, tacitly
expressed in a letter of intent and with a good organizational level of the users
expressed in some form of juridical existence, will be considered; and
(e)   Only those sub-projects whose feasibility studies clearly specify the degree of
orgnization of the beneficiaries and their capacity to manage, operate and
maintain the anticipated works, identify the possible limitations they may
encounter and propose possible solutions, will be considered.
ldon Cdteda
9.    The net benefit/inversion ratio (N/K)1 will be calculated for those sub-projects
meeting the previously stated pre-requisites. Thereafter, sub-projects will be ranked by
decreasing number of points, accepting all those that may be financed with investment funds
available for the construction period of the projects. The availability of investment funds
will be established by CCI in accordance with the mles developed by the Planning and
Budget Office and the Ministry of Economy and Finance.
10.   The Government may exempt from the fulfillment of these rules those sub-projects
located in poor rural areas.2 However, these exceptions may not involve more than 30% of
the investment funds allocated to Small Farmers' I&D Schemes.
1.    The esumate of values will be made with the socia pces defined by MGAP on the occasion of the
MERCOSUR Project, updated according to what may haWen staring in 1992.
2.    The poor nura areas will be detrmined by MGAP, based on the criteria defined by the RIDA mission
of August 1992.



-131-                               Anna I
URUGUAY
NATURAL    OURCES MAND IRRIG4TION
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INSTITUTIONAL RMEWORK
A. PUBLIC INSTITUTIONS
Mnisftr of Agriculture (MGAP)
1.    The Directorate of Soils and Water (Direcci6n de Suelos y Aguas (DSA) within the
General Directorate of Natural Resources (DGRNR) of the Ministly of Agriculture (MGAP))
was created in 1967, under a different name, and slightly modified in 1981. Its main
objective is to promote and regulate both utilization and conservation of soil and surface
water involved in the process of agricultural production. The most important activities of
this office have been: a) Soil and water evaluation: (i) in 1976 a soil map at 1:1.000.000
scale was produced for Uruguay as a whole, and since then several parts of the country were
mapped at 1:250.000 and 1:100.000 scales, (ii) special cartography maps were prepared at
1:20.000 scale for the country as a whole with soil associations, these being the basis for a
land tax system applied since 1978; and (iii) as a result of the Soil Conservation law (Ley
15,239) passed by Parliament in 1990, the registry of land under cropping, the evaluation of
erosion problems in cropping areas and the organization of a soil and water conservation
campaign, have been the main actvities undertaken. b) Research and extension activities: (i)
some research on water management has taken place in the Research Station of Ags
Blancas; (ii) there has been very little research on soil management; several extension
activities, mainly related to soil conservation and soil management have been undertaken
tbrough TV programs, field days and short seminars. c) Soil. water and plant analysis: there
are laboratories providing services to any farmer or institution requiring this kind of analysis.
d) Quality control: imported and domestic fertlizers are checked once they get into the
commercial system; and irrigation equipments are controlled through the granting of import
permits. The total staff of DSA includes 35 agronomists, 9 of them with post-graduate
degrees, 15 technicians, 29 field workers and 31 administrative staff.
2.    The Foresty Directorate (Direcci6n Forestal (DF)) of MGAP deals with the
promotion of forestry development, the planning of forest resources use, the promotion of
forest plant and seed production, the provision of technical assistance to private and public
institutions, the administation of public forests and the protection of forests against any kind
of damage such as fires, pests and others. Law 15939 in 1987 created a Forestry Fund to
finance forestry development and a Honorary Commission for the Administration of the
Forestry Fund, integrated by the Diretor of DF, one delegate from MGAP and one delegate
of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. In 1988 when loan UR-3131 with World Rank
was signed, an executing urit was created within the DF for the implementation of the
project. This executing unit has the main office in Montevideo and three offices in Young,



- 132 -                             Annex I
Tacuarembo and Montevideo, each of them staffed with director, 2 agronomist and 3
clercal workers. The total staff of DF including the Executive Director, consist of 22
agronomist specialized in forestry matters, 9 technicians and 191 clerical officers.
M1nitr of  nort and Public Works
3.    The National Directorate of HEdrography (Direcci6n Nacional de Hidrograla (DNH))
of the Ministry of Trnsport and Public Works (Ministerio de Transporte y Obras PNblicas
(MTOP)) has the power given by law 14.859 (C6digo de Aguas) to issue, modify and
withaw, water utilization rights. Water rights are handled by the Division of Hydrological
Resources (Divisi6n de Recursos Hidricos (DRH)). The DRH office has 4 departments, one
of which is the Department of Water Administration (Departamento de Administraci6n de
Aguas (DAA)) whose main responsibilities are the analysis of water utilization, the provision
of permits and authorizations, and the monitoring of water utilization rights, per basin. This
department has 5 regional offices in Artigas, Tacuaremb6, Cefro Largo, Rocha and Treinta y
Tres, and has 7 agronomists and 13 administrative staff. The Department of Hydrology of
DRH (Departamento de Hidrologia (DepH)) is responsible for the inventory and evaluation
of water resources and is staffed with 12 employees some of them at professional level. The
Divsion of Hydraulics and Rivers (Divisi6n Hidriulica y Fluvial (DHF)) through the
Deparment of Public Works (Departamento de Obras (DO)) is responsible for the execution
of works projected by any public office in the field of water management. Its staff includes
2 civil engineers and 7 technicians and administrators. The DRH collects no money from the
private sector. The DO collects money from farmers using water facilites which are public
property for irrigation purposes.
M-initryof Itdusbgy and Energy (MIE)
4.    The NationalDirectorate of Minin and Geology (Direcci6n Nacional de Mineria y
Geologia (DINAMIGE)) is institutionally located within the Ministry of Industry and Energy
(ME). There are two divisions, one responsible for ground water and the other for
geological studies and drilling activities. DINAMIGE bas a small laboratory for analyzing
water quality, mainly chemical aspects. They can't perform complete water quality analysis
for irigation purposes. The total staff amounts to 25 persons, 5 of them having university
degrees. There are 7 complete drilling equipments which are used for water exploitation.
nt  of Hou
5.    The National Directorate for the Environment (Direcci6n Nacional de Medio
Ambiente (DINAMA)) is part of the Ministry of Housing, Territorial Organization and
Enviromnent (Ministerio de Vivienda, Ordenamiento Territorial y Medio Ambiente
(MVOTMA)) recently created by Law 16.112 of 1992. DINAMA has responsibility in the
control of water resources quality and industrial liquid efluents. Protection of Ecosystems is
also under DINAMA responsibility. DINAMA is still poorly staffed and total budget is very
small compared to other ministries.



- 133 -                             Annex I
Natioal Commision for the Development of the Sant Luia River Bai
6.    The National Commission for the Development of the Santa Lucia Basin (Comisi6n
Honorara pan el Desarrollo de la Cuenca de Santa Lucia (CHDCSL)) is a honoraiy
commission created on December 1990 by the President of the Republic through Decree
581/990. Its objective is to promote sustainable regional development through coordination
of activities with the various public offices taking action in the Santa Lucia Basin. This
basin is very important in terms of water supply for human consumption and location of
major industrial plants. Also most dairy and horti-fruticultural activities take place within
this basin. The Honorary Commission is integrated by a staff of young professionals, and is
technically supported by the Office for Planning and Budgeting and the Ministry of
Agriculture. There is no hired staff and no budget supporting the Commission's activities.
The main office is in Montevideo and there is an additional office in the city of Santa Lucia.
B. REGIONAL IRRIGATION BOARDS
7.    There are no water users' organization apart from the Regional Irrigation Boards
(Juntas Regionales de Riego (JRR)) where public delegates, water users' representatives and
delegates from the non-irrigation farmers organization, deal with provision of annual water
right demands by farmers. They were created in 1970 by Decree 442 which establishes that
the presidency should be held by the delegate from MTOP and there should be one delegate
from MAPPI two delegates of the water community and two delegates of farmer unions.
The main tasks of JRR are to coordinate fair distnbution of water rights, be the arbiter when
problems related to water use are present, assist MTOP on the provision of water rights to
new demanders, assist both MTOP and MGAP about any investment involving creation of
new water supplies, help MTOP in keeping good records of water management projects in
the area under their responsibility. There are 6 JRR in Uruguay: Artigas, Tacuaremb6,
Yaguar6n, Treinta y Tres, Rocha and Montevideo; the latter covers the southern part of the
county. JRR have no budget at all and they do not take any action apart from advising
public and private institutions on issues under their responsibilities.
C. IPRODUCIION SUPPORT SERVICES
Institute of Aricultural Research (INIA)
8.    There are several public and private institutions involved in agricultural and forestry
research. The most important of them is the Institute of Afgcultural Research (Instituto
Nacional de Investigaci6n Agropecuaria (INIA)), involved in agricultural research and its
appLication to the Uruguayan agricultural sector. INIA is the successor to the various
research instutes that have worked under MGAP on agricultural production matus since
the beginning of this centry. In the early stages, these institutions gave priority to research
programs on crop production, with partcular emphasis on wheat production. Ia Fstanzuea,
located in the best cropping area in the country, was the only research ceter at that time. In
1958 research was radically reorganized and several new programs were started mainly in the



- 134 -                              Annex I
field of crop-pasture rotation and animal production. In 1968 another reorganization took
place and new research centers were created which started working with new products, such
as the rice in the Treinta y Tres research station, horticultural and fruit production research
in Las Brujas, and citrus research programs in Salto Grande. INIA was created in 1989 by
law 16065 as a public institution without being part of the public a ation system
(Entidad P6blica no Estatal). Both staff and research centers formerly belonging to the
Center for Agricultural Research (CIAAB) of MGAP, were transferred to INIA.
9.    The main objectives of INIA are: (i) to formulate and execute research programs that
generate new technologies and adapt them to the Uruguayan agricultural conditions; (ii) to
promote scientific and technological activities within the institution and in coordination with
other institution involved in agriculural research; and (iii) to effectively transfer new
knowhow to farmers through public and private extension and technical assistance agencies.
At present, INIA has 5 Research Stations, spread throughout the various agricultural regions
of the country. Research programs are classified in four areas: crop production, aninal
production, horti-fruticultural production and forestry production. In each area there are
several programs. In the crop production area the programs included are winter crops,
summer crops, rice and evaluation of "cultivares". In the animal production area the
programs are pasures, beef, dairy, sheep and goats and small farm animals (pigs, poultry
and others). In the horti-fruticulture production area three programs are included,
horticulture, fruticultue and citrus production. Total staff comprises 134 university
professionals, 55 technicians and 294 field and clerical workers. The 489 employees are
spread out in the various research centers and central offices. Montevideo office has 7%, La
Estanzuela Research Center (RC) 40%, Tacuaremb6 R.C. 13%, Treinta y Tres R.C. 14%,
Las Brujas R.C. 19% and Salto Grande R.C. 7%. La Estanzuela deals mainly with daily
and mixed cropping activities including pastures and beef; Tacuaremb6 with livestock rearing
activities; Treinta y Tres with rice; Las Brujas with horticulure and fmits; and Salto Grande
with citrus. INIA is fumded through a specific tax (4 0/00 of value of agricululral goods
marketed), a similar or bigger amount of money provided by Public funds, money gathered
through provision of services or selling of produce, and any kind of donation, gifts or other
kind of provision of money. There is no specific irrigation research program in INIA nor
any full time researcher specialized in this area. There is one full time professional dealing
with crop irgation matters and many irrigation research lines within programs such as rice,
summer crops, horticulture, fruit production and beef and dairy programs. INSA is involved
in the creation of water reserves in many research stations and very much interested in
expaiing research on irrigation items. The total annual budget of INIA amounts to
approximately US$5 million.
Facultr of Agronomy
10. The Faculty of Rural Science (Facultad de Agronomia (FA)) is part of the University
of the Republic. It is a public institution with independent administration. The main
functions of this faculty are to provide education at university level and carry out rsearch to
complement its educational programs. The main building is sited in Montevideo and there are
3 research centers: Paysandi, Salto and Cerro Largo, all of them in the nortern part of the
country. There is the intention to start a new research center in the southern part of the
coutry, near Montevideo. F.A. has a specific area dealing with soils and water with 40
university professionals, 5 of them working on irrigation subjects. Most research is



-135 -                              Amnex I
undertaken through comracts with public and private institutions such as citrus producdon
firms and MGAP programs.
Other ReParch hLtitutions
11. The Uruguayan Association for the Promotion of Zero Tillage (Asociaci6n Uruguaya
pro Siembra Directa (AUSID) was created in 1991 and is a private institution for research
and technical assistance purposes. It is funded by private firms and is located in the western
part of the country in Soriano.
12. Research in forestry has just started as a separate program in INIA. Research in the
Faculty of Rural Science (Facultad de Agronomia) was quite important from 1963 up to
1974, when the military goverment fired many researchers as a result of their political
action and cut down University spending. During that period the research center in
Paysand6 carried out severl important research programs, especially in cropping and animal
production subjects. Not much research was done in horticulture, fruit production and
forestry throughout that period. Some research in aninul health and animal production is
undertaken by the Vet    Research Center Miguel Rubino, of the MGAP. This
institution is based more towards animal health problems and it pays minor attention to
ni  management items. The Forestry Directorate (Direcci6n Forestal) of MGAP has
traditionally been, jointly with the Faculty of Rural Science, the only institution carrying out
forestry research in Uruguay. There are now a few research programs going on in INIA and
LATU (Laboratorio Tecnol6gico del Uruguay). The Forestry Directorate (through the
support obtained from the loan 3131-UR with the World Bank) has expanded the applied
forestry reseach program on forestry issues, mainly plantation systems and genetics.
13. There are some private research initiatives in particular production activities. Beer
production plants carry out some research programs on barley production. Cooperadves in
the north-western part of the country have several research programs on sugar cane
production under irrigation conditions; part of these programs work on a contract basis with
INMA. Many private institutions have been supporting joint research programs with INIA,
Faculty of Agronomy or other research institutions. Rice has been a typical example where
the main milling plants, rice producers and INIA support jointly, very successful research
programs on rice production with irrigation.
Extension and Technical Assistance
14. Extension and technical assistance services are provided by a wide range of public
and private institutions. Despite that, only 25% of farmers declared having received
technical assistance of any sort in 1986. There has been a clear increment in extension
activities with farmers during the 80's. In 1980 there were less than 20% of farmers
receiving any assistance from extensionists or technical advisors. Private assistae accounts
for 56% of total assistance received by frmers and it has grown sharply (95%) from 1970 to
1980 while durng the same period public assistance decreased 34%. There are big
differences between the 19 departments in terms of extension activities with farmers. In
some of them, such as Rivera in the northern part of the country only 8% of farmers
declared having received some assistance, while there are many other departments such as
Florida, Rio Negro, Paysandd and Soriano, where more than 30% of farmers received



-136 -                              Annex I
Florida, Rio Negro, Paysand( and Soriano, where more than 30% of famrs received
technical assistance. According to research results by CIEDUR market oriented faums
receive more technical assistance (49%) than family farms (15%).
15.   Technical assisance received by farmers varies with the kind of production in which
they are involved. Rice farmers are probably the ones receiving the highest level of
technical assistance in a more stable way followed by Citrus and Tobacco farmers. Daity
production fiamers receive a good standard of assistance but in a less stable and permanent
fashion. Livestock farmers receive very little technical assistance. In general, the larger the
farm the higher is the level of technical assistance in most production activities.
16.   There are about 21 different institutions involved in extension activities. MGAP has
8 different agencies providing technical assistance to farmers. Other government institutions
with certain extension activities are the Bank of the Republic, the Institute for Colonization
stituto de Colonizaci6n), LATU and the municipalities. Within the private sector the
cooperative movement is very important regarding extnsion and technical assistance
activities. Other important private institutions involved in assisting farmers are FUCREA
(Federaci6n de Grupos CREA del Uruguay), SUL (Secretariado Uruguayo de la Lana),
INAVI (Insdtuto Nacional del Vino), and SAMAN (Sociedad An6nima de Molinos
Afroceros).
17. The total mnuber of technical assistance personnel throughout the country and
intitutions is esfimated at 720. Most of them are civil servants (68%) of which more than
half are MGAP employees. The cooperative movement with about 140 technical assistance
agents has a strong technical assistance program. The southern region is better provided with
extension and technical assistance activities, than the rest of the country. There are 326
agents in the south, followed by 127 agents in the cropping area of the west and far fewer
agents in the rest of the country.
18.   There has been a trend to form group of farmers as a means to organize technical
assistuae. This has been the case of FUCREA and CONAPROLE (Cooperativa Nacional de
Productores de Leche). In 1990 there were about 240 groups of farmers. Dairy farm groups
accounted for more than half of total groups, followed by horticultural and fruit production
groups, crop fanming groups and finally livestock production groups. JUNAGRA (Junta
Nacional de la Granja) has developed a network of about 31 groups dealing with intensive
production activities. Generally each group has about 10 to 13 farms but in certain cases
groups can be much bigger in numbers. Each group has its own technica! assisne agent
working on a part time basis. Estimates of technical assistance coverage through groups of
farmers are the following: about 10% of livestock farms, 46% of dairy farms and a small
proportion of intensive production farms.
19.   The PENTA (Programa de Promoci6n de Exportaciones no Tradicionales
Agropecuarias) was created by Decree 552/989 in 1989. The honorary commission
responsible for PENTA activities is integrated by delegates from the MGAP, Ministry of
Economy and Finance, OPP, and JUNAGRA. The Coordinating unit is staffed with the
Gener Secretary, who is an agronomist, and 3 clerical staff. Its main objective is to
implemet the non thadional export component of Loan 3131-UR with the Bank, basically



- 137 -                            Annex I
through the promotion of new export projects, training of farm managers and market
research.
20.   Agricultural Credit is provided by private and public banks, agroindustries and by the
Cental Bank through external debt bond exchanges. Most of it is short-term credit, as no
medium- and long-term credit is provided by private banks, with the exception of recent
lending activities involving Loan 3131-UR with the World Bank. Only 12% of credit in
private banks goes to agriculture, 11% to finance livestock activities and 1% for cropping
purposes. Agricultural credit has decreased compared to other sectors of the economy. In
1980 agriculural credit accounted for 28% of total credit. Credit for livestock decreased
67% and credit for crops 39%. Total amount of agricultural credit from private banks was
US$147 million in 1989 against US$139 million from the BROU (Banco de la Republica).
21. Private bank credit interest rates have traditionally been higher than public bank rates.
In 1991, top, average and minimum rates were 180%, 159% and 140% respectively, while
BROU loans charges about 122%. On the other hand private banks have been much more
efficient in providing credit. Public banks, BROU in particular, have a traditionally negative
performance with enormous quantities of prerequisites and delays.
22.   BROU is the most important source of agricultural credit of any kind, and one of the
few sources of medium- and long-term credit. Almost any medium to big town or city in the
country has a BROU agency in it. The most important development programs, financed by
the World Bank and IDB, have been channeled through BROU. The evolution of
agricultural credit in BROU has experienced a sharp decrease since 1980 similar to the one
[decided?] for private bank credit. In 1990 agricultural long-term credit accounted for 30%
to 40% of total agricultural credit. The IDB Global Loan and the Plan Agropecuario
accounted for most of this type of loans. About 40% of total long-term credits were adjusted
through a product value basket system with low rate of interest. Long-term credit has been
normally geared towards investments in livestock activities. Very litle of it has been used in
more intensive production activities such as horticulture, fruit production and forestry. The
main items financed have been pasture improvement, water facilities, fencing, machinery and
replacement livestock. Since 1988 there have been special long-term credit lines for forestry
and non-traditional export crops but there have been hardly demanded by farmers.
23.   Some agroindusties such as CONAPROLE and SAMAN, involved in dairy
production and rice production respectively, have been important suppliers of credit to dairy
and rice farmers. They usually give credit for inputs and capital goods financing and then
recover the principal once famers market their production through them. They charge
higher interest rates than the banks but provision of credit is very efficient and timely.
24.   There have been three special programs of exeral debt bond exchange for long-term
projects since 1987. Many projects prented were agriculural ones. Forestry and citms
projects have been presented in almost all exchange plans.
25.   Credit ganed for water m agement and imigation through the Plan Agropecuario
has been less than 3% of total money granted. In three years, from 1990 to 1992, only



- 138 -                              Annex I
US$1.7 million were provided for water management purposes. In the case of the IDB loan,
from 1989 to 1991, almost US$1.5 million were granted for irrigation purposes during the
whole period, mainly for the financing of irrigation equipment. Since 1989 there has been
an important increase in credit demand for irrigation projects.
MEkeng
26.   Agricultural Marketing is basically handled by private firms. Direct Government
intervention is very rare. The Government's role in marketing has been, since the last
decade, the determmation of quality standards and satary restrictions, external tariffs and
tax reimbursement policies. The prices of virtally all agricultural products, with the
exception of milk for human consumption and grapes for wine production, are set by a
completely free market. International marketing has no restrictions apart from the
prohibiton on importng bulk wine and importing wheat when particular market conditions
prevail. There are no import or export quotas with the exception of garlic and soybean
imports from some ALADI countries.
27. External import tariffs for agricultural products are in the process of being reduced.
At present, the highest tariff for any product is 20%, the intermediate tariff is 15% and the
lowest one 6%. These tariffs are supposed to disappear, for imports from neighboring
countries, once MERCOSUR is fully enforced in 1995. The maximum extemal tariff
negotiated within MERCOSUR will probably be 20% in the near future. External export
taxes are very few. Apart from raw wool, in bone beef and hides, which are lightly taxed,
agricultural products pay no export tax at all. There has been various tax reimbursement
schemes, mainly directed to reimburse farmers for indirect taxes paid while producmg and
maketg products.
28.   Agricultural products are sold partly straight to consumers, either domestic or foreign
consumers, and partly to agroindustries. Every product has a particular pattern of
marketing. Beef and mutton animals are rarely exported live and most part of the products
goes to slaughter plants for meat processing. About 60% of wool goes to various
industrialiion processes before reaching the final consumer. Cereals and oil seeds are
partly processed in the country and partly is exported raw to foreign markets. Fruits and
vegetables are mainly consumed fresh by domestic consumers and exported with minimum
conditioning to world markets. A small proportion of fruit and vegetables, with the
exception of grapes, is industialized.



-139-                               AneJ
UR ULAY
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMN AN) IRRIGATION
DE rLPMN PROJEC
PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. GENERAL INSaITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK FOR ROJEC EXECUION
1.    The proposed Program is multfsectoral and covers aspects related to natural resources
management and irrigation; agricultural research; forest development; exports promotion and
institonal strengthening. Execution of this complex Program would require a high level of
organization and coordination between different participating institutions.
2.    Although MGAP and MTOP will have a fundamental role in Program execution,
there are otber Government institutions, such as OPP, for its responsibility in budget
allocation and control, foreign cooperation coordination and national planning, which will
also have an important participauon in the decision-making process during Project execution.
3.   It is deemed necessary to create a coordination and decision-making body for the
Natural Resources Management and Irrigation Development Project (PRENADER) which
would be made up by the Ministers (or their representatives) of MGAP, MTOP and the
Director or Assistant Director of the OPP. To perform their functions this Interministerial
Coordinating Committee (CCI) would have a small high level technical team (the Project
Execuing Unit - UEP). This Unit, responsible for overall project management, will
coordinate the acivities of the different departments and directorates of the MGAP, MTOP,
MIE and MVOTMA that may have responsibility in the execution of the various project
activities.
4. CCI will meet at least three times per year, or at the request of the UEP's Executive
Secretary. The insitutions resonsible for the execution of the Project and not represented in
CCI, may attend the meetings but without the right to vote when matters of their concern are
being considered. The Executive Secretary would act as the committee's Secretary.
5.    Project execution would be carried out through specific agreements between UEP (by
delegation of the Minister of Agriclture as head of CCI) and the different responsible units.
6.    CCI functions, among others, would be to:
(a)   assume the responsibility for executig the proposed Natural Resource
Management and Irrigation Development Program. To discharge this
responsibility the committee may delegate implementation to UEP or the
Government institution it may select for that purpose;



- 140 -                             Annex J
(b) coordinate and supervise Program execution, evaluate the progress achieved
with the disbursements of the different components in terms of the established
goals, and adopt the necessary corrective measures in case of important delays
or deviations with repect to the original objectives;
(c)   approve the selection and contracting of studies, works, lines of action and
projects to be developed under the Program, which may be proposed through
UEP;
(d)   overview contracting of evaluation stdies of the Program's environmental
impact and to adopt when needed corrective measures based on the UEP's
proposals; and
(e)   hire, in agreement with the Bank, UEP's Executive Secretary and approve the
Program's execution plans and the contracting of the UEP's remaming
personmel.
7.    V&P will be presided over by a high level agricultural economist with experience in
the preparation and evaluation of investment projects, who will act as the Executive
Secretry. In addition to its Executive Secretary, the Unit will be made up of a
mulddisciplinary team composed of an Agriculturalist specialized in irrigation agriculture, a
civil (irigation) engineer with proven experience in procurement, a natural resource
management expert, an Accountant, and supportig secretarial staff. The main functions of
this Unit will be to:
(a)   execute and coordinate CCI resolutions;
(b)   receive and analyze the projects' background, programs and lines of action
submitted to it by the public and private sectors;
(c)   prepare and present the necessary background for CCI and the executing
agencies (i.e., MGAP and MTOP) to adopt the decisions for Program
execution;
(d)   prepare, together with MGAP's DGRNR and MTOP's Hydrography
Directorate, MlE's Mineralogy and Geology Directorate, and MVOTMA's
National Environment Directorate, the terms of reference for the feasibility
and enviromental impact studies and for the final designs of the irrigation
projects to be financed within the framework of the proposed Program, and
submit them to CCI for approval;
(e)   propose to CCI (i.e., MGAP and MTOP) for approval, the consultants who
will carry out the feasibility and environmental impact studies and would
prepare the final designs;
(f)   once the terms of reference have been approved and the consultants have been
hired, supervise the preparation of the feasibility and environmental impact
stdies and the final designs. In addition, together with MGAP's DGRNR,



- 141 -                             Annex J
MTOP's DH, MIE's DINAMIGE ai.d MVOTMA's DINAMA, it must
evaluate the quality of said studies for their final approval;
(g) cooperate with MGAP's DGRNR and MTOP's DH in the supervision and
monitoring of the environmental impact of actions executed within the sphere
of the proposed Program, and to inform CCI and the Bank periodically on the
subject;
(h)   secure the efficient coordination of the different program components;
(i)   centralize all information on natural resources management supplied by the
different institutions and organizations in charge of executing the different
components related to the subject; hire the required consultants who will
interpret the information; and to issue, together with the DGRNR, periodic
reports on the progress achieved;
(j)   monitor the execution of the different program components and send periodic
reports to CCI and the Bank;
(k)   recommend the adoption of the necessary measures to secure the required
technical, financial and institutional resources;
(I)   assume responsibility for the management of the Program funds and the
application of accounting procedures compatible with Bank guidelines, without
prejudice to the pertinent authority of CCI or other public entities; and
(m)  perform any other functions CCI may assign.
B. FUNCTIONS OF MGAP's DIRECTORAT11 GENERAL OF
NATURAL RENEWABLE RESOURCES
8.   1Th Directorate General of Natural Renewable Resources (DGRNR) will have
different functions depending on the Progam components. In principle the main functions
would be:
Geographic Infoation System (GIS)
(a)   to preside, in rotation with the other participating institutions, over the
Directorate of the GIS to be formed;
(b)   to operate the GIS and centralize the information to be produced by the other
participating institutions; and
(c)   to establish a periodic dissemination system of the information to be produced
by GIS to contribute to a better management of the country's natural
resources.



- 142 -                              Annex J
9.    In order to fulfill these functions the Program will finance the hiring of a national
consultant in System Analysis and will organize training courses for DGRNR personnel.
Demo_sbmdon Fam  MA  Mlcro-catchment Pilot roam
(a)   to prepare the natural resources management plans for each of the
demonstration farms and mini watersheds in coordination with the UEP, the
Santa Lucia Honorary Commission, the extension technicians normally giving
advice to the involved producers, and the international experts to be hired for
that purpose by the Program;
(b)   to select, together with UEP and the Santa Lucia Honorary Commission (in the
case of the micro-catcbments), the technical consultants who will execute the
proposed management plans in the demonstration farms and the companies
which will execute the development programs at the micro-catchment level,
and supervise their work;
(c)   to define the pertinent variables to be measured periodically in each of the
demonstration farms, and select, together with UEP and the Santa Lucia
Honorary Commission, the technicians who will be in charge of data
measurements and interpretadon;
(d)   to deliver to the UEP periodical reports on data measurement results;
(e)   to organize, together with UEP and the Honorary Commission at the Santa
Lucia River Basin, field days so that the technical consultant of the
demonstration farms and the micro watershed technicians may explain the
results achieved; and
(f)   to prepare, during the last stage of the Program, publications and programs for
the dissemination of the results achieved.
10.   The Program would hire an international expert and national experts in the area of
natural resources management, to advise the DGRNR and train its personnel with regard to
inestment planning, the definidon of variables to be monitored, the manner to measure these
variables and the preparation of support material for the information transfer meetings with
btchniciams and producers.
hnical Assistance in the Areas of Irrigation Projects
(a)   to supply technical assistance and training in natural resources management to
the technicians in charge of giving technical assistance to the beneficiary
producers of the irrigation projects financed within the framework of the
proposed Program;
(b)   to define the pertnent variables which should be measured periodically by the
technicians to be hired for that purpose, supervise such measurement and
discuss the results; and



- 143-                              Annex J
(c)   to organize through its regional offices the rception of applications submitted
by producers itrested in projects to be carried out within the Program
framework.
Envronmn   Impa
(a) to define, together with UEP and DINAMA the terms of reference of the
enviromnental impact studies of the irrigation projects to be financed within
the proposed Program. To define, also together with the aforesaid institutions,
the list of environment aspects to be contracted, which must be a part of the
project profiles to be submitted by the producers to the Regional Irrigation
Boards at the beginning of the proceedings;
(b) to cooperate with UEP in hiring the consultants which will carry out the
environmental impact stdies, and to supervise the progress of such studies;
(c)   to control the applicaton of the agreed measures to alleviate the negative
environmenal impact that some irrigation projects might have, and to report
periodically to UEP on progress made; and
(d) to establish and operate an irrigation water quality control system and
disseminate the result of measurements and controls carried out.
Stue on te Hydolo  of Snml Watersheds. Watr- Olty Motrig. W_ate _Us
Efficie  and the Inveh  of the Salto and Ra6n Aquifers
(a)   to cooperate with UEP, the Directorate of Hydrography, DINAMIGE and
INIA in preparing the terms of reference for the studies; and
(b) to cooperate with UEP in hiring the consultants who will carry out the studies,
and in supervising and evaluating them.
11.   The Program would hire an international expert to advise UEP, DGRNR and
DINAMIGE in drafting the terms of reference for the studies on the Salto and Raig6n
aquifers.
C. FRUNCTONS OF MTOP's DIRECTORATE OF HYDROGRAPHY
12.   The Directorate of Hydrography would have several functions within the Program.
These functions would vary with the different program activities. Divisions and Departments
involved in each component would also vary.
13.   The Division of Water Resources would have the following functions:
(a)   to handle the processing of permits, authorizations and concessions for the
exclusive right to use public domain water, reqired in the projects submitted
to the Program;



- 144 -                            Annex J
(b)  to integrate through its Hydrology Departnent, the Geographic Information
System;
(c) to cooperate with UEP and DGRNR in preparing the terms of reference for
the feasibility studies of the projects making up the Program;
(d)  to evaluate, together with UEP and DGRNR, the feasibility studies of the
projects submitted to the Program;
(e)  to cooperate with DGRNR and UEP in drafting the terms of reference of the
studies to be canied out in the Program, and in the hiring and follow-up of
consltants; and
(f)  to orgaDize through its regional offices, the reception of applications from
producers interested in incorporating projects in the Program.
14.  The Hydraulic and Flood Control Division, through its Hydraulic Works Department,
would have the following functions in the Program:
(a) to cooperate with UEP in drafting the terms of reference, the hiring and
follow-up of consltants, and in evaluating the work regarding the final design
of projects to be executed under the Program;
(b)  to perform with UEP the call for bids to carry out the works designed in the
projects to be executed under the Program;
(e)  to cooperate in the evaluation of proposals with USE and submit to CCI the
recommendations for contract awards; and
(d)  to follow-up the works together with UEP.
D. FUNCTIONS OF MlE's DINAMIGE
15.  DINAMIGE, through the Underground Water Division, will have the following
functions:
(a) to cooperate with UEP in drafting the terms of reference for the feasibility
studies of projects involving the use of underground water;
(b)  to cooperate with UEP and MGAP's DGRNR in drafting the tes of
refence for the study of the Raig6n and Salto aquifers; and
(c)  to organize with the cooperation of MTOP's Directorate of Hydrography,
DGRNR and UEP, the inventory of wells USiDg underground water.



-145-                              Annex J
E. FNCTIONS OF MVMXA's D,INAMA
16. DINAMA will have the following functions:
(a)   to advise UEP in preparing the list of environmental aspects to be conitroled in
the project profiles submitted by the producers to the Regional Irrigation
Boards;
(b) to cooperate with UEP and DGRNR in drafting the terms of reference for the
environmental impact studies that must be carried out in projects submitted
under the Program; and
(c)   to define, together with UEP and DGRNR, the actions to be adopted to
alleviate the negative environmental effects that might result from projects
submitted to the Program.
F. FUNCTIONS OF THE REGIONbL IMIGATION BOARDS
17.   The Boards will have the following functions:
(a)   to analyze the applications submitted by producers for projects to be caried
out under the Program;
(b) to advise UEP, the Directorate of Hydrography and DGRNR as to whether the
projects submitted by producers are relevant; and
(c)   to mediate in conflicts that may arise between affected parties due to actions
carried out under the Program.
G. FUNCTIONS QF OTHER INSTITUTIONS
18.   The Santa Lucia Honorary Commission would cooperate with UEP in everyting
conceming the planing of activities, preparation of development plans outside and inside
the firms, coordination with otber Government institutions, terms of reference preparation,
selection of consultants and control of their work, execution of planned works and any other
activity within the small watersheds development component in the Santa Lucia Basin.
19.   The Forestry Directorate and MGAP's PENTA Program will condnue, as at present,
executing their respective technical assistance and training activides, under the supervision of
UEP, wbich will coordinate its actions with the Unit of Projects and Technical Cooperation
(UPCI) of MGAP.



- 147 -                            Amex K
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT AND IRRIGATION
DEVELOPMEN1 PROJECT
MONITORING PROGRAM ON WATER USE EFFICIENCY AND
SOIL CONSERVATION
A. BACKGROUD
1.    Expansion of irrigation has incorporated new productive areas into the national
domain in a sustained manner, amounting to some 160,000 ha from 1992-1993. This
expansion resulted from an increase in the area devoted to rice cultivation, and from the
miorporation of irrigated fniit and horticultural crops, com and forage.
2.    Uruguay has suitable land and adequate water resources to support this growth;
however, it is of the utmost importance that any possible impact on natural resource
conservation be minimized.
3.    The Water Code (Law 14,859 of 12/15/78) and the Law on Soil and Water
Conservation (Law 15,239 of 12/15/81) contain regulations favoring the efficient and
conservative use of water and soil, and penalizing practices and habits that result in poor
mnanagement of these resources. There is a regional decentralization mechanism continuously
under improvement by the Hydrography Directorate and MGAP's Directorate General of
Renewable Natural Resources, consisting of the installation of regional offices and promotion
of the establishment of additional Regional Irrigation Boards. In turn, every use of water for
irrigation must be preceded by an application to Hydrography and the Directorate General of
Renewable Naural Resources setting out the legal and technical infonnation on the land
where the water will be used, irrigation systems to be employed, soils to be irrigated and
production and rotation systems to be incorporated.
4.    Due to the dynamics of irrigated land development, where foreign companies
increasingly participate, and the need to adapt the available experimental information on the
subject, it is essential to have precise and updated technical information for each region.
according to real conditions affecting water and soil use efficiency. Knowledge derived from
this information will improve the decision-making process both at the level of Government
(i.e., MGAP and DU) and Regional Ilrigation Boards.
B. QB1&IE
5.    The main objective of the monitoring program is to determine water use efficiency
and impact of soi conservation practices in areas under irrgation, representative of each



- 148 -                               Annex K
region of the country. Preference will be given to lands with projects already registered in
MTOP and MGAP files (water use permits for irrigation), and representative of the different
facts regarding water sources (surface water, dams, perforations), irrigation systcms used (by
gravity, sprinkler, localized), soils and topographies of the irrigated farms, and crops or
production systems to benefit (rice, fruits and vegetables, industrial crops, extensive crops
and forage).
6.    The monitoring program will also provide, disseminate and demonstrate the results
obtained in each region, through the Regional Units of the Directorate General of Renewable
Natural Resources and the Regional Irrigation Boards. The intention is to promote a
balanced and environmentally sound use of water through the granting or cancellation of
permits, based on technical competence, and through dissemination and demonstration
activities addressed to technicians, producers and interested population.
C. ACTIVITIES
7.    The following activities will be carried out:
(a)   selection of 6-12 irrigation systems representative of each region and basin:
(i) Central and Northeem Littoral [Uruguay river basin]; (ii) North
fTacuaremb6 river and Rio Negro river basin]; (iii) East [Laguna Merin and
Atlantic Ocean basin]; and (iv) South [River Plate and Santa Lucia river
basin]; and
(b)   lab and field studies and determinations for each irrigation system, including
the following:
(i)  characterization of water source as to quantty and quality (vohlme of
surface streams or wells, volumes in dams, quality of available water)
and characteristics of works and structures (volumes of earth and height
of earthwork, flood areas, depth and diameter of perforations);
(ii) characterization of water consumption and extraction patterns,
conveyance and application systems (volume and quantities used,
pumping stations, canals and/or pipes, equipment or structures for
water application to the crops);
(iii) characterization of the irrigated land by vegetation and prior use (farm,
natural land, pasture, others), soils (description of properties and
infiltration speed measurement, apparent density and structural
stability), topography (slope and surface regularity, grading practices
and farm plot arrangements);
(iv) survey of crops and production systems to irrigate (species and
rotations, farming practices and yields per harvest); and



- 149 -                            Annex K
(v) determination of the relationship between production and the following
factors: quantity of water used and effect on quality, soil conservation
parameters, parameters of affected natural vegetaton (pasture and
natural woodland) and operational costs and depreciation of works and
equipment. An attempt will be made to quantify environmental
externalities (effect on water quality and soil conservation).
8.    The results of the studies and determinations will be used as follows:
(a) publication of results;
(b)   dissemination in meetings and field symposims;
(c) taken into account by Regional Irrigation Boards in granting the permits for
water use; and
(d) proposing the establishment or updating of technical standards on water use
and conservation in the areas under irrgation.
D. INSTTUTONS IN CHARGE
10.         The monitoring program to be supervised by UEP will be under the direction
of the Water Use and Management Division, with the cooperation of the apropriate
Divisions of the Soils and Water Directorate and the Directorate General of Renewable
Natiual Resources. The execution and implementation will be carried out by the Regional
Units of the Soils and Water Directorate (DSA). The Regional Irrigation Boards, the
Regional Offices of the National Hydrography Directorate and the Experimntal Stadons of
INIA will participate as cooperating agencies.
E. CHRONOGRAM
Reion                                           Years
1     2      3      4      5      6       7
North and Center Coast      S      PR    PR    FR
North                       S      PR    PR    FR
South                                      I     PR    PR    FR
East                                      I             PR    PR      PR
S = Stadg         PR-Pardal Results        FR-Final Results



- 150 -                                          Annex K
Costs - Estimated value in USS
Category  ndSubcategory                              Y  E A  R  S               T o T A L
of Expenditures
1      2      3      4      5     USS      %
1) Selection of Irriaation
-Repair of vehicles                       6000   6000            . -    ----   12000   5.0
-Travelling expenses                       900    900   ----    ----   ----    1800   0.7
-Office expenses                          2000   2000   ----    ----   ----    4000   1.7
-Technical ard support staff              3360   3360   ----    ----   ----   6720   2.8
2) Field Determinstion
-PurchasinglRepair of
equipment and instrunents                8000   8000   ----    ----   ----   16000   6.6
-Material expenses and
payment of services                      ----  4000   8000   8000   4000   24000  10.0
-Transportation expenses                  ----  3600   ?200   7200   3600   21600   8.9
-Technical and support staff              -.-.   5040  10080  10080   5040   30240  12.6
3) Office Work
-Purchasing/adaptation of
office equipment and instruments         4000   4000   ----    ----   ----    8000   3.3
-Material expenditures and
payment of services                      ----  3200   6400   6400   3200   19200   8.0
-Technical and support staff              ----   3780   7560   7560   3780   22680   9.4
4) Final studies and
-Expenditures of Material
and payment of services                  -        ....  ----   8000   8000   16000   6.6
-Technical and support staff              ----    ----   ----   3360   3360    6720   2.8
5) Prolect Administration
-Materiat expenditures
payment of services                      2000   2000   2000   4000   4000   14000   5.8
-Technical and support staff              5040   5040   5040   5040   5040   25200  10.4
6) Unoredictable                          2000   3000   3000   3000   2000   13000   5.4
T 0 T A L                                33300  53920  49280  62640  42020  241160 100.0
X                                      13.8  22.4  20.4  26.0   17.4   100.0
Guidelines to estimate costs.
Transportation Expenses per Km ----USS 0.15
Pernesl
Payment for extra hours work in week-ends and per diem expenses are considered.
Technicians       for 10 hours working day ---- USS 72
Sa_i-Technical    for 10 hours working day ---- USS 48
Supporting Staff  for 10 hours working day ---- US# 24



- 151 -                             Annex L
URUGUAY
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMWNT AND IRRIGATION
DEVELOPMEN PRIJECT
FISCAL IMPACT
ESTIMATE OF COST RECOVERY, THROUGH FISCAL ACTION,
OF INVESTMENTS FROM THE NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT AND
IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
1.    The amount of fiscal recovery was estimated on each of the projects for which
feasibility studies are being made, as well as the recovery value for water sources
rebabilitation and generation works, which will be included in the Program in the next years.
2.    Separate calculations were made for the recoveries corresponding to the works
themselves, and those resulting from the productive processes.
3.    Prtial information was available on the recovery levels of works corresponding to
two of the five projects under study, therefore the levels of recovery are approximate. In the
case of the productive process recovery, information was available from the models of three
feasibility studies. This information was complemented with the results of an agriculhural
taxation report prepared by OPYPA (MGAP) in 1991.
4.    To estimate the Present Net Value of investment flows and fiscal recoveries, a
discount rate of 6% was applied on annual values.
5.    Within the framework of restrictions for a refined estimate of the fiscal recovery, it is
considered that the latter may amount in some cases to approximately 43% of total
invesunent.



- 152 -                                Annex L
Table 1. Fiscal RM-V=
(US$)
Projects              Year 1     Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Year 5    Yeas 6-1S
Canel6n Grande       10,000     13,000
Production                                   2,500       3,500       4,300      4,500
Colonia Espafia      18,000      6,000
Production                                  10,000      10,000      10,000      10,000
Jumecal                        150,000
Production                                   3,000       4,000       5,000      5,000
Fraile Muerto                  215,000
Production                                 180,000     220,000     240,000    240,000
Romin Grande                   107,000
Production                                  50,000      60,000      75,000      75,000
Other Projects                             600,000     700,000     600,000
Production                                             150,000     300,000    450,000
Smal Works                     200,000     200,000     200,000     200,000
Production                                 180,000     220,000     400,000    500,000
Total               28,000     691,000    1,225,500   1,567,500   1,834,3000   1,284,500
Table 2. Inv.ts
(US$)
projects             Year 1      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Year S    Year 6-15
Canel6n Grande      100,000    130,000
Colonia Espafna                 60,000
Jumecal             180,000   1,500,000
Fraile Muerto                2,150,000
RomAin Grande                 1,070,000
Other Projects                2,000,000    6,300,000   7,000,000    6,000,000
Small Works                               2,000,000  20,000,000    2,000,000
Total               280,000   6,910,000    8,300,000   9,000,000    8,000,000



- 153 -                                         Anuex L
Table 3. EcnAM of Recry over 
(US$)
Projects                                Year I         Year 2         Year 3         Year 4        Yer S
% of recovery                                             10.00%         14.77%         17.42%
22.93%
All/year                                    10.00%
Investments discounted at year I ' 28,079,161
Recovely discounted at year I 5    12,028,096
Discounted values                           42.84%
i/ 6% dicount rate
Tabb A. Fcal Burden in Different AgiCulraActite
(US$)
Not ItcomulHa   Not IncomeHa        laxos        fedo1.o o ta        2Wx.
witutpamentwith puwat of    gnatd by        per Ha da to   genraed pr
of mn tax         ,* died       Ha991 ellsnala of               sa t 103
Irctd tahxs                       -       -        uMW  (edbum
Modds
LUvesock 1.0001W                    18.7              8.8             9.9              0.15            s9.7
Agicuknw-Lestock 500 Ha             36.9              19.0           17.9              2.25            15.65
DayltOOHa                           68.1             45.0            23.1              3.47            19.63
Fnit 23 Ha                         182.0             145.0           37.0             15.60           21.40
CZicultm  310 Ha                   89.7             66.0            23.7              3.17           20.53
Rimce 1.450o                        95.3             52.0            43.3             12.65           30.45
Sorc Processed with dama from OPYPA (Roacbieu's).



- 155 -                            Annex M
URUGUAY
NATURLm RESOURCES MANAGEMENT AND
IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECr
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
1.    Itrduction
The Natural Resources Management and Irrigation Development Project
(PRENADER) aims to enhance productivity and efficiency in agriculture through sound
management of soil and water resources and minimization of adverse effects on natural
ecosstems. Biodiversity is not expected to suffer any significant degradation since the
project would not finance any irrigation and drainage activity within areas defined for
protcon and preservation under natural conditions.
In the development and operation and maintenance (O&M) of irrigation projects, a
nber of standard environmental issues have been identified, such as soil degradaton and
water contaminaton from agrochemicals under intensified agriculture, wastefil use of water,
deteriorating quality of irrigation water, sedimentation of reservoirs and damage to
biodiversity.
As a result, it can be stated that the project is essentially oriented to support a
susinable development of irrigated agriculture which implies a careful environmental
management, with particular emphasis on water and soils. Within such a conceptual frame
the project should be regarded either as positive or neutral from an environmental point of
view, since most activities are designed to improve environmental quality or, at least, to
avoid enviromnental degradation.
Yet, the project component covering the irrigation sector includes irrigation schemes
which might potentially generate adverse impacts on the environment, as a whole or on some
of its components. Accordingly, a screening system for classifying irrigation schemes to be
financed through PRENADER has been incorporated into the operation plan. The screening
procedure will determine the type of environmental assessment required prior to approval.
Additionally, project components related to the dissemination of soil conservation practices,
water quality and research on irrigation techniques and natural resources management have
been stuctued to help solving potential environmental issues derived from intensification of
land use and expansion of irrigated agriculture.



- 156 -                             Annex M
2.    ProJect Desription
The proposed project aims to:
(a)   increase and diversify sustainable agricultural production and exports through
expansion of irrigation and improved water use within a context of sound
enviromnental practices; and
(b)   substantially enhance natural resources management in rainfed and irrigated
agriculture.
As designed, the project would contain the following components:
(a)   natural resources management, comprising (i) pilot development schemes in
micro-catchment areas of the Santa Lucia River Basin, to gain experience in
the management of ecologically fragile zones; (ii) a pilot program for
development of water catchment works at farm level in Yaguari basin;
(iii) demonsaion farms in other agro-ecological areas suffering soil
degradation and erosion problems; (iv) applied research in natural resource
management and irrigation techniques; (v) a computerized geographical
information system; (vi) support to forestry development; and (vii) studies on
natural resources management related issues;
(b)   Trrigaon development, comprising (i) the rehabilitation and modernization of
selected public irrigation and drainage works and their transfer to the private
sector under appropriate operation and maintenance arrangements; (ii) of
feasible medium-scale irrigation works proposed by private farmer groups;
(iii) small farmer sponsored construction of small-scale tubewells and pumping
stations and other kinds of surface water catchment works for irrigation;
(iv) feasibility studies of possible irrigation investment projects; and
(v) technical support for the promotion of non-traditional exports.
3.    Basfelin Data
Irrigation is practiced in Uruguay almost entirely in the eastern, northern and southern
regions which are defined and differentiated fru  each other on the basis of soils pattern,
water resources, crop types, kind of farmers, producer organizations and existng
infrastuctur. Climatic regimes are about the same throughout the country, although some
regional differences might be described: sunlight increases to the north, whereas cold spells
in smmer are more frequent in the south.
The three regions account for 95% of the national irrigated area and all relevant
irrigated crops belong to at least one of them.



-157 -                             Annex M
The Eastern Region
The eastern region comprises parts of the departnents of Cerro Largo, Treinta y
Tres, Rocha and Lavalleja and covers approximately 12% of the national ternitory. Beginning
in the early 30s, private initiative developed the region as the main rice growing area in the
country where 95.000 ha of rice (75% of total national area) are cropped annually on flat
lands where low to very low hydraulic conductivity soils prevail. This feature makes
irrigation more feasible since infiltration losses are extremely low on paddy fields and in
conveyance structures.
The soils of the central and northemn parts of the region (Lavalleja, north of Rocha,
Treinta y Tres and Cerro Largo) are mainly Planosols and Solods, low in organic matter,
with a loamy topsoil 20 - 30 cm thick underlain by a heavy textured, almost impervious
claypan. The terrains are flooded for short periods of time, once in a number of years, by
river spill water, notably from the Olimar and the Cebollati rivers, during exceptionally high
floods. As a consequence, no important drainage structures are needed for safe cropping.
The southern part of the region includes mostly the lowlands of Rocha with
dominance of Gleysols, high in organic matter (local peat) and heavy textured (clay loam or
clay) throughout the soil profile. This zone comprises the enclosed flatlands that are
temporarily or permanently submerged by standing rainwater unless artificially drained
and/or flood protected. In fact, extensive aras were partially or totally reclaimed for rice
cropping since the late 70s by the combined action of government and private initiative. As a
result, extensive flood protection, drainage and irrigation infrastructure has been built during
the last decade.
Environmental conflicts, not yet solved, make it advisable not to consider the
lowlands of Rocha eligible for further irrigated agriculture development under present
conditions. Since the mid 80s, about 435.000 ha are supposed to be protected under the
Ramsar Treaty making part of the wetlands of international importance, especially as habitat
for migratory or resident waterfowl. Enviromnental conflicts derive from inconsistent
goverment actions: promotion and/or direct execution of drainage and irrigation
inrastructure, and, almost simultaneously, adhesion to the Ramsar Treaty inscribing as
protected wedands a large tract of territory which comprised the areas already reclaimed in
1984 or proposed for reclamation. The result has been an escalation of conflicts between
agriculture and environment protection, between different government agencies, between
government and environmental NGOs and between either government or NGOs on one side
and either land owners or rice growers on the other. In addition, conflicts have also arisen
within the agriculture sector (upstream versus downstream land users), although they concern
hydrological rather than environmental issues since they relate to private drainage and flood
protection infrastructure built with no consideration of a regional plan for water management
(even if environmental issues were neglected).
Other predictable environmental issues during development of the project in the
eastern region will be adequately treated and prevented since most of PRENADER
components are geared towards improving resource management and enhancing productivity
and efficiency in agriculture in the long term (sustainable production), which implies
reduction of soil erosion and degradation, conservation of water quality for diversified use



- 158 -                            Annex M
and preservation of biological diversity. This means that prevention of water pollution by
agrochemichals (fertilizers, herbicides, insecticides, etc.) will be effective and soil erosion
reduced to a minimum. The latter point is easy to achieve since present and future agriculture
will be located on the flat lands where potential for soil erosion is niegligible.
The Northern Region
The northern region comprises part of the departments of Artigas, Salto, Tacuaremb6
and Rivera and covers almost 25% of the national territory. On the flat lands of the
Tacuaremb6 and Uruguay river basins, 30.000 ha of rice (25% of total area) are cropped
annually under cropping systems similar to those used in the eastern region.
Dominant soils in the northern fladands have mostly a loamy topsoil of variable
thickness and a claypan or claypan-like subsoil; hydraulic conductivity is generally low or
very low. Since the region has extensive areas of good soils not yet under agricultre, the
potential exists for increasing the rice area in the near future, provided enough irrigation
water is made available. Increase of the area under rice is very likely because irrigated land
in the eastern region has already been almost completely developed and little land might be
added in the future, at least under present cropping system of long rotations.
Because there is no shortage of suitable land for rice cultivation in the northern
region, no attempts have been made for reclaiming wetlands since the latter require
additional investments in drainage and flood protection. However, extensive areas of
weedands of relatively unknown importance as habitat for native fauna exist along the main
steams. At present, no legal protection affects these northern wetlands although at least
some of them might reasonably be declared protected areas in the future, either within or
outside the Ramsar Treaty. Yet, only one ill-defined area has been identified in the northern
region wetlands as valuable for protection (Riverine forests of the Tacuaremb6, Negro and
Yaguari rivers) and, moreover, it is not included within the selected 16 priority areas out of
a total of 36 that have potential for protection (Estudio Ambiental Nacional, OPP/OEA/BID,
1992).
Sugar cane, citrus, deciduous fruits and horticultural crops are also cultivated under
irrigation in the northern region, totalling more than 13.00 ha. Most of these crops are on
gently undulating lands; lowlands and wetlands are avoided because of (micro) climatic
reasons, unsuitable soils or reducing investment in infrastructre for drainage and flood
protection.
The area under non-rice crops in the northern region has not been a source of
environmental conflicts and they should not likely arise in the future. No drainage of
wetlands is predictable and soil erosion and degradation and soil and water pollution should
be under control because of general and specific objectives of the project.
As a general recommendation it can be stated that no drainage of wetlands in the
northern region should be financed or encouraged under the project because of two reasons.
On the one hand, there is a high availability of suitable land for expansion of irrigated or
rainfed agriculture which makes unnecessary reclamation of permanently or temporarily
flooded additional land for such purposes. On the other hand, the possibility exists that part



- 159 -                            Annex M
or all of those wetlands might be officially designed in the future as natural reserves,
particularly if some of the reclaimed wetlands in the eastern region are removed from the
Ramsar Treaty area. The Ramsar Treaty states that any site removal should be justified by
urgent reasons of national interest and should be compensated by inscribing additional
wetlands of similar importance located elsewhere. The wetlands along the Tacuaremb6,
Negro and Yaguari rivers might reasonably qualify as a Ramsar site and designated in the
futare for substitution of lost wetlands in Rocha. Even if that is not the case, the riverine
wetlands are already proposed by the Estudio Ambiental Nacional (EAN) for protection,
mainly because of the ecological value of their natural forest cover. The fact that protection
of these riverine forests was not considered of the highest priority by EAN is a minor point
if it is accepted that pressure for natural protected areas designation and development is
increasing within the civil society, mainly through the activities of environmentalist NGOs
and legal decisions promoted by the Congress.
The Southern Region
The southern region comprises the departnents of Colonia, San Jose, Canelones and
Montevideo where about 11.000 ha are irrigated for horticultural crops and orchards.
Intensive land use for 100 years or more under rainfed non conservationist agriculture has
caused extensive erosion and degradation of soil physical properties. Soil losses and non
careful use of agrochemicals are further causes for loss of water quality in rivers and
reservoirs affecting drinking water supplying plants (need for more intensive treatment of
water, eutrophication, etc.).
The project will contribute to correct or mitigate some of the major environmental
issues detected in this region, particularly those concerned with soil erosion which is the
main source of suspended particles and soluble ions in nual areas that contribute to sildtg up
of streams and dams and eutrophication of lakes and reservoirs. With this scope, the project
is obviously beneficial from an environmental point of view and complements current
programs concerning soil and water conservation (MGAP, MTOP), water quality monitoring
(DINAMA), pesticides use and control (MGAP, DINAMA), which are under way or in the
initial stage of implementation aside of PRENADER.
Environmentl conflicts derived from possible wetlands reclamation are not likely to
arise since only relatively minor areas of marshlands or flooded lowlands occur within the
southern region, namely the lower Santa Lucia river and other small rvers floodplains next
to Rio de la Plata. Even though wedands drainage in the southern -egion appears not
probable, the project should not support or fund actions outside them that might lead to
environmental detenoration through modification of their hydrologic regimes, considerng
both the volume and quality of runoff reaching the wetlands.
The Estudio Ambiental Nacional (see above) did not select the Santa Lucia and Rio de
la Plata wetlands either with high or low priority for protection. Yet they are included in the
list of Uruguay's important wetlands published by IUCN (International Union for
Conservation of Nature), one of the best-known international NGOs, and working with a
solid scientific basis.



- 160 -                             Annex M
Again as a general rule, prevention of damage of the limited area of wetlands in the
southern region should be one of the rationales of the project. This contributes to
conservation of biological diversity through preservation of representative natural ecosystems
and does not result in constraints for the project since land availability is not a limitation for
development of irrigated agriculture in the region.
4.    Expced Environmental Imnats
The major fundamentals of obvious or probable environmental impacts expected from
development of irrigated agriculture promoted by PRENADER, have been set out in para 3.
A deepe: analysis of the issue leads to the separate consideration of three different sites for
the occurrence of enviromnental impacts, at least for most of the irrigation schemes to be
developed, which are based on gravity irrigation from dams: (a) upstream issues1, (b) on-site
issues, and (c) off-site (downstream) issues.
Upstream environmental issues in most of the projected schemes are related to
contribution of sewage or industrial effluent to reservoirs, build-up of nitrogen and
phosphorus in them (eutrophication), likelihood of contamination by agro-toxins and silting
up of dams due to soil erosion. It is expected that most of the mentioned factors will not play
a significant environmental (negative) role in the schemes to construct or that might be
executed in the future. Since the dam catchments are mostly located in rural areas of low
density, dispersed population, both domestic and industrial discharges will not represent a
threat to water quality entering the reservoirs. However, in some cases it will be essential to
monitor the location of new industries in the catchment, particularly in the few reservoirs
located at short distance downstream of medium or large towns, to prevent water pollution.
Control of already existing industries or other possible sources of contaminating effluent is
under the authority of DINAMA and legal instrumnents exist, and are actually applied, to
enforce the construction and habilitation of the industrial treatment plants required to satisfy
the standards accepted for such effluent.
Soil erosion and subsequent sedimentation in the reservoirs may be significant when
inadequate agriculture is practiced in the catchment. This will be the case in projects located
in rural areas of higher population density (e.g. Canelones) and intensive land use.
Provisions will be adopted by the project with the purpose of reducing erosion rates and
amsociated sedimentation; extension and financial support will be of great help to succeed in
erosion control efforts.
On-site issues relate to water logging, threat to endangered species due to flooding in
the reservoirs and conversion of land to intensive agriculture, salinization, destruction of
wetlands or other sensitive ecosystems (through reclamation or drastic changes in water
regimes, clearing of unique vegetation types, etc.) contamination of ground water, conflict
with alternative uses of the reservoir or the land, accelerated erosion due to intensified land
use and increase in water-borne disease.
Many of the on-site potential impacts tentatively identified are not likely to occur
everywhere or are easy to deal with through appropriate engineering designs. So is the case
for salinization hazard, so far unknown in existing irrigation systems in Uruguay and easy to



- 161 -                            Annex M
control with adequate drainage. It is proposed that increased soil erosion and contamination
by agrochemicals will be dealt with, when necessary, through "high technology". For soil
erosion control, this means contour cropping, low flow systems for water application,
carefully planned rotations according to soil erosion hazard, minimum soil tillage, use of
organic fertilizers and amendments and incorporation of green crops in the rotations to build
humus and nitrogen (the latter by N-fixing legumes). The risks derived from use of
agrochemicals resulting in residues on fruit and vegetables and contamination of aquifers
would also be offset by "high technology't: use of new selective herbicides, use of
insecticides and fungicides with minimal residues, careful use of nitrogen fertilizers based on
proper soil test and assessment of precise crop requirements in order to miniimize nitrogen
runoff into surface or ground water. Water-borne disease should be regarded as a very minor
or negligible threat since expansion of rice area to 120.000 ha throughout the country over
the past 15 years has not given as result any signs of malaria or schistomiasis. The problem
had already been analyzed in the mid 70s while assessing environmental impacts of the
construction of hydroelectric Salto Grande dam. So far no signs of water-borne disease have
been identified in that area and consequently, neither are they expected in comparable areas
under the project.
Rservoirs usually become attractive for waterfowl, at least temporarily and especially
during drought; this impact should be considered beneficial from an environmental point of
view.
Environmental conflicts associated with the threat that irrigation activities may pose
for the wetlands officially protected by the 1971 Ramsar Treaty have been already discussed.
Steps will be taken in project implementation to ensure that no irrigation activities will be
supported within the Ramsar site or other protected areas. Further, in the environmental
assessments of specific projects proposed in the eastern region, attention will be given to
potential downstream impacts on all officially reserved wetland areas or those proposed for
protection. The original area of the Ramsar Treaty is at present under revision and a
technical mission of the Convention Bureau has been very recently assisting the Government
to re-define the site and design sound plans and rules for the management of the redefined
area. Obviously, one of the main guidelines of such rules will be not to alter the water
regime of the Ramsar wetlands in order to ensure the conservation of the ecological
characteristics which justify its definition. Though no accurate figures can be advanced, it
seems reasonable to assume that: (a) the future Ramsar area will be smaller than the original
one, at least in the short term, and (b) it will not cover a continuous though irregular area,
but will rather comprise separate individual areas which, independently from each other,
qualify as Ramsar sites. Some significant tracts of land that have been drained, flood-
protected and put under irrigation in the last 10 years no longer qualify for the Ramsar
Treaty requirements, as already stated in 1988 (Monitoring procedure mission for the
Bafiados del Este; P. Duggan & A. Diegues; report to the Government of Uruguay). These
areas should be removed from the Ramsar site. On the other hand, some wetlands not yet
included in the site might be added, since they clearly qualify as Ramsar wetlands and have
been recommended for such purpose by different national and international specialists.
Litoral lagoons and associated marshlands and sandbars along the coast of Maldonado and
Rocha are good examples of potential Ramsar sites. The same might be true for some
wedands in Paysandfi, along the Uruguay river, and in Tacuaremb6 along some major
streams mentioned above.



-162 -                             Anmex M
Besides the Ramsar Treaty, protection of areas of particular value from the ecological
point of view has been established by legal or administrative ways. The law NO 16.170 of
November 28, 1990, mandates the Ministry of Household, Environment and Territorial
Planning (MVOTMA) to delineate the boundaries of a number of areas (e.g., wetlands along
the coast of the Merim Lagoon, Negra Lagoon and associated wetlands, and Jos6 Ignacio,
Garzon, Rocha and Castillos Lagoons). The delineation was finished and the areas so defined
were approved by the Government (Decree N 527 of October 1992). Some of these areas
are included in the original Ramsar site whereas others (most of the littoral lagoons) fall
outside of it. Whether included or not, its legal status makes them not eligible for irrigated or
raided agriculture as well as for any intensification of land use affecting its hydrology, its
natual vegetation and fauna and its scenic and cultural values.
With wetlands excluded for irrigation development, it is evident that rice cultivation
on non floodable flatlands will result in an increase in the use of fertilizers and pesticides
(excluding perhaps insecticides) and so risks exist of increase of the chemical content of
surface and ground water. No evidence of contamination has so far been detected in runoff
and water tables of the traditional rice areas of the country, though it may be argued that no
specific research has been conducted with that purpose. Monitoring of surface waters is
recommended to be considered and in fact DINAMA is already worldng on this issue, based
on a nationwide (though not dense) network of water sampling stations. The intensification of
field and laboratory work on water quality control is under way, and the eastern rice area is
a target region for water monitoring; yet, the use of "clean technologies" (as far as possible)
as descnbed above should contnbute to offset environmental negative impacts. Actually, the
long rotation of rice followed by 5 to 6 or more years of pasture has as a main purpose to
keep the use of expensive herbicides as low as possible. This purely economic objective
means that the rice cropping system in Uruguay might be considered ecologically 'soft" as
compared with more intensive rotations or even continuous rice, where the amount of
herbicide used is higher and the area treated every year is much larger. These considerations
do not imply that water quality monitoring might be ignored; it will be a need.
Off-site, downstream issues are in many instances the same as those listed for on-site
coflicts, but risks to population, infrastcmture and natural resources due to dam failure must
be added. This last point is to be considered with different weight for different specific
projects, because the number of settlements, individual homesteads, roads and other
infrastructure components is significantly different in each one. However, it has been assured
that engineering design standards and supervision of construction by the PRENADER
executing unit will meet international dam safety requirements.
Downstream changes in the timing, quality or quantity of water flows below dams
will not be significant in most cases, both for population and for wetlands and endangered
species. However, some exceptions to this general statement may be identified and should be
adequately considered. If a significant population settlement occurs downstream, some form
of consultation with the community will be necessary on this issue and on the advantages and
disadvantages of the whole project. Similarly, an irrigation scheme to be developed upstream
of an important wetland might be prejudicial if, as a result of its operation, the volume and
qualiiy of water reaching the wedand are negatively affected. This situation should be
managed with caution to avoid damage to natural mrsorces and habitat conditions in the off-
site wedands. Yet, it may be assumed that such a situation would occur only very rarely if



- 163 -                            Annex M
ever, given the territorial scope, the production aims and especially, the overall sound
management of natural resources pursued by PRENADER.
5.    Analvsis of Alternatives
The process of environmental screening and site selection of sub-projects is largely
included in chapters 3 and 4. The existing protected areas or those officially identified as
deserving some degree of protection will not be considered eligible for development of
irrigated agriculture. The basic information concerning these areas is available at different
government agencies involved with the subject (MGAP, MVOTMA) and any sub-project
proposal should be checked against the list of protected areas to identify and assess
environmental conflicts before any decision is undertaken. When a sketch map of location of
all potentially protected areas (included those already defined as such) is observed, it is
realized that most of them are situated in terrains where irrigation development is not feasible
or advisable because of many reasons other than those of environmental nature. Such is the
case for many areas on hilly and rocky soils (sierras), on coastal sands and beaches and on
river or ocean islands.
Environmental conflicts would arise in areas of wetlands and riverine forest lowlands
(wetlands of Rocha, littoral lagoons and associated marshes and forest lowlands of
Tacuaremb6). Since PRENADER will not fund or support sub-projects affecting such fragile
and environmentally valuable ecosystems, it is inferred that an effective screening is available
for avoiding conflicts between production and environment when taking decisions concerning
these subjects.
Other environmental issues to be dealt with are concerned with the design of the
projects themselves in order to consider, timely and adequately, its objectives, its strategy
and its consequences both in output and in environmental impact. This is so because the
project itself provides for sound natural resources management and promotion of sustainable
agricultural production through inclusion of these issues as major components (16% of total
cost).
The current capacity of central government agencies and local authorities to carry out
environmental impact assessments and monitor the application of corrective measures that
might be suggested by those assessments is rather weak at present. Yet, the project will
provide for strengthening of institutional capacity of MGAP on this subject (3 % of total
cost). At the same time, DINAMA will be receiving in the near future grants from IDB and
from EEC to strengthen its capacity to deal with environmental questions, environmental
impact assessment being one of the major fields to be covered by the technical cooperation.
As a result, a significant increase in technical capacity within government agencies
concerned with environment issues can be expected over the next two years. This will be a
significant contribution to environmental screening of projects of different nature and scope
(not only PRENADER).



-164 -                             Aimex M
6.        M;gtigain Yans
General environmental mitigation measures have been enumerated and discussed
under chapters 3, 4 and 5, with particular reference to specific projects and related measures
aiming to mitigate adverse impacts. Even if a sound screening of proposed sub-projects is
carried out, there will be the need for mitigation plans and specific actions to deal with some
inevitable consequences of irrigated agriculture.
Environmental impact assessment (EIA) is the basis for defining the need and extent
of mitigating measures. At present, a law of EIA is being discussed at the Congress; once
approved there will be a legal frame regulating the need of EIA for specific projects, the
terms under which they should be executed, the way they should be evaluated by the
responsible government agency and the timely incorporation into the project of the mitigation
measures that might be needed, but are not included in the project proposal.
It is expected that when PRENADER operations begin, the EIA law will be approved
and effective.
The environmental profiles for specific identified projects take into consideration the
necessary prevention or mitigation measures to keep environmental impact at acceptable
levels of international standards. The measures include upstream, on-site and downstream
issues that lead to the recommendation that the projects be enviromnentally classified as "C"
(i.e., no additional environmental studies required as prerequisites to final design). Only one
profile project is recommended for further work before definite environmental classification;
the additional work is conditioned by a ETA of flood control benefits, multiple-use reservoir
management options and a survey of the views of the downstream population with regard to
the possibility of dam failure.
Mitigation of environmental issues are part of the specific projects by inclusion of
agricultural "clean technologies"; soil conservation practices, when needed, to control
erosion and physical degradation; reduced inputs of agrochemichals and priority given to
those accepted as enviromnentally "soft"; water quality monitoring; assurance that
engineering designs satisfy international safety requirements.
7.    Environmental Monitoring and Evaluation
The physical environment of sub-project areas is generally well known since enough
information exists about the natural resources throughout the country. Yet additional
information concerning a specific resource might be needed for a specific area in some sub-
projects eventually proposed or for areas where the physical environmental conditions have
substantially changed since previous surveys. This will not be the general situation, but it
will be the case in areas modified by human action as mentioned for some former wetlands
in the eastern region.
Physical environmental conditions in sub-project areas will be monitored by technical
assistance agents working closely with farmers and supplied by DGRNR through its water



-165 -                             Annex M
and soils specialists. Additionally, DGRNR staff will receive international technical
assistance through PRENADER in the field of soil and water management and conservation.
The monitoring and supervision of institutional performance will be dealt with by the
Project Executing Unit (UEP) which will have resources for contracting specialists in
environmental impact assessment.
8.    IlLstitutional Strengthening Needs
As mentioned above, institutional capacity to deal with environmental issues -
including monitoring, evaluation and eventual penalization - is still rather weak in the
country. MOVTMA is acting just for the last 2 years and other government agencies show
similar structral weakness as well. Insufficient funding and quantitative lack of qualified
human resources contribute significantly to institutional weakness. Thus it can be concluded
that institutional strengthening is fundamental for success of the project.
The main responsibility for project implementation would be within MGAP, with
MTOP, through its Directorate of Hydrography, playing an important role in the allocation
of water rights and the construction of main irrigation works. An analysis of the capacity of
the various insdtutions was carried out as part of the preparation of the project to determine
the ability to implement the various components. As a result, some gaps were identified in
the institutional capacity, particularly in the General Directorate of Renewable Natural
Resources (DGRNR) within MGAP, for which technical assistance and training programs
have been defined. These include the institutional frame for the execution of the project, the
operation of a Geographical Information System (GIS) for centalization, compilation and
combining all the information generated and for periodical diffusion of available information
with the purpose of improving natural resources management.
National and international consultants and experts will be engaged for training
DGRNR personnel in the application of GIS and for assisting the institution and its technical
staff in planning of investments, defining the variables to be monitored and the way they will
be measured.
Additionally, to improve coordination between the main ministries involved in project
execution, an Inter-Ministerial Council headed by MGAP would be created and supported by
a strong Project Executing Unit.
DINAMA will also benefit from technical assistance for institutional strengthening
financed by grants of IDB and EEC. The main components of the program include the
development of an Environmental Information System, training of technical staff in
monitoring environmental variables with emphasis on EIA.
Institutional strengthening of MGAP and DINAMA are important contributions to
assure success of PRENADER and improving environmental management either within or
outside the project area.



- 166 -                            Annex M
EA training should be provided to irrigation users associations and DGRNR. in
addition, regional offices of DINAMA should be formally incorporated to local irrigation
boards (jmtas de riego).
9.    Public ParticiDation
The approach proposed for dealing with environmental aspects has been discussed
with all relevant govenmnent agencies (DGRNR, DINAMA, DH, OPP, OSE and University
UNICEM) and with a range of NGOs including the Rice Growers Association, Red de
Ecologia Social, Sociedad de Conservaci6n del Medio Ambiente, Amigos de la Preservaci6n
Ambiental and the consortium AGUAS grouping ten conservation associations organized
mainly to promote protection of the eastern wetlands of the country. A number of meetings
were held mainly in agencies and NGOs headquarters and, in some cases, in PRENADER
offices, during June, November and December 1992.
When considering the environmental profiles of specific projects, the respective
project propo? 's were discussed with the involved individual f4*rmers or farmer orgaztions
(CADYL, JTMECAL). Copies of the preliminary project proposals were circulated for
comments to four environmental NGOs (APA, SCMA, ITM and AGUAS). So far, no
objections have been raised on environmental or other grounds by these NGOs.
10.  Enironmental Procedures under the Loan. Within the project cycle seven steps
will be taken to assure that environmental issues are adequately considered in the selection,
design, construction and O&M of irrigation schemes.
(a)   Scheme proposals prepared by the boards of irrigation for submission to the
Inter-Ministerial Coordinating Council (CCI) will include a statement on
potential enviromnental implications (SPE) based on a check-list approved by
DINAMA and DGRNR.
(b)   For schemes approved for feasibility study by the CCI, an environmental
profile will be prepared for purposes of classifying their potential
environmental impact: "A" requiring a full-scale EA; "B" requiring further
study of specific aspects; or "C" requiring no further environmental studies.
These profiles will be prepared by the UEP in consultation with DGRNR and
DINAMA.
(c) Profiles will be submitted for comment to relevant units of MTOP, OPP and
MGAP, local groups affected by the project, and the NGOs concenmed with
these issues. The qualification of NGOs to be asked to comment would be
based on the criteria used by DINAMA for routine consultations with groups
outside the Government.
(d)   Observations from these enities (point c) would be submitted to the USP
which would be responsible for revision of the profiles, in association with
DGRNR, DH and DINAMA. the revised profiles together with a report on



-167-                              Annex M
the external consultations, would be submitted to CCI for final decision on the
environmental classification (point b).
(e)   In case of 'A" or "B" classification, CCI would require the UEP to draw up
terms of reference, in association with DINAMA, and contract the necessary
studies to assess potendal environmental impact and to produce
recommendations for mitigatory measures and M&E. These suxdies will be
financed under PRENADER; funding for the studies will be provided tirough
the UEP budget.
(f)   The EA studies would be circulated for information to all entities consulted on
the profiles and would be taken into account by CCI in detrmiing the final
design and ultimate eligibility of schemes to be recommended to the Bank for
finacing under the loan.
(g)   At the stages of construcion and O&M, CCI, through the DGRNR and DH,
would be responsible for the implementation of recommended mitigatory
meawres and M&E of impacts. This process will be directly supported by
four other program components:
(i) The research activity, exeuted by the National Agricultural Research
Institute (INIA) which includes the aspects related to potential
contamination of ground and surface water from agrochemicals and soil
degradation under intensive irrigated agriculture.
(-i) The study of water quality affecting and affected by irrigation under the
direction of DGRNR, DH and the National Directorate of Mining and
Geology (DINAMIGE).
(iii) The DGRNR program for extension of soil conservation techniques.
(iv) The study of micro watersheds, the Commission for the Development
of the Santa Lucia Basin (CHDCRSL).
11.   With respect to candidate schemes in the "area of influence" of the wetlands in the
Departm s of Rocha and Treinta y Tres, the following decision mles would apply:
(a)   Until the Ramsar Treaty limits are officially modified, no projects will be
considered within the 325,000 ha Ramsar Treaty area (not including the
Umguayan Merim Lagoon water surface), and projects likely to influence the
water regime within the above area wil be subject to rigorous EA.
(b)   The same conditions as in point (a) would apply to any areas of the 140,000
ha wedand reserve which may faU outside the Ramsar Treaty limits (parm 6).
(c)   Once the Ramsar limits are officially modified the rles in points (a) and (b)
wiUl apply to the new area.



-168-                             Annex M
(d) Until the inter-agency commission's studies on the 360,000 ha right bank of
the Cebollati river have been completd and approved by the respective board
of irrigadon, an by DINAMA, and finally authorized by the MTOP, no
project will be considered in this area.
(e)   The map of "reservable" wetand area to be completed in 1993 (pan 6) will be
routinely taken into account in the seven-step environental procedures applied
to any scheme submitted by the boards of irrigation in the Departments of
Rocha and Treinta y Tres.



- 169 -                            Annex N
URUJGUAY
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT AND IRRIGATION
DEVELOPIMENT PRQJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
Su& on Schedule
1.    During the first two years of the project, supervision efforts would focus on
organization, team development, and operational issues (i.e., procurement, disbursement, and
auditing procedures) with a view toward strngthening the executing agencies' and UEP's
implementation capacity, thus ensring the Borrower's understanding of operating plans and
Bank procedures and responsibilities. In summary, during the first phase of the project,
supervision missons will concentrate on providing the necessary assistance to the Borrower
to facilitate project implementation.
2.   It is expected that Bank supervision missions will assist UEP and the project
executing agencies (MGAP and MTOP) in prioritizing public investments as well as human
resource allocation. Selection of consultants will require special attention in order to ensure
the technical, financial, and environmental soundness of the proposed investments.
Strengthening of local managerial capacity and active beneficiary participation in design and
implementation of I&D schemes will ensure continuity of the project.
3.    Selection of consultants for the basic studies (i.e., Raig6n, and Salto aquifers, and
economic/environmental assessment for the Water Harvesting "Pilot" Program), as well as
assisig the Borrower in the preparation of bidding documents for procurement of works and
equipment, wiU be major tasks to be carried out during the first year of project
implementaton.
4.    Given the programmatic approach of the project, performance of all activities will be
carefully reassessed during implementation. Along these lines, project performance
indicators will be reviewed during the amual and mid-term reviews to ensure relevance and
that development impact ratings adequately reflect project objectives.
5.    The tentative supervision timetable and required Bank staffing, is as follows:
(a) The first supervision mission to review project start-up activities, estimated
budget, and work program for the first year of project implementation would
be carried out during the 3rd quarter of FY1994 and comprised of the Task
Manager, a procurement specialist, and an irrigation engineer. Total 5 SW
(b) Second supervision mission, 1st quarter FY1995. Full supervision mission
focusing on project start-up and possible initial implementation problems,
especially with respect to institutional stengening (UEP, DGRNR, and DH),



- 170 -                            Annex N
procurement and administrative (i.e., disbursement and accounting)
procedures, availability of counterpart funding, beneficiary participation in
subproject selection and design, engineering design and environmental
assessment, regulatory framework (water rights, cost recovery, O&M), and
financial reporting. The mission would be comprised of the Task Manager
and 1-2 specialists. Total 6 SW
(c)   Third supervision mission and First Annual Review, 3rd quarter FY1995
would concentrate on the analysis of project performance during first year of
project implementation (against agreed project performance indicators) and the
budget and Annual Operating Plan (POA) for 1996. Availability and
timeliness on the delivery of counterpart funding will be assessed. This
exercise will be made in time to allow any possible administrative adjustments
to be made before the new year's budget is processed and approved. The
mission would be comprised of the Task Manager (planning and budgeting), an
irrigation engineer, a natural resource management/enviromnent specialist, an
agronomnist, and a financial analyst. Total 5 SW
(d)   Fourth and fifth supervision missions are planned for the 1st and 3rd quarters
of FY1996, respectively (Total 6 SW). The sixth supervision mission, first
quarter 1997, would include the Task manager, irrigation engineer,
agronomist, financial analyst, and a natural resource legal expert (Total S
SW). It will coincide with the project's mid-term review scheduled for
September 1996. Bank supervision input envisioned for the first two and one
half years of project implementation, including the mid-term review, would be
27 staffweeks. An additional 12 SW are expected to be required during this
period for review and processing of project related documents and other
operational issues, bringing the overall supervision input for the first two and
one half years of project implementation to 39 SW. A summary and estimated
schedule of Bank supervision input over full project implementation period, is
presented in tables I and 2 below.
Annual and Mid-Term Reviews
6.    Annual reviews would take place by March-April of each year starting in 1994, and
the mid-term review in June 1996 (FY96). Both the annual reviews and mid-term review
would entail an itemized analysis by project component (i.e., Natural Resource Management,
and rigation Development) against the project implementation and impact indicators (Annex
0), as well as an assessment of the Government's subsector strategy. Both exercises would
also assess the appropriateness of skill mix and financial support at the level of UEP and
executing agencies (MGAP and MTOP), and their association with the policy decision level
(Ierministerial Coordinating Committee). An assessment of the design and implementation
of the government's natural resource management strategy, as well as enforcement of capital
cost recovery and O&M policy, will provide a qualitative measure of project impact.
Accordingly, and based on the results of the analysis, the annual and mid-term reviews
would offer the opporunity to adjust project implementation as appropriate, in light of actual
experience.



-171-                               Annex N
7.    A summaty of the areas to be addressed in the annual and mid-term reviews is
presented below.
(a)   Natwral Resource Management
(i) Pilot Micro-Catchment Progam: Progress in the design,
establishment, and functioning of the four pilot subprojects. This
would include an assessment of beneficiaries participation, as well as
the technical soundness and degree of adoption of the proposed soil and
water conservation practices as they relate to agricultural diversification
and growth;
(ii) Demonstration Farms: Location and design of the soil and water
management/conservation plots incorporating the identified variables for
different cropping, soil, and climate conditions. Degree of
coordination between executing agencies (DGRNR, DH, INIA) in the
design of the plots and transferng results as the basis for the adoption
of more advanced (environmentally sound) production technologies.
Assessment of edaphic, climatic, and economic analysis carried out
durng the period under review;
(ii) Applied Research and Technology Transfer Program: Review the
design and implementation of the agreed applied research subprojects
executed by INIA, and the level of acceptance (adoption) by field staff,
and trmer target groups. Assess the results of the experiences on
validation of new soil and water conservation practices under farm
conditions. Special attention would be given to the level of
coordination between and within executng agencies and the private
sector with a view toward improving technology transfer activities;
(iv) Geograhical Information System (GIS): Level of progress attained in
the execution of the GIS first phase as identified during project
preparation (Annex E). This would include an assessment of basic
hardware/software acquired for the digitalization of 1:1,000,000
available maps, effectiveness of the proposed training program, and
coordination between Directorates of Topography, Cadastre,
Meteorology, and CONEAT. As a result of the evaluation, the need
for an expansion of and possible adjustments to the training and
technical assistance program would be defined;
(v) institutional Strengthening: Review of sector institutions and
performance and their ability to undertake sector analysis relevant to
program and policy decisions, as well as the capacity and effectiveness
of the emecuting agencies' to monitor project implementation. Assess
content and design of the training and technical assistance program
(Annex P), including level of attendance/participation and impact on the
performance of local technical staff and farmers. The proposed
approach and objectives of each phase of TA and training would also



- 172 -                            Annex N
be assessed. Improvements in budgeting anid financial management
practices, organization and team development, and strengthening and
delegation of furnions at the regional level would be evaluated during
the project implementation reviews;
(vi) Natural Resource Management Studies: Analyze the results of the
proposed baseline studies (SAR para. 2.19) as technical input to the
definition of policy in the program areas (i.e., soil and water resource
management/conservation). Determine the extent to which the results
of the proposed studies have crystallized on specific policy guidelines
and actions, and stimulate the private sector to improve water use
efficiency and adopt natural resource conservation practices; and
(vii)  Fore=rv Development: Overall impact of the project on improved
forest resource management and conservation measured by the level of
adoption of new technologies. Review progress, scope, and possible
adjustments of the proposed technical assistance and taining program
in light of the experience gained under Ln 3131-UR.
(b)   Irigation Development
(i)  Rehabilitation and Modernization of Existing I&D Schemes: Review of
technical design and specifications of the proposed I&D schemes to
ensure compliance with engineering standards and agreed conditions,
including an evaluation of the level of acceptance (and enforcement) of
capital cost recovery and O&M agreements signed between the
Goverment and water users. An evaluation of the regulatory and
administrative framework implemented under the project, as it affects
private investment and improves water resource allocation and
efficiency, would also be carried out during the annual and mid-term
reviews. Based on the result of the analysis, possible adjustments
would be recommended, as necessary. Implememtion arrangements
(i.e., procurement procedures, technical assistance and training
schedule, availability of counterpart funding, and beneficiary
participation in the design and operation of the proposed investments)
would be assessed;
(ii) New Medium-Size I&D Schemes and Small Farmer Irrigation
Infiasitrure: As defined in para. (i) above. In addition, the anmual
and mid-term reviews would evaluate actual demand measured against
projections made at appraisal (SAR, paras. 2.26, 2.27, and 2.29) and
eligibility criteria utilized for the selection of I&D schemes financed
under the project. Adjustments to the proposed investment plan would
be made, as needed. Appropriateness and implementation of capital
cost recovety and O&M policy would be assessed. Special attention
will be given to the technical soundness and timeliness of EA impact
studies. Overall, the evaluation of the Irrigation Development



- 173 -                            Annex N
component would be made following a watershed management
approach;
(iii) Water Harvesting Pilot Pr gram: The analysis would focus on the
results of the environmental/economic assessment study quantifying the
externalities associated with the systematic development of small water
catchments (earthfills) within the selected pilot area. Actual demand
and beneficiary participation and commitment to the proposed capital
cost recovery policy would be assessed. Possible adjustments to the
investment targets established at appraisal would be considered, as
appropriate; and
(iv) Non-Traditional Export Crop Promotion: Implementation of the
proposed technical assistance and training program would be contingent
upon the result of an in-depth impact assessment of the PENTA
program financed under Loan 3131-UR, to be carried out at the mid-
term review in June 1996.
(c)   Project Management
(i)  UEP performance: UEP would be evaluated with major emphasis on
its ability to coordinate and assist sector institutions to achieve the
project's objectives. UEP responsibility will include, among others:
consolidation of Annual Operating Plans (POAs), follow-up compliance
with inter-agency cooperation agreements, financial management
inciuding allocation and monitoring of project funds, and availability of
counterpart funding. The composition (skill mix) of the UEP will be
analyzed in order to receive feedback from the executing agencies
regarding the unit's ability to adequately coordinate and manage
technical, administrative, and financial issues;
(ii)  Procurement and Disbursements: Technical ability, soundness of
judgment, and compliance with Bank guidelines will be assessed takdng
into account acual project performance during the period under review.
The analysis will indicate whether there is a need to strengthen specific
areas being examined. It will also serve the purpose of discussing with
the executing agencies Bank procedures in the context of overall project
objectives and performance. Bank specialists will be invited as
necessary; and
(iii) Auditing: Auditing procedures, as well as selection and performance of
consultants will be assessed. The plan of accounts will be reviewed.
This exercise will be carried out stressing the value of appropriate
auditing as a monitoring tool to help the Government achieve the
proposed project objectives.



-174 -                                  Annex N
TakIle . Sunmary of Bank Supervision Input Over Full Prp,ct Implemen1ation Period
Step                            Task                         Time Allocation    l
Plannig (4%)          Review and analysis of project              3.7   staffweeks
inmplementation/design, including
recomnmendations for possible adjustments
Progra_mg (6%)    Annual Reviews (5)                              5.6   staffweeks
Mid-term Review (1)
Engineering (17%)     Review of I&D subproject proposals' design    16   staffweeks
Environmental         Review and analysis of EA linked to l&D      6     staffweeks
Assessment (EA)       subprojects
(6%)                _______                                      _
Evaluation of         Review and analysis of legal/administrative  3.7   staffweeks
legal/administrative    steps taken by the GOU to guarantee water
framework (4%)        rights and sustainability of capital cost
recovery and O&M policy
Procurement (civil    Civil Works:
works, equiment,        Prior review/assistance                   11     staffweeks
technical assistance    Post review                                6     staffweeks
contracts) (18%)
Disbursement (3%)    Review processing                            3      staffweeks
Implementation V      Follow-up:
(42%)                   Civil works (I&D schemes)
Technical assistance/training
Research program                         40      stafrweeks
Pilot programs
UEP, MGAP and MTOP performance                                  l
TOTAL (100%)                                                     95  siteeks s     '
aI Estimated twelve supervision missions equivalent to 40 staffweeks of field work.
h/ Corsponding to an esdmated average of about 15.8 staffweeks per year of Bank supervision input.



- 175 -                                 Annex N
Table 2. Estlmated Schedule gf Bank SunervIson Input" 
PeIntage of
Estinated    Total Project
Bank      Estimated   Cumulative  Supervision Input
Fiscal Year  Stafweeks   Stafweeks  Assigned by Year
1994           14          14               15%
1995           22          36              23%
1996           17.5        53.5             18%
1997 bk        18          71.5             19%
1998           14          84.5             15%
1999            9.5        95               10%
Total         95                          100%
A/ values runded
kI aid-term review tetatively planned for September, 1996



URUGUAY'
NATUAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT AND IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PRox
Pr#1et Performance Indiators1
Cm_poun: NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGMNT
R.spomlbIe    Estmd        Unt                     Year
AcIvies               Oetive                              Taoss                      inty           Cost      Tubsks-
(USS)                1     2     3      4     S     C
(Pa. 2.8)         To enagefamrs to                                                    UBPin           3.1 million
Pio               uande        ou-fm            osAlamo                                oopraetion
Mkw-CM*mW         tinvarut andM agriu         Sub-proet       doomptl                 with                          %       20    40   100
Prgm within       podCtionpractices          Sculimus;                                CHDCSL                                 I     I
dh SnW IAci       desid  o bceas  and         Wosops; ad                                                           NO        3     3     1
Riveruin          dlstr agkuti                Frak-days.                                                            N        4     4     2
productio and redoce soil
Suj&omld;                                                             %   tO  60 100
Semnas;                                                               N        1     2     1
Wo*sops; and                                                         NO        2     3     2
FieW-dys.                                                            NO        4     3     3
_"olwjeu omple"-                                                     %      20    40    60    80   100
sem9 usi                                                              NO       I     I
Wokops; anI                                                          N         1     2     3     4      4
Fyld.dqs.                                                            No        1     2     6     6      5
SoJCOmpe  ;                                                           %    20  40  80  100
semia;r                                                               NO      1      2
WodAhps; ad                                                          NO        I     1     3      1     1
Pidt4ys.                                                             NO              1        1  1      1
11      QualitAve measures of wret      will be manlfy based on dhe assessment (to be caed out during the annual and mid-tem reviews) of e _cucr impleneation and
enhncemet of agreed naural resource _   n     a    nd capitl cost recovery and O&M policies (SAR pares. 2.22, 2.24, 2.28, 2.29 and 2.33).



Prolect rfornce ldicators (Continued)
Co _pesat:  NATURAL RE9SURCES MANAGEMENT
Resposible    Etimated    Un/                      Year
Actvtes                Oldbtve                            'T s                         Eiat           Cost      Tsks-
(US$)                1     2      3     4      S     6
(Para. 2.11)       To iomoate ipwed                                                     DCRNR with    1.1m n
Dem ottion         soil and crp managent      Established opeational demonsaion fims;   UEP                          NO        5
Fms in selected    technologies aimed at      Technologytnsfr meetngs:                                               N        5     5     S      5
Agro-Eloogil    deveoping asuaile           Work*sops;                                                             NO        3     2     3      2
Zones              Woions and podmcdon        Seminars;                                                              N         2           2            2
systm  on a commecial      Progress tepotitg; and                                                 N       2      2     2      2     2
scale                      Publicadons.                                                           NO       I      I     I      1     I
(Pra. 2.12)        To provide technological                                             .A,            10.0 nill
Applied Research    rommendatos to specific   Esblised merarch rials;                   Faculty of                   No       10    15    14
aod Tenology       requem   of fumers         Fielddqts;                                Agronomy,                    NO             10    10    10    10
Tnfer              rearding theeffcient       Publicaons of  seach re ; and             DGRNR,                       N                                37                 ,
utiliztion of soi wast     Progress reporting.                      AUSID                         NO      10    25    39    39    39
esources and o adapt and
tndr he acquired resut
to frmers
(Pra. 2.16)        To provide a computerized                                            DGRNR,          1.0 million
Geographical       basi for an ago-ecologal   TOR of the work-pram                      DINAMA,                       %      10D
Infomation         zoning and recomm          Acqusition of the hardwar confiatdon,     Directorate                   %      30    50   100
Sysm (GIS)         for appropriat land use    Aquision of the software con ron;         Forestry.                                   40   100
Training progm; and                      DH                            NO
Dignian proces.                                                                      40    80   100
(Pam. 2.19)        To establsh te grund-                                                DRNR.           1.6 &miQn
Studies            wor for he tevelopment of   Piot water magement pla (incdg           DINAMA,
an environmentally sound     economevirtonentalassessment of the   DH.
Irigaon and trol             Wate Harvestg Piot Prgrm);              DINAMYGE          108,000    %      100
managementstt              Aquifes Ra#6n y Sat asune;                                   72,000    %      1oo
Watety   of krigation                                       60,000    NO              1      2     1
Eaaton of waer us effcieny;                                 76,000    N"                           I            I
Follow-up suis; and                                        500,000                To be deined during the project
Odher studie.                                              784,000                       amuma reviews



Project Performance Indicators (Continued)
Gempome~  NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT
Responsie      Estmd ed    Unitl                       Year
Ahtvities               Objective                              Taskls                        Entily          Cost       Tas -ks
(US$)                  1     2      3      4      S      6
(Parm. 2.20)        To expand die actvies tdat                                               Directorate       2.2 milion
Foy                 ae curendy being             hneraoa Technical Asisnce                   Forestry
Devepmt             developed under Loan 3131-   Contacdng of seior tecnil adviers                                           NO        6    12    12
UR mand  sconute to a    Comrcting of spciists                                                           NO        5     4      3      4
betr utilization of fores    Natonal Tcc  Assistance
resources                    Conacted specialist                                                         NO       4      3      3      5      1
School t ainees                                                            N'       60    60    60    60    60
Techncl Assistance to Forest Producers
aminig of superisors and sr. te ias                                        NO        4      3      3
Traing of manporverseas                                                    NO               3      4
Traig of maneps fn Umuguq                                                  NO        1      2      3      2      1
Technical Asistance to FD Technical Staff                                  NO        4      S      4      3     4
Sudy Tours. Fais and Gened Workshons
Ovetseas tours                                                             NO                             I      I
Speciaized senars                                                          N               I      l      I     I
Iermaonal firs                                                             NO               I             I
Preparation of materils for tech. transfer                                 No               I      I
LOa semuns                                                                 N'        I      I
Private iissions overseas                                                  NO        I      1      1           t
Forest Studies and Rescarc4                                                No        1      3      6     5      5
I
, _   _   .   ,   =  .  _  .  _,  . : -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
0



Noject r9rMaM I-odLcato (Continued)
C__o : IRIGATION DEVELOTPM
ResponsI   Etimated  Uni                            Yta
Acdvites               Objecdive                           Ta1s                        Entlty          Cost       Tasks
(USS3                1      2     3      4     5      6
(Pam. 2.22)        To unpwet existng Stt-                                               DH               4.0 mllion
Rehabilitaon and   owned irigation schemes     Canelon Grand.                           widh the
Modernzaton of    wbere financial              Main civil works completed;              participation                   %      40    70
existi  Schemes    responsity for their        On-farm works completed;                 of:                             %      40    70   100
adm inistaond ful          Acquisition pump. stat. & main eqip.; and    Regional                    %       70   100   l00
O&M would be tansferred    Acquiston on-farm equipmentY             ifigation                        %      30    60   100
to the users                                                        Boards,
Canel6n Grande H                         DINAMA,
Main civil works cornpleted;            Water Users                      9             20    40   100
On-farm works completed;                Association,                     %             20    40   100
AcquisiWon pump. stat. & main equip.; and   BROU,                                     100
Acquisition on-farm equiprt.3'          Colonization                     %             20    60   100
Colonia ESDAfAM                         Iinstubte, 
Main civil works completed;             Municalities                     %             30   100
On-farm works completed;                                                 %             70   100
Acquisiton pump. stat. & main equip.;                                    9            100
Acquisidon on-fanm equipment;Y and                                       %             70   100
Production support equipment.                                            b            100
Chinzolo T. Berreta v Aguas Blancas
Main civil works completed;                                              %        lbe indicators will be defined upon
On-farm works completed;                                                 %       demand and quantified durmg amnnal
Acquisition pUmP stat. & main equip.;                                    %       reviews according to the results of the
Acquisiton on-farm equipment?-. and                                      %         corresponding feasibiity studies.
Pmduction support eipment.                                               %
21       Acquion of tbage and other telated on-fam equipment will not be hunaed by the World Bank.



Proect Peformance (dka                       Cot (Conue
CQmponent: IRGATON DEVELOPMENT
Respomible     Estimated    Unt                      Year
Activites              Objetiv                             Tass                        Eity            Cost       Tasks
(US$)                1      2     3      4     5      6
(Parm. 2.26)       To guport incfeased                                                  DGRNR           30.0 mrilion
New Medium-        prod activity and crop      !umnwal (1,300 ha)                       (DSA). DH.
Sized Jrrigation   diversfication by expanding    Main civil works completed;           Regional                        %       45    40    15
and Dainage        the irrigated  ea by        Acquisition pump. stat. & main equip, and   Irgation                     %       75    25
Schemes            approximaly 15,000 ha       Acquisdon on-farm equipmint.Y            Boards,                         %      75    25
DINAMA,
Roman Grande (1.400 ba)                  Watr Users
Main civil works completed; and          Association.                    %       30    50    20
Acquisition pump. stat. & main equip.    BROU,                           %      100
Colonization
sffute,
Frailb Muerto (4,000 ha)                Municipalities,
Main civil works completed;             Envionmanal                      %      30    50    20
On-farm works completed;                 Protection                      %             50    50
Acquisition pump. smt. & main equip.;   Agencies,                       %      100
Acquisition on-fanr equipment;Y and     Cooperatives,                    %             50    50
Pmduction support equipment.            JUNAGRA,
Citnus
Calsal. Cannelo. San Pedro. Colonia     cis                                       The indicators wil be defined upon
Valdense. Calol. Calnando. Treinta v Tres.   Rice omussy                         demand and quantifed during anmnal
Calelco. Cerillos.                                                               r reviews according to dhe results of tbe
corresponding feasibility studies.
(Pan. 2.29)        Constuction of ttibewells or                                        DWRNR             5.8 miion
Small Farmers      small pumping stDons plus    Small wateamets (earhfllls);           (DSA), DH,                      NO        The indicators wil be defined upon
Irigation          conve3ance, distribution and   Tubewells;                           BROU.                           NO       demand and quanted during anmusl
Inf _scr           drainage networks and on-   Pumping stations;                       Colonizadon                     NO       reviews according to the results of the
fm  works that would       Conveyance and distribution networks; and    Institute,                 Xms.        corresponding feasiblitq studies.
beneft an area of          On-farm works.                           Muncipildes,                    NO
approulyateW 5,000 ha                                               JUNAGRA,
citrus Comm.,
Cooperatives,                                                                       fi
INAVI,
CONAPRD)LE 
3/       AcquIsItion of iln  ant otder reatd on-fam equipmetwil otbe fAmed by tde Wodd Rak.



- 182 -                    Aime;xO
l    0                        0' 'S
e j 3 g 8~~0  
q ! : 1 p"8i&X<tS.
2 : JeXet   gl,,tieeXeel g 
}   { t}X        t{  X      J  1g!Sf



URUGUAY
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT AND IRRIGATION DEVELOPMNT PROJECT
Trainin   and Technial Assistance Schedule
-  ..                    |~ilo      L _      _       -
Project Component/                Responsible    Year                             Annual Costs                            Total Cost
ActMity Description                  Unit                                                                                    per
and Objective                                         Workshops                  Consultants                  Total     Activity !'
or Trainees                                           Annual
Costs     (US$'000)
No.   Unit      International         National       (USS'000)
Cost
(USJ$   No.   Unit Cost    No.    Unit Cost
plm   (US $'OOO)   ptm   (US $'000)
Natural Reseurs Management Cenponent
Santa Lucia "Pilot Microcatchmrent          UEP in              1                   12          12                           144         372            co
Proaram-Desian of Proaram for Micro-        coordination        2                    6          12                           72
catchrnenta: contracting of natural resources  with CHDCSL      3                    3          12                            36
management specialist to prepare detail design                  4                    3          12                            36
of works and activties to be carried out in                     6                    3          12                           36
micro-catchment areas; prepare contracts of                     6                    4          12                           48
executing firms; and assist the UEP and the
DGRNR with monitoring and evaluation.
Santa Lucla "Pilot' Microcatchment          UEP in              1                                       12          2.5       30         180
Proaram-Desian of Proarams for Micro-       coordination        2                                       12          2.5      30
Catchments: contracting of agronomist, with  with CHDCSL        3                                       12          2.5       30
experience In natural resources management, to                  4                                       12          2.5       30
work with the International specialist in the                   5                                       12         2.5       30
design of works and activities to be carried out                6                                       12          2.5       30
in micro-catchment areas; prepare contracts of
executing companies; and assist the UEP and
the DGRNR with monitoring and evaluation.              ____
Santa Lucla *Pilot" Microcatchment          UEP in              1                                        6         2.5       15          90
Procrarm-Technical Back-stoin: contacting    coordination       2                                        6         2.5        15
local experts to provide techinical back-stopping    with CHDCSL  3                                      6         2.5       15
during the execution of the micro-catchment                     4                                        6          2.5       15
programs.                                                       5                                        6         2.5        1 5
6                                        6         2.5       15
xIncudes price ad pysica condngenci (3.1 % per amm, and 5% of baseline cost rspeively).



Schedule of Traininn and Technical Assistance (Continued)
Project Component/              Responsible    Year                          Annual Costs                           Total Cost
Actit Description                  Unit                                                                                per
and Objective                                      Workshops                Consultants                 Total     Acivity 
or Trainees                                        Annual
No. Unt                                      .       Costs    (USS'ooo
No.   Unit    International         National       (US$S0001
Cost    -     _  _ _  __          _  _  _
(US$   No.   Unit Cost   No.   Unit Cost
-000)  p/rm  IUS8000    p/m   IUSS 000)
NEtUra Resouce MaWnagaai Componen                                                                                   _______
Santa Lucfia Pilot' Micro-atchment Proaram:  UEP in         1   50    520                                              26        182
promotion of appropriate soil and water   coordination      2    70    520                                             36
management conservation programs.         with CHDCSL       3   50    520                                              26
4    80    520                                            42
5   50    520                                             26
6    50    520                                            26
Santa Ludsa Pilot Microcatchment Program:  UEP in           I1                  _           _      _           _                 584 6
technkal support for the Introduction of  coordination      2                   12         12     24         2.5      200
technical packages on soil erosion control, land    with CHDCSL  3               6         12      24        2.5      130
use planning and dis nflcaton, including                    4                    6         12      18        2.5      120
pesticide management.                                       5                    3         12      12        2.5       60
8                   2         12      12         2.5      54
Santa Lucda 'Pilot* Microcatchment ProaUam:  UEP in         1   40    650                                              26        312
farm management techniques, pesticide     coordinaton       2   80    650                                              52
management and waste control.             with CHDCSL       3   60    660                                              39
4    80    650                                            52
6   120    650                                            78
8 I100    650                                             65 
Sana Lucla "Pilot" Microcatchment Proaram:  UEP in          1                                     24         2.5       60        300
program maWgenent and technical support.  coordination      2                                     24         2.5       60
with CHDCSL       3                                     18         2.5      45
4                                     18         2.5      45
6                                     18         2.5      45
8__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   1__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   6   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   8  2.5  45  _
/      JaoiAudes prke ad pyical nfi (3.1% per amm  al 5% of baseine  mpectvy).



Schedule of Training and Technical Assistance (Continued)
- Project ComponentU              Responsible    Year                           Annual CostCosts                        Total Cost
Activity Description                 Unit                                                   .                              per
and Objective                                        Workshops                 Consultants                  Total     Activity l'
or Trainees                                          Annual
Costs    (US$ 000)
No.   Unit      International        National       (US $000)
Cost    -
(UJS$    No.   Unit Cost    No.    Unit Cost
L000)   p/rn  IUS$'000)   p/m   fUS$'000                             l
uNatual Resurces Management Conent            X====__                                                      ___=__                  -__ _l
Demonstration Farms-Desion of Production    UEP and            1                    3          12                           36         166
Plan: contracting of natural resources      DGRNR              2                    2          12                           24
management specialist to prepare a detailed                    3                    2          12                           27
program of work to be executed in the selected                 4                    2          12                           30
demonstration farms; train staff of DGRNR;                     5                    2          12                           35
monitor demonstration farms' progress; and                     6                    1          12                           14
assist DGRNR and UEP with the pteparation of
the component's final report.                                                                                              I_      
Demonstration Farms-Technical Coordination:    UEP and         1                                       12         2.5       30         116
contracting an agronomist, with experience in  DGRNR           2                                       12         2.5       30
soil management and conservation, to provide                   3                                        6         2.5       1 5
technical coordination of activities to be                     4                                        6         2.5       15
executed on the demonstration farms.                           5                                        6         2.5       15
6                                       6          2.5       15
Demonstration Farms-Technical Assistance to    UEP and         1                                       12         2.5       30         120
the Producer: financing of incremental technical   DGRNR       2                                       12         2.5       30
assistance to the owner of the demonstration                   3                                        6         2.5       15
farm to cover natural resources management                     4                                        6         2.5       1 5
aspects and prepare material for demonstration                 5                                        6         2.5       15
purposes.                                                      6                                       6          2.5       15
Demonstration Farms: training to producers on    UEP and       1     3      12                                             36          187
soil management, conservation, at the regional    DGRNR        2     3      12                                             41
level.                                                         3     2      12                                             27
4     2      12                                              29
5     -       -
6     4      12                                             54
Includes price and physical contingencies (3.1 % per annum, and 5% of baseline cost, respetively).



Schedule of Trainin and Technical Assistance (Continued)
Project Component/               Responsible    Year                            Annual Costs                             Total Cost
Activity Description                 Unit                                                                                   per
and Objective                                        Workshops                 Consultants                  Total     Activity   l
or Trainees                                          Annual
Costs     JUS$'ooo)
No.   Unit      Interational         National       (US $O00)
Cost
(US$   No.   Unit Cost    No.   Unit Cost
000)   p/r   (USS'000)   p/m   (US$'000)
Natral Resources Managemem Component                  _             ___
GIS-Desian of the System: contracting of a  UEP                1                    2          12                           24          24
specialist to design the GIS system that would
be financed and operated under the project and
assist the UEP with the purchase of equipment
and software.
GIS-Installation of System: contracting of  UEP                2                    7          12                           84         156
specialist in GIS to install equipment and                     3                    2          12                           24                        00
software, train key staff, design wotk plan,                   4                    3          12                           36
provide technical back-stopping, and prepare a
mid-term review of implementation.
GIS-Training: contracting of specialist in  UEP and GIS        1     1      12                                              12         180
management of natural resources and land use    participating  2    10      12                                             120
planning, with experience in the application of    institutions  3   2      12                                              24
ARC/INFO in these areas to train staff of                      4     1      12                                              12
participating institutions.
GIS-Workshops/Study Tours: organizing       UEP and GIS        3     3       6                                              18          40
workshops, and possibly study tours to      participating      4     3       6                                              18
neighboring countries with experience in   Institutions
operating GIS, for advanced training of staff of
participating hnstitutbons._
GIS-Supervision of Site Preparation:        UEP and GIS        1                                        3         2.5        7.5        20
contracting a consultant, with experience in  participating    2                                        3         2.5        7.5
installation of computer equipment, to supervise  institutlons  3                                       2         2.5        5
the site preparation and assist the international    _
consultant with the installation of the hardware
and software.
it     Includes price and physical contingencies (3.1% per annum, and 5% of basliene cost, respectively).



Schedule of Training and Technical Assistance (Continued)
Project Componentl               Responsible    Year                            Annual Costs                             Totap Cost
Activity Description                 Unit                          I_-_                                              _      per
and ObJective                                        Workshops                 Consultants                  Total     Activity i
or Trainees                                          Annual
-  -                                     ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~~~costs    IUSV$'O0)
No.   Unit      International         National      (US $'000)
Cost    -
(US$   No.   Unit Cost    No.    Unit Cost
_______________________ _ __ ___. 000)_  p/m   (US$'0001   p/m   (US$OO0)_
Nstwal Resources Management Conponent                    _          ________
Environmental Assessment-Training:          UEP, DH and        1                    6          12                           77          77
contracting of a specialist in environmental  DGRNR            2
impact assessment to train staff of DGPNR in                   3
assessment methodology and assist them with                    4
the preparation of the initial studies on the                  5
impact of irrigation projects on the environment               6
and monitoring of remedial actions.
Institutional Strengthening: at the level of  UEP, DH and      1                    6          12                           77         271
DGRNR of MGAP, on natural resource planning    DGRNR           2                    6          12                           80
and project monitoring capacit.                                3                    2          12                           26
4                    1          12                           14
5                    2          12                           28
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___  ____________   6  4  12                 52
Institutional Strengthening: at the level of  UEP and          1                    3          12                           38         178
DGRNR for the implementation of the         DGRNR              2                    2          12                           26
Demonstration Farms.                                           3                    2          12                           27
4                    2          12                           28
5                    2          12                           29
6                    2          12                           30
Institutional Strenathening: to improve planning . DGRNR and DH  1                                     19         2.5       48         256
and proiect monitoring capacity, imcluding                     2                                       21         2.5       57
economic sector analysis, budgeting and                        3                                      23          2.5       59
financial management, and institutional and                    4                                       14         2.5       35
team development.                                              5                                       12         2.6       30                         >
6                                        9         2.5       27                        I
./     bInludes price and physical contiencies (3.1% per annum, and 5 % of baseline cost, respectively).



Schedule of Training and Technical Assistance (Continued)
Project Componentl                Responsible    Year                              Annual Costs                             Total Cost
Activity Description                  Unit                                                                                     per
and Objective                                          Workshops                 Consultants                   Total      Activity ! 
or Trainees                                            Annual
Costs     lUS$ 000)
No.   Unit       International         National       (US$ 000)
Cost -
(US$    No.   Unit Cost    No.    Unit Cost
000)   p/r   IUS$SOO0)   p/m   (USs 000)
Natural Resources Management Component____
Institutional Strenathening: at the level of the  MGAP           1                                        18         2.5           45         140
Ministry of Agriculture to improve policy design                 2                                        14         2.5           40
and monitoring capacity.                                        3                                          9         2.5           25
4                                         9         2.5           30
Rural Communications-Execution and Trainina:   UEP and           1                                                                 -          490
contracting of a specialist in rural         DGRNR               2                   12           12                              160
communications to train the staff of DGRNR and                   3                   12           12                              163                      oo
assist them with the implementation of a rural                  4                    12           12                              161
communication system for the diffusion of
Irrigation and natural resources management
techniques.                                                             _
ApRlied Research and Technolo-y Transfer    INIA                 1                   1 2          12     46          2.5          260       1,672
Proaram: aimed at encouraging appropriate land                  2                     8          12      68          2.5         266
use and soil and water conservation practices.                   3                    8           12     68          2.5          274
4                    6           12     84          2.5          283
5                    4           12     97          2.5          291
-                    4           12    100         _2.5          298
Applied Research Contracts (See Annex D)     FA, DSyA and      1.6                   45           12    504          2.5        1,260      1 ,8001'
AUSID
1/      Includes price and physical coningencies (3.19% per annum, and 5% of baseline cost, respectively).
I        BEstimated lump sum. Specific contracts will be reviewed on a case by case basis and awarded according to Bank Guidelines.



Schedule of Training and Technical Assistance (Continued)
Project Component/                Responsible    Year                              Annual Costs                             Total Cost
Activity Description                  Unit                                                                                     per
and Objective                                          Workshops                  Consultants                  Total      Activity if
or Trainees                                            Annual
Costs     {uss'000o
No.   Unit       International         National       (US$t0000
Cost
(US$    No.   Unit Cost    No.    Unit Cost
'000)   p/m   (US$S000)   p/M   (US$'000)
Natual Resources Management Component
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT                                                                                                                               l
Forestry Senior Technical Adviser: contracting    UEP/DF         1                    6           10                           66          334
of a specialist with wide experience in forestry                 2                   12           10                          132
Technical Assistance Project Administration.                     3                   1 2          10                          136                   l
Forestry International Technical Assistance:  UEPIDF             2                     1          12                           12           12
contracting of a specialist in 'Agrosilvicultura
and Silvopastoreo".
Forestry International Technical Assistance:  UEP/DF             3                    2           12                           24           29
contracting of a specialist in soil classification.
Forestry International Technical Assistance:  UEP/DF            4                     2           12                           24           29
contracting of a specialist in forest inventories.
Forestry International Technical Assistance:  UEPIDF            5                     2           12                           24           29
contracting of a specialist in forest exploitation.                  _              ______.__                                .
Forestry International Technical Assistance:  UEP/DF            4                     1           12                           12           12
contracting of a specialist in forest product
transportation.
Forestiy International Technical Assistance:  UEP/DF            2                     2          12                            24          29
contracting of a specialist in forest industries.
Forestry International Technical Assistance:  UEP/DF            5                     2          12                            24          25              >
contracting of a specialist in genetics and plant                                                                                                         i
breeding.                                                                                                                                                  D _  x
I/     Includes price and physical contingencies (3.1 % per aanum, and 5% of baseline cost, respectively).



Schedule of Training and Technical Assistance (Continued)
Project Component/               Responsible    Year                            Annual Costs                             Total Cost
Activity Description                Unit                                                                                    per
and Objective                                        Workshops                 Consultants                  Total     Activity '
or Trainees                                          Annual
Costs    (USS 0001
No.   Unit      International         National      (US $000)
Cost
(US$    No.   Unit Cost    No.    Unit Cost
'000)   p/m   (US$'000)   p/m   (US$'000)_
Natural Resources Management Component
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT                       ____                                         __            _
Forestrv International Technical Assistance:  UEPJDF           2                    2          12                           24          24
contracting of a specialist in monitoring
bonifications under Forest Law.
Forestry International Technical Assistance:  UEPIOF           1                    2          12                           24          24
c-.aracting of a specialist in environmental
impact assessment.     _
Forestry National Technical Assistance:     UEP/DF             2                                        4         2.5       10          46
contracting specialist in animal production,                   3                                        3         2.5        9
pasture management, soils, dosimetric,                         4                                        3         2.5        8
phytopathology, wood treatment, plant                          5                                        5         2.5       15
genetics, cartography, software and others.                    6                                        1         2.5        4
Forestry National Technical Assistance:     UEP/DF             2                                       60         0.3       18         103
contracting trainees.                                          3                                       60         0.3       19
4                                      60          0.3       20
5                                      60          0.3       22
6                                      60          0.3       24
Forestry Technical Assistance to Forest     UEP/DF             2     4   1.75                                                7          18
Producers: training of supervisors and semi-                   3     3   1.66                                                6
technicals,                                                    4     3   1.33                                    5_                 _ ___
Forestry Technical Assistance to Forest     UEP/DF             3     3   3.63                                               12          32
_roducers: training of manpower overseas.                      4     4   4.35                        _20
U/     Includes price and physical contingencies (3.1% per anmm, and 5% of baseline cost. respecdvely).



Schedule of Training and Technical Assistance (Continued)
Project Component/                Responsible    Year                              Annual Costs                             Total Cost
Activity Description                  Unit                                                                                     per
and Objective                                          Workshops                  Consultants                  Total      Activity if
or Trainees                                            Annual
costs     (US$000o
No.   Unit       International         National       (US4S'OOOI
cost     -     _ _ _ _ __           _ _  _  _
(US$    No.   Unit Cost    No.    Unit Cost
|______,___________'000)__________                                                   p/rn   (US$'000     p/rn   (US$OOO)  ________ _ _________
Natural Resources Management Component                         -      -      -       -                   -
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT                                                                      __       _                                    _
Forestry Technical Assistance to Forest      UEP/DF              1     1  2.5                                                    3          34
Producers: training manpower in Uruguay.                         2     2   2.5                                                   6
3     3   3.3                                                  12
4     2   3.75                                                  8
5     1  55
Forestry: study tours and general workshops.  UEP/DF             1     3   18.5                                                 56         330
2     6   16.18                                               88
3     3   26.47                                               87
4     4   12.13                                               5,
5     3   14.33                                               47
Forestry: training of DF personnel overseas.  UEPIDF             1     4   12.5                                                s0          300
2     5  14                                                   70
3     4   15                                                  60
4     3   16.66                                                GO
5     4   17.5           _                                    70
Forestrv: studies and research.              UEP/DF              1     1   5                                                     5         190
2     3   8.33                                                27
3     6   7.66                                                49
4     5   10.4                                                58
1                    5     5   9.4                                __        _       51
I/      Includes pnce and physical contingencies (3.1%  i annum, and 5% of ba.eline cost, respecdvely).



Schedule of Training and Te ical Assistance (Continued)
Project Component/               Responsible    Year                            Annual Costs                            Total Cost
Activity Description                 Unit                                                                                   per
and Objective                                        Workshops                 Consultants                  Total     Activity 1'
or Trainees                                          Annual
Costs    (US $'000)
No.   Untt      International        National       lUS$*000     I
Cost -
(US$    No.   Unit Cost    No.    Unit Cost
000)   p/r   (US$'000)   p/m   (US$'000)
Irrigation Development Compnent                                                                                       
Water Users' Associations=-Stenathenina:    UEP and DH0        1                                       18         2.0       36          98
contracting of specialists to assist producers                 2                                       1S         2.0       41
with the organization of their water users                     3                                       10         2.0       26
associations. (Included in the individual project
cost tables; decimal points in m/m arise from
the fact that specialist are assumed to work
part-time in each project)
Extensionists-Technical Assistance and      UEP                1                                      4.6         2.5       11.5        95
Training: contracting of agronomists specialized               2                                      7.2         2.5       18.0
in natural resources management to train and                   3                                     11.5         2.5       28.8
provide technical back-stopping to existing                    4                                      7.0         2.5       17.3
extensionists working in the areas where the                   5                                      3.8         2.5        9.4
project is executing its activities. (Included in              6                                      3.8         2.5        9.4
the individual project cost tables)             ___
Water Users' Associations: contracting of   UEP and DH         1                                       46         2.6      115         315
specialists to assist farmers in the preparation               2                                       37         2.5       90
of feasibility and EA studies for I&D schemes.                 3                                       21         2.5       60
4                                      17          2.5       50
Irrihation Law-Review of Existing Proposals:  UEP and DH       1                    6          12                           72          72
contracting of a specialist In legal instruments
to regulate the use of water in the irrigation
sector.
I/     Incldes price and physical cotingencies (3.1% per annum, and 5 % of baseline cost, respectively).



Schedule of Training and Technical Assistance (Continued)
Project Component/                  Responsible    Year                               Annual Costs                               Total Cost
Activity Description                   Unit                                                                                          per
and Objective                                            Workshops                   Consultants                    Total      Activity "'
or Trainees                                              Annual
Costs     (US$'OGO)
No.    Unit      International          National         (US$'0OGO
Cost-
(US$    No.    Unit Cost    No.    Unit Cost
__ _)_  p/r   (US$'0001    p/m    (US$'OOO)
Irrigaton Developmrent Component                                 =       =      =_=_=__
Irrigation Proiects-Legal Asrects: contracting  UEP and DH         1                                           6          2.5        15           15
of a lawyer to assist beneficiaries of the
irrigation projects selected for execution during
the first year to solve their legal problems
regarding the establishment of water users'
associations, land expropriation, transfer of
works, and other general aspects related to the
execution of the proposed investment.
Includes price.and physical contingencies (3.1 % per annum, and 5   of_ba__ine_cos t,.respectie l)..
1/     Includes price and physicai contingencies (3.1% per annum, and 5 % of baseline coSt, respecdively).



Schedule of Training and Technical Assistance (Continued)
Project Component/               Responsible    Year                            Annual Costs                            Total Cost
Activity Description                 Unit                                                                                  per
and Objective                                        Workshops                 Consultants                  Total     Activity Yl
or Trainees                                          Annual
Costs    US 000)
No.   Unit      International        National        IUSSOO0)
Cost -
(US$   No,   Unit Cost    No.    Unit Cost
000)   p/r   (US$0o!:   p/rm   (USSOO    l__0
Irrigdon Development Componn 
PENTA 2'              _I______
PENTA-Head of Technical Unit: contracting of    UEP and        4                                       1 2        3,5       49         I50
a specialist in marketing of non-traditional  PENTA            5                                       12         3.5       50
exports and management to head the technical                   6                                       12         3.5       51
unit.
PENTA-Technical Support: contracting of a   UEP and            4                                       24         2.5       58         180
marketing specialist and a project analyst to  PENTA           5                                       24         2.5       60
provide technical assistance to potential private              6                                       24         2.5       62
sector exporters.                                _____                                 __     _                                                I
PENTA-Technical Back-stopping: contracting  UEP and            4                    6          12                           72         180
of specialists to provide technical back-   PENTA              5                    4          12                           52
stopping to exporters in areas to be defined by                6                    4          1 2                          56
PENTA according to demand.                                                        _               _                                            l
PENTA-Suoport Staff: contracting of         UEP and            4                                       12         3.5       48         165
consultants on organization of producer groups.   PENTA        5                                       12         3.5       55
6                                       t12        3.5       62                 l
PENTA-Secretarial Staff: contracting of bi-  UEP and          4                                        15         0.8       12          37
lingual and commercial secretary to provide  PENTA             5                                       15         0.8       14
support to the Technical Unit.                                 6                                       10         0.8       t 1
PENTA: technical assistance to potential   UEP and             4                    4          12                           56         188
exporters In quality control, packaging, export    PENTA       5                    4          12                           62
financing, and other marketing techniques.                     6                    4          12                           71
Inchudes price and physkal contingencis (3.1% per an'mm, and 5% of baseline cost. respectively).
2t      Dicbursements for TA and trainng for this activity would be contnent to the evaluadon of the ongoing PENTA program supported by Ln. 313 1-UR. to be carried out during the
mid-term review (September, 1996).



Schedule of Training and Technical Assistance (Continued)
Project ComponentV                  Responsible    Year                              Annual Costs                               Total Cost
Activity Description                   Unit                                                                                        per
and Objective                                           Workshops                   Consultants                   Total      Activity 3.
or Trainees                                              Annual
Costs     (USS'OOO)
No.    Unit      International          National        (US$S 00)
Cost
(US$    No.   Unit Cost    No.    Unit Cost
'000)   plm   (US$ 000)   p/m    (US$S000)
lrdgation Development Compone_
PENTA 3
PENTA-Study Tours/Seminars: to familiarize    UEP and             4      1   40                                                    40          154
potential exporters with marketing techniques  PENTA              5      1   50                                                    50
and conditions in world markets.                                  6      1   64                                                    64
PENTA-Marketinc Studies: to identify new      UEP and             4                                          16          2.5       46           46
export markets.                               PENTA
I/      incudes price and physical contingencies (3.1% per annum, and 5% of baseline cost, respectively).
2/      Disbuhsements for TA and training for this activity would be contingent to the evaluation of the ongoing PENTA program supported by Ln. 3131-UR. to be carried out during die
mid-tenn review (September, 1996).



Schedule of Training and Technical Asistance (Continued)
Project Componentl              Responsible    Year                           Annual Costs                           Total Cost
Activity Description                Unit                                                                                per
and Objective                                       Workshops                Consultants                 Total     Activity   |
or Trainees                                         Annual
Costs    (US$o000)
No.   Unit      International       National       (US$o000o
Cost -
WUS$   No.   Unit Cost   No.    Unrt Cost
_000)   p/r   (US$'000)   p/M   (US$000)
UEP                                 ,                    ._._..
UEP-Head of Unit: contracting of high level  UEP             1                                      12           4       48        331
agricultural economist, with experience In                   2                                      12           4       53
management and project preparation, to head                  3                                      12           4       56
the Unit that will assist the Government with                4                                      12           4       56
the execution of the project.                                5                                      12           4       59
6                                      12          4       60      _
UEP-Proiect Execution: contracting of four                   1                                      28         2.5       75        778
professionals In the areas of Irrigated                      2                                      48         2.5      132
agriculture, irrigation engineering, natural                 3                                      48         2.5      136
resources management, and accounting to                      4                                      48         2.5      140
assist the head of the UEP with the execution of             5                                      48         2.5      146
the Pre!"ct.                                                 6                                      48         2.5      150
UEP dSuo.ort Staff: contracting of system  UEP               1                                       7         1.5      11         121
anale,st to assist the head of the UEP.                      2                                      12         1.5      20
3                                     12          1.5      21
4                                      12         1.5      22
5                                     12         1.5       23
6       1112                                      1.5      24
UEP-Secretarial Assistance: contracting of a  UEP            1                                       7         0.8        5.6       64
bi-lingual (Spanish-English) secretary to support            2                                      12         0.8        9.6
the work of the UEP professionals,                           3                                      12         0.8        9.6
4                                     12         0.8        9.6
5                                     1 2        0.8        9.6
1              1   6   _  1         1      1               12         0.8       9.6
11     bIcludes price and physical contingencies (3.1% per anm, and 5% of baseline cost, respecively).



Schedule of Training and TechnicalAs                c  (Continued)
Project Component/               Responsible    Year                            Annur I Costs                            Total Cost
Activity Description                 Unit                                                                                   per
and Objecthe                                         Workshops                 Consultants                  Total     Activ*y '3
or Trainees                                          Annual
costs    (US$0OJ0)
No.   Unit      1nternational         National      (US$'000)
Cost    -
IUS$   No.   Unit Cost    No.    Unit Cost
_000_   p/m   (US $'000)   p/m   (US S'0001
UEP                                                                                               I -_. .____
UEP: Technology generation and transfer    UEP-INIA            1                   13          12                          167         625
specialist to support execution and monitoring                 2                    9          1 2                         120
of agricuttural research program.                              3                    5          12                           68
4                    6          1 2                          82
5                    3          12                           43
__________________________________             ~~6                   3          1   2                       45        _  _  _ _
UEP: Local consultants for support of legal  UEP               1                                       12         2.5       32         t58
aspects of project implementation and for                      2                                        6         2.6       16
organization and bacitstoppming of annual and                  3                                       32         2.5       89
mid-term reviews.                                              4                                        2         2.6        6
5                                        2         2.6        7
6                                        2         2.5        8
%IIclude price and physica conftinencis (3.1 % per annm. and 5% of baseline cost, resectively).



- 198 -                                   Annex P
Training and Technical Assistance Schedule
Summaru Table
Technical Assistance           TOTAL
l ~  ~    I                                                                     (LlS$'000)
Project Year  Trahinng   International Consultants  National Consultants
Natural                                                      I {j               I  ___US$'0
No.     US$'000      p/m    US$'000
Natural                  1         231       50          576    152         380    1.187
Resources
Management               2         445       72          864    260         518    1.827
Component                3         342       50          600    218         408    1,350
4         327       38         456    236         458    1,241
5        243        19         228    234         453       924
6         163       17         204    230         443       810
Subtotal           1,751      246       2.928   1,328       2.660    7,339
Contingencies                                                         354_________
Total                                                                7,693
!rrIgaton                I          -         6           72     74.6    186.5       258.5
Developmenlt
Component                2          -         -           -       62.2    155.6      155.5
3          -        -            -      42.5    106         106
4          -        10          120    102       253.6      373.5
5          -         8          96      67       165.6      261.5
6          -         8          96      62       161.5      257.5
Subtotal              -        32         384    410.3   1,028.6    1,412.5
Contingncies                                                          282.5
Total                                                                1,695
Project                  1          -        13          156     66       164        320
Executing Unit
IUEP)                    2          -         9          108     90       210.6      318.6
3          -         5          60    116        275        335
4          -         6          72      86       200.6      272.6
5          _         3          36      86       182.6      218.6
6          -         3          36      86       200.6      236.6
Subtotal              -        39         468    530      1,232.8    1.702
Conffngendes                                                     |    265
Total                                                                1,967
;~~~~~~~~~~ .
[ TOTAL             1,751|    317         3,780   2,260.2  4,921
Corntngendes        149                   302              452
GRAND TOTAL        1,900 |              4.082             5,373      11,35S"
.1/ This figure does not include an estimated 549 p/m of TA for the research TA contracts (under the Applied Research
Program) equivalent to US$1.8 million to be partially financed (60%) by the Bank.



- 199 -                                  Annex Q
URUGUAY
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT AND IRRIGATION
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDUILE OF BANK DISBURSEMENTS
Bank   Semester Ending       Estimated        Cumulative Disbursements    Loan Balance
Fiscal                      Disbursement                                  (US$ millions)
Year                      During Semester      Amount        % of Total
(US$ millions)   (US$ millions)
1994   Initial Balance                                                            41
June, 1994                    6.5a'           6.5         16               34.5
1995   December, 1994                3.0              9.5        23               31.5
June, 1995                   4.4              13.9        34               27.1
1996   December, 1995                5.0             18.9        46               22.1
June, 1996                    3.2            22.1         54               18.9
1997   December, 1996                4.8             26.9        66               14.1
June, 1997                    3.0            29.9         73               11.1
1998   Decenber, 1997                3.2             33.1        81                7.9
June, 1998                    3.0            36.1         88                4.9
1999   December, 1998                2.9             39.0        95                2.0
l____  June, 1999                     2.0             41.0        100               0.0
a/ includes an initial deposit to the Special Account of US$3.5 million and up to US$3.0 million in
retroactive financing for eligible expenditures incurred after July 1, 1993.



- 201 -                                      Annex R
URUGAY
NATURAL RESOlURCES MANAGEMENT AND IRRIGATION
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
COST ESTIMATES
Project Cost Summary by Project Component
Local        Foreign        Total      % Forei       % Total
- (US$'000)  -_               Exchange   Base Casts
A. Natuwal Resources Management
Nat. Res. Management Studies       -            1,500.00     1,500.00       100           2
Microcatcluient                   828.59        1,940.21     2,768.80        70           4
Geographical Information System   386.20         530.60       917.00         58           1
Forestiy                          959.23         992.97      1,952.20        51           3
Demonstradon Farms                416.55         618.95      1,035.50        60           2
MGAP-DGRNR                        228.50   ,   1,246.50      1,475.00        85           2
Research                          180.00        1,620.00     1,800.00        90           3
INIA                            5,485.40        1,868.60     7,354.00        25           11
Subtoal                          8,484.47      10,318.03    18,802.50        55          28
B. Irrination DerveloDment
1. Rehabilitation Existing Works
Canel6n Grande 1              457.11          617.69     1,074.80        57           2
Colonia Espafla               584.25         556.35      1,140.60        49           2
Canelon Grande II             332.00         352.82       684.82         52            1
Other Rebabilitation Works    523.08         381.63       904.70         42            1
Subtotal                     1,896.43       1,908.49     3,804.92        50           6
2. New Medium Irrination Works
Roman Grande                 1,748.76          16.94     1,765.70         1            3
Jumecal                      2,312.50       3,040.80     5,353.30        57            8
Fraile Muerto                2,155.55        346.75      2,502.30        14           4
Other Medium Irrigation     10,530.66       7,682.96    18,213.62        42          27
Subtotal                    16,747.47      11,087.45    27,834.92        40          41
3. Water Harvesting             6,375.00          -          6,375.00        -            9
4. Small Irrigation             2,829.18        2,432.22     5,261.40        46           8
5. Penta                         1,264.30        541.10      1,805.40        30           3
6. Irrigation Studies              -            1,725.00     1,725.00       100           3
Subtotal                       29,112.39       17,694.26    46,806.64        38          69
C. Proiect Executive Unit             308.71        1,896.99    2,205.70         86           3
TOTAL BASELIJNE COSTS              37,905.57      29,909.27    67,814.84         44         100
Physical Contingencies             98.59         267.17       365.76         73           1
Price Contingencies             3,083.49        2,734.04     5,817.53        47           9
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                41,087.64       32,910.49    73,998.13        44         109



- 202 -                                        Annex R
URUGUAY
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT AND IRRIGAMIO
DEtELOPMENT PROJECT
Expenditure Accounts Project Cost S_mmay
Local         Foreig         Total       % Foreign     % Totl
------   (US$'000)                   ExdgeCos
1.  Investment Costs
A. Equipment                      7,002.43       16,339.00    23,341.43         70           34
B. Technical Assistance           1,000.16        9,001.43     10,01.59         90           15
C. Tramming                       1,018.69         679.13      1,697.82         40            3
E. Civil Works                   20,859.88          -         20,859.88         -            31
P. Land Acquisition               2,676.54          -          2,676.54         -             4
H. Studies                         215.00         3,225.00     3,440.00         94            5
L  Vehicles                         35.00          140.00        175.00         80
T.  Administration UEP               18.01         342.19        360.20         95            1
Subtotal                     32,825.71       29,726.75    62,552.46         48           92
11. Recurrent Costs
A. Office Rental                    616.50           -           616.50         -             I
B. Incremental Salaries           2,400.00           -         2,400.00         -             4
C. Travel                           160.80          40.20        201.00         20
D. Vehicles O&M                    213.48          142.32        355.80         40            1
E. Supplies                         100.00          -            100.00         -
P. Others                         1,589.08          -          1,589.08         -             2
Subtotal                      5,079.86          182.52     5,262.38          3            6
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                 37,905.57      29,909.27     67,814.84         44          100
Physical Contingencies              98.59          267.17        365.76         73            1
Price Contingencies               3,083.49        2,734.04     5,817.53         47            9
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                  41,087.64      32,910.49     73,998.13         44          109



- 203 -                                       Annex R
URllUAY
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT AND IRRIGATION
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Cost by Expenditure Accounts
(US$'000)
Base        Physical
Total Induding Contingencies            Costs      Contingencies
& Price       & Price
Contingencies  Contingencies
Local      Duties                    on            on
Foreign    (Excluding     &                      Base         Physical
Exchange    Taxes)       Taxes       Total       Costs      Contingencies
-.  investment Costs
A. Equipment             17,762.60    4,567.53    3,045.02   25,375.14    25,327.43       47.71
B. Technical Assistance   10,080.81    1,120.09     -       11,200.90    10,982.81       218.09
C. Training                781.74    1,172.60       -        1,954.34     1,866.52        87.12
E. Civil Works              -       17,777.59    4,589.45   22,367.04    22,365.78          1.27
F. Land Acquisition         -        2,827.54       53.53    2,881.07     2,881.07         -
H. Studies               3,538.23      249.08       -        3,787.31     3,775.45         11.86
L  Vehicles                149.80       37.45       -          187.25      180.25          7.00
J.  Admistaton UEP         395.41       20.81       -          416.22      396.40          19.82
*Subtonh             32,708.58   27,772.69    7,688.00   68,169.27    67,775.70       393.57
Fl. RBe rCsta   s
A. Offic-, Rental           -          702.69       -         702.69       702.34          0.35
B. bncremal Salaries        -        2,635.39       -        2,635.39    2,634.07           1.32
C. Travel                   44.54      155.87       22.27     222.68       222.57          0.11
D. Vebiles O&M             157.37      149.50       86.55     393.42       393.22          0.20
E. Supplies                 -           99.85       10.01      109.86      109.80          0.05
P. Olhers                   -        1,764.82       -        1,764.82     1,763.94         0.88
Subtotal               201.90    5,508.13      118.83    5,828.86     5,825.95          2.91
TOTAL                       32,910.49   33,280.82    7,806.82   73,998.13    73,601.65       396.48



- 204 -                                     Anrzx R
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEM-ENT AND IIRRIGATION
DEVELOIMENT PROJECT
Project Cost by Coimonent by Year
(US$ '000)
Total Including Contingences
Year I    Year2    Year3    Year4    YearS    Year6    Total
A. Natural Resources Management
Nat. Res. Management Studies    -     523.49    539.72    556.45      -         -       1,619.66
1icrocatchment               20.70    349.32    795.53    634.71    654.11    627.40   3,081.78
Geographical Infornation System  376.58    363.58    124.27  93.66    28.33     17.48   1,003.90
Forestry                    295.57    500.99    556.59    328.57    370.68    153.62   2,206.02
Demonstration Farms         267.82    187.08    215.55    191.27    192.38      98.97   1,153.07
MGAP-DGRNR                  314.23    427.31    314.75    296.46    132.16    180.97   1,665.88
Research                    304.65    314.09    323.83    333.87    344.22    354.89   1,975.56
INIA                       1,232.25   1,560.04   1,742.65   1,443.09   1,023.83    975.10   7,976.98
Subtotal                   2,81 i .80   4,225.91   4,612.90   3,818.07   2,745.71   2,408.44  20,682.83
B. Irrination Develoument
i. Rehabilitation Exisng Works
Canel6n Grande I        601.42    272.17    238.92      -         -         -       1,112.51
Colonia Espafa           876.65    264.47     24.72     -         -         -       1,165.84
Caneln Grande 1           20.17    510.04     94.34     97.01      1.18      -        722.75
Other Rehabilitation Works    -    106.69    279.60    287.68    160.07    164.71    998.74
Subtotal               1,498.24   1,153.37    637.58    384.69    161.25    164.71   3,999.84
2. New Medium Irrieation Works
Romin Grande           1,788.16     -         -         -         -          -      1,788.16
lwnecal                4,142.51   1,329.71    -         -         -          -      5,472.22
Fraile Muerto             73.88   1,876.90    335.37    345.09    -          -      2,631.25
Other Medim lIrigation    -      2,149.93   5,610.61   5,772.77   3,240.77   3,334.81  20,108.89
SubtotAl               6,004.56   5,356.54   5,945.98   6,117.86   3,240.77   3,334.81  30,000.53
3. Water Harvesting         506.05    907.06    929.22   1,496.08   1,533.09   1,571.23   6,942.73
4. Small Irrigadon          311.41    532.17   1,050.31   1,126.56   1,389.78   1,430.03   5,840.25
5. Penta                      8.13     44.11    231.19    618.82    589.81    608.09   2,100.14
6. Irrigation Studies         -       204.16    534.32    550.89    309.80    319.40   1,918.57
Subtotal                   8,328.38   8,197.41   9,328.59  10,294.91   7,24.49   7,428.28  50,802.06
C. Proiect Executive Unit       477.22    426.93    459.43    400.05    369.08    380.52   2,S13.24
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS           11,617.41  12,850.25  14,400.91  14,573.03  10,339.29  10,217.25  73,998.13



- 205-                                     Annex R
URUGUAY
NATURAL RESOURCS MANAGEMENT AND IRRIG4TION
IDEVEM&OMlTUOJC
Proct Cost by vendite Accout by Year
(US$ '000)
Tota Iwudg Contnecis
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year S    Year s    Total
L  In_ Coss
A. Equipment              5,354.08  4,108.37  4,990.26  4,805.68  3,026.86  3,089.90 25,375.14
B. Technical Assistance   1,307.96  1,957.81   2,190.77  2,089.38   1,806.94  1,848.05  11,200.90
C. Traning                 114.51    387.83    425.81    411.76    405.88    208.54   1,954.34
E. Civl Works             3,446.04  4,007.83  4,187.41  4,349.46  3,196.93  3,179.35  22,367.04
F. Land Acuisition         555.92    801.77    475.14    489.59    275.13    283.51   2,881.07
H. Studies                   5.33    755.13  1,126.18  1,214.84    366.42    319.40  3,787.31
L  Vehicles                120.61     43.97     22.67     -        -         -        187.26
J. Aindnistration UEP       52.46     68.33     70.50     72.68    74.94     77.26    416.22
Totd Invesmenet Costs        10,956.91  12,131.10  13,488.72  13,433.44  9,153.09   9,006.00  68,169.27
B. Remxntn  CoGs
A. Office Renal             10.67     18.86     32.40    207.10    213.52    220.14    702.69
B. Incremental Salaries    406.40    419.00    431.99    445.38    459.19    473.42  2,635.39
C. Travel                   19.30     31.43     41.04    42.31     43.62     44.98    222.68
D. Veicles 0kM              40.44     56.15     70.85    73.04     75.31     77.64    393.42
E. Supplies                  5.07     15.64     26.80     18.53    28.33     17.48    109.86
P. Others                  178.61    178.08    309.11    355.21    366.23    377.58   1,764.82
Totd RecTurent Cos             660.50    719.13    912.19  1,139.59  1,186.20  1,211.24  5,828.86
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS         11,617.41  12,850.25  14,400.91  14,573.03  10,339.29  10,217.25  73,998.13



URUGUAY
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT AND IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Expenditure Accounts by Components
(US$ '000)
Natural Resources Mangkement
Nat. Res.          Geographical                                                       Project                    Physical
Mgmt.    Micro-  Infonrnaon            Demonstration MGAP-                          Exudve                    ConMiees
Studies   catbment   System    Fobstry    Farms    DGRNR   Research    [NIA           Unit       Total      %        Amount
Investment Costs
A. Equipmt                      -         400.00    400.00     125.50    296.30     100.00      -         710.00     58.50   23,341.43     0.2       46.13
B. Technical Assistance         -       1,800.00    188.00     542.00    259.20   1,233.00   1,800.00   1,524.00   1,646.50   10,001.59    2.0      200.35
C. Trang                        -         100.52    204.00     697.30    280.00      -          -          -         -         1,697.82    4.7       79.86
E. CWivWorks                    -        400.00      2s.00      -          -         -          -       1,700.00     -        20,859.86    -          1.25
F.  a   Acquisition                        -                         -          -                          -         -         2,676.54    -         -
H. Studies                                                     175.00      -          -               1-                       3,440.00    0.3       10.76
1.  Vehicles                               -         -          80.00      15.00     40.00      -          -         40.00      175.00      3.9       6.77
J.  Administration UEP                                          -          -         -                              360.20      360.20     5.0       18.01
Total InvestmentCosts             1,500.00   2,700.52   817.00   1,619.80    850.70   1,373.00   1,800.00   3,934.00   2,105.20   62,552.46     0.6     363.13
11. Recunenret
A. OficeReal                   -          -         -          48.00      -         -          -          -        100.50      616.50     0.1        0.31
B.  Incemental Salaies          -          -         -          -          -         -          -       2,400.00     -         2,400.00    -          1.20
C. Trvel                        -          -         -          72.00     99.00      30.00      -          -          -         201.00     0.1        0.10
D. VebklesO&M                   -          -         -         150.00     85.80      72.00      -          -         -          355.80    -           0.18
. Supplies                      -          -        100.00      -          -         -          -                    -          100.00     0.1        0.05
F.  Odiers                      -         68.28      -          62.40      -         -          -        ,020.00     -         1,5&9.08    -          0.79
Total Recurrme Costs                -          68.28     100.00    332.40     184.80    102.00      -       3,420.00     100.50    5,262.38    -          2.63
TOTAL BASELINE COSIS              1,500.00   2,768.80    917.00   1,952.20   1,035.60   1,475.00   1,800.00   7,354.00   2,205.70   67.814.84  0.5      365.76
Physical Contingeces            -          0.03      40.90      81.16     29.80      68.70      -           1.71    100.48      365.76    -          -
Price Contingencies            119.66    312.94      46.00     172.66     87.77     122.18     145.56    621.27     207.10    S,817.53     0.5       30.72
TOTAL PROJECT COSIS               1,619.66   3,081.78   1,003.90   2,206.02   1,153.07   1,665.88   1,975.58   7,976.98   2,513.24   73.998.13  0.5     396.48
Taxes                           -         141.86     67.50      61.08     70.69      33.89      -        464.52       7.13    7,806.82     0.1        6.06
Focign ExchaWe               1,619.66   2,174.88    580.84   1,116.77    685.24   1,410.36   1,776.00   2,033.41   2,166.90   32,910.49    0.9      289.34



URUGUAY
NATURAL RESOfU~RCE MANAGENENT AND IRRGATION DEVELOPMENTPOEC
Ptroect Cos by CompoNnen and Expediture Account
(US$ '000)
Irriostion Devellowmelst
Rehabiltation Existna Works                 New M_edf  han I  tiaton Works
odker                                       odier
Canel6n    Colonia    Canel6n    Retiab,    Romnin                  Fradle    Medium      Water      Small                Irigaton
Grande I    Espafia   Grande 11  VWorks      Grande    Jurieal    Muerto   Irrigation  Harvesting   rutigaon    Pent&      Studies
1.Investment Costs
A. Equipment                    831.50     690.90     453.31      521.06      24.20   4,344.00     421.30  10,490.06       -       3,474.60      - 
B.  Technical Assistance         39.60      80.80       39.45      18.76      -          -          57.60     377.68       -          -         395.00      -
C. Training                      -           -          -          -          -          --                     -          .-         -         416.00      -
E.  Civil works                 199.10     368.90      187.33     292.19   1,407.80     800.00   1,435.40   5,882.37   6,375.00   1,786.80       - 
F.  Land Acquisition              4.60      -           4.73       72.69     333.70     209.30     588.00   1,463.51       -          -          -
H. Studies                                   -- -                  -          -          -          -           -          -                     40.OD   1,725.00
1.  Vehcices------                                                                                  ------
J.  Administration UEP-                                             -                    ---                                          ---'
Total lnvestment Costs             1,074.80   1,140.60     684.82     904.70   1,765.70   5,353.30   2.502,30  18.213.62   6,375.00   5.261.40      851.00   1,725.00
H. Recurrnt Costs
A. Office Rental                 -           -                     -          -          -          -          -           -          -         468.00      -
B.Iticremental Salades           -           -          -          -          -          -          -          ----
C. Trave                         -           -          -          -          -          -          -           -          -          -          -
D. Vehicles O&M                  -           -          -          -          -          -          -          -           -          -          48.00 
E, Supplies                      -          -           -          -          -          -          -          -                                 -
F.Others                         -          -           -          -          -          -          -          -           -          -         438.40      -
TotalRecurrent Cost                   -          -          -          -           -          -          -          -          -          -         954.40 
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS               1,074.80   1,140.60     684.82     904.70   1,765.70   5,353.30   2,502.30  18,213.62   6,375.00   5,261.40   1,805.40   1,725.00
Physical Contingncles            -           -          -          .-         -          -          -          -          -           -          43.03      -
Price Confteinecis               37.71      25.24       37.93      94.04      22.46     118.92     128.95   1,895.27     567.73     578.85      251.72     193.57
TOTAL PROJECT COS'IS               1,112.51   1,165.84     722.75     998.74   1,766.16   5,472.22   2,631.25  20,108.89   6,942.73   5,84.25   2,100.14   1,918.57
Taxes                           147.40      165.83     98.85      135.27     319.34     713.64     382.65   2,723.45   1,40.60      859.61       11.60      - 
Foreig Exchange                 641.12     570.09      374.02     424.40      17.20   3,111.81     378.28   8,545.07       -       2,721.31     642.56   1,9185



- 209 -                             Annex S
URUGUAY
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT AND IRRIGAI'ION
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ALLOCATION OF LOAN PROCEELDS
Percentage
Of
Expenditures
Amount of         to be
Category                     Loan Allocated     Financed
(1) Goods:
(a) Irrigation Equipment and Other Goods       13,100,000          80%
(b) Vehicles                                     175,000          100%
(c) Office Technology Equipment                  525,000          100%
(2) Works                                          7,900,000          60%
(3) Consultancies:
(a) Technical Assistance                        8,500,000         100%
(b) Studies                                     3,600,000         100%
(c) Applied Research Technical Assistance       1,000,000          50%
Contracts
(4) Training                                       1,800,000         100%
(5) UEP Operation                                   400,000          100%
(6) Unallocated                                    4,000,000
TOTAL                                         41,000,000



- 211 -                             Annex T
URUGUAY
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT AND IRRIGATION
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DOCUMENTS TO PROJECT FILES
1. Uruguay - Proyecto de Manejo de Recursos Naturales y Desarrollo del Riego,
Documento de Trabajo 1, "Revisi6n Sectorial y Estadisticas", FAO/CP, Documento No.
51/93 CP-URU, 2 de abril de 1993;
2. Uruguay - Proyecto de Manejo de Recursos Naturales y Desarrollo del Riego,
Documento de Trabajo 2, "Caracteristicas Principales del Sub-Sector Riego", FAO/CP,
Documento No. 51/93, CP-URU, 2 de abril de 1993;
3. Uruguay - Proyecto de Manejo de Recursos Naturales y Desarrollo del Riego,
Documento de Trabajo 3, "Antecedentes Legales e Institucionales", FAO/CP, Documento
No. 51/93, CP-URU, 2 de abril de 1993;
4. Uruguay - Proyecto de Manejo de Recursos Naturales y Desarrollo del Riego,
Documento de Trabajo 4, "Investigaci6n en Manejo de Suelos y Riego", FAO/CP,
Documento No. 51/93, CP-URU, 2 de abril de 1993;
5. Uruguay - Proyecto de Manejo de Recursos Naturales y Desarrollo del Riego,
Documento de Trabajo 5, "Predios Demostrativos", FAO/CP, Documento No. 51/93 CP-
URU, 2 de abril de 1993;
6. Uruguay - Proyecto de Manejo de Recursos Naturales y Desaffollo del Riego,
Documento de Trabajo 6, "Desarrollo de Microcuencas en la Cuenca del Santa Lucia",
FAO/CP, Documento No. 51193 CP-URU, 2 de abril de 1993;
7. Uruguay - Proyecto de Manejo de Recursos Naturales y Desarrollo del Riego,
Documento de Trabajo 7, "Muestra de Proyectos de Inversi6n de Riego", FAO/CP,
Documento No. 51/93 CP-URU, 2 de abril de 1993;



5^u                               WURUGUAY
NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
AND
IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
3 8     A R T I G A S        C*
MWAN B0UNDAflE
~~~~'  K.,-. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MSAJN ROAMS
ConiiaIucin   -'  (' '-                                          /      a      t, BDES
 AiRPORTS
<:   j                   ;          (         *0            g        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4,  K)M
Z                    4 t RIO URUGUAY                                             DR I V  E R  A   HW _ N4UNES
I.-    + .    BASIN
z
32'            <        P                       >     TAUUB
/RIO
A2            )      2      D U ~~~~~~~R A Z N O      T         T0    



