E 9                                                             ' t- ~lI1X  t  _X
_-                          ,J" #,
LO
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0GMS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~k~~~~~~~~~~~R
P4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



URUGUAY
NAMMAL REOURCES MANAGEMEW AND
1.    I hDnci
The Naural Resources Management and Irrigation Development
Project (PRENADER) aims to enhance productivity and efficiency in
agriculture through sound managemet of soil and water resources and
minimization of adverse effects on natural ecosystems. Biodiversity is not
expected to suffer any significant degradation since the project would not
fimance any irrigation and drainage activity within areas defined for protection
and preservation under natural conditions.
In the development and operation and maintenance (O&M) of irrigation
projects, a nunber of standard environmental issues have been identified, such
as soil degradation and water contamination frm agrochemicals under
intensified agriculture, wasteful use of water, deteriomting quality of irrigation
water, sedimentation of reservoirs and damage to biodiversity.
As a result, it can be stated that the project is essenially oriented to
support a sustainable development of irrigated agriculture which implies a
careful environmental management, with particular emphasis on water and
soils. Within such a conceptual frame the project should be regarded either as
positive or neutral from an environmental point of view, since most activities
are designed to improve environmental quality or, at least, to avoid
environment degradation.
Yet, the project component covering the irrigation sector includes
irrigation schemes which might potentially generate adverse impacts on the
environment, as a whole or on some of its components. Accordingly, a
screening system for classifying irrigation schemes to be financed through
PRENADER has been incorporated into the operation plan. The screening
procedure will determine the type of environmental assessment required prior
to approval. Additionally, project components related to the dissemination of
soil conservation practices, water quality and research on irrigation techniques
and natural resources mnagement have been structured to help solving
potential environmental issues derived from intensification of land use and
expansion of irrigated agriculture.



-2-
2.    Project Tescription
The proposed project aims to:
(a)         increase and diversify sustainable agricultural production
and exports through expansion of irrigation and improved water
*                             use within a context of sound environmental practices; and
(b)         substantially enhance natural resources management in
rainfed and inigated agriculure.
As designed, the project would contain the following components:
(a)   natural rer3urces management, comprising (0) pilot
development schemes in micro-catchment areas of the Santa
Lucia River Basin, to gain experience in the management of
ecologically fragile zones; (it) a pilot program for development
of water catebment works at farm level in Yaguai basin; (iii
demonstration farms in other agro-ecological areas suffering
soil degradation and erosion problems; (iv) applied research in
natural resource management and irrigation techniques; (iv) a
computerized geographical information system; (vi) support to
forestry development; and (vii) studies on natural resources
management related issues;
(b)   irrigation development, comprising (0) the rehabiltation and
modernization of selected public irrigation and drainage works
and their transfer to the private sector under appropriate
operation and maintenance arrangements; (it) construcdon of
feasible medmm-scale irrigation works proposed by private
farmer groups; (ii:) small farmer sponsored construction of
small-scale tubeweils and pumping stations and other kind of
surface water catchment works for irrigation; (iv) feasibility
studies of possible irrigation investment projects; and (v)
technical support for the promotion of non traditional exports.
3.    Baseline Data
Irrigation is practiced in Uruguay almost entirely in the eastern,
northern and southern regions which are defined and differentiated from each
other on the basis of soils pattern, water resources, crop types, kind of
farmers, producer organizations and existing infrastructure. Climatic regimes
are about the same throughout the country, although some regional differences
might be described: insolation increases to the north, whereas cold spells in
summer are more fequent in the south.



-3 -
The three regions account for 95% of the national irrgated area and all
relevant irrigated crops belong to at least one of them.
T heste
The eastern region comprises parts of the departments of Cerro Largo,
Treinta y Tres, Rocha and Lavalleja and covers approximately 12% of the
national territory. Beginning in the early 30s, private initiative developed the
region as the main rice growing area in the country where 95.000 ha of rice
(75 % of total national area) are cropped annually on flat lands where low to
very low hydraulic conductivity soils prevail. This feature makes irrigation
more feasible since infiltration losses are extremely low on paddy fields and in
conveyance strutures.
The soils of the central and northern parts of the region (Lavalleja,
north of Rocha, Treinta y Tres and Cerro Largo) are mainly Planosols and
Solods, low in organic utter, with a loamy topsoil 20 - 30 cm thick underlain
by a heavy texwred, almost impervious claypan. The terains are flooded for
short periods of time, once in a number of years, by river spill water, notably
from the Olimar and the Cebollati rivers, during exceptionally high floods. As
a consequence, no important drainage structures are needed for safe cropping.
The southern part of the region includes mostly the lowlands of Rocha
with dominance of Gleysols, high in organic matter (local peat) and heavy
textured (clay loam or clay) throughout the soil profile. This zone comprises
the enclosed fladands that are tmporarily or permanently submerged by
standing rainwater unless artificially draied and/or flood protected. In fait,
extensive areas were partially or totally reclaimed for rice cropping since the
late 70s by the combined action of govemment and private initiative. As a
result, extensive flood protection, drainage and irrigation infrastucture has
been built during the last decade.
Enviromnental conflicts, not yet solved, make advisable not
considering the lowlands of Rocha eligible for furtier irrigated agriclture
development under present condidons. Since the mid 80s, about 435.000 ha
are supposed to be protected under the Ramsar Treaty making part of the
wedands of internonal importance, especially as habitat for migratory or
resident waterfowl. Environmental conflicts derive from inconsistent
government actions: promotion and/or direct execution of drainage and
irrigation infructure, and, almost siltaneously, adhesion to the Ramsar
Treaty inscribing as protected wetlands a large tract of territory which
comprised the areas already reclaimed in 1984 or proposed for reclamation.
The result has been an escalation of conflicts between agriculture and
emvironment protection, between diffent government agencies, between
government and environment NGOs and between either government or
NGOs on one side and either land owners or rice growers on the other.



-4-
In addition, conflicts have also arisen within the agriculture sector
(upstream versus downstream land users), although they conern hydrological
rather than environmental issues since they relate to private drainage and flood
protection infrastructure built with no consideration of a regional plan for
water management (even if environmental issues were neglected).
Other predictable environmental issues during development of the
project in the eastem region will be adequately treated and prevented since
most of PRENADER components are geared towards improving resource
management and enhancing productivity and efficiency in agriculture in the
long term (sustainable production), which implies reduction of soil erosion and
degradation, conservation of water quality for diversified use and preservation
of biological diversity. This means that prevention of water pollution by
agrochemichals (ferdlizers, herbicides, insecticides, etc.) will be effective and
soil erosion reduced to a minimum. The latter point is easy to achieve since
present and future agnculture will be located on the flat lans  where potential
for soil erosion is negligible.
The Northerin 4n
The northern region comprises part of the departments of Artigas,
Salto, Tacuaremb6 and Rivera and covers almost 25% of the national
terrtory. On the flat lands of the Tacuaremb6 and Uruguay river basins,
30.000 ha of rice (25% of total area) are cropped annually under cropping
systems similar to those used in the eastern region.
Dominant soils in the northern flatlands have mostly a loamy topsoil of
variable thickness and a claypan or claypan-like subsoil; hydraulic
conductivity is generally low or very low. Since the region has extensive areas
of good soils not yet under agriculture, the potential exists for increasing the
rice area in the near fuitre, provided enough irigation water is made
available. Increase of the area under rice is very likely because irrigated land
in the eastern region has already been almost completely developed and little
land might be added in the future, at least under present cropping system of
long rotations.
Because there is no shortage of suitable land for rice cultivation in the
northern region, no attempts have been made for reclaiming wetands since the
latter require additional investments in drainage and flood protection.
However, extensive areas of wetands of relatively unknown importance as
habitat for native fauna exist along the main streams. At present, no legal
protection affects these northern wetlands although at least some of them might
reasonably be declared protected areas in the future, either witbin or outside
the Ramsar Treaty. Yet, only one ill-defined area has been identified in the
northern region wetlands as valuable for protection (Riverine forests of the



-5-
Tacuaremb6, Negro and Yaguari rivers) and, moreover, it is not included
within the selected 16 priority areas out of a total of 36 that have potential for
protection (Estudio Ambiental Nacional, OPP/OEAIBID, 1992).
Sugar cane, citrus, deciduous fruits and horticultural crops are also
cultivated under irrigation in the northern region, totalizing more than 13.00
ha. Most of these crops are on gently undulating lands; lowlands and wetlands
are avoided because of (micro)climatic reasons, unsuitable soils or reducing
investnent in infrastructure for drainage and flood protection.
The area under non-rice crops in the northern region has not been a
source of environmental conflicts and they should not likely arise in the future.
No drainage of wetlands is predictable and soil erosion and degradation and
soil and water pollution should be under control because of general and
specific objectives of the project.
As a general recommendation it can be stated that no drainage of
wetlands in the northern region should be financed or encouraged under the
project because of two reasons. On the one hand, there is a high availability of
suitable land for expansion of irrigated or rainfed agriculture which makes
unnecessary reclamation of permanendy or temporarily flooded additional land
for such purposes. On the other hand, the possibility exists that part or all of
those wetlands might be officially designed in the future as natural reserves,
particularly if some of the reclaimed wetlands in the eastern region are
removed from the Ramsar Treaty area. The Ramsar Treaty states that any site
removal should be justified by urgent reasons of national interest and should
be compensated by inscribing additional wedands of similar importance
located elsewhere. The wetlands along the Tacuaremb6, Negro and Yaguari
rivers might reasonably qualify as a Ramsar site and designated in the future
for substitution of lost wetlands in Rocha. Even if that is not the case, the
nverine wetlands are already proposed by the Estudio Ambiental Nacional
(EAN) for protection, mainly because of the ecological value of their natural
forest cover. The fact that protection of these riverine forests was not
considered of the highest priority by EAN is a minor point if it is accepted that
pressure for natural protected areas designation and development is increasing
within the civil society, mainly through the activities of environmentalist
NGOs and legal decisions promoted by the Congress.
The Sothr RWo
The southem region comprises the departments of Colonia, San Jose,
Canelones and Montevideo where about 11.000 ha are irrigated for
horticuitural crops and orchards. Intensive land use for 100 years or more
under rainfed non conservationist agriculture has caused extensive erosion and
degradation of soil physical properties. Soil losses and non careful use of
agrochemicals are further causes for loss of water quality in rivers and
reservoirs affecting driking water supplying plants (need for more intensive
treatment of water, eutrophication, etc.).



-6 -
The project will contribute to correct or mitigate some of the major
environmental issues detected in this region, particularly those concerned with
soil erosion which is the main source of suspended particles and soluble ions
in rural areas that contribute to silting up of streams and dams and
eutrophication of lakes and reservoirs. With this scope, the project is
obviously beneficially from in environmental point of view and
complementary with current programs concerning soil and water conservation
(MGAP, MTOP), water quality monitoring (DINAMA), pesticides use and
control (MGAP, DINAMA), which are under way or in the initial stage of
implementation aside of PRENADER.
Environmental conflicts derived from possible wetlands reclamation are
not likely to arise since only relatively minor areas of marshlands or flooded
lowlands occur within the southern region, namely the lower Santa Lucia river
and other small rivers floodplains next to Rio de la Plata. Even though
wetands drainage in the southern region appears not probable, the project
should not support or fund actions outside them that might lead to
environmental deterioration through modification of their hydrologic regimes,
considering both the volume and quality of runoff reaching the wetlands.
The Estudio Ambiental Nacional (see above) did not select the Santa
Lucia and Rio de la Plata wedands either with high or low priority for
protection. Yet they are included in the list of UJruguay's important wedands
published by IUCN (International Union for Conservation of Nature), one of
the most well known international NGOs and worling with a solid scientific
basis.
Again as a general rule, prevention of damage of the limited area of
wetlands in the southern region should be one of the rationales of the project.
This contributes to conservation of biological diversity through preservation of
representative naural ecosystems and does not result in constraints for the
project since land availability is not a limitation for development of irrigated
agriculture in the region.
4.    Ex_ccedsEnviroInmntalhIpacts
The major fundamentals of obvious or probable environmental impacts
expected from development of irrigated agriculture promoted by PRENADER,
have been exposed in pan 3. A deeper analysis of the issue leads to consider
separately three different sites for dte occurrence of environmental impacts, at
least for most of the irrigation schemes to be developed, which are based on
gravity irrigation from dams: (a) upstream issues, (b) on-site issues, and (c)
off-site (downstream) issues.



-7 -
Upstream environmental issues in most of the projected schemes are related to
contribution of sewage or industrial effluent to reservoirs, build-up of nitrogen
and phosphorus in them (eutropEhcation), likelihood of contamination by agro-
toxins and silting up of dams due to soil erosion. It is expected that most of
the mentioned factors will not play a significant environmental (negative) role
in the schemes to construct or that might be executed in the future. Since the
dam catcbments are mostly located in rural areas of low density, dispersed
population, both domestic and industrial discharges will not represent a threat
to water quality entering the reservoirs. However, in some cases it will be
essential to monitor the location of new industies in the catcbment,
particularly in the few reservoirs located at short distance downstream of
medium or large towns, to prevent water pollution. Control of already existing
industries or other possible sources of contminating effluent is under the
authority of DINAMA and legal instuments exist, and are actually applied, to
enforce the construction and habilitation of the industrial treatment plants
req,aired to saistsr the standards accepted for such effluent.
Soil erosion and subsequent sedimentation in the reservoirs may be
significant when inadequate agiculture is practiced in the catchment. This will
be the case in projects located in rural areas of higher population density (e.g.
Canelones) and intensive land use. Provisions will be adopted by the project
with the purpose of reducing erosion rates and associated sedimentation;
extension and financial support will be of great help to succeed in erosion
control efforts.
On-site issues relate to water logging, threat to endangered species due
to flooding in the reservoirs and conversion of land to intensive agriculture.
salinization, destruction of wetlands or other sensible ecosystems (through
reclamation or drastic changes in water regimes, clearing of unique vegelation
types, etc-) contamination of ground water, conflict with alternative uses of the
reservoir or the land, accelerated erosion due to intensified land use and
increase in water-borne disease.
Many of the on-site potential impacts tentatively identified are not
likely to occur everywhere or are easy to deal with through appropriate
engineering designs. So is the case for salinization hazard, so far unknown in
existing irrigation systems in Uruguay and easy to control with adequate
drainage. Increased soil erosion and contamination by agrochemicals are
proposed to deal with, when necessary, through "high technology". For soil
erosion control, this means contour cropping, low flow systems for water
application, carefully planned rotations according to soil erosion hazard,
minimum soil tillage, use of organic fertilizers and amendments and
incorporation of green crops in the rotations to build hums and nitrogen (the
latter by N-fixing legumes). The risks derived from use of agrochemicals
resulting in residuals on fruit and vegetables and contamination of aquifers
would also be offset by "high technology": use of new selective herbicides,



-8-
use of insecticides and fungicides with minimal residues, careful use of
nitrogen ferdlizers based on proper soil test and assessment of precise crop
requirements in order to minimize nitrogen runoff into surface or ground
water. Water-borne disease should be regarded as a very minor or negligible
threat since expansion of rice area to 120.000 ha throughout the country over
the past 15 years has not given as result any signs of malaria or schistomiasis.
The problem had already been analyzed in the mid 70s while assessing
enviromnental impacts of the constrution of hydroelectric Salto Grande dam.
So far no signs of water-borne disease have been identified in that area and
consequently they are expected not either in comparable areas under the
project.
Reservoirs usually become attractive for waterfowl, at least temporarily
and especially during drought; this impact should be considered beneficial
from an environmental point of view.
Enviromnental conflicts associated with the threat that irrigation
activities may pose for the wetlands officially protected by the 1971 Ramsar
Treaty have been already discussed. Steps will be taken in project
implementation to assure that no irrigation activities will be supported within
the Ramsar site or other protected areas. Further, in the enviromnental
assessments of specific projects proposed in the eastern region, atention will
be given to potential downstream impacts on all officially reserved wetland
areas or those proposed for protection. The original area of the Ramsar Treaty
is at present under revision and a technical mission of the Convention Bureau
has been very recently assisting the Government to re-define the site and
design sound plans and rules for the management of the redefined area.
Obviously, one of the main guide lines of such rules will be not to alter the
water regime of the Ramsar wetlands in order to ensure the conservation of
the ecological characteristics which justify its definition. Though no accurate
figures can be advanced, it seems reasonable to assume that: (a) the future
Ramsar area will be smaller than the original one, at least in the short term,
and (b) it will not cover a continuous though irregular area, but will rather
comprise separate individual areas which, independendy from each other,
qualify as Ramsar sites. Some significant tracts of land that have been drained,
flood-protected and put under irrigation in the last 10 years no longer qualiify
for the Ramsar Treaty requirements, as already stated in 1988 (Monitoring
procedure mission for the Baiiados del Este; P. Duggan & A. Diegues; report
to the Government of Uruguay). These areas should be removed from the
Ramsar site. On the other hand, some wetlands not yet included in the site
might be added, since they clearly qualify as Ramsar wetlands and have been
recommended for such purpose by different national and internatonal
specialists. Littoral lagoons and associated marshlands and sandbars along the
coast of Maldonado and Rocha are good examples of potential Ramsar sites.
The same might be true for some wetlands in Paysandu, along the Uruguay
river, and in Tacuaremb6 along some major streams mentioned abosre.



-9-
Besides the Ramsar Treaty, protection of areas of particular value from the
ecological point of view has been established by legal or dministrative ways.
The law NO 16.170 of November 28, 1990, mandates the Ministry of
Household, Environment and Territorial Planiing (MVOTMA) to delineate
the boundaries of a number of areas (e.g., wetlands along the coast of the
Merim Lagoon, Negra Lagoon and associated wetlands, and Jose Ignacio,
Garzon, Rocha and Castillos Lagoons). The delineation was finished and the
areas so defined were approved by the Government (Decree NO 527 of
October 1992). Some of these areas are included in the original Ramsar site
whereas others (most of the littoral lagoons) fall outside of it. Whether
included or not, its legal status makes them not eligible for irrigated or rainfed
agriculture as well for any intensification of land use affecting its hydrology,
its natural vegetation and fauna and its scenic and cultural values.
Wetlands excluded for irigation development, it is evident that rice
cultivation on non floodable flatlands will result in an increase in the use of
fertilizers and pesticides (excluding perhaps insecticides) and so risks exist of
increase of the chemical content of surface and ground water. No evidence of
contamination has so far been detected in runoff and water tables of the
traitional rice areas of the country, though it may be argued that no specific
research has been conducted with that purpose. Monitoring of surface wamers
is reconmmended to be considered and in fact DINAMA is already working on
this issue, based on a nationwide (though not dense) network of water
sampling stations. The intensification of field and laboratory work on water
quality control is under way, and the eastern rice area is a target region for
water monitoring; yet, the use of 'clean technologies" (as far as possible) as
described above should contnbute to offset environmental negative impacts.
Actually, the long rotation of rice followed by 5 to 6 or more years of pasture
has as a main purpose to keep the use of expensive herbicides as low as
possible. This purely economic objective makes that the rice cropping system
in Uruguay might be considered ecologically "soft" as compared with more
intensive rotations or even continuous rice, where the amount of herbicide
used is higher and the area treated every year is much larger. These
considerations do not imply that water quality monitoring might be ignored; it
will be a need.
Off-site, downstream issues are in many instances the same as those
listed for on-site conflicts, but risks of population, infrastructure and natural
resources due to dam failure must be added. This last point is to be considered
with different weight for different specific projects, because the munber of
settlements, individual homesteads, roads and other infrastructure components
is significantly different in each one- However, it has been assured that
engineering design standards and supervision of construction by the
PRENADER executing unit will meet internatibnal dam safety requirements.



- 10-
Downstream changes in the timing, quality or quantity of water flows below
dams will not be significant in most cases, both for population and for
wetlands and endangered species. However, some exceptions to this general
statement may be identified and should be adequately considered. If a
significant population settlement occurs downstream, some form of
consultation with the community will be necessary on this issue and on the
advantages and disadvantages of the whole project. Similarly, an irrigation
scheme to be developed upstream of an important wetland might be prejudicial
if, as a result of its operation, the volume and quality of water reaching the
wetland are negatively affected. This situation should be managed with caution
to avoid damage to natural resources and habitat conditions in the off-site
wetlands. Yet, it may be assumed that such a situation would occur only very
rarely if ever, given the territorial scope, the production aims and especially,
the overall sound management of natural resources pursued by PRENADER.
S.    AnabsitaoAltersatics
The process of environmental screening and site selection of sub-
projects is largely included in chapters 3 and 4. The existing protected areas or
those officially identified as deserving some degree of protection will not be
considered eligible for development of irrigated agriculture. The basic
information concerning these areas is available at different government
agencies involved with the subject (MGAP, MVOTMA) and any sub-project
proposal should be checked against the list of protected areas to identify and
assess environmental conflicts before any decision is undertaken. When a
sketch map of location of all potentially protected areas (included those already
defined as such) is observed, it is realized that most of them are situated in
terrains where irrigation development is not feasible or advisable because of
many reasons other than those of environmental nature. Such is the case for
many areas on hilly and rocky soils (sierras), on coastal sands and beaches and
on river or ocean islands.
Environmental conflicts would arise in areas of wetlands and riverine
forest lowlands (wetlands of Rocha, littoral lagoons and associated marshes
and forest lowlands of Tacuaremb6). Since PRENADER will not fimd or
support sub-projects affecting such fragile and environmentally valuable
ecosystems, it is inferred that an effective screening is available for avoiding
conflicts between production and environment when taking decisions
concerning these subjects.
Other environmental issues to be dealt with concem rather with the
design of the projects themselves in order to consider, timely and adequately,
its objectives, its strategy and its consequences both in output and in
environmental impact. This is so because the project itself provides for sound



- 11 -
natural resources management and promotion of sustainable agricultural
production through inclusion of these issues as major components (16% of
total cost).
The current capacity of central government agencies and local
authorities to carry out environmental impact assessments and monitor the
application of corrective measures that might be suggested by those
assessments is rather weak at present. Yet, the project will provide for
strengthening of institutional capacity of MOAP on this subject (3 % of total
cost). At the same time, DINAMA will be receiving in the close future grants
from IDB and from EEC to strengthen its capacity to deal with environmental
questions, being environmental impact assessment one of tie major fields to be
covered by the technical cooperation.
As a result, a significant increase in technical capacity witiin
government agencies concerned with environment issues can be expected over
the next two years. This will be a significant contribution to environmental
screening of projects of different nature and scope (not only PRENADER).
6.    MitigathionPi
General envirmnmental mitigation measures have been enumerated and
discussed under chapters 3, 4 and 5, with particular reference to specific
projects and related measures aiming to mitigate adverse impacts. Even if a
sound screening of proposed sub-projects is carried out, there will be the need
for mitigation plans and specific actions to deal with some inevitable
consequences of irrigated agriculture.
Enviromnental impact assessment (EIA) is the basis for defining the
need and extent of mitigating measures. At present, a law of EIA is being
discussed at the Congress; once approved there will be a legal frame
regulating the need of EIA for specific projects, the terms under which they
should be executed, the way they should be evaluated by the responsible
government agency and the timely incorporation to the project of the
mitigation measures that might be needed but not included in the project
proposal.
It is expected that when PRENADER operations begin, the EIA law
will be approved and effective.
The environmental profiles for specific identified projects take into
consideration the necessary prevention or mitigation measures to keep
environmental impact at acceptable levels for international accepted standards.
The measures include upstream, on-site and downstream issues that lead to
recommend the projects be environmentally classified as "C" (i.e. no



- 12 -
additional enviromnental studies required as prerequisites to final design).
Only one profile project is recommended for flrther work before definite
enviromnental classification; the additional work is conditioned by a EBA of
flood control benefits, multiple-use reservoir management options and a
survey of the views of the downstream population with regard to the
possibility of dam failure.
Mitigation of enviromnental issues are part of the specific projects bv
inclusion of agricultural 'clean technologies"; soil conservation practices,
when needed, to control erosion and physical degadation; reduced inputs of
agrochemichals and priority given to those accepted as environmentally "soft";
water quality monitoring; assurance that engineering designs satisfy
international safety requirements.
7.    _uinental Monhtrins andEsluthmn
The physical environment of sub-project areas is generally well known
since enough information exists about the natumal resources throughout the
country. Yet additional information concerning a specific resource might be
needed for a specific area in some sub-projects eventually proposed or for
areas where the physical environmental conditions have substantially changed
since previous surveys. This will not be the general situation, but it will be the
case in areas modified by human action as mentioned -for some former
wetlands in the eastem region.
Physical environmental conditions in sub-project areas will be
monitored by technical assistance agents working closely with farmers and
supplied by DGRNR through its water and soils specialists. Additionally,
DGRNR siaff will receive international technical assistance through
PRENADER in the field of soil and water management and conservation.
The monitoring and supervision of institutional performance will be
dealt with by the Project Executing Unit (UEP) which will have resources for
contracting specialists in environmental impact assessment
S.    InstitutionL Strengthenirn Needs
As mentioned above, institutional capacity to deal with environmental
issues - including monitoring, evaluation and eventual penalization - is still
rather weak in the country. MOVTMA is actig just for the last 2 years and
other government agencies show similar structural weakness as well.
Insufficient fumding and quantitative lacks of qualified human resources
contribute significantly to institutional weakness. Thus it can be concluded that
institutional strengthening is fundamental for success of the project.



- 13 -
As mentioned in chapter 5, strengthening of institutional capacity of
MGAP is an important component of the project, amounting to U$S 2.8
million.
The main responsibility for project implementation would be within
MGAP, with MTOP, through its Directorate of Hydrography, playing an
important role in the allocation of water rights and the construction of main
irigation works. An analysis of the capacity of the various institutions was
carried out as part of the preparation of the project to determine the ability to
implement the various components. As a result, some gaps were identified in
the institutional capacity, particularly in the General Directorate of Renewable
Natural Resources (DGRNR) within MGAP, for which technical assistance
and training programs have been defined. These include the institutional fame
for the execution of the project, the operation of a Geographical ILformation
System (GIS) for centralization, compilation and combming all the information
generated and for periodical diffusion of available information with the
purpose of improving natural resources management.
National and international consultants and experts will be engaged for
training DGRNR personnel in the application of GIS and for assisting the
institution and its technical staff in plaming of investments, defiing the
variables to be monitored and the way they will be measured.
Additionally, to improve coordination between the main ministries
involved in project execution, an Inter-Mimsterial Council headed by MGAP
would be created and supported by a strong Project Executing Unit.
DINAMA will also benefit of technical assistance for institutional
strengthening financed by grants of IDB and EEC. The mairL components of
the program include the development of an Environmental Information
System, training of technical staff in monitoring environmental variables with
emphasis on EIA.                                 I
Institudonal shening of MGAP and DINAMA are important
contributions to assure success of PRENADER and improving environmental
management either within or outside the project area.
EA training should be provided to irrigation users associations and
DGRNR. in addition, regional offices of DINAMA should be formally
incorporated to local irrigation boards juntas de riego).



- 14-
9.    Publisc  rticipation
The approach proposed for dealing with environmental aspects has
been discussed with all relevant govermnent agencies (DGRNR, DINAMA,
DH, OPP, OSE and University UNICEM) and with a range of NGOs
including the Rice Growers Association, Red de Ecologia Social, Sociedad de
Conservaci6n del Medio Ambiente, Amigos de la Preservaci6n Ambiental and
the consortium AGUAS grouping ter conservation associations organized
mainly to promote protection of the eastern wedands of the country. A number
of meetings were held mainly in agencis and NGOs headquarters and, in
some cases, in PRENADER office, dcbring june, november and december
1992.
When considering the environmental profiles of specific projects, the
respective project proposals were discussed with the involved individual
farmers or farmer organizations (CADYL, JUMECAL). Copies of the
preliminary project proposals were circulated for comments to four
environmental NGOs (APA, SCMA, ITM and AGUAS). So far, no objections
have been raised on environmental or other grounds by these NGOs.



URUEUAY
EN_    ONEA ASSRSRFIOR
IDIrfl     ~_T1W SDMR
Introductionu
1.    This text is the "Summary and Recomndations" of the sectoral
environmental assessment included in the preparation report for the Uruguay
Natural Resources Managemen and Irrigation Development Project
(PRENADER) dated April 2, 1993, prepared by the FAOIWorld Bank
Cooperative Program. The report itself can be found in the project file.
2.    The environmental aspects of the project addressed here relate
specifically to the Irrigation component, since the Natural Resources
Management component is focused on improving resource management to
reduce degradation of soils, improve productivity and efficiency in agriculture,
and preservation of biodiversity. The project was discussed with all relevant
government agencies: General Directorate for Renewable Natural Resources
within the Ministry of Agriculture (Direcci6n General de Recursos Naturales
Renovables - DGRNR), National Directorate for the Environment (Direcci6n
Nacional de Medio Ambiente - DINAMA), Directorate for Hydrography
(Direcci6n de Hidrograffa - DR), Office of Planning and Budget (Oficina de
Planeamiento y Presupuesto - OPP), State Sanitary Works (Obra Sanitarias
del Estado - OSE), Central University Environmental Unit (Unidad Central de
Medio Ambiente de la Universidad - UNICEM) and a range of NGOs mostly
oriented to enviromment protectio: Rice Growers Association (Asociacion de
Cultivadores de Arroz), Social Ecology Network (Red de Ecologia Social -
REDES), Environmental Conservation Society (Sociedad de Conservaci6n del
Medio Ambiente - SCMA), Friends of Environmenal Preservation (Amigos
de la Preservaci6n Ambiental - APA) and a consortium of ten conservation
groups (AGUAS) organized mainly to promote protection of the wetlands
along the Merim Lagoon coast in eastern Uruguay. Meetings with the
mentioned agencies and NGOs were held between June and December 1992.



-2 -
3.    In the development and operation and maintenance (O&M) of the
irrigation sub-sector, a number of standard environmental issues have been
identified, such as: physical degradation of soil; water contamination from
agrochemicals under intensified agriculture; wasteful use of water;
deteriorating quality of irrigation water; sedinentation of reservoirs; and
damage to biodiversity. Through environmental assessment, steps will be
taken within the project to address such issues in: the identification of options
to expand agricultmral output; initial irrigation and drainage sub-projects' (I&D
schemes) selection; feasibility analysis (with design modification to mitigate
negative environmental impacts where necessary); and construction and
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) of the I&D operational phase. On the
institutional side activities would include strengthening of Ministry of
Livestock, Agriculture and Fisheries (MGAP) agencies directly associated
with irrigation activities, promotion of beneficiary participation in sub-project
design and implementation, introduction of water charges and cost recovery
provisions. The equity, efficiency and sustainability of intensification of land
and water through multiple uses would be tested through research, field
surveys and extension.
4.    Ih.Witer.Mm genLContext. Over the past two decades there
has been increasing pressure on water resources from the development
demands of agriculture (rice in particular), hydroelectricity, urban water
supply, industry and tourism. The result has been rising intersectoral
conflicts. Expansion of irrigated rice on wetlands in the east is seen as
threatening a unique ecosystem and an important flyway for migratory birds.
Increasing extraction of ground water for urban, indusial and irrigation use
could cause irreversible saline intrusion in some aquifers. The projected
expansion in small and medium dams for irrigation, hydroelectricity and
potable water supply, and the generation of sewage and other wastes
discharged to water bodies, wil inevitably lead to more competition for
available supplies and to demands for investment to reduce levels of
contamination. In the case of the eastern wetands these issues have recently
become a matter of international concern, largely as a result of the Ramsar
Corvention. The intensification and expansion of irrigated agricultare must be
seen within this context. If the environmental aspects associated with such
development are to be effectively managed it will be important to strengthen
the institutional capacity to generate information on the social, economic and
ecological tradeoffs involved, and to facilitate dialogue among the vested
interests in reaching decisions on water policy and policy implementation. In
this regard the studies of the Salto and Raigon aquifers funded under the
project are expected to makre a significant contribution.
5.    HadigRyicmU     s=  nte_rgao  u-=    The
capacity of central government agencies, regional offices and local authorities
to apply environmentl procedures in the project cycle will be critical in the
implementation of the irrigation component. The Project Exectg Unit



3-
(UEP), in consultation with the DGRNR would approve the use of land for
irrigation and would have the prime responsibility for screening irrigation
schemes' proposals and overseeing the feasibility, design and implementation
phases. The beneficiary groups and the respective boards of irngation (untas
de riego) will have a major role in defining irrigation scheme proposals and
would be responsible for O&M after consuction. DH recommends the use of
water for irrigation after evaluation of existing and potential multiple uses. It
is expected that under the environmental law in the process of approval,
DINAMA will have oversight authority in the implementation of
environmental assessment (BA) requiments, quality of EA work, and setting
of water quality standards. The Ministry of Transport and Public Works
(MTOP) is ultimately responsible for approving the volume of water to be
made available and the works proposed for any of the multiple uses. The
Minister of Public Works is bound by law to apply an order of prority -
potable water supply, followed by hydroelectricity, then irrigation. Where
public funds are used to finance irrigation schemes, as will be the case under
PRENADER, the OPP has final authority on the adequacy of EA as a
prerequisite to approval of financing.
6.    The potential for conflict between irrigation and preservation of
wedands represents a special case in the managing of environmental aspects of
the project. Under the 1971 Ramr Convention Uruguay agreed in 1984 to
set aside about 435,000 ha as a wetand reserve. By the jatter date, much of
this area had already been modified by flood control and irrigation works and
additional areas were modified subsequently. As a result, an escalation of
conflicts has arisen between agriculture and environmea protection and
within the agricultural sector (upstream versus downstream users). A revision
of the area has been carried out and DINAMA and DGRNR have identified
and delineated about 140,000 ha of wetlands not yet modified and
recommended for protection. The recommendation has been approved by the
Government (Decree N° 527/992 of october 1992). This protected area falls
largely within the original Ramsar limits and would qualify for partal
substitution of areas. No formal decision has so far been adopted by the
Government concerning this point. Additionally, an inter-agency commission
established in 1991 to study the various conflicts in a 360,000 ha on the right
bank of Cebollati river in the Department of Rocha, consistent with the
findings of DINAMA and DGRNR, will make a series of recommendations on
hydraulic works to resolve current conflicts among farmers, enable further
irrigation development and protect certain naturl areas which may fall inside
or outside previously defined reserved areas. Parallel with state efforts, a
group of NGOs with external funding have a project underway to map all
wetland areas in the eastern region which might be in a "reasonablew state of
preservation or worthy of reclamation. The map should be completed during
1993, at which time it is to be expected that the group would lobby for official
designation of a large area as reserve.



-4-
7.    A fundamental constraint in effective implementation of any protection
measures is the fact that over 95% of the areas (i.e. not considering lagoons)
which may be reserved are in private ownership. Thus, the capacity for
environmental management in this case will depend on measures whereby the
state may be able to limit private entitlements and enforce restrictions on land
use, or expropriate lands to be placed in the public domain. In either case
questions of indemnization, institutional arrangements, and source of financing
have to be addressed. Nevertheless, implementation of these preconditions for
effective management of the wedands is not a requirment for the loan to
become effective since I&D development proposals within any of the above
mentioned areas will not be eligible for being part of the project.
8.    T 1stitiidonsil 0=city. A wide range of ativities is underway or
programmed to strengthen the capacity of public and private entities to deal
with enviromental matters. DINAMA will receive a US$1.1 million grant
from 1DB for institutional strgthening and a US$0.3 million grant from EEC
for implementation of the Environmental Information System, including
institutional strengenig as a component. The UNDP and UNEP are also
active and the Global Environmental Facility (GEF) is financing a US$ 3.2
minion project on wetlands, mainly oriented to biodiversity research, which
includes insdtutional strenghening as well. In addition, NGOs have received
ensive support from domestic sources and external foundations and foreign
NGOs. PRENADER has a component for s       ng of the institutional
capacity of MGAP for sound environmentl management of natural resources
and development of irrigated agriculture on a sustinable basis. As a result, a
significant increase in technical skills, design and monitng capacity within
the country can be expected over the next two years.
9.     riro     r    cedufiJ             _.an  Within the project cyclc
seven steps wili be taken to assure that environmental issues are adequately
considered in the selection, design, construction and O&M of irrigation
schemes.
(a)         Scheme proposals prepared by the boards of irrigation
for submission to the Inter-Ministrial Council for Project
Implementation (CS) will include a statement on potential
environmental implications (SPE) based on a check-list
approved by DINAMA and DGRNR.
(b)         For schemes approved for feasibility study by the CS, an
environmental profile will be prepared for purposes of
classifying their potendal environmental impact: "A" requiring
a full-scale EA; "B" requiring further study of specific aspects;
or WC" requiring no further environmental studies. These
profiles will be prepared by the UEP in consultation with
DGRNR and DINAMA.



-5-
(c)         Profiles will be submitted for comment to relevant units
of MTrOP, OPP and MGAP, local groups affected by the
project, and the NGOs concerned with these issues. The
qualification of NGOs to be asked to comment would be based
on the criteria used by DINAMA for routine consultations with
groups outside the Government.
(d)         Observations from these entities (point c) would be
submitted to the UEP which would be responsible for revision
of the profiles, in association with DGRNR, DR and
DINAMA. the revised profiles together with a report on the
external consultations, would be submitted to the CS for final
decision on the environmental classification (point b).
(e)         In case of "A' or "B" classification, the CS would
require the UEP to draw up terms of reference, in association
with DINAMA, and contract the necessary studies to assess
potential environmental inpact and to produce recommendations
for mitigatory measures and M&E. These studies will be
fimanced under PRENADER; fuding for the studies will be
provided through the llEP budget.
(*)         The EA studies would be circulated for information to
all entities consulted on the profiles and would be taken into
account by the CS in determining the final design and ultimate
eligibility of schemes to be recommended to the Bank for
financing under the loan.
(g)         At the stages of construction and O&M, the CS, through
the DGRNR and DH, would be responsible for the
implementation of recommended mitigatory measures and M&E
of mipacts. This process will be direcdy supported by four
other program components:
(i)       The research activity, executed by the National
Agricultural Research Institute UNIA) which includes
the aspects related to potental contamination of ground
and surface water from agrochemicals and soil
degradation under intensive irrigated agriculture.
(ii)       The study of water quality affecting and affected
by irrigation under the direction of DGRNR, DH and
the National Directorate of Minig and Geology
(DINAMIGE).
(iii)      The DGRNR program for extension of soil
conservation techniques.



-6-
(iv)       The study of micro watrsheds, the Commission
for the Development of the Santa Lucia Basin
(CHDCRSL).
10.   With respect to candidate schemes in the "area of influence" of the
wetlands in the Departments of Rocha and Treinta y Tres, the following
decision rules would apply:
(a)         Until the Ramsar Treaty limits are officially modified,
no projects wil be considered within the 325,000 ha Ramsar
Treaty area (not including the Uruguayan Merim Lagoon water
surface), and projects likely to influence the water regime
within the above area will be subject to rigorous EA.
(b)         The same conditions as in point (a) would apply to any
areas of the 140,000 ha wetland reserve which may &fi outside
the Ramsar Treaty limits (para 6).
(c)         Once the Ramsar limits are officially modified the rules
in points (a) and (b) will apply to the new area.
(d)         Until the inter-agency commission's studies on the
360,000 ha right bank of the Cebollati river bave been
completed and approved by the respective board of irrigation,
and by DINAMA, and finally authorized by the MTOP, no
projects will be considered in this area.
(e)         The map of "reservable" wedand area to be completed in
1993 (para 6) will be routinely taken into account in the seven-
step environmental procedures applied to any scheme submitted
by the boards of irrigation in the Deparmts of Rocha and
Treinta y Tres.






