                                          Document of
                                       The World Bank




                                                                          Report No: 26167-UR

                         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                             (CPL-36970; SCL-3697A; SCPD-3697S)

                                              ON A

                                             LOAN

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$41.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                                            TO THE

                             ORIENTAL REPUBLIC OF URUGUAY

                                           FOR THE

                           NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT
                         AND IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                                       (Loan No. 3697-UR)




                                          June 17, 2003




Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
Argentina, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                           (Exchange Rate Effective at loan closing)

                                  Currency Unit = Ur$
                                            Ur$1 = US$ 0.37
                                           US$ 1 = Ur$27.0

                                         FISCAL YEAR
                                  January 1 -     December 31

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AUSID    Uruguayan No Tillage Association (Asociación Uruguaya Pro Siembra Directa)
BROU     Bank of the Republic of Uruguay (Banco de la República Oriental del Uruguay)
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CCI      Inter-ministerial Coordinating Commission (Comisión Coordinadora Inter-Ministerial)
CHDCSL   National Commission for the Development of the Santa Lucía River Basin (Comisión
         Honoraria para el Desarrollo de la Cuenca de Santa Lucía)
CONEAT   Comisión Nacional de Estudios Agro-económicos de la Tierra
DF       Forestry Directorate (Dirección Forestal)
DGRNR    General Directorate for Renewable Natural Resources (Dirección General de Recursos
         Naturales Renovables)
DSA      Agricultural Services Directorate (Dirección General de Servicios Agrícolas)
FAO-CP   Food & Agriculture Organization/World Bank Cooperative Programme
FMD      Foot and Mouth Disease
GIS      Geographic Information System
IEPS     Intial Executive Project Summary
INIA     National Institute of Agricultural Research (Instituto Nacional de InvestigaciónAgropecuaria)
IPMA     Agricultural Wholesale Prices Index (Indice de Precios Mayoristas Agropecuarios)
LIBOR    London Inter-Bank Offered Rate
MEF      Ministry of Economy and Finance (Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas)
MGAP     Ministry of Agriculture (Ministerio de Ganadería, Agricultura y Pesca)
MTOP     Ministry of Transport and Public Works (Ministerio de Transporte y Obras Públicas)
NHD      National Directorate of Hydrography (Dirección Nacional de Hidrografía)
OED      Operations Evaluation Department
O&M      Operation and Maintaenance
OPP      Office of Planning and Budget (Oficina de Planeamiento y Presupuesto)
PENTA    Non-Traditional Agricultural Exports Program (Programa de Exportaciones No Tradicionales
         Agropecuarias)
POA      Annual Operating Plan (Programa Operativo Anual)
PRENADER Programa de Manejo de Recursos Naturales y Desarrollo de Riego
SAR      Staff Appraisal Report
TCP      Technical Cooperation Project
UEP      Project Executing Unit (Unidad Ejecutora del Proyecto)



                                Vice President:       David de Ferranti
                   Country Manager/Director:          Axel van Trotsenburg
                     Sector Manager/Director:         John Redwood
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:              Michael Carroll

                     IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT

                                          URUGUAY


             Natural Resources Management and Irrigation Development Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
9. Partner Comments                                                              18
10. Additional Information                                                       18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             25
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             29
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                30
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            31
Annex 8 Summary of the Borrower's Report                                         32

Project ID: P008173                                                      Project Name: Natural Resources Management and
                                                                         Irrigation Development Project
Team Leader: Michael G. Carroll                                          TL Unit: LCSER
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 17, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: Natural Resources Management and Irrigation              L/C/TF Number: CPL-36970; SCL-3697A;
                            Development Project                                                      SCPD-3697S
   Country/Department: URUGUAY                                                            Region: Latin America and
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Irrigation and drainage (62%); Central government administration
                            (19%); Agricultural extension and research (13%); Agricultural
                            marketing and trade (3%); Forestry (3%)
                  Theme: Land management (P); Water resource management (P); Rural
                            services & infrastructure (P); Other environment & natural resources
                            management (P); Export development & competitiveness (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                                Original              Revised/Actual
         PCD:    07/30/1992                                        Effective: 02/01/1994              06/01/1994
   Appraisal:    06/29/1993                                            MTR: 06/30/1996                05/10/1997
    Approval:    01/25/1994                                         Closing: 12/31/1999               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVT OF URUGUAY/MIN AGRIC
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                         At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                               Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Axel van Trotsenberg                            Ping-Cheung Loh
Sector Manager:                 Mark E. Cackler                                 Mark D. Wilson
Team Leader at ICR:             Michael G. Carroll                              Andres Abramovich
ICR Primary Author:             Steven Oliver; Edgardo Floto;
                                Jeannette Ramirez


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:SU

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

3.1.1    The principal objective of the project (as specified in the Loan Agreement) was to develop and
implement a soil and water management strategy focused on the development of irrigation and intended to
increase, diversify and sustain agricultural output and exports. The principal objective was to be reached
via the achievement of five subsidiary objectives:

(a) increasing the level of sector investment through the rehabilitation and development of irrigation and
drainage schemes and related service infrastructure;

(b) strengthening the technical foundation and the regulatory framework of water use;

(c) establishing a policy on: (i) the operation and maintenance cost, and (ii) the capital cost recovery of
sector investment;

(d) supporting agricultural diversification; and

(e) establishing the framework to improve the management of natural resources.

3.1.2    The principal and subsidiary objectives were (and remain) important both for the agricultural
sector and for the economy of Uruguay as a whole. They were also clear and realistic. The Loan was
presented to the Board in January 1994 at the same time as the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). The
CAS proposed a modest lending program and focussed mainly on: (a) supporting the development of the
private sector in an increasingly open economy; and (b) human resource development, with selected
interventions to address environmental issues. The objectives of the project were fully aligned with the
principal elements of this strategy.

3.1.3    The specification of the objectives implicitly recognized the importance of the agricultural sector in
Uruguay and the need to intensify land use, where appropriate, by addressing one of the major constraints
to agricultural development - that of unpredictable rainfall. At the same time, the importance of managing
the use of soil and water resources is recognized as being central to the issue of sustainability.

3.1.4    The project was not particularly demanding for the implementing agencies, which all have a long
experience of working with the Bank and other international lending agencies. It was neither a complex nor
a risky operation. The only risk identified during loan processing concerned the possibility that the
institutional capacity to execute and coordinate the project might prove inadequate. The design of the
project included institutional strengthening and specific actions to address those identified capacity gaps.


3.2 Revised Objective:

3.2.1    The objectives of the project were not modified during implementation.


3.3 Original Components:

3.3.1    The project had three components. The projected costs shown here included provisions for price



                                                      - 2 -

and physical contingencies.

Component A: the Natural Resource Management component had an estimated cost of US$ 20.7
million and contained seven sub-components:

· the development of pilot micro-catchment areas in the río Santa Lucía river basin, designed to gain
experience in the management of an ecologically-fragile area;
· the establishment of soil and water management demonstration farms in selected agro-ecological areas
susceptible to soil degradation;
· the development of a Geographical Information System (GIS) to improve land-use classification and
management;
· the support of applied agricultural research and technology transfer;
· the preparation of natural resource management studies;
· the provision of technical assistance for forestry development; and
· the strengthening of sector policy planning, evaluation, and monitoring capacity in the Directorate of
Natural Resources (at the Ministry of Agriculture - MGAP) and the Directorate of Hydrography (at the
Ministry of Transport and Public Works - MTOP).

Component B: the Irrigation Development component had an estimated cost of US$ 50.8 million and
contained six sub-components:

· the rehabilitation and modernization of existing public irrigation and drainage schemes;
· the construction of new, medium-sized collective irrigation schemes;
· the construction of selected small farmer irrigation infrastructure at the farm level;
· the introduction of "water harvesting" pilot schemes at the farm level;
· the provision of technical assistance for irrigation and drainage feasibility studies; and
· the provision of technical assistance for production, processing and marketing of non-traditional
agricultural exports.

In addition the project financed the establishment and operation of the Project Executing Unit (Unidad
Ejecutora del Proyecto - UEP).

3.3.2    The components were specifically related to the achievement of the objectives and were well
within the capacity of the implementing agencies.

3.3.3    The design of the project included lessons learned from earlier projects implemented in the sector,
in Uruguay and elsewhere. It drew on the evaluation made by the Operations Evaluation Department
(OED) of 335 completed irrigation projects, and emphasized the issues of: (a) the need for a comprehensive
sub-sector strategy; (b) cost recovery (both of operation and maintenance and of capital expenditures); (c)
institutional strengthening; and (d) the need for technical improvements on-farm, in order to reap the
benefits of investment through higher yields and increased net income.


3.4 Revised Components:

3.4.1    There were no formal revisions of the project's components or sub-components during
implementation. However, three formal amendments in all cases reflecting minor changes in institutional
arrangements as well as several changes in emphasis as a result of changed circumstances. These are



                                                      - 3 -

described in Section 4.

3.4.2     The original project design was modified slightly because of the different financial/economic
circumstances experienced by the government, as well as the occurrence of severe drought that compelled
the government to reassign funds towards related activities designed to have a more immediate impact on
the emergency.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

3.5.1     The project's design and appraisal predate the introduction of the Quality Assurance process at the
Bank. The project is considered to have been satisfactory with respect to its consistency both with the
Bank's strategy towards Uruguay (see paragraph 3.1.3 above) and with the government's priorities. The
government recognizes that the agricultural sector is of key importance to the economy of Uruguay, and
that its further development depends on the intensification and diversification of production. The proper
management of natural resources in parallel with more intensive land use requires a combined effort and
continuing partnership between government and the private sector. Success is ultimately in the hands of the
latter, and in implementing this project the government concentrated its scarce resources in: (a) raising
awareness of the problems and helping to develop the tools and institutions necessary to resolve them; and
(b) the process of generating the necessary appropriate technology and a series of catalytic investments in
water resource development to achieve a demonstration effect.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

4.1.1     The principal objective of the project was to develop and implement a soil and water management
strategy, focussed on the development of irrigation and intended to increase, diversify and sustain
agricultural output and exports. The project overall was successful, and substantial progress was made
towards achieving the principal and subsidiary objectives defined in paragraph 3.1.2. There was no order
of priorities assigned to the subsidiary objectives, which were seen as inter-locking parts designed to
contribute to the achievement of the principal objective:

(a) the project directly contributed to an increase in investment in the sector. In response to both a
change in Government policy, which led to a reduction of the State's direct investment in
irrigation infrastructure, and to increased demand from producers, the project supported increased
investment in irrigation development and drainage works by individual farmers. As a result of the
project, over 2,400 farmers invested in expanding the irrigable area of Uruguay by almost 20% (35,000 ha
to a total of 190.000 ha) with the area under irrigated rice representing about 77% of the total.

(b) despite of the continued relative high importance of the areas under irrigated rice, diversification was
strongly supported by the project, in as far as (i) the expansion of the area under irrigated rice financed by
the project (i.e. 19,000 ha) was almost entirely linked to the expansion of livestock production systems, in
which irrigated rice and forage crops were integrated into land use in rotation with pastures; and (ii) the
project-supported expansion of the irrigated area under fruit and vegetable production (16,000 ha)
represented an increase of over 100% of the initial area under these crops, thus contributing to a substantial
increase in the production of high value crops and non-traditional exports .

(c) the technical basis for the sustainable use and management of soil and water was improved not just by
improvements in institutional coordination and management but also by testing, through the Pilot



                                                      - 4 -

Micro-Catchment Program in Santa Lucia, technological packages for improved natural resources
management in areas of intensive agriculture.

(d) the technical basis was further improved through the project-financed applied research and technology
transfer, which was largely focused on natural resources management and conservation and irrigated
agriculture, and was implemented by National Institute of Agricultural Research (Instituto Nacional de
Investigación Agropecuaria - INIA), the Faculty of Agronomy and Uruguayan No Tillage Association (
Asociacion Uruguaya Pro Siembra Directa- AUSID).

(e) Some advances made also in the establishment of a policy for the recovery of (i) operation and
maintenance costs, and (ii) capital costs of collective schemes, although the economic crisis that affected
the country in the last two years affected also the level of debt repayment by some irrigation farmers.

(f) significant progress was achieved in establishing the framework to improve the management of natural
resources. The corner-stone of this framework is the GIS, which demonstrated its value in an unexpected
manner during the outbreak of foot and mouth disease.

4.2 Outputs by components:

4.2.1    The objectives of the project were concentrated in the categories of sector policies, physical
objectives and institutional development. There were no financial or macro-economic objectives. The
outcome of the project was satisfactory with respect to all three of these categories of objectives.

4.2.2    The design of the project was appropriate for the achievement of the objectives. The performance
indicators for judging the achievement of the objectives were tied directly to the thirteen sub-components,
each of which had an "objective" which contributed to the overall objectives of the project. Some of these
performance indicators were well quantified in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), and others were to be
defined during the course of implementation because the outcome of several sub-components depended on
the results of feasibility studies yet to be carried out, on the completion of plans, and on the evolution of
demand by farmers. The sub-components contributed to the achievement of the project's objectives in
varying degrees.

4.2.3    The original project design was altered de facto in response to a number of forces which resulted
from the economic and financial problems experienced by the government, the actual evolution of demand
for project outputs, and the occurrence of a serious and prolonged drought that required emergency
measures to be taken by the government.

Component A - Natural Resource Management

4.2.4    The main purposes of this component was to encourage the adoption of improved natural resource
management practices and to promote sustainable agricultural production. The means to influence this was
to be the provision of information derived from the pilot projects in the St. Lucia basin, applied research
and the establishment of a GIS, allied to support for forestry development and a series of studies on natural
resource management and institutional strengthening.


4.2.5    All activities were implemented as designed. However, under two sub-components involved
expenditures significantly less than those estimated during design and appraisal. In sub-component A.2
(Soil and Water Management Demonstration Farms), the reduction was the result of a change in strategy
on the part of the Natural Resources Directorate (Dirección General de Recursos Naturales Renovables -


                                                        - 5 -

DGRNR) of MGAP concerning technology transfer, which involved both a smaller number of sites and an
emphasis on those sites which were more fragile (from an agro-ecological point of view) and where results
could be obtained in the short term. In sub-component A.5 (Natural Resource Management Studies), given
the budget restrictions the decision was taken to delay those studies not of a high priority and to reassign
resources to those sub-components involving works where there was high demand. In 1997, and again in
2000, the project worked to alleviate the worst aspects of the drought emergency; this involved the
re-assignation of funding between sub-components and the development of collaborative arrangements with
local governments (Intendencias).

Sub-component A.1 - The Development of Pilot Micro-Catchment Areas

4.2.6    The pilot project was developed in the four micro-catchment areas in the Santa Lucía river basin
that were identified in the SAR as being representative of production systems and socioeconomic conditions
prevalent in the region.

           Micro-catchment area                 Area (ha) and target       Number of Producers
                                               number of producers               attended
 Cañada Los Alamos                                 1,188        60
 Arroyo La Feliciana                               1,518        11
 Embalse del Arroyo Canelón Grande                 9,028       220
 Arroyo Tala                                       6,257        58
 Total                                           17,991        349                  395


4.2.7    The SAR target of 350 producers was surpassed, and the eventual total of 395 producers
represented a significantly high 97 percent of the total number of producers (409) in the four
micro-catchment areas. Support from the project to farmers was provided by means of technical assistance,
training and financial assistance and was provided both to groups of producers and, to a much smaller
extent, to individuals. The program supported financially those farmers who joined for a maximum of two
years. Towards the closing of the pilot project, a fund was created with support from the producers that
operated on the basis of shared costs. Activities were based on a farm management plan prepared by the
farmer and a technical advisor. A total of eighteen groups of producers was established in which 395
producers participated, with the degree of participation being highest among dairy farmers. In terms of
expenditures, most emphasis was placed on conservation tillage and on earth-moving & land-levelling,
followed by the use of organic and green manures and the development of an environmentally improved
system to dispose of dairy effluent run-off. The latter, which was developed as part of the Pilot Program,
proved to be a successful and well received technical package, which was subsequently scaled-up to large
parts of dairy producers in neighboring areas. During the last years of the project, it led even to private
sector partnerships for a further expansion of the system, thus increasing the project's beneficial
environmental impact.

4.2.8    Analysis of the evolution of land use and farm performance during the pilot project was based on
three types of farm (horticulture, grapes, and dairy). In horticulture, profit margins, net income per ha and
income per worker all rose significantly. In dairy, carrying capacity and the size of the herd also increased
significantly. Profitability and net income increased, but all of the technical and financial indicators were
badly affected by the drought experienced in the spring of 1999 followed by the excessive rainfall of the
winter of 2000. The results in grape production were disappointing. Yields were somewhat reduced, but
net income and profitability mainly declined under the combined impact of a fall in prices, an increase in
the ratio of input:output prices, and a switch to improved varieties.




                                                      - 6 -

4.2.9    During supervision and the mid-term review, the observation was made that although producers
received technical assistance its impact on the production potential of those farms would have been much
larger if that technical assistance had been provided on full-time basis in many of the areas that came under
PRENADER. It was also noted that there was a significant difference between the expectations raised
amongst farmers during project design and appraisal and the actual outcome of the sub-component; most
producers became associated with the pilot program with the expectation that their financial constraints to
raising productivity and net incomes would be overcome, with environmental conservation and preservation
of natural resources remaining for them only a secondary consideration.

Sub-component A.2 - Soil and Water Management Demonstration Farms

4.2.10   The sub-component was designed to establish demonstration farms as an instrument of technology
transfer in areas of existing or potential risk of soil erosion and degradation. Support for demonstration
farms included the provision of technical assistance, training and conservation tillage equipment. Part of
the funding for the sub-component was transferred to the sub-component of applied research (A.4) where it
financed, in part, the work being done by the Uruguayan No Tillage Association (Asociación Uruguaya
Pro Siembra Directa - AUSID) project which was demonstrating high efficiency in the generation and
transfer of direct drilling technology applied to commercial scale crop production.


4.2.11   The sub-component achieved its objectives; five demonstration farms were established, three in the
intensive cereal production areas (Young, Cañada Nieto and Ombúes de Lavalle), and one each in the
areas of irrigated rice in the north (Tomás Gomensoro) and of intensive dairy in the south (Florida). In
each farm a range of investments were supported in order to facilitate the adoption of improved and
environmentally sound technologies and production practices. Technical Assistance was provided,
production and financial results were recorded and numerous field days were conducted. Most farmers
were receptive and an acceptable rate of adoption was obtained. It was observed that, as is to be expected,
certain categories of farmers were harder to reach and convince than others; for example, short-term tenant
farmers (medianeros) who farm on the basis of share-cropping (parcería) appear to be those most resistant
to the introduction of improved conservationist practices, followed by the smaller producers who combine a
need to farm more intensively with a lack of financial resources.

Sub-component A.3 - Development of a Geographical Information System (GIS)

4.2.12   The designed purpose of the sub-component was to prepare a data base of information on natural
resources to be used for agro-ecological zoning and for assisting farmers on appropriate land use. As such,
it represents the corner-stone in the establishment of the framework for the improvement of the management
of natural resources, one of the five subsidiary objectives of the project. The establishment of the GIS in
MGAP was intended to rationalize the work of existing centers of data collection and repositories of
information into a system with up-to-date hardware and software. The GIS was intended to be used by
multiple institutions and the private sector. In practice, the sub-component was implemented in several
phases and its objectives were successively re-formulated; its coverage expanded from that of natural
resources to include production, social and economic layers of data.




                                                        - 7 -

4.2.13   The sub-component was evaluated by independent consultants who in addition to reviewing the
progress made in implementation placed emphasis on its future development and, in particular, the need for
efficient inter-institutional relationships. In five years of work, the technical team remained largely
unchanged and made significant investments in hardware and software, incorporating several layers of
information and carrying out a significant amount of training. At present, the GIS is being expanded to
include livestock information and improve the Comision Nacional de Estudios Agro-economicos de la
Tierra (CONEAT) data base. Furthermore, the Government is currently promoting a wider use of the GIS
for spatial analysis and natural resource management among producers and decision makers in other
Government institutions.

Sub-component A.4 - Applied Research and Technology Transfer

4.2.14   The sub-component financed proposals of applied research, validation of technology and
technology transfer to producers in the areas of soil and water management in both rain-fed and irrigated
agriculture. The work was carried out by INIA, which was responsible for 64 percent of the expenditures,
and by the Faculty of Agronomy of the University of the Republic (Facultad de Agronomía, Universidad
de la República) and by AUSID which implemented the remaining 36 percent. Research projects covered
soil management and conservation techniques as well as irrigation technology and improved cultural
practices for irrigated crops. The most efficient of these three mechanisms was the work on zero tillage
done by AUSID; being an organization of producers, from the beginning its research work was done with
close collaboration between researchers and producers themselves, focusing the research on the resolution
of concrete problems and developing mechanisms of transfer and diffusion to the producers who were the
prime movers of the process.


4.2.15   The results of the sub-component were evaluated by independent consultants financed by a
Technical Cooperation Project (TCP) from FAO. The evaluation showed that 91 percent of the research
sub-projects had generated concrete results and that in 85 percent of sub-projects the results of research
could be transferred to producers. However, according to the evaluation, the system of technology transfer
in Uruguay would need to be strengthened to improve the effectiveness of the system and its impact on
agricultural development in general and production diversification and resource management in particular.



4.2.16   The evaluation of the sub-component indicates that research objectives were fully met. As a
by-product of the research work carried out, it is important to note that these institutions were significantly
strengthened in terms of infrastructure and equipment and, in the case of INIA, there was a change in the
approach to research away from the traditional crop oriented research prevailing in the past, towards an
irrigation production system approach. The evaluation also concluded that, in a possible follow-up project,
priority should be given to implementing a new strategy of diffusion of knowledge to extension
professionals and producers, rather than to continued applied research. Currently, low levels of training in
the use of irrigation are a significant constraint to its proper and full use.

Sub-component A.5 - Preparation of Natural Resource Management Studies

4.2.17   The sub-component included a number of studies related to the management of soils and water to
provide a solid basis of information to allow decision-making in the design and implementation of irrigation
works and the necessary actions of support to and monitoring of irrigation activities. The studies of the
Raigón and Salto aquifers were completed successfully, and this allowed a rationalization of the process



                                                        - 8 -

of location of wells in two regions where a large proportion of well-drilling under the project took place.
The data base developed has been utilized in the granting of water rights and has provided data on
sustainable levels of water extraction and on the vulnerability of water resources.


4.2.18   The study of water quality for irrigation was completed, the results of which allowed progress to
be made in the search for solutions to a problem that exists in the use of water from several aquifers in
sedimentary rock formations in the south of the country that are used mainly for intensive crop production.
The study concerning the environmental and economic evaluation of alternative means of collecting and
using water for irrigation, and its integration with the management and conservation of soils in the Water
Harvesting Pilot project, was successfully completed. However, the study of the efficiency of water use in
irrigation, proposed in the SAR, was not carried out as it was considered by the project given that a
broader study on the efficiency of water resources in general was carried out by National Directorate of
Hydrography (Dirección Nacional de Hidrografia-NHD) in MTOP.

Sub-component A.6 - Technical Assistance for Forestry Development

4.2.19   The purpose of the sub-component was to provide technical assistance and training in forestry
development, with special emphasis on pest control, logging, wood drying and processing, and management
of agro-silvopastoral systems, to the Forestry Directorate (Dirección Forestal - DF - of MGAP). In
addition to supporting a substantial institutional strengthening program of particular relevance was the
project-financed study on the impact of eucalyptus plantations on groundwater resources. The large
expansion of private sector-financed commercially planted forest during the 1990s, would indicate that
there is a limited role for the State in the country's future forestry development.

Sub-component A.7 - Strengthening of Sector Policy Planning, Evaluation and Monitoring Capacity

4.2.20   The SAR identified a number of weaknesses in the government institutions responsible for the
management and conservation of natural resources and water which impeded the carrying-out of their
responsibilities. A series of activities involving technical assistance and training, as well as a program of
investment in infrastructure and equipment to develop the capacity for planning and monitoring and to
improve the diffusion of information concerning the various pilot activities that were included in the
project.


4.2.21   The project included the establishment of an Inter-ministerial Coordinating Committee (Comisión
de Coordinación Interministerial ­ CCI) headed by MGAP to define the policies that would guide
Programa de Manejo de Recursos Naturales y Desarrollo de Riego (PRENADER) and to strengthen the
links necessary to ensure the improvement of the functions of the different government institutions
participating in the project. A result of the project, PRENADER's Executing Unit became de facto the
main Government institution and reference point for policy discussions and implementation of programs
and activities related to natural resources management and irrigation development, thus achieving a
substantial, albeit not optimum, level of coordination. Despite the efforts made, there are still some
deficiencies in the coordination between government institutions responsible for natural resource
management policies and actions. The challenge for an eventual follow-up project would be to build upon
these achievements and implement the institutional changes required to achieve an acceptable level of
coordination between the various Government institutions involved in natural resources management and
improve the effectiveness of policies and programs.

Component B - Irrigation Development



                                                        - 9 -

4.2.22   The project functioned by responding to the demands of the sector, and this produced significant
changes in what was projected in design and appraisal. In the original project design, 46 percent of project
expenditures were destined to be spent on public and private collective works. In practice the rehabilitation
of public collective works absorbed only a small part of the resources and most of demand from producers
concentrated on private rather than collective irrigation investment. This trend was further encouraged by a
change in Government policy which drastically reduced direct public investment in irrigation development.
This had a substantially positive impact on one of the project's primary targets as the works implemented
by the project increased the irrigable area by 35,000 ha compared to the SAR projection of 20,000 ha.

Sub-component B.1.a - Rehabilitation and Modernization of Public Irrigation and Drainage Schemes

4.2.23   The designed intention of the sub-component was to rehabilitate and improve state-owned irrigation
schemes and to promote the transfer of their administration, operation and maintenance to their users. The
SAR listed three identified sub-projects on which much preparatory work had already been done before
loan approval. In practice, only one of these (Canelón Grande) was implemented; the investment of US$
408,000 benefited 23 producers on 100 ha; additionally, on-farm works were also carried out in two
schemes (Aguas Blancas and Tomás Berreta). In the case of Represa Chingolo the project financed the
feasibility study which indicated that the project was economically feasible. The project was executed by
private investors who received in exchange a 20 year concession for the water rights and use of the
investment infrastructure. The other projects were abandoned as the feasibility studies indicated that they
had only marginal returns and, therefore, were not attractive to farmers. Investment in this sub-component
reached a total of only US$ 0.6 million (1 percent of total project costs), compared to the appraisal estimate
of US$ 4.0 million, as a result of both the change in Government policy and low returns of the proposed
investments. The remaining resources under this sub-component were allocated to private irrigation
development.

Sub-component B.1.b - Private irrigation development

4.2.24   The designed purpose of the sub-component was to expand the irrigated area by responding to the
demand of producers for collective irrigation schemes in which producers would be organized in
associations responsible for operation and maintenance, as well as for individual irrigation schemes. Only
a few projects were implemented because the demand from producers was overwhelmingly for individual
support at the farm level. Additionally, there was a pilot scheme to develop sources of water for rice
production in catchment areas which are agro-ecologically fragile and where the efficiency of capture and
storage of surface flows and the emphasis on soil conservation are of key importance in achieving
sustainable production systems. However, after the success of the first year of implementation, there was a
substantial demand for this type of investment which led to a change of approach and the "pilot" phase was
abandoned in favor of a full scale investment program to meet that demand. Investment in this
sub-component reached a total of US$ 46.4 million (58 percent of total project costs) compared to the
appraisal estimate of US$ 42.7 million. These investments account for the majority of the impressive
increase of almost 20% of impacted area in the country.



Sub-component B.2 - Irrigation and Drainage Feasibility Studies

4.2.25   The purpose of this sub-component was to finance studies of collective irrigation schemes. The
project financed seven feasibility studies for these collective works but, because demand for such schemes



                                                     - 10 -

by producers did not evolve as predicted, some of the funds were de facto allocated to the implementation
of small and medium-sized works, the studies for which were financed either by the producers themselves
with the support of the UEP or by the project directly by the technical staff of the UEP.

Sub-component B.3 - Assistance for Non-traditional Agricultural Exports

4.2.26  The Non-Traditional Agricultural Exports Program (Programa de Exportaciones Agro-Pecuarias
No-Tradicionales - PENTA) was established in 1990 under an earlier Bank project, the Second
Agricultural Development Project, the closing date of which overlapped with the initiation of PRENADER.
The Program contained two main activities: (a) the promotion of export awareness, through which
specialized technical experience was made available to producers and would-be exporters; and (b) a
cost-sharing fund, through which critical activities aimed at gaining experience in export marketing were
financed on the basis of a competitive analysis of proposals.

4.2.27  The purpose of this sub-component of PRENADER was to continue to support certain activities
under PENTA. The support to be provided was to take the form of technical assistance and training to help
farmers and other investors to adopt improved post-harvest technology and expand exports, mainly of
products of irrigated agriculture. The PENTA component was fully executed and completed by the end of
2001.



Project Implementation Unit

4.2.28  The UEP was a key part of project implementation whose role was to coordinate the implementing
agencies, provide technical back-up and implement the decisions of the CCI.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

4.3.1   At appraisal, no overall economic rate of return (ERR) was calculated for the project because of
"the programmatic nature of the project" (SAR paragraph 2.78), which is understood to mean that the
universe of investments to be financed under the project and their potential benefits were impossible to
quantify ex-ante. However, the SAR stated that most of the potential investments under review at that time
had estimated ERRs of more than 20 percent. Furthermore, a key selection criteria was that investment
proposals had to have a minimum economic rate of return. The ex post economic evaluation of a sample of
investment sub-projects financed by PRENADER, which was prepared by the UEP, indicated that the
ERRs generated ranged from 17.5% to 29%, with the exception of irrigated rice sub-projects, which
presented marginal ERRs of about 12% due to the current and projected decline in world rice prices.


4.4 Financial rate of return:

4.4.1   No overall financial analysis was made for any of the components of the project. However, a
financial analysis carried out for the same sample of sub-projects indicated in the previous paragraph and
generated FRRs of more than 20%, even for rice production projects, thus indicating the level of incentive
provided to irrigation farmers by PRENADER.




                                                     - 11 -

4.5 Institutional development impact:

4.5.1    The impact of the project was significant. The SAR made clear the fragmented nature of the
existing institutional framework in Uruguay to support the development of irrigation. Since 1994,
PRENADER and the UEP have become the focal point of public sector irrigation initiatives, although the
ability of the CCI and the UEP to achieve the necessary harmonization between institutions and to catalyze
the implementation of the regulatory framework have been limited. PRENADER has significant "name
recognition" in public discourse concerning irrigation. Discussions are in progress concerning the future of
PRENADER and continued Bank support. It is clear that, with continued government support,
PRENADER can continue to lead the development of the sector; it is also clear that the decisions must be
taken soon if momentum is not to be lost.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

5.1.1    The major factor affecting the project has been climatic. In May 1997, the government formally
requested to the Bank that a series of measures should be considered within the framework of the Loan
Agreement which would mitigate the effects of the serious and long-lasting drought which affected Uruguay
that year (and was to do so again in 2000). The measures mainly affected livestock producers and included
the drilling of wells and the provision of pumping systems, reservoirs and dairy equipment, all on an
emergency basis. The need to concentrate on the emergency activities, especially in a context of budgetary
restriction, caused significant delays in the implementation of the irrigation works.


5.1.2    The open economy of Uruguay exposes producers not only to long-term changes in prices but also
to short-term fluctuations often caused by questionable practices by both industrialized and developing
countries. The international rice market is a case in point. The export price of rice fell significantly, from
just under US$500 per ton in January 1999 to about US$ 240 per ton in March 2000, since when it has
fluctuated in a narrow range between US$ 200-240 per ton. Average prices in the four-year period 1998/9
to 2001/2 were only a little over 50 percent of the average in the four preceding crop years. This has had
the effect of significantly reducing gross margins in rice production, in some cases where higher-cost
irrigation is concerned (e.g., where significant pumping is required) to the point at which it is no longer
profitable, and some irrigable rice land has been taken out of cultivation. Most of the irrigation supported
by the project in rice-producing areas was based on dams plus gravity flows (rather than on dams plus
pumping), but some of the investment made under the project has undoubtedly been affected.


5.1.3    Another factor affecting project outcome has been the reduction in availability of investment credit,
particularly that from the private banks, and the relatively high rates of interest prevailing in the domestic
financial market, which has reduced the ability of farmers to invest in the irrigation equipment that would
have allowed them to take maximum advantage of the water made available to them through the
infrastructure investments of the project.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

5.2.1    Almost from the beginning of the project, significant budgetary restrictions were imposed as a
result of the government's macro-economic policy, which made it impossible to implement the project at the
designed rate. These budgetary restrictions ultimately led to the loan's Closing Date being extended by



                                                     - 12 -

three years. At the time of the Mid-Term Review (MTR), it was observed that the delays caused by the
Ministry of Economy and Finance (Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas-MEF) in transferring funds to the
project and the failure to maintain a minimum balance of US$ 400,000 equivalent in the project's bank
account (as required by the Loan Agreement) seriously exacerbated the problem of inadequate budgetary
resources. As a result, PRENADER was not able to meet the demand generated among producers for its
services within the original implementation period.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

5.3.1    Project implementation was closely coordinated by the UEP which had a small but well-qualified
and highly motivated technical staff. The MTR concluded that the efficiency of the UEP was demonstrated
by its rapid response to the demands of producers and by the fact that its administrative costs were
equivalent to only 6.6 percent of the total investments that had been made by the project up April 1997.
However, it was also stated that that size of the technical staff of the UEP would be insufficient to attend to
the volume of demand from producers in the event that the budgetary constraints were to be lifted, allowing
implementation to proceed at the designed rate.

5.3.2    The UEP demonstrated its flexibility and ability to respond to emergencies during the two episodes
of drought.


5.4 Costs and financing:

5.4.1    Actual project expenditures, at US$ 79.8 million, were very close to the total project cost (US$
74.0 million) estimated in the SAR. However, a comparison between projected and actual costs at the level
of components and sub-components shows wide differences. In fact, only in a very few sub-components
did actual expenditures fall within +/- 20% of the appraisal estimates (see Annex 2).

                               Bank              Government            Direct Support           Total
Projected in the SAR            41.0                 24.5                    8.5                 74.0
Actual                          40.9                 23.8                   15.1                 79.8


5.4.2    The total amounts of financing provided by the Bank and the government were very close in
practice to what had been projected in the SAR. At appraisal, it was estimated that project beneficiaries
would contribute US$8.5 million in on-farm investments, including inputs and irrigation and tillage
equipment. In practice, the contributions from beneficiaries were made in sub-components A.1, A.2, and
B.1, and were a total of US$ 5.94 million. A significant amount of additional support, provided both in
cash and in kind, which had not been foreseen at appraisal, was given by the implementing agencies for
sub-components A.4 and A.6, and was a total of US$ 9.14 million.

5.4.3    Overall, the experience with cost recovery has been positive. Individual small farmers and the
beneficiaries of both rehabilitated/modernized and new collective irrigation schemes and water harvesting
investments entered into binding agreements with PRENADER/MGAP under which they were required to
amortize the cost of the investment, minus a defined level of financial incentive, over a ten-year period
including two years of grace. The principal balance is adjusted annually on the basis of the Wholesale
Agricultural Price Index (Indice de Precios Mayoristas Agropecuarios - IPMA), and the rate of interest
applied was initially that for six-month US$ LIBOR less 1.5 points and subsequently became US$ LIBOR
less 0.5 points. The MGAP and Bank of the Republic of Uruguay (Banco de la Republica Oriental del



                                                     - 13 -

Uruguay-BROU) signed an agreement under which the latter acts as a collection agency.

5.4.5    There are currently 2,414 beneficiaries of the project who are making payments of cost recovery.
Of these, 1,462 are currently up-to-date or better (i.e., have made advance payments or have repaid in full),
equal to 60.6 percent of the total. A total of 422 beneficiaries (17.5 percent of total beneficiaries) are in
arrears by only one or two quarterly quotas; which represents an extraordinary situation created during the
period since mid-2002 when the agricultural sector entered into a severe crisis, on the back of the financial
crisis, and severely reduced farmers' ability to service their debts throughout the agricultural sector.
Consequently, at least about 80 percent of beneficiaries can be expected to make their full contribution to
capital cost recovery.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

6.1.1 The project's sustainability has been rated as Likely. At the end of the project, PRENADER had
become institutionalized and was considered among the farming community as the institution in charge of
irrigation development. Furthermore, the project managed to promote a system of private investment in
irrigation sub-projects, which together with the development of an improved technological base and an
important human and institutional capital, would guarantee the sustainable operation of these sub-projects
in the future without the need for further Government assistance. Similarly, the successful microcatchment
pilot initiative is seen in Uruguay as a model for environmentally sustainable natural resources management
that should be scaled-up to other parts of the country. Although the Loan closed in December 2002, MGAP
has allocated the necessary resources to continue with the functions of the UEP, thus indicating the
importance that the Government is giving to irrigation development. However, despite all of these positive
factors, overall sustainability is likely to be affected by the four years of serious economic recession in the
region and a significant crisis in the government's budget, which could result in a much slower pace of the
irrigation sector's development.

6.1.2 Notwithstanding the current economic recession, a follow-up project, PRENADER II, is being
promoted by MGAP and the idea is currently under discussion with economic authorities of the
Government to agree on the scope of the project, external financing requirements and counterpart funding.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6.2.1 The activities carried out under the project were mainly aimed at improving the policy and
institutional environment for natural resource management and at making a number of catalytic investments
in irrigation. It is highly desirable that a follow-on project should be implemented in order to consolidate
the achievements of PRENADER and expand technical assistance and training programs for irrigation
farmers.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

7.1.1 The project was identified as a result of the Bank's Irrigation Sector Review. The processing of the
loan, from project identification through to loan approval, indicates a strong dialogue both within the Bank
and between the Bank and the government concerning key aspects of project design. Environmental issues



                                                       - 14 -

were raised concerning the potential impact of the project on wet-lands, and the Environmental Assessment
went into great detail concerning the relationship of the project with Uruguay's responsibilities under the
1971 Ramsar Convention. The Initial Executive Project Summary (IEPS) was distributed in July 1992; at
that stage, the project contained essentially the same sub-components as the eventual project design but
debate continued over the issue of the inclusion in the project of a line of investment credit. In addition,
institutional arrangements and policies for the recovery of capital costs and of operation & maintenance
costs were to be addressed during project preparation.

7.1.2 The project was prepared by the FAO/CP and the government of Uruguay, and was pre-appraised in
May 1993. The Final Executive Project Summary (FEPS) drew attention to important lessons learned and
emphasized that attention had been paid during preparation: (a) to issues of appropriate agricultural
technology; (b) to the need to balance agricultural production and natural resource conservation; and (c) to
the need for institutional coordination and development. At the time of appraisal, in July 1993, budgetary
constraints were already a significant issue, and the persistent problems with counterpart funding for
Bank-supported projects in Uruguay were instrumental in the decision to reduce the irrigation development
component in size. The main risk to the project was expected to be the institutional capacity to coordinate
and implement the project, especially in the areas of natural resource assessment and management.


7.2 Supervision:

7.2.2 An intensive supervision strategy was implemented, which included a total of seventeen supervision
missions, in addition to the MTR and ICR mission of January 2003. This intensive effort was also
characterized by continuity, as the project only had two Task Managers from appraisal to ICR. The initial
supervision missions were concerned mainly with start-up activities including the arrangements for
procurement and audits. Subsequently, during the whole of the implementation period, the Bank approach
providing a combination of specified fiduciary monitoring and technical assistance resulted in the
development of a fluent dialogue with the authorities of MGAP OPP and a close liaison with the UEP.
Furthermore, responsiveness and a clear client orientation were the main characteristics of the approach
taken by supervision missions to address the various problems that arouse during this period. An example,
of this was the positive response of the Bank to the government's request that the project carry out certain
emergency activities in response to the serious drought affecting Uruguay at that time. As well, the
agreement to extend the closing date for 12 months maintaining active only the TA-related categories of the
loan, contributed significantly to the consolidation of PRENADER's UEP as the lead agency on irrigation
development issues, in addition to assisting the preparation and start up phase of the Foot and Mouth
Disease (FMD) Emergency Project and the coordination of activities leading to GON's decision to
implement a follow-up project. Technical assistance was provided both by the Bank team and through
FAO/CP to deal with water policy issues, legal and institutional bottlenecks, and issues related to the
present arrangements for technology transfer.

7.2.3    The MTR was carried out in May 1997, and the mission defined a series of actions necessary to
improve the implementation of the project.           Particular attention was drawn to certain financial,
administrative and institutional difficulties that were affecting the rate of implementation. In addition to
budgetary restriction, the timely flow of funds was a major concern. The need to maintain undiluted the
role of the UEP as the executive arm of the project under the CCI was emphasized too.




                                                     - 15 -

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

7.3.1    The Bank's overall performance is considered to have been satisfactory. The project was identified
as a result of thorough and timely sector work, and its preparation was an inter-active exercise involving
the government, FAO-CP and the Bank in which the latter played a key, catalytic role. Supervision of the
project was closely focussed on key aspects, and Bank management showed a pragmatic flexibility in the
face of changing circumstances, particularly the exogenous factor of climate and the impact of
macroeconomic difficulties of budgetary allocations this resulted in specific amendments which increased
the Bank's financial contribution to investments, the extension of the closing date and the necessary
adjustments to allow for the financing of specific activities to alleviate the impact of the severe droughts
that affected the sector.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

7.4.1    The Borrower and other stakeholders were fully committed to the project, in large part because the
iterative process of sector work followed by project identification. This gave ample scope for the
interchange of freely-expressed opinions and was a highly participatory approach involving not only the
ultimate beneficiaries, the farmers, but also the public sector, and especially the MGAP. The design of the
project was very appropriate to country circumstances and represented a balance between private sector
responsibility for agricultural development, on the one hand, and the willingness of the public sector to
provide an enabling framework and limited financial incentives to achieve a demonstration effect, on the
other. The institutional framework was recognized from the beginning as being difficult from the point of
view of coordination and cooperation, and whilst the outcome of the project has been less than fully
satisfactory in this respect it is less than obvious that this outcome could have been "improved" through
better preparation. Institutions in Uruguay are conservative and resistant to change, particularly where
ceding "authority" or "jurisdiction" to others is concerned. In retrospect, it is clear that the issue of cost
recovery was not as important to the Borrower as it is to the Bank.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

7.5.1    The macro-economic and sector policies pursued by the Borrower during the whole period of
implementation provided possibly the best conditions for sectoral growth since the adoption of
inward-looking and import-substituting strategies at the mid-point of the 20th century. As a result, the
decade of the 1990s was probably the most dynamic since the earliest part of the century (see Report No.
24409-UR Uruguay: The Rural Sector and Natural Resources for a more detailed treatment of this subject
).

7.5.2    The project's implementing agencies (MGAP, MTOP, OPP and INIA) were coordinated through
an Inter-Ministerial Coordinating Committee (the Comisión de Coordinación Interministerial ­ CCI)
which, in turn, delegated the implementation of the project to the UEP. The government's intention to
involve FAO in the implementation of sub-component A.6 Technical Assistance for Forestry Development
could not be realized because agreement could not be reached on the proposed Management Services
Agreement; these activities began in February 1995 with the UEP and the DF working in close harmony
and the sub-component was implemented satisfactorily.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

7.6.1    Four implementing agencies were involved in the project under the coordination of the UEP and the
overall guidance of the CCI.



                                                       - 16 -

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

7.7.1    The overall performance of the Borrower in the design and implementation of the project is
considered to have been satisfactory.


8. Lessons Learned


8.1 The key lesson learned from this project is the demonstrated importance of adequately targeted
Government incentives to promote irrigation development and production diversification into high-value
export crops, particularly in an environment that has been traditionally dominated by extensive agriculture
and livestock production like Uruguay.

8.2 In order to maximize the impact and sustainability of financial incentives to promote the expansion of
privately-owned irrigation infrastructure, procurement procedures should encourage beneficiary ownership
and reduce, or eliminate, reliance on public institutions for O&M.

8.3 The project was successful in promoting sustainable agricultural practices among small farmers,
through a micro-catchment approach in areas of intensive agriculture and demonstrated the importance of
the participatory approach and farmers organizations to a successful natural resources management
program. Through adequate monitoring and evaluation of results, a pilot experience can establish the
foundations for a scaled-up nationwide program.

8.4 Technical assistance to small farmers can potentially generate numerous problems derived from the
relatively short life of the Bank projects and the consequent lack of "team building" and common purpose
among those involved. Continuity of TA services beyond the duration of the project is therefore essential to
the long-term impact and sustainability of investments.

8.5 In addition to agronomists, the establishment of professional teams for the delivery of extension
services in programs related to Natural Resources Management (specifically sociologists, engineers and
economists), enables a project to be better prepared to respond to multiple demands of producers.

8.6 The incorporation of private organizations in the implementation of applied research programs (as in
the case of AUSID in this project) increases the possibilities of collaboration between researchers,
producers, extensionists, and local institutions, and consequently provides an effective synergism and
potentially higher adoption rates. Adequate beneficiary ownership and participation is also instrumental to
the effective implementation of government programs aimed at promoting diversification and exports of
nontraditional products.

8.7 A holistic approach is key to develop sustainable agricultural production systems among small farmers
in order to include other elements relevant to the increase in competitiveness of production, beyond mere
productivity, such as awareness of commercial opportunities, product quality, certification, integration with
commerce and with agro-industry in promoting joint action by producers.

8.8 In a country where extensive agricultural and livestock production are predominant, natural resources



                                                      - 17 -

management programs should address issues related to soil, water, and pasture management in an
integrated manner.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The formal response of the borrower to the draft version of the ICR is provided in Annex 8.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

Not applicable




                                                  - 18 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                   1
               Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in SAR               Actual/Latest Estimate
Implementation of integrated conservation                               395 producers in 4 pilot macrocatchments
plans benefiting 395 producers in four pilot                            covering 17991 ha.
microcatchments covering 17,991 ha.
Rehabilitation of State owned irrigation
schemes and transfer O&M to users.
Foster overall increase in productivity and                             200 producers covering 25,400 ha.
crop diversification by supporting:

- new medium sized irrigation and drainage
schemes
                                                                        1828 producers covering 7555 ha.
- new small farmer irrigation infrastructure
projects




Output Indicators:
                                                                   1
               Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in SAR               Actual/Latest Estimate
Component A
Sub-Component A.1
Canada Los Alamos
-physical progress                           100                        100
-seminars                                    3                          3
-workshops                                   15                         20
-field demonstration days                    8                          47
-producers involved                          42                         68
-farms with full assistance                  26                         54
Arroyo Feliciana
-physical progress                           100                        100
-seminars                                    3                          3
-workshops                                   9                          20
-field demonstration days                    6                          37
-producers involved                          10                         15
-farms with full assistance                  5                          10

Canelon Grande
-seminars                                    12                         15
-workshops                                   33                         60
-field demonstration days                    15                         225
-farms with complete attention               208                        226
                                             103                        195
Arroyo Tala
-seminars                                    4                          6
-workshops                                   18                         25
-field demonstration days                    7                          144
-producers involved                          57                         66
-farms with complete attention               29                         53
Sub-Componet A.2
-Demonstration farms established and         5                          5
operation
-Technology transfer meetings                20                         12
-Workshops                                   10                         3




                                                       - 19 -

                                                                 1
                Indicator/Matrix                 Projected in SAR          Actual/Latest Estimate
Sub-Component A.4
-Research trials established               40                         40
-Field days                                40                         40
-Publications of research results          37                         40
-Progress reports                          152                        180
Sub-Component A.3
-Terms of reference for the work program   100                        100
-Procurement of hardware                   100                        100
-Procurement of software                   100                        100
-Training program                          10                         10
-Digitizing program                        100                        100


Sub-Component A.6
-Pilot plan for water management           100                        100
-Monitoring and other studies              1                          1

Sub-Component A.7
International technical assistance
-senior technical advisors under contract  26                         72
-specialist contracted                     16                         2
National technical assistance
-specialist contracted                     16                         132



Component B
Sub-Component B.1
Canelon Grande I
-Feasibility study                         100                        100
-Civil works implementation                100                        100
-In-field works implementation             100                        100
-Procurement of pumping station            100                        100
-Procurement of main equipment             100                        100
-Procurement of on-farm equipment          100                        100
Colonia Espana
-Feasibility study                         100                        100
Chingolo
-Feasibility study                         100                        100
Aguas Blancas
-Feasibility study                         100                        100
-in-field works implementation             100                        100

Sub-Component B.2
JUMECAL
-Feasibility study                         100                        100
Roman Grande
-Feasibility study                         100                        100
Fraile Muerto
-Feasibility study                         100                        100
Carmelo
-Feasibility study                         100                        100
San Pedro
-Feasibility study                         100                        100
Colonia Valdense
-Feasibility study                         100                        100
CALELCO
-Feasibility study                         100                        100
Cerrillos
-Feasibility study                         100                        100
Progreso
-Feasibility study                         100                        100




                                                     - 20 -

                                                          1
               Indicator/Matrix           Projected in SAR           Actual/Latest Estimate
Sub-Component B.3
PROPOSALS PRESENTED:
Large-scale pumping
-Projects                          N/A*                        24
-Beneficiaries                     N/A                         52
-Hectares of irrigation            N/A                         3466
Small-scale pumping
-Projects                          N/A                         5
-Beneficiaries                     N/A                         43
-Hectares of irrigation            N/A                         174
Wells
-Projects                          N/A                         2075
-Beneficiaries                     N/A                         2075
-Hectares of irrigation            N/A                         17225
Medium and large dams
-Projects                          N/A                         187
-Beneficiaries                     N/A                         320
-Hectares of irrigation            N/A                         36296
Small dams
-Projects                          N/A                         38
-Beneficiaries                     N/A                         38
-Hectares of irrigation            N/A                         4119
Reservoirs
-Projects                          N/A                         1220
-Beneficiaries                     N/A                         1251
-Hectares of irrigation            N/A                         14660
PROPOSALS TECHNICALLY APPROVED:
Large scale pumping
-Projects                          N/A                         13
-Beneficiaries                     N/A                         40
-Hecatares of irrigation           N/A                         2193
Small-scale pumping
-Projects                          N/A                         2
-Beneficiaries                     N/A                         12
-Hectares of irrigation            N/A                         72
Wells
-Projects                          N/A                         1246
-Beneficiaries                     N/A                         1254
-Hectares of irrigation            N/A                         10773
Medium and large dams
-Projects                          N/A                         94
-Beneficiaries                     N/A                         167
-Hectares of irrigation            N/A                         19383
Small dams
-Projects                          N/A                         14
-Beneficiaries                     N/A                         13
-Hectares of irrigation            N/A                         1162
Reservoirs
-Projects                          N/A                         734
-Beneficiaries                     N/A                         742
-Hectares of irrigation            N/A                         6185




                                              - 21 -

                                                                 1
               Indicator/Matrix                  Projected in SAR                Actual/Latest Estimate
PROPOSALS FINANCED AND
IMPLEMENTED
Large pumping                              N/A                           12
-Projects                                  N/A                           39
-Beneficiaries                             N/A                           2043
-Hecatares of irrigation
Small-scale pumping                        N/A                           2
-Projects                                  N/A                           12
-Beneficiaries                             N/A                           72
-Hectares of irrigation
Wells                                      N/A                           1150
-Projects                                  N/A                           1158
-Beneficiaries                             N/A                           10226
-Hectares of irrigation
Small and Medium dams                      N/A                           94
-Projects                                  N/A                           167
-Beneficiaries                             N/A                           19383
-Hectares of irrigation
Small dams                                 N/A                           14
-Projects                                  N/A                           14
-Beneficiaries                             N/A                           1060
-Hectares of irrigation
Reservoirs                                 N/A                           721
-Projects                                  N/A                           728
-Beneficiaries                             N/A                           6170
-Hectares of irrigation
Sub-Component B.6
-New proposals for non-traditional exports                               44
-Study tours                               N/A                           4
-Seminars                                  N/A                           11



1End of project

* The irrigation projects were based on demand, and therefore there is no defined target in terms of area or
number of beneficiaries at appraisal.




                                                     - 22 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                 Appraisal  Actual/Latest Percentage
                                                                  Estimate   Estimate         of
                                                                                          Appraisal
                           Component                              US$ '000   US$ '000
Component A: Natural Resource Management
A1: Pilot Micro-catchment Areas                                    3,081.78  4,759.50         154.4
A2: Soil and Water Management Demonstration Farms                  1,153.07    609.34          52.8
A3: Geographic Information System                                  1,003.90  1,269.56         126.5
A4: Applied Research and Technology Transfer                       9,952.54 15,122.46         151.9
A5: Natural Resource Management Studies                            1,619.66    267.94          16.5
A6: Technical Assistance for Forestry Development                  2,206.02  2,439.54         110.6
A7: Sector Policy                                                  1,665.88  1,226.80          73.6
Component B: Irrigation Development
B1a: Rehabilitation and Modernization of Public Irrigation and     3,999.84    616.91          15.4
Drainage Schemes
B1b: Private Irrigation Development                               42,783.51 46,402.10          58.2
B2: Irrigation and Drainage Feasibility Studies                    1,918.57    216.08          11.3
B3: Technical Assistance for Non-Traditional Agricultural          2,100.14    706.57          33.6
Exports
Component C: Project Implementation Unit                           2,513.24  6,081.99         242.0
Preparation of PRENADER II                                                -     70.60             -
                                Total Project Costs               73,998.15 79,789 39             -
                          Total Financing Required                73,998.15 79,789 39             -




Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                                Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB             NCB              2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                                Other
1. Works                             0.00           10.80        7.70        3.90          22.40
                                   (0.00)           (5.70)      (3.70)       (0.00)        (9.40)
2. Goods                            10.70            9.30        0.70        4.60          25.30
                                   (7.60)           (6.60)      (0.70)       (0.00)       (14.90)
3. Services                          0.00            0.00       17.00        0.00          17.00
                                   (0.00)           (0.00)      (16.00)      (0.00)       (16.00)
4. Study Trips and                   0.00            0.00        0.30        0.00          0.30
Scholarships
                                   (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.30)       (0.00)        (0.30)
5. Land Acquisition                  0.00            0.00        0.00        2.80          2.80
                                   (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Recurrent Costs, UEP              0.00            0.00        0.40        5.80          6.20
and Others                         (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.40)       (0.00)        (0.40)
   Total                            10.70           20.10       26.10        17.10         74.00
                                   (7.60)           (12.30)     (21.10)      (0.00)       (41.00)



                                                 - 23 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                               1
                                                     Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                           Other
1. Works                               0.00               1.87              0.00             0.00              1.87
                                      (0.12)             (0.29)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.41)
2. Goods                               0.00               0.85              0.00             0.00              0.85
                                      (0.41)             (0.09)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.50)
3. Services                            0.00               0.00              1.55             0.00              1.55
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (2.13)            (0.00)           (2.13)
4. Study Trips and                     0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
Scholarships
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
5. Land Acquisition                    0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
6. Recurrent Costs, UEP                0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
and Others                            (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   Total                               0.00               2.72              1.55             0.00              4.28
                                      (0.52)             (0.39)            (2.13)            (0.00)           (3.04)

1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
  of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
  managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                      - 24 -

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
        Component              Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
                           Bank      Govt.       CoF.     Bank      Govt.       CoF.   Bank   Govt.   CoF.
Component A: Natural
Resource Management

A1: Pilot Micro-catchment 2420.52   661.25               2111.46   1288.18    1359.86  87.2   194.8
Areas
A2: Soil and Water        791.40    361.67               198.48     106.19     304.67  25.1    29.4
Management
Demonstration Farms
A3: Geographic            804.50    199.40               1233.98    35.58             153.4    17.8
Information System
A4: Applied Research and  3124.03  6828.51               4003.61   2538.18    8580.67 128.2    37.2
Technology Transfer
- Research
- INIA


A5: Natural Resource      1500.00   119.66               255.23     12.71              17.0    10.6
Management Studies
A6: Technical Assistance  1619.80   586.22               1670.36    206.21     562.97 103.1    35.2
for Forestry Development
A7: Sector Policy         1373.00   292.88               781.88     206.21     562.97  56.9    70.4
Component B: Irrigation
Development
B1a: Rehabilitation and   2200.43  1799.41               343.15     217.68     56.08   15.6    12.1
Modernization of Public
Irrigation and Drainage
Schemes
B1b: Private Irrigation  22485.11  20274.31              26161.58  16814.20   4218.17 116.4    82.9
Development
B2: Irrigation and        1725.07   193.57               216.08                        12.5    0.0
Drainage Feasibility
Studies
B.3: T.A. For             851.00   1249.15               581.29     125.28             68.3    10.0
Non-Traditional
Agricultural Exports
Project Implementation    2105.20   408.04               3295.58   2824.64            156.5   692.2
Unit
Preparation of
PRENADER II




                                                  - 25 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


No overall economic analysis was carried out at appraisal. Financial analysis were not carried out of each
component. However at the level of activities developed by PRENADER like irrigation project, farms
assisted by the microcatchments program and demonstrative units, a number of financial economic analysis
have been completed. For example, to approve an irrigation project a financial and economic evaluation
had to be done.




                                                  - 26 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)       Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                      Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              12/03/1991


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              07/09/1993


 Supervision
              03/16/1994                2    Agricultural Economists
              08/08/1994                1    Agricultural Economist              S               S
                11/26/1994              1      Agricultural Economist
              05/17/1995                1    Agricultural Economist              S               S
              12/08/1995                1    Agricultural Economist              S               S
              06/03/1996                1    Agricultural Economist              S               S
              09/24/1996                1    Agricultural Economist              S               S
              02/15/1997                1    Economist                           S               S
              05/31/1998                5    Agriculturalist; Training           S               S
                                             Specialist; Water Legislation
                                             Specialist; Environmental
                                             Specialist; Agricultural
                                             Economist
              10/10/1998                2    Agriculturalist; Agricultural       S               S
                                             Economist
              05/14/1999                2    Agriculturalist; Agricultural       S               S
                                             Economist
              11/19/1999                2    Agriculturalist; Agricultural       S               S
                                             Economist
              11/19/1999                2    Agriculturalist; Agricultural       S               S
                                             Economist
              12/08/2000                2    Agriculturalist; Agricultural       S               S
                                             Economist
              03/23/2001                3    Agriculturalist; Agricultural       S               S
                                             Economist, Operations Analyst



 ICR
              01/15/2003                4     Agriculturalist; Economist;                        S
                                              Agricultural Economist;
                                              Operations Analyst




                                              - 27 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            75.5                         144.9
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 24.0                           78.3
  Supervision                          100.7                         453.1
  ICR                                     9.2                          46.3
  Total                                209.4                         722.6




                                            - 28 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1.   Studies of the Raigón and Salto aquifers.

2.   Study of water quality for irrigation

3.   Study of efficiency of water use in irrigation

4.   Evaluación del Componente de Desarrollo del Riego de PRENADER
     Universidad de la República November 2002

5.   Evaluación del Componente de Investigación Aplicada de PRENADER
     FUCREA September 2002

6.   Evaluación del Componente Sistema de Información Geográfico del PRENADER
     CIEDUR June 2002

7.   Evaluación del Programa Piloto de Manejo Sostenible de Recursos Naturales en Microcuencas
     dentro de la Cuenca del Río Santa Lucia (Programa de Microcuencas)
     Ing. Agr. Alfonso Graña December 2000

8.   Evaluación del Impacto del Programa Piloto de Manejo Sostenible de Recursos Naturales en
     Microcuencas dentro de la Cuenca del Río Santa Lucia
     INIA Unidad de Agronomía July 2002

9.   Lecciones Derivadas de la Ejecución del Programa de Microcuencas

10.  Macro-economic constraints and the agricultural sector in Uruguay
     Fernando Lorenzo, CINVE September 2002

11.  Desarrollo del Sector Forestal en Uruguay: Sus Impactos y Perspectivas
     Jaime Latorre Alonso April 2001




                                                 - 31 -

Additional Annex 8. Summary of the Borrower's Report

                                         PRENADER ICR Comments

 Diego Payssé and Guillermo Cardellino

 General Comments.

 The report captures the main concepts included in the PRENADER's Completion Report produced by
 the UCP.

 Aside from some details indicated below, the views of the concepts in the ICR are shared.

 Page 4.
 4.1.1.(b) (i) More emphasis could be given to the fact that the establishment of a cost recovery policy
 for Operation and Management and capital in collective systems did not reach the objectives established
 in the SAR given that it was an objective established considering a scenario that never materialized.

 Page 7.
 4.2.8. In reference to technical assistance to farmers, this was delivered to groups and not individually.

 4.2.10. In reference to the lack of full time extensionist, the concept of "direct negative effect" could be
 replaced by "although the farmers received technical assistance, if this has been delivered with full-time
 dedication perhaps better results would have been achieved".

 Page 13
 4.4.1. Financial analysis were not carried out of each component. However at the level of activities
 developed by PRENADER like irrigation project, farms assisted by the microcatchments program and
 demonstrative units, a number of financial economic analysis have been completed. For example, to
 approve an irrigation project a financial and economic evaluation had to be done.

 5.1.3.- Add the negative consequence of the high interest rates in the access to credit of the users.

 Page 15
 5.4.3.        Where it says Libor less 1.5%, this was only at the start; during the majority of the Project
 the rate was Libor less 0.5%.

 Page 16
 6.1.2. MGAP has decided to support a Prenader II, Government's Economic team still needs to confirm
 their support and commitment to provide the required counterpart funds.

 Point 8: Lessons learned.

 A comment regarding the SIG could be added such as:

 The SIG developed by PRENADER managed to incorporate through magnetic media an accumulation
 of information regarding natural resources, development of numerous useful products for
 decision-making in management of natural resources and demonstrated capacity in responding to



                                                    - 32 -

specific demands. However, the still limited use of SIG for spatial analysis of natural resources reflects
limitations such as the obstacles to establish stable links among the institutions and the disequilibrium
between and human resources available, which results in the underutilization of the system.

Page 20 Annex 1 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS

Actual numbers

Implementation of integrated conservation plans: 395 producers in 4 pilot microcatchments covering
17991 ha.

Rehabilitation: see section 4.2.24

New medium sized irrigation and drainage schemes: 200 producers covering 25.400 ha.

New small farmer irrigation infrastructure projects: 1828 producers covering 7555 ha.




                                                  - 33 -

- 34 -

- 35 -

- 36 -

- 37 -

