Page  1
                                                   February 1, 1996
Mr. Carlos Enrique Gasparri
Minister of Livestock, Agriculture and Fishery
Ministry of Livestock, Agriculture and Fishery
Constituyente No. 1476
Montevideo, Uruguay
      Re:  URUGUAY (Natural Resources Management Project)
           Loan No. 3697 UR Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Excellency:
      Please refer to the Loan Agreement dated March 4, 1994
between Republica Oriental del Uruguay (the Borrower) and the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the
Bank), as amended.
      In response to the letter request of the  Project
Executing Unit  (as such term is defined in Section 1.02 (ag)
of the Loan Agreement) dated December 22, 1995 to modify the
location of two of the Farm Subprojects (as such term is
defined in Section 1.02 (k) of the Loan Agreement) to be
carried out under Part A.2 of the Project, we are pleased to
inform you  that the Bank hereby agrees to amend the Loan
Agreement as follows:
Part A.2 of Schedule 2 is hereby amended to read as follows:
      " 2. Carrying out of Farm Subprojects to develop about
five soil-conservation and management demonstration farms
(of about less than 1,000 hectares each) located within
any of the Borrower's departments of Artigas, Canelones,
Colonia, Florida, Rio Negro, Salto, San Jose and Soriano for
purposes of providing to such demonstration farms improved
soil, crop and livestock management technology.".
      This amendment letter shall be executed in two
counterparts each of which shall be an original, and shall
become effective on the date in which the Bank has received
one fully executed original of such amendment letter. Please
confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendment by signing
and dating the two counterparts of this amendment letter.
Upon your confirmation, please return one fully executed
original to us.
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Asif Faiz
Acting Director
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED AND CONFIRMED:
REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
By: /s/ Carlos Enrique Gasparri
Page  2
      Ministro de Ganaderia, Agricultura
               y Pesca
     Authorized Representative
Date: 14 Feb. 1996
