|~~               ~     ~     ~ M  X      ,qg                 
'I 
ii                                                                            I
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u U



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =    CFA Franc (CFAF)
USS   =    CFAF 373
CFAP i million        US$ 2,681
ABMEVIA!ITIONS ADn ACRONYMS
BADEL     Banque Arabe Pour le Developpement Economique en Afrique
BPP      Bureau des Pistes de Production
CCCE      Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CPSP      Caisse de PMr6quation et de Stabilisation des Prir
]EBRN     Direction de lVEntretien Routier et du Materiel (Directorate of
Road Maintenance and Equipment)
DGTP      Direction Gen'erale des Travaux Publics (General Directorate of
Public Works)
FED       Ponds Buropeen de Developpment
vpd      vehicles per day    -
Fiscal Year
July I - June 30



FOR OFFICILL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF SMEGAL
FIFTH HIGHWAi PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        Republic of Senegal
Amount:          SDR 20.4 million (US$21.5 million equivalent)
Terms:           Standard
Project          The primary project objective is to assist the Senegalese
Description:     Government to carry out badly needed maintenance operations
on its road network so as to avoid a severe deterioration of
the network.  Related objectives are to keep balance between
maintenance and new road construction, and to further improve
the efficiency of the road mnintenance organization already
strengthened under earlier Bank Group operations, including
the decentralized finsncial and cost accounting systems, and
planning and monitoring of maintenance activities. The
project would support the Directorate of Road Maintenance and
Equipment program over the four-year period 1983/84 - 1986/87
as follows: (a) routine maintenance of about 9,100 km of
roads in the first year, increasing to about 10,500 km by ;he
fourth yerr, including maintenance of feeder roads; (b)
periodic maintenance (repaving and regravelling of road
sur!aces and rehabilitation of structures) as warranted on
roads maintained under (a) above; and (c) deferred periodic
maintenance of other paved and gravel roads neglected in
recent years because of the Government's inability to
adequately f-and the necessary operations. The project would
also increase the use of regional revolving funds to promote
local adm-inistration. In the spirit of the Special Assist-
ance Program (MAP), the d-:ebursements wo-ald be substantially
front-loaded.
Benefits and     The project would yield high economic returns to Senegal
Risks:           by delaying the need for new investments in rehabilitation
works and by allowing reduced vehicle operating costs, with a
consexquential positive effect on the balance of payments.
This latter result is particularly sigrifieant at a time when
Senegal, after making good progress in recent years in
building up the operating performance of its maintenance
organization to the point where it has become one of the most
efficient in West Africa, now finds itself unable to sustain
this progress because of its very tight budgetary situation.
There are no major risks arising from the institutional
arrangements for project execution. There is, however, a
risk that the Government's budgetary situation may not
This documeet has a restricted disuibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not oiherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
improve sufficiently over the project period to enable it to
assume increasing responsibility for financing maintenance
operations. If this were the case, external assistance would
continue to be sought as a priority to ensure an adequate
level of maintenance operations. The adequacy of financing
will be carefully considered by' Government and ID.A during a
detailed mid-term review of the status of project implementa-
tion.
Project Cost &uzuy
-O    CFAFP ilio       -     ------{FS thousadl            Pnregn    r of
local local Foreig           local Local Foreipi           ridimpe  Ebne
Cost  cost  Cost   Total   Cost  Cost   cost    Total    % of Total   Cost
Rod equipent          125    -  2,3B6   2,511       35     -  6,397   6,732         95      17
Spre prts               5    -      95    100        13    -    255    26B          95       1
Wordsop e*AiPit        25    -   -475    500        67     -  1,M    1,340          95       3
155    -          3,111      4.15    -  7,9Z5   8,340
Prodic munta_ :o-B
itwen roads         657   860  1,011   2,528   1,761 2,306  2,711   6,77          40       17
Gravel roasib      IJL    772  1,869   4,062    3.810 2,069  5,011  10&,£0        46       27
2,078   W   2,89   6,99      0 5,571  4,39  7,722  17, Ri
Roti  uaD esi el:
itwwunroads         719   328   515   1,552    1.92   879  1,3M    4,183          33       10
Gravel roaisb             780   867   3,430   4,790 2,00  2,305   9,196           25       23
2,502 1-,10B  1,382   4,992    6,70B 2,970  3,706  13,384              33
Ferr qpratl  etc       64   152   t84    400        171   40B    493   1,072        46       2
Sub-total          4,799 2,892  7,402  15,093   12,865 7,753 19,846  40,464               100
Price contvnxuies    1,38    717  1,22   3,526   3,719 1,22  3,812   9,453                  23
Total              6,186 3,609   ,824  18,619   16,584 9,675 23,65w  49,917       4B      123
Financing Plan:    The proposed IDA Credit of US$21.5 million equivalent would
finance about 43% of project costs of the national road
maintenance program as foreseen for FY84 to FY87, covering
65% of costs in the first two years and 25% thereafter.
Further externa] support for the latter years is eing
sought; however, if funds remain insufficient, program and
funding revisions would be made at the mid-term review.



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements:         FY84      FY85     FY86     FY87
Annual                   2.0      11.3      4.7      3.5
Cumllative               2.0     13.3      18.0     21.5
Economic Return:   Over 100% for the project as a whole.  For the more costly
periodic maintenance elements, the return is estimated at
25% for full regravelling and 86% for resurfacing.  The
benefit cost (B:C ratio) is about 2:1.
3taff Appraisal Report: Report No. 4330 dated February 10, 1984
IBRD 16850



IFTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMJNDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL FOR A FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Devel-
opment Credit to the Republic of Senegal for SDR 20.4 million (US$21.5 million
equivalent) to help finance a Fifth Highway Project. The Credit would be on
standard IDA terms.
PART I -THE ECONOMY
2.       A report entitled "The Economic Trends and Prospects of Senegal"
(1720a-SE) was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 10, 1980,
followed by a President's Report for a Structural Adjustment Loan/Credit
(P-2869a-SE) dated November 26, 1980, which contained an expanded section on
the economic situation. A new Country Economic Memorandum on Senegal is
currently being prepared. Country data appear in Annex I.
Economic Structure and Past Developments
3.       Three-quarters of Senegal's territory lies in the Sahel zone, which
suffers from low rainfall and periodic droughts. The mainstays of the tradi-
tional economy are millet cultivation and nomadic cattle-raising for domestic
consumption, and groundnut cultivation for exports. The modern sector of the
economy is concentrated in Dakar, the capital, a city of over one million
inhabitants, the economic base of which consists of excellent port facilities,
an important industrial sector, and a small but fast-growing tourism industry.
With a population of 6.0 million in mid-1982, Senegal's per capita GNP for
1982 was estimated at US$440.
4.       At Independence in 1960, Senegal lost its privileged position as the
center of French West Africa, and subsequently has had to adapt to reduced
economic, administrative, and political circumstances. In the latter part of
the 1960's income from groundnuts (the principal export) fell due to unfavor-
able weather and declining export prices as a result of loss of EEC special
preferences. Over the decade, the Senegalese economy experienced virtual
stagnation as real output increased at a rate estimated at 2.5 percent per
*        annum, hardly more than the rate of population growth.
5.       During the 1970's, Senegal's groundnut production was again hit by
sharp climatic fluctuations, and even with higher rates of private and public
investment, average annual growth did not rise above the level of the previous
decade. Buoyed by a series of good harvests and relatively high international
prices, real GDP increased at about 5 percent a year between 1973 and 1977,
but declined by 2 percent a year between 1977 and 1981, reflecting the effect



of three severe droughts during this period.  A marked recovery from the pro-
vious depressios occurred in 19B2 with an estimated 10 percent real growth in
GDP. Results of the 1982/83 agricultural season were also good, leading to an
estimated 3 percent growth of GDP in 1983. However, indications for the
1983/84 crop year suggest a disastrous groundnut and cereal harvest, due to
another severe drought in the Sahel region this year. The FAO has recently
estimated Senegal's food aid requirements for 1984 at over 250,000 tons and is
coordinating pledges for the additional aid required.
6.       Fluctuations in physical output have been aggravated by the price
volatility of Senegal's major exports and imports. For example, in 1974, the
terms of trade improved by over 21 percen* due to exceptionally high prices
for phosphate rock, Senegal's second export commodity; however, in 1975,
export prices for groundauts declined sharply, followed by a decline in export
prices for phosphates since 1976. Increases in oil and rice prices brought a
further deterioration in the terms of trade, causing a total loss in income of
roughly 6 percent of GDP between 1974 and 1982. This deterioration in terms
of trade, along with the unsatisactory performance of the economy as a whole,
led the Government to launch an economic and financial stabilization program
in 1980. The main objectives of the Government's five-year program were to
stabilize the economy during the first two years and to achieve an economic
growth rate of 4 percent per annum in the following three years. This program
was supported by an E-tended Fund Facility (EFF) of USS243 million equivalent
approved by the IMF in August 1980, and a US$60 million Structural Adjustment
Loan/Credit (SAL) approved by the Bank in December 1980.
7.       The structural adjustment program consisted of an economic
stabilization plan (agreed with and monitored by the IMF), introduction of new
producer incentives, reorientation of the public investment program, a change
in the national policy on parastatal enterprises, and a package of structural
reforms in the agricultural sector. Despite delays caused by a record low
1980/81 groundnut crop and by the change of government in early 1981, the
Government achieved significant progress in reducing arrears investment
programming, parapublic sector management and industrial incentive policies.
However, in other areas, and especially in the reform of agriculture policies
and control of government expenditure, action was disappointing.
Balance of Payments
8.       The new balance of payments policies introduced under the 1980 stabi-
lization program were based on strict control of overall demand through import
tax and consumer price increases, combined with increased producer prices for
major export crops and the introduction of special incentives for manufactured
exports. However, the hoped-for reduction in the trade balance could not be
achieved, mainly because of the 1980/81 drought and difficulties in implement-
ing reforms in groundnut marketing. The fall in groundnut oil and seedcake
exports from a past five-year average of US$220 million/year to US$94 million
in 1980 and US$34 million in 1981, together with exceptionally high import
bills for petroleum and rice, increased the current account deficit in 1981 to
US$590 million, or 23 percent of GDP. In 1980 and 1981, the Government
received exceptional aid from bilateral and multilateral donors averaging
US$170 million a year. Even this, however, was insufficient to avoid a



further fall in net foreign assets, from US$80 million in 1980 to a level of
negative US$460 million at the end of 1981. The resource gap was estimated at
20 percent of GDP in 1981, narrowed to 14 percent in 1982, and is estimated at
about 13 percent for 1983.  Good rainfall during the 1981/82 growing season
permitted a five-fold increase in the 1982 value of groundnut exports, despite
exceptionally low world market prices for vegetable oils. However, the CFAF
value of imports rose by about 13 percent, despite the policy measures
introduced to contain urban demand. With total imports for 1983 estimated at
about 42 percent of GDP (as compared to around 30 percent in the early
1970's), further economic adjustment needs to be achieved in 'he coming years,
in order to reduce the current account deficit to a level which can be
financed on acceptable terms. This will have to be achieved mainly through
containment of consumption levels and improved investment efficiency, and
through food import substitution and strong promotion of non-agricultural
exports.
Producer and Export Incentives
9.       The stractural adjustment program addressed the need to improve the
country's trade balance by increasing the basic rate of import duties from
10 to 15 percent of f.o.b. value and by introducing an export premium system
for certain manufactured goods. The export premium system has already had a
positive impact on export and employment levels in the five industries to
which it was applied, especially fishing. An extension to 20 other agricul-
tural and industrial branches, as well as a refinement of the payment system,
is being implemented during the current fiscal year. To contain imports, in
Febru,ary 1982 the Government adopted a 31 percent increase in the official
cons-mer price for rice, which was again raised substantially (24 percent) in
August 1983, in order to reflect increased import costs and to provide a
measure of protection for domestic cereal production. The net producer price
for groundnuts was increased substantially in 1981 but has subsequently had to
be reduced in order to limit the losses borne, by government on both input and
output marketing eperations.
Public Finances
10.      Although the Government successfully implemented a 1981/1982 Standby
Arrangement with the IMF, the new program initiated in 1982/83 could not be
completed due to the Government's inability to restrict domestic credit
growth, to remain within public borrowing targets, and to reduce its payment
arrears. This was partly due to an unforeseen 50 percent drop in export
prices for groundw-it products and to a less-than expected inflow of foreign
budgetary support. In August 1983 the Government signed a new Standby Program
with the IMF for the current 1983/84 fiscal year, under which it is committed
to observing strict limits on civil s-rvice recruitment, new foreign
borrowing, domestic credit expansion, and public sector payment arrears; the
Government is also repaying a large volume of outstanding crop credit and
ONCAD debts held by the commercial banks. As part of the austerity program,
in August 1983 the Government announced a series of sharp increases in
domestic consumer prices for rice, vegetable oils, and petroleum products.
Even with these improvements in fiscal performance, however, the Government
will be left with a financing gap equal to roughly 10 percent of the FY84



budget and the outlook for 1984/85 is even less encouraging, given the
extremely poor groundnut crop expected this year. It appears unlikely that by
1985 the Government will be able to finance from budgetary savings 25 percent
of the public investment program, the target the Government set itself in the
original structural adjustment program. A major constraint on the Govern-
ment's finances is the serious and growing burden represented by service of
the external debt, which amounted to US$1.4 billion in June 1983. In November
1982 the Government was required to obtain from the Paris Club a second debt
rescheduling and agreed on a third round of rescheduling with the Paris Club
and commercial banks in December 1983.
Investment Program
11.      The outlook for the national investment program has deteriorated
dramatically since establishment of the structural adjustment program in
1980. While the latter imposed ceilings on the investment program to re-
establish macroeconomic equilibrium, implementation of even the reduced pro-
gram has become problematic. Private investment has stagnated and public
investment is suffering from financing problems because the country is not
creditworthy for foreign commercial loans and domestic credit expansion has to
be, constrained. In the present climate a careful screening of new investment
projects according to economic criteria is especially needed, together with an
increased attention to rehabilitation and maintenance needs of existirg
assets.
Parastatal Sector
12.      Reform of the large parastatal sector in Senegal continues to be a
high government priority. Over the last three years the Government has taken
significant steps to reduce the budgetary burden presented by non-viable
enterprises (through the liquidation of clos9 to 20 companies) and has tran-
sferred ownership of several other companies to the private sector. For some
of the remaining public enterprises, the Government has moved to increase
managerial autonomy by negotiating multi-year contrats-plan which set clear
financial objectives for company operations and spell out the reciprocal
obligations of the Government and enterprise managers.
13.      To date the Government has signed six contrats-plan and several
others are well advanced. The main objective of the Second Parapublic Tech-
nical Assistance Project, approved by the Board in July 1983, is to provide
technical assistance to 12 public enterprises for the development of rehabili-
tation programs, which can serve aa the basis for realistic contrats-plan, and
to strengthen the institutional framework for contrat-plan monitoring in
support of Government efforts to improve the financial performance of the
parastatal sector as a whole. These objectives are also supported by other
projects in the Bank's lending program, including the proposed Urban Manage-
ment and Rehabilitation Technical Assistance Project.
Agricultural Reforms
14.      At the outset of the 1979 economic and financial rehatilitation
program, problems in the agricultuzal sector had been vastly underestimated,



- 5 -
both in terms of the size of financial deficits generated and the strength of
vested interests supporting existing production and distribution patterns.
Liquidation of the Office National de Cooperation et d'Assistance pour le
Dsveloppement (ONCAD), a Government-controlled agricultural merketing organi-
zation set in motion the slow process of sorting out thease deficits and
building a national consensus around agricultural reforms.
15.      At the heart of the envisaged agricultural reform lay the cooperative
structure and credit system. It was decided that farmer groups at the village
level would substitute for the more entrenched cooperative system and that the,
farmers would collectively maintain their credit rating and undertake tasks
such as primary marksting and storage of groundnut seed. A new law to estab-
lish the legal status of these farmer groups was adopted in 1983 by the
National Assembly, but its implementation is still uncertain. As for credit,
the Goverament decided to absorb the farmers' outstanding seed debts, con-
sidered irrecoverable after the drought years. Until a new and workable
system of agricultural credit is introduced, the Government has insLituted a
levy cn the purchase price o° groundnuts to finance seeds and fertilizer
costs.
16.      By eliminating ONCAD, the Government made a major move towards in-
creased efficiency in the agricultural sector. This move was complemented by
the decision to entrust secondary groundnut marketing to the two major ground-
nut oil milling companies, thus reducing the number of intermediaries in the
marketing process. At the same time (1980), however, the Government created
the Societe Nationale d'Approvisionnement Rural (SONAR), a state enterprise
intended to phase out direct Government involvement in the supply of agricul-
tural inputs. Unfortunately, although SONAR's functions were more limited
than ONCAD's, it inherited more of ONCAD's staff than required to execute
these functions efficiently. Above all, the Government has been unwilling so
far to change its seed and fertilizer policies, despite the inability of both
the Government and the Caisse de Per6quation et de Stabilisation des Prix
(CPSP) to bear the heavy costs involved. Thus, to date, agricultural policy
has been disappointing. However, in November 1983 the Government began a
series of intensive dicussions with the Bank and other donors with a view to
identifying and agreeing upon a strategy and concrete measures for promoting a
recovery of the agricultural sector.
Long-term Prospects
17.      The Governm  t's long-range development strategy continues to be
based on the prcmotion and diversification of agricultural and export-oriented
activities. The agricultural program calls for the development of areas less
susceptible to drought (Casamance and Eastern Senegal) where cash crops other
than groundnuts can be grown, and increased incentives for domestic millet
production to replace imported rice. Agricultural research will be oriented
more to farming systems than to individual crops, with the objective of lower-
ing the costs of yield-raising agricultural techniques and better adapting
them to farmers' constraints. Irrigated cereal production is being developed
in the arid northern part of the country along the Senegal River. Construc-
tion has started on the two large dams planned for the Senegal River by the



Organisation pour la Mise en Valeur de la Valleo du Sen6gel (OWVS), but the
high level of state bnbsidies required on irrigated rioe will severly
constrain the paoe of new irrigation development.
18.      The phosphoric aoid and fertilizer project is now well advanoed, and
the combination export subsidy/import duty increase designed to effect a
realignment of the Senegalese CIA currenoy should help to attract more light
export industries once the international economy has improved. However, in
the medium-term, at least, export diversification is unlikely to offset the
uncertain prospects for groundnuts, still Senegal's main export commodity.
Groundnut oil exports suffer from irregular supplies and from an increased
supply of competing vegetable oils; exports of groundnut oake have also been
depressed due to the risk of aflatoxln contamination, which has resulted in
the complete closure of some export markets. As a consequenoe, in the next
few years the share of total exports in GDP is expected to remain below the
levels attained in the early 1970's.
19.      The exceptional forelgn aid granted to Senegal in support of the
Government's 1980/85 stabilization program has helped the country survive in a
period of extraordinary economic difficulty, but these efforts have not been
enough to bring the economy back to a path of balanced growth. The over-
extended public sector, as well as heavy domestic arrears and external debt
service charges continue to impose serious burdens on public finance and will
make necessary further debt rescheduling. The Treasury will not be able to
absorb substantial additional recurrent cost charges from development
projects, and will continue to need exceptionally high shares of foreign
financing for the investment program. The unfavorable balance of payments
sit-uation calls for a reassessment of Senegal's longer term development
strategy and the establishment of a new program of action to achieve the
required structural adjustmentn. The Bank will continue to focus its country
dialogue on these problems and, in the interim, will finance its lending
program in Senegal on IDA terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL
20.      As of December 31, 1983, the Bank Group had approved 54 operations in
Senegal for a total of US$509.6 million, including 29 IDA Credits, 12 Bank
Loans, 5 blends of Bank and IDA funds, 5 IFC operations, 2 blends of Bank and
IFC funds and one blend of Bank, IDA and IFC funds. Physical execution of
projects is progressing reasonably well, although some operations are affected
by the shortage of counterpart funds due to the Government's coatinuing dif-
ficult public finance situation. Annex II contains the Status of World Bank
Operations in Senegal.
21.      Until a few years ago, our assistance was mostly project-oriented
with a strong emphasis on diversification of the economy and improvement and
expansion of basic infrastructure. The acuity of the financial crisis of the
past two or three years has led to a major shift in our strategy, with
emphasis placed on assisting the Government in (i) implementing investment
policies and incentives to develop and diversify Senegal's production and



export base; (ii) increasing the efficiency and savings capacity of the public
sector; and (iii) redirectinR investments towards rehabilitation and mainte-
nance of existing social and economic infrastructure and developmental re-
current costs, rather than expansion Investments. The Bank group plans to
continue financial and institutional support through project lending and
technical assistance for operations or reforms that would encourage a etronger
role for the private sector, as in the phosphate and petroleum industries.
Bank group operations now cover a wide spectrum of sectors.
22.      In agriculture, operations have aimed at improving productivity for
traditional food and cash crops, together with diversification into new crops
and new regions. In recent years, the portfolio was somewhat modified by
financing a forestry project and an agricultural research project which
focusses on improving agricultural systems. In August 1983, the Board
approved a cotton/food crop project in the rainfed regions of Eastern Segenal
and Upper Casamance. A dialogue is currently underway with the authorities on
prospects for developing irrigated rice farming in the Senegal River Valley
along the northern border of the country. The feasibility of new activities
in the heavily-populated Groundnut Basin will depend on further progress with
utructural reforms in input distribution, extension services, crop marketing,
and agricultural credit.
23.      Diversification has also been supported by lending to the growing
industrial sector through the Societe Financi5re Sen6galaise pour le Develop-
pement de l'Industrie et du Tourisme (SOFISRDIT), a development finance
company established with Bank assistance in 1974, in which IFC is a share-
holder and for which three lines of credit have been approved. The Bank has
assisted in the realization of a major phosphoric acid/fertilizer complex by
financing the rail infrastructure component; the project, for which IFC has
been an important lender, is now well underway and commercial operations are
expected to start In the Fall of 1984. The Bank also responded to the effects
of the past oil crisis by assisting the Government in its search for new
energy resources: a petroleum exploration project was approved in FY 1q83.
Finally, diversification has been encouraged by assisting in the promotion and
development of tourism, one of Senegal's major resources. The project, which
consists of basic infrastructure and includes a line of credit to provide
long-term financing as a catalyst for potential private investors in hotel
construction, is virtually completed.
24.      Past projects have strongly supported modernizatiun and expansion of
the country's infrastructure in all modes of transport: highways, rail, port
and airport. But with a stagnant economy and heavy past investments, emphasis
is now being placed on better utilization and maintenance of existing facili-
ties. The proposed Fifth Highway Project presented in this report would
support the Government's limited capacity to provide fumds for priority main-
tenance operations and we are In an advanced stage of preparation of a project
at the Port of Dakar which also emphasizes rehabilitation and maintenance.
25.      While Bank strategy has supported the emphasis on financing produc-
tive projects and rehabilitation needs, it has also recognized the need to
support the social sectors, with due consideration to the capacity of both the
Government and users to bear the recurrent costs involved. In education,



- 8 -
efforts have been directed at primary education and at technical and voca-
tional training to support activities in the productive sectors. A health
project directed at primary care in the rural regions was approved in FY83,
and a water supply project in secondary centers and an urban managevent and
rehabilitation project are in the final stage of preparation.
26.      As it became increasingly clear that many of Senegal's economic and
financial problems run across the board and could not be addressed exclusively
through project lending, the Bank program began to shift in the late 1970's
towards multi-sectoral techni-2al ass-stance and structural adjustment lending. -
In 1978, a technical assistance project aimed to improve Governmentts
knowledge and management of the parapublic sector.  In July 1983, a second
parapublic project was approved to help consolidate results already achieved
and to begin rehabilitation of some key public enterprises through detailed
action plans. Under another technical assistance project, assistance is being
provided to the Xinistry of Planning to prepare and select projects, and to
monitor the investment program. In December 1980, a structural adjustwent
program, supported by a Bank loan and an IDA Credit, aimed at supporti3a
Government's efforts to control aggregate demand, redirect public investments,
and promote industrial exports and other productive activities through
improved price and incentive policies. The local currency counterpart funds
of the SAL were used for the fin-ncial rehabilitation of several parapublic
enterprises which had agreed with the Government on 'contrats-plan". However,
as the performance of the Government in some areas of its agricultural policy
vas deficient, the second zranche of the SAL was cancelled in June 1983.
27.      Given the need to focus Senegal's public investment program on high-
priority rehabilitation and maintenance needs and developmental recurren':
costs, improved donor coordination is now assuming increased importance. The
Bank is pursuing its economic dialogue with Senegal in close coordinatioi with
the IX? and bilateral and multilateral donors. In this connection, Senegal
has requested the Bank to convene a consultative group meeting in the second
half of 1984 to which it would submit its priority financing needs. The Bank
is assisting the Government to prepare documentation for this meeting and is
willing to play a major role in coordinating donor activity. The Bank is
prepared to play an active role in aid soordination for Senegal, but on
condition that Senegal's expectations aru realistic and that the aid
coordination effort Is based on extensive preparatory work.
28.      The Bank Group's share in total external aid disbursements to Senegal
over 1980-82 averaged of approximately 18%, of which roughly two-thirds was
IDA-financed. The Bank Group's share in outstanding disbursed debt was 17% in
1980, and may approach 20% by 1985. The Bank Group's share in external debt
service is expected to increase from 3.7% in 1980 to about 7.5% in 1985.



PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
29.      Senegal has a fairly well-developed transport system concentrated in
the Cap Vert peninsula and the Groandnut Basin, which are the areas with the
largest populations and most intensive economic activity.  The systen _om-
prises a 1,034 km railway; aboat 14,000 km of roads (including 3,500 km
paved); a deepwater protected port at Dakar and three secondary ports; and an
international airport at Dakar as well as a network of smaller domestic air-
ports.
30.      The Government's transport strategy gives priority to maintaining the
already extensive investments in the sector.  This is particularly important
in the current sitaation where the transport network is already well-devel-
aped 1/, the country's budget is not generating a surplus for investments, and
where slow economic growth creates little demands for additional serwices.
31.      Transport planning and coordination is shared by three ministries:
the Ministry of Planning and Cooperation assumes overall responsibility for
preparation of development plans; the Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs
specifies amounts to be invested, determines the structure and level of taxes
levied on transport services, and maintains financial supervision of state-
owned transport enterprises; and the Ninistry of Equipment proposes and
executes GovernmeLt policy in the transport sector.  With the assistance of
the Bank Group, the Government has prepared a National Transport Plan as a
first step in strengthening permanent transport planning institutions. The
Directorate of Studies and Programming has overall responsibility for feasi-
bility and engineering studies.  In the road subsector, the Directorate of
Road Constraction is responsible for execution of wores; engineering and
supervision of works are carried oat mainly by foreign consultants, but local
consultants and firms have been successfully acting as subcontractors.
32.      The Government has historically relied heavily on external assistance
from bilateral and multilateral sources to support its own chronic shortage of
funds to finance transport-related investments. In addition to the Bank
Group, which has provided about US$140 million over the past fifteen years
covering all subsectors, major sources of funds have been: the ERropean
Development Pand (FED), the Federal Republic of Germany, the Saudi Fund, and
commercial banks for road construction; the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation
Economique (CCCE) for development of f-eder roads; France for railway invest-
ments; France and the Arab Bank fqr Economic Development in Africa (BADEA) for
ports; and France for aviation. Unfortunately, it still seems easier to find
donors who are willing to finance new construction works rather than to
support badly needed maintenance and rehabilitation efforts.
I/   Over the past 10 years, with qaite impressive levels of investment,
the road network has become one of the best in West Africa: paved roads
have increased from some 2,250 km to 3,500 km, and gravel roads from
2,300 km to 5,500 km. This compares to 4,000 km of paved roads in Ivory
Coast and 2,000 km in Cameroon, which both have mach larger GNP levels
and land areas than Senegal.



- 10 -
Road Transport
33.      Almost all domestic transport (95%) is done by road, and the vehicle
fleet has been increasing at about 7% annually to a total of 65,000 units in
1981. About 80% of cars and 60% of other vehicles are based in Dakar, and
almost three-quarters of total national traffic originates or terminates in
the capital city. On the most heavily used road section connecting Dakar to
the rest of the country through the Cap Vert peninnula, traffic has now
reached about 18,000 vehicles per day (vpd), emphasizing the importance of
preserving the network and keeping vehicle operating costs to a minimum.
34.     Road tranoport is regulated by the General Directorate of Trasnport
of the Ministry of Equipment; regulations limiting vehicle weights are satis-
factory, wit'h a maximum axle-load of 13 tons. Road transport is generally
handled by private firms, with entry into the industry limited to Senegalese
nationals. The products of trading companies and businesses (petroleum, logs,
refrigerated products, etc.) are transported at economic rates by a few modern
sector firms which generally have their own vehicles and maintenance repair
facilities. Foodstuffs, cattle, and small deliveries are transported by
owner-drivers using small, older trucks.
Road Maintenance Operations
35.      Organization of Maintenance. The General Directorate of Public Works
of the Ministry of Equipment has overall responsibility for road construction
and maintenance. The existing road maintenance structure is the result of a
major reorganization (with Bank Group support uader the Third Highway Project)
to delegate authority to Wthe administrative regions which now are responsible
for execution of routine maintenance and supervision of heavier periodic
maintenance operations carried out by contractors.
36.      Funding of Road Maintenance Operations. Until fiscal 1978/79, road
maintenance was financed from the general budget, while new construction was
financed from the Roal Fund (a special account receiving an earmarked portion
of fuel taxes) or from external sources. However, since the general budget is
subject to lengthy debate and cuts, funds for road maintenance were frequently
inadequate and unavailable until late in the maintenance season, while funds
for road construction were easily accessible. The result was inadequate road
maintenance and overinvestment in new roads.
37.      In 1979, as part of its overall policy to streamline investments in
the transport sector, the Government announced that it would give priority to
road maintenance over new construction. The Road Fund was to be used exclu-
sively thereafter to fund maintenance of the classified network, while new
investments or debt service payments were to be financed by the Equipment
Budget and the Caisse Autonome d'Anortissement, respectively. The Government
pledged so budget CFAF 3 billion per year for the Road Fund, and to delegate
CFAF 700 million in revolving funds (Caisses d'Avance) to the regional and
central offices of the Directorate of Road Maintenance and Equipment (Direc-
tion de 1'Entretien Routier et du Materiel-DERM) to cover operating expendi-
tures for maintenance. With the exception of permanent staff salaries, which
are paid under the general operating budget, all road maintenance expenditures



- 11 -
(including temporary staff salaries, p-archases of equipment, spares, fuels and
materials, and payments to contractors for maintenance works) are effected
-ander the Road Fand. The new concept of the Road Fund and revolving funds,
which became operative in 1980, was intended to ensure the continued avail-
ability of resournes for the road maintenance system throughont the country,
anad was considered a major policy initiative to remove one of the larger
obstacles to achieving operational efficiency.
38.      However, a prolonged and severe shortage of government funds caused a
significant c-utback in the Road FPnd following 1980 (Annex IV). While
revenues from road user charges amount to far more than the combined expendi-
t-ares on road investments and maintenance, and although the Road Fund by
decree should receive 50% of refinery fuel taxes, this arrangement -ias not
been followed due to the insolvency of the Treas-ury, and all revenues from
road user charges have instead been used for general purposes. Fuel taxes
alone, comprising abo-at 50% of the sale price generate some CFAF 25 billion
per year. It does not seem warranted to increase taxes -further, although an
axle-load tax for trLcks may be justified to properly assign maintenance
expendit-ures to heavy vehicles. The Government will review this matter with
assistance to be provided as needed under the ongoing Fo-urth Highway Project.
39.      In the past few years, actual allocaticns to the Road Fund have
seriously decreased. Only CFAF 2.5 billion were provided in FY81, of which
some CFAF 600 million were counterpart f-nds for pavement strengthening (nor-
mally not included in the Road Fund).  In FY82, the Road Fund allocation was
again cut to CFAF 1.9 billion.  Amounts act-ually spent were even less,
totalling only aboat CFAF 1 billion, sinca funds were released only after
considerable delays and could nc's be carried over to the next fiscal year.
Although stocks of spares, fuels and materials acquired in 1981 permitted a
reduced maintenance effort for some time, a complete work stoppage occurred
for four months in early 1982, and most of the maintenance budget was spent
anproductively on salaries, since staff did not have the means to work. In
FY83, the maintenance allocation was reduced to CFAF 1.8 bil1ion, but liqai-
dity improved and there were no work stoppages. In FY84 actaally available
allocations for road maintenance are around CFAF 1.1 billion. During the
years of shortage of Government f-unds, the general budget was maintained
largely intact, with salaries of permanent staff paid on time; reductions only
affected temporary staff salaries and, most of all, the purchase of supplies.
The Government also had serioas difficulties in paying its counterpart funds,
e.g. to contractors under the Bank/IDA financed fourth highway project;
however, under that project, all arrears have now been paid.
Bank Group Operations in the Transport Sector
40.      The Bank Group has been actively involved in the development of
Senegal's transport sector and its instit-utions since 1966. Projects have
been approved at an average of almost one per year, and there are now active
operations in every sub-sector. Bank Group lending has helped finance fo-ur
railway projects (Cr. 96-SE, 1966; Cr. 314/Ln. 835-SE, 1972; Ln. 1518-SE,
1978; and Ln. 2025-SE, 1981). The first two projeCts concentrated on improve-
ments in physical infrastruct-are, and the third, almost Completed, emphasizes
improvements in the Railway's organizational and financial management, and



- 12 -
technical assistance and training programs. The SEFICS rail transport project
provides serUces needed to carry production of the IFC-financed industrial
fertilizer complex. For port development, the first project (Ln. 493-SE,
1967) to extend facilities at the Port of Dakar was successfully comple4ed.
The second project (Ln. 1405-T-SE, 1977), completed except for the audits,
provided for construction of a new fishing wharf at Dakar Port, with ancillary
facilities and institational improvements. A third project appraised iv April
1983 is designed to meet the increasing requirements of container traffic.
The Bank has also assisted development of the Dakar international airport and
two regione. airports as part of its Second Aviation Project (Ln. 1665-SE,
1979), which is now completed.
41.      In the roads sector, the Bank Group supported the Government's
strategy through successive projects for highway and feeder road development
and related institution-building. The Project Performance Audit Report for
the First Highway Project (Cr. 19B-SE, 197')) concludes that the operation was
completed satisfactorily; however, the economic return was lower than expected
due to the impact of successive droughts on agricultural production and hence
on traffic. The Second (Or. 366-SE, 1973) and Third (Ln. 1222-SE, 1976)
Highway Projects addressed the need for improved road maintenance, and the
Feeder Roads Project (Ln. 1221-SE, 1976) supported improvement and maintenance
of over 1,000 km of ruratl roads, and established an institutional framework
for continuous development of the feeder road network. The Project Completion
Report (PCR) for the Feeder Roads Project confirmed the economic justification
of the project, provided, however, that adequate maintenance operations were
carried out. The Government is intent on continuing rural road works through
the Bureau des Pistes de Production (BPP) created under the project, and has
been actively eliciting interest from major donors for assistance.  The PCR
for the Third Highway Project concluded that the project was successful.
42.      The rapid growth in the road network was not matched by a
corresponding increase in maintenance fanding. Accordingly, the Fourth High-
way Project (Ln. 1810-SE, Cr. 993-SE, 1980) placed still greater emphasis on
measures to improve the Government's performance in maintenance activities,
including a comprehensive staff training program and responsibility for ade-
quate financing of the Road Fund for equipment renewal and operating
expenses. However, Senegal's financial situation deteriorated to the point
where the Government was not able to meet its commitment to replenish the Road
Fund. Nonetheless, project works are being successfully implemented, and cost
savings, partly due to appreciation of the dollar, will enable an expansion of
the pavement strengthening program. But the most important continuing
sectoral issue is the funding of road maintenance which the proposed fifth
project will address; certainly expenditures on road maintenance are the most
cc it-effective in the sub-sector and carry the highest priority.
43.      As suggested in para. 39 above, the Government in the past 2-3 years
has limited new investments in road works. For the futare, such expenditure
should continue to be limited to the relatively few cases where new
development projects or traffic growth shows investments to be justified. For
example, more or better feeder roads could be justified at appropriate
standards as part of agricultural development programs, and in fact the
Eastern Senegal Rural Development Project approved in J-uly 1983 provides for



- 13 -
construction and maintenance of about 800 km of feeder roads; but no new
feeder roads would be constructed with resources from IDA as part of the
present project. (Section 4.02 of the draft DCA).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Backgro-nd
44.      Despite the economic and financial rehabilitation program undertaken
by the Governmeat in late 1979 with support from the IMF, the Bank/IDA, and
generous budgetary aid from the international donor community, Senegal's
overall economin climate remains depressed and its budgetary situation
fragile. So m-rch so, that in spite of its intentions to give priority to road
maintenance and the measures already taken in this respect (para. 37), the
Government has been unable to fully honor its commitment.
45.      Recognizing that the deterioration of the network would eventually
mean an even larger burden on the budget in rehabilitation costs, the Govern-
ment in 1981 requested external donor support for the road maintenance
program. A sectoral aid coordination meeting was held in Dakar in March 1982,
at which the Bank Group indicated its willingness to support road maintenance
activities in light of the particularly difficult economic circumstances
facing Senegal and because of its past good cooperation with the Government in
the transport sector. It was specifically recognized, however, that Bank
Group financial assistance for road maintenance would be provided only as a
complement to the Government's own efforts.  The CCCE (France) also pledged
support to maintenance of feeder roads provided that a physical and financial
program of gradual resumption of funding by the Government could be agreed;
since then, CCCE did in fact provide emergency aid of CFAF 500 million under
French exceptional aid for FY82. The United States also pledged s-apport for
Senegal's road maintenance efforts, and has allocated US$5 million equivalent
under its FY83 Economic Support Fand for maintenance operations on raral roads
in areas where agricultural projects financed by USAID are underway.  The
United States are also considering the possibility of providing more
assistance for the outer years of the program, i.e., FY86 and 87.
46.      The Bank Group determined that it was appropriate to provide assist-
ance to Senegal through a priority highway maintenance operation, and project
*      appraisal took place in September 1982.  Negotiations on the proposed Credit
were held with a Government delegation led by Mr. Cheikh Kebe, Secretary
General of the Ministry of Plan and Cooperation. The Staff Appraisal Report
(No. 4330 dated February 10, 1984) is being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
Project Objectives and Description
47.      The primary objective of the proposed project is to avoid a situation
where a lack of adequate maintenance would allow severe deterioration in
Senegal's extensive network of paved and gravel roads, with resulting high
costs in rehabilitation works. A corollary of this primary objective would be



- 14 -
to ensure an adequate balance between funding of maintenance operations and
new road construction, given Senegal's limited budgetary resources. To that
effect, agreement was reached at negotiations to conduct annual exchange of
viess on the size and content of neo road construction investment programs
(Section 4.03 of the draft DCA). Through involvement of the relevant
Government agencies in proposed maintenance activities, the project would have
as a second objective the achievement of improved efficiency in physical
operations, in financial and accounting systems, and in planning and
monitoring of work. These institutional improvements would also allow more
efficient use of the Government's own resources for maintenance activities
both during and after the project.
48.      The project represents a four-year (1983/84 - 1986/87) program of the
Government's Directorate of Road Xaintenance and Equipment (DERN), and would
consist essentially of:
(a) routine maintenance of about 9,100 km of roads in the first year,
increasing to about 10,500 km in the fourth year, including
maintenance of feeder roads;
(b)  periodic maintenance (repaving and regravelling of road surfaces, and
rehabilitation of structures) as warranted on roads maintained under
(a) above; and
(c)  deferred periodic maintenance of other paved and gravel roads
neglected in recent years because of Government's problems in funding
maintenance.
49.      To ensure efficient planning and execution of the above operations,
the project would help ensure that DERM has the financial means to continue
Its principal functions as follows: (a) plan yearly work programs in accord-
ance with practices established under the Third Highway Project, and to
improve such practices where required; (b) operate about 60 field brigades for
carrying out all routine maintenance and part of the periodic maintenance
(regravelling); (c) sub-contract remaining periodic and deferred maintenance
(repaving and regravelling); (d) ensure the timely renewal of DERM road maint-
enance equipment; (e) complete the modernization of central and regiciml
workshops, and adequately maintain the brigades' equipment; (f) maintain and
improve the financial and cost accounting systems; (g) carry out yearly audits
of all road maintenance operations and related activities (paras. 62-65).
Project Implementation
50.      Routine and periodic maintenance operations would be carried out by
the eight regional offices of DERh, following approval of their initial work
programs and subsequent monitoring by the Central DERM. DERM Headquarters
would also be directly responsible for contracts for large periodic mainten-
ance operations. The financial and cost accounting systems which are now in
place, together with the yearly work planning system, are adequate, but close
monitoring of their use would be required during at least the early stages of
the proposed project. The Fourth Highway Project provides for the services of
a financial management expert over 15 months to assist DERM in training
Senegalese staff for auditing tasks.



- 15 -
510      In the first year of the program, routine maintenance (essentially
spot repairs and grading of jurfaces, cleaning of ditches and drainage struc-
tures, and upkeep of road signs and markings) by mechanized brigades will
concentrate on the paved network and that part of the gravel/earth network
which is determined to be in at least "fair' condition. Roads which are
listed in "poor" condition would not benefit from routine maintenance; the
latter would therefore be res7med only when deferred maintenance has been
completed (para. 52). During the project period, routine maintenance coverage
of the network will increase from 4,500 km to 6,700 km for gravel roads
(representing about 70% of the earth/gravel network), and from 3,100 km to
3,800 km for paved roads (approximately 100%).
52.      Periodic maintenance consists in restoring a road to its design
condition after a period of adequate routine maintenance--normally at
intervals of 4-5 years for gravel roads and 6-8 years for paved roads. It
typically consists in resealing an entire paved surface, regravelling a gravel
road to original wearing course thickness, and rehabilitation of drainage
structures. Deferred maintenance is required for road sections which, because
of lack of routine and/or periodic maintenance, have deteriorated to a state
where regular maintenance is no longer sufficient to ensure good standards.
In such cases, more extensive works are required, for example, repair or
renewal of the base course and reconstruction of drainage structures. Under
the proposed project, the annual program of periodic and deferred maintenance
would increase from 170 km to 300 km of gravel roads, and to about 80 km of
paved roads, covering about 1,300 km over the period.
Cost Estimates and Financing
53.      Estimated costs of the total road maintenance program of the Ministry
of Equipment over 1983/84 - 1986/87 are CFAF 18.6 billion (US$49.9 million
equivalent) including taxes and duties, of which US$23.7 million equivalent
(48%) are foreign costs. The tax component is estimated at US$9.7 million
equivalent (about 19%). Price contingencies have been applied at 10% p.a. for
local costs, and for foreign costs, at 8% for 1983, 7.5% for 1984, 7% for 1985
and 6% for 1986, totalling US$9.5 million.
54.      Estimates are derived from DERN's proposed work program, its cost
accounting system for road maintenance operations, and recent bids and price
quotations for supply of equipment, materials and spare parts. The estimate
specifically excludes new construction works by the Feeder Roads Bureau (BPP)
currently financed under the Road Fund up to 10% of its total budget; however,
maintenance of roads constructed by BPP is provided for in DERE's work plan,
and is thus part of the proposed project.
55.      Under normal circumstances of sufficient domestic resources,
financing of road maintenance is covered by the general operating budget for
the salaries of permanent staff and by the Road Fund for the salaries of
temporary staff and operating expenditures. Thus, on the basis of an average
annual Road Fund of "FAF 4 billion, the general budget share would be 12% and
the Road Fund's would be 88% of the total costs of road maintenance.  Under
the proposed project, and to respond to the severe budgetary crisis faced by
Senegal, IDA's contribution would amount to 65% of the Road Fund during the



- 16 -
first two years, to 30% during the third year, and to 25% during the last
year. The proposed Credit of US$21.5 million would therefore finance about
43% of total project costs, representing about 53% of costs net of taxes and
duties. In order to isolate the proceeds of the IDA Credit from the pool of
general revenues of Senegal's Treasury, and thus facilitate the monitoring of
IDA funds use, it was agreed at negotiations that all disbursements of IDA
funds would transit through a separate account, the road project account,
opened with a commercial bank (Section 2.02(b)(c) and (d) of the draft DCA).
The opening of such an account will be a special condition of effectiveness of
the proposed Credit (Section 6.01(b) of the draft DCA).
56.      The financing plan above required a budget allocation of CFAF 1.4
billion for FY84 which the government has made. In addition, at negotiations,
the Government agreed: (a) to participate in the yearly budget exercise
establishing the road maintenance budget, and to introduce budget proposals in
constant 1983 terms of CFAF 1.7 billion in 1984/85, CFAP 3.2 billion in
1985/86, and CFAF 3.0 billion in 1985/86 and 1986/87 in time for their
approval before the start of each fiscal year; and (b) to ensure that amounts
required for operation of the regional revolving funds are released regularly
as required (Sections 3.01 and 3.03 (d) of draft DCA). As indicated in
paragraph 45 above, discussions are underway with some other donors, notably
the United States, to explore the possibility of assisting in the financing of
maintenance operations during the outer years so as to reduce the risk
associated with the possibility of domestic resources being insufficient.
57.      Effective decentralization of all purchases would require an annual
cash flow through the central and regional revolving funds of about CFAF 1.2
billion equivalent (in constant 1983 prices), compared to total advances in
1982/83 of CFAF 625 million out of a Road Fund budget of CFAF 1.8 billion. It
was therefore agreed at negotiations that the annual limit of the revolving
funds would be increased to the desired level, and that annual amounts to be
channelled through each revolving fund would be agreed upon. Official Govern-
ment action to increase the revolving fands ceiling would be a condition of
Credit effectiveness. (Section 6.01(a) of draft DCA).
Procurement and Disbursements
58.      Procurement under the project would follow established procedures of
the Ministry of Equipment, which are in accordance with Bank Group guide-
lines. Contracts for civil works (periodic and deferred maintenance), as well
as purchases of new equipment and related spare parts for road maintenance and
workshops, and bulk purchases of imported materials (US$35 million) would be
on the basis of international competitive bidding. Spare parts made only by
the original equipment manufacturer, and fuel which is available only from
Senegal's single refinery (some US$9 million) would be procured directly
through negotiated contracts satisfactory to IDA. Naterials and spare parts
(US$2 million) that cannot be conveniently grouped into lots worth more than
US$60,000 would be procured following local competitive bidding under pro-
cedures acceptable to IDA, up to an aggregate amount of US$0.5 million per
year. Minor items of urgently needed spare parts and materials (US$1 million)
not exceeding US$5,000 per purchase and US$22,000 per region annually in
aggregate, may be procured by local shopping or direct purchase. These arran-



- 17 -
gements are in accordance with the Senegalese regulations for procurement and
within the ceilings that can be approved at the various levels (Schedule 3 of
draft DCA).
59.      For the current fiscal year (FY84), and in order to support Senegal's
difficult budgetary situation, IDA funds would finance, on a retro&ctive
basis, 65 percent of expenditures eligible under the project and made after
September 1, 1983. Such retroactive financing by IDA is *stimated not to
exceed US$1.5 million equivalent. For the subsequent years of the program,
FY85 through FY87, an advance would be made by IDA to the Road Project Account
in order to offset the fact that Senegal's budgetary procedures do noc allow
the Road Fund or the regional funds to be replenished until well into the new
fiscal year. Thus, an advance of CFAF 630 million in FY85 and one of CFAF 340
million in FY86 and FYB7 would be made by IDA alone at the start of these
fiscal years to the Road Project Account and then channelled to the regional
revolving funds. As soon as budgetary procedures allow disbursement of
domestic resources, the Government would deposit into the revolving funds an
amount which would bring the total financing of these funds to be shared in
the intended proportion between IDA and the Borrower. Subsequently, the
revolving funds would be replenished by IDA (through the Road Project Account)
and by the Government through the Road Fund in the agreed proportions on the
basis of documentation reviewed by DERM and the Ministry of Finance. (Section
2.02 and Schedule 1 of the draft DCA).
60.      Disbursements from the proposed Credit would be made against certi-
fied invoices of contractors' statements, and certificates of work actually
performed. The annual work program contains estimates of reauired cash flow
and work output over the year, and documentation required for disbursement
would be in a form that permits comparison between actual and forecast expen-
ditures and work outpat. DERN and the Ministry of Finance would review this
documentation before replenishing the revolving funds and/or disbursing from
the Road Fund and the Road Project Account. External auditors would audit
this aconunt every year under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA.
Project Organization and Management
61.      The Direc;.orate of Road Maintenance and Equipment (DERM) would be the
project executing agency. DERM is considered one of the best agencies of its
kind in West Africa, as evidenced by its recent performance in achieving a
significantly improved quantity and quality of road maintenance even though
allocated funds did not increase in real terms. When funding of road mainte-
nance actually declined, DERM decided to concentrate its maintenance efforts
on the paved network, a sound decision in view of the cost of rehabilitation
if pavements were allowed to deteriorate too severely.
62.      Staff directly engaged in road maintenance (about 900) are at almost
all levels quite well qualified, so that the critical lack of capable
personnel so often seen in other West African countries is not obvious in
Senegal. However, the age distribution of personnel is such that about one-
third of the permanent staff has retired in the past two years, and more are
close to retirement age. This situation has been brought about by a long
freeze on staff hiring that in fact still prevails. Although the staff reduc-



- 18 -
tion through retirement was desirable, it has resulted in an unbalanced work
force as DERN hired "temporary" personnel who may actually have been employed
in that status for up to 10 years; this in turn has resulted in undeeirable
disparities within the DERM work force as oonoerne employment security and
benefits. Many other Government i-genciea find themselves in the same situa-
tivn, and the Government is seeking a solution that could be applied to the
entire civil service. It is unlikely that such a solution would be found
before the start of the proposed project, and Government therefore agreed that
vacancies created by the retirement of permanent staff would be filled by
transferring personnel now on temporary assignment to permanent status
(Section 3.03 (e) (iii) of the draft DCA). Organized staff training programs
were suspended in the early 70's with the freeze on hiring, but re-started in
1982 under a comprehensive three-year program supported under the fourth
Highway Project.
63.      The equipment fleet of the DERM is not quite adequate for the task on
hand. There are some 250 pieces of equipment available for road maintenance,
and in working condition. About 20 additional units would be required to
bring all maintenance brigades up to full strength, and in addition, yearly
renewals of the equipment fleet should be assured to replace fully depreciated
units. Equipment maintenance is in the present circumstances adequate, with
only a downtime of 15% attributed to mechanical failures. However, the
frequent work stoppages in recent years due to lack of operating funds or
delays in delivery of supplies tend to mask a maintenance efficiency which
couid well be somewhat lower. The proposed project would help DERN address
these deficiencies.
64.      Work planning for maintenance has made major progress in recent
years. At present a system is established for collection of data on road
conditions, cost accounting for ongoing operations, and establishment of work
volumes in light of prevailing budget revisions and constraints. As an exten-
sion of this effort, a system for auditing the use of financial and physical
resources has been instituted, and has given good, although incomplete,
results for the first periods in which it was employed. The planning system
has worked increasingly well over the last three years, gaining wide
acceptance both in the Ministry of Equipment end the agencies concerned with
budget preparation and approval; the system is now almost completely run by
Senegalese, and final phasing out of expatriate consultants is planned by late
1985. Under the proposed project, IDA would review DERH's annual work
programs for road maintenance and the related budgets, and disbursements from
the Credit would be made only if they are found satisfactory (Section 3.03 (d)
and Schedule 1 of the draft DCA).
65.      DERM has been preparing satisfactory quarterly and annual reports as
reqaired for Bank Group-financed projects. For the propoeed operation, DERE
will in addition carry out a major mid-term review to assi!ss inter alia
progress in implementing road maintenance and staffing po:.cies and the status
of project financing, as well as to agree on appropriate e.djustments (Section
3.03 (e) of the draft DCA).



- 19 -
Project Benefits and Risks
66.      Road maintenance Is known to be one of the activities which yields
the highest returns, both due to postponement of the need for expensive infra-
structure renewal and to the lowering of vehicle operating costs.  Despite the
need for imported equipment, It also has an overall positive effect on the
balance of payments. In the case of Senegal, after now three years of
insufficient road maintenance budgets, it is imperative to provide proper
funding to preserve Infrastructure Investments.
67.      Based on analysis of data of past and projected traffic levels, road
conditions, road maintenance costs, and vehicle operating costs, the expected
overall economic return on the proposed project would be higher than 100%,
with a B:C ratio of about 2:1. For the more costly periodic maintenance
operations, the economic return is estimated at 25% for full regravelling and
86% for resurfacing. Benefits from the higher trafficked roads would cross-
subsidize the maintenance of feeder roads, but this is considered appropriate.
68.      The main risks to achieving expected benefits from the project
concern (i) operating efficiency of the project agency, and (ii) adequacy and
timeliness of funding. In the first instance, DERM has demonstrated its
operational efficiency, so that this risk is now considered marginal. There
is however the possibility that the Government's budgetary situation may not
improve sufficiently over the coming years to allow it to assume an increasing
share, and eventually the full burden of financing the Road Fund. If this were
the case, external assistance would continue to be sought as a priority to
ensure an adequate level of maintenance operations. Moreover, the adequacy of
financing will be carefully considered by the Government and ZDA during a
detailed m.d-term review of the status of project implementation.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.      The draft development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Senegal and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Associa-
tion, are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. The
following features in the draft Development Credit Agreement are of particular
interest: additional conditions of effectiveness consisting of (i) the
raising of certain levels of authorized commitments within the Road Fund
(Section 6.01 (a) of the draft DCA), and (ii) the opening of the Road Project
Account in a financial institution acceptable to the Association (Section
6.01(b) of the draft DCA).
70.      Special conditions of the Development Credit are listed in Section
III of Annex III.
71.      I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 20 -
PART VI  -  RECOMMENDATION
72.      I reoommand that the Ezeoutive Direatore approve the proposed
Development Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
by M.A. Qureshi
Washington D.C.
February 21, 1984



BEST COPY AVAIUBLE
- 21 -
TABL    I ]A                                     PO I
Ismnoa.L              - loots. IWTCAYOXr UfA BRiE
sanus.                              RE--NC -SinizlOUrE (NESItEP AVEAIEE  a
NOFR                    (23 URENT 33121MW) 
AUA {TIAO 00. w             19goI      ISlO1  RNflATR       ~ AFRICAM. ar 24163    3. AFRICA * MID NANT
SQorN.                           fls.2       196.2       1,I.2
ACRItCULSURA                      9$.2       104.3       109.3
W MR CAPITA (039$)                   280.0      240.0      430.0            1247.9                   1340.0
ERiCT  USINWIOU IKE CAPIM
(ICTLCANR O0 COAL  JUJVALRWF)     335.0      319.0      344.0             724.2                    810.4
AOMAULATIONIHI-E.AR (T A)    1498.0         439.0      352.0
URBAN POPULATION (I O TOTA)       2J.0        30.0       13.8              28.3                     47.4
POPULATION PROJECTAONT
POPIULATION IN YEAR 2000 (WILL)                        10.2
sTArnonARn POPULATION (MtLL)                           34.4
YEAR STATIONARY POP. QPACIIED                          2135
POPULATIoN DENSITY
PER SQ. RN.                      17.8       22.4       29.1              36.5                     36.0
PCR SQ. RM. ACKt. LAND           33.3       42.0       32.2             131.8                    449.0
POPULATION ACE 1ITRUCTURE (2)
0-16 IRS                        42.7       43.9       44.B              45.9                     43.9
15-64 IRS                        34.3       53.2       52.4              51.2                     Il2.
A5 AND ABOVE                      3.0        2.9        2.N               2.8                      3.3
POPULATION CROWOI RATE (2)
rOTAL                             2.4        2.3        2.6               2.8                      2.9
URBAN                             3.0        4.9        3.7               5.3                      4.6
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER TNOW)       47.9        46.6       47.9              67.6                     *2.5
CRUDE DASTH RATE (PER T7OUS)      26.3        21.2       21.0              13.2                     12.0
CROSS REPROOUCTION RATE             3.2        3.2        3.2               3.2                      3.0
FAMtLY PLANNING
ACCETORS. hALNNAl        . (..0..)
USERS (r OF MARRIED MOWN)          ..         ..
FOMD AM     TWOD
INDEX OF FoOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                     125.0       83.0       90.0              95.7                     97.3
PER CAPITA SUPY OP
CALORIES (2 Or RGQUIRdENTS)      97.0       96.0      100.0              97.1                    102.3
PROTEINS (CRA1S PER DAY)        65.0        64.0       71.0              56.0                     72.0
OP WJHICH A*DL AnD PULSE        20.0       20.0       19.0/r            17.2                     17.8
CHILD (AES 1-4) DEATH RATE        41.9        36.3       31.1              23.6                     15.2
ZEALIR
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)      37.2       40.3       43.9              31.9                     57.2
INFANT MORT. RATE (PEIR 1OUS)     181.7      164.4      166.6             117.6                    104.2
ACCESS TO SAYS WATER (280?)
rOTAL                              ..         ..       3?.Od             23.4                     59.3
URBAN                              ..         ..       65.07             70.35                     4.9
RURAL                             ..          ..       23.07             12.3                     37.3
ACCESS T0 EXCRLTA DISPOSAL
(z or PoPULATIoN)
T05AL                              ..         ..
URSAN                             ..          ..
RUR.AL.                                       ..
POPULATION PER PYSXCIAN         24990.0    16700.0    13800.0/C         12182.6                   3536.0
POP. PER NDRSINC PERSON          2810.018   1940.0     1400iio.          2292.0                   1820.7
POP. PER HOSPITAL 3tD
TOTAL                           640.0      810.0      900.0/c          1075.4                    643.3
URBN                            390.0/f    430.0      56o.07;           402.3                    343.0
RURAL                          1810.072   IZ40.0      1280.07e         3926.7                   2462.0
ADMtSSIONS PER ROSPITAL  0           . .      22.2       29.2/c              ..                     26.4
AVERAGE SIZE OF HWOSEWD
TOTAL                              ..         ..
RAN                                ..        7.6/        ..
RURAL                              ..        6.07i 
AVERAGE NO. 01 PERSONS/ROU,
TOTAL                             1.3/i       ..
13146                             ..          - ......
RUtL                               ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (Z OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..         ..          ..                                      46.2
URBAN                              ..         ..          ..               ..                     77.6
RURAL                              ..         ..          ..               ..                     161



BEST COPY AVAIuBlE    - 22 -
TABLE  34                                        FMna
mmiwAL                - inCZAS A         DM  m111
_:se a                              IM_MI      IOIs Cmsm £ mu3 
Am                      co 011? -       -     Au
ma       1972Ls         A            -e uNsC             ID=t     0 
zsnuxuudh      An=c S. wr mum         . ga        am   gm
tUBAl?:  rots.                   27.0       38.0        ".0               97.2                    8.6
MALE                  36.0        47.1       53.0             101A                     10.
VEStz                 17.0        38.0       35.0              U.5                      7&.
SEONmAsI:  TOAL                   3.0       93.         10.0              17.3                   4*.7
ALE                   4*.0        U3.0       14.0              35                       S".
rcaLw                  2.0        5.0         7.0              L4.Z                    31
voCAnoSAL CZ or sEaZZ)             23.l        9.2         8.8               5.2                    10.3
PRIMAn?                          43.0/f     45.0        43.0              42.3                    3.9
sECCNDAU                         34.0       34.4        2l./ce            23.7                    23.3
ADUL LXTERACY   AZ) 5C*.UL D  10.0                        10./c             37.1                    83.3
rASSuza CAISfSaSAI  POP             S.?        1.7        S.2P              15.8                    100
RDo aC sIUacAmJ OP                 35.7       G1.0        52.               97.5                    3.1
TV iscrVRsPIwusA     POP             .. F0.3                .7/4            15.                     45.6
XEUSAPER (-0AlL  GENERAL
Pa ThDUSA i                        5.7        4.6         4.5               U.2                    31.o
C       MAL         0C7 ..                      ..          .7                .                      1.7
TOnL rAsL FOraC CZWUS)           1595.0     193L.0      2466.0
UA"  (PECOIT)                    40.4       40.2       39.8              36.1                     30.7
AaRcULtrUe (rcusn)               44.0       80.9        76.9              54.8                    43.5
IzDhSt (PERCs)                    5.0        ;.0        10.0             17.5                     37.8
PFACZPArXIOS RATE CPEMCES-T)
TOTL                             45.7         .0        43.3              37.0                    235.
MALE                             54.4       53.1        52-b             £7.1                     45.4
FEMALE                           37.1       35.0        34.1               .0                      5.6
ECt'I     OCfEUUSC  RATo            1.0        1.1        1.1               1.3                      1.8
= _.
nucIIO  uiVAY trE
saREmIED by
mUtEsT 5: OF IWOSEWLOS           36.8/1
dz@iar 23o aF uoaswows           tz.57r       .
LaETsr 242 or  xMO5LO 3C...7r.
LowsEs mm ;  IUISDIOUS            9.7r        .
m M COMs
ISThfl AISOLUTE RWECI COr
LEVEL C    P  CAPrTA)
uBAN                               ..         ..          ..            5.2                      278.1
URAL                               ..         ..       82.0r            253.9                    177.1
EStMAtED RELAtVE P@VEMrr ICO
LEVEL (USS P  CAPIrrA)
URAN                               ..         ..       194.0/.          491.5                    4U.O
RURAL                              ..         ..         .. -8I.1                                23.3
EIMATED  POP.  LOW ABSOLUTE
POVEtm  LHEI LEVEL (C)
118541                             ..         ..          ..               ..                     2Z.0
MURAL                              ..         ..         ..                ..                     30.5
..   o VAILAI
NOr APPLICABLE
N OT     S
/a The group aerz-gem for each Lndi-cor are popalat-sLghted ac_ibattc mane. Co_rag oil cattfa            g the
lndicator. dadan availabilLty of data an  La not usudleor
lb Unleas otherwise noted. -Data for 196V refer to my year between 1959 ad 1961: Daca for R370r 1tween 159f ad
1971; and data for -boat Recant EatL-tm7 betwee 1979 ant 1931.
Ic  1977; Id 1976; le 1978; If 1962; At 1963; /h 1973; /i 1955; LJ Africsn pepulatlon only; k 1974; A  Poptle..
11  1983



00! do.                                                                                                       -r-l-a-   -lIsOona
itoo n.n r..f      W.A5tO   ai011i3.                                                           o3Q..L    eat £  30*t                     P.- Otaa 
Sdop "--a  _13K0ddd  I00.3W500  ;. n0.s_~    5104
,-d             S. ud ~~.. *s-  -d-dWP0  - (s.;3Sfl           P 310-0-30  -s.og.   .o.aa    s
..1..w~~ -. a. (1.-so ~- eq-os .ao,t.i..3.i jo sooaa.j - ~~.s.s   0  - 0310000 oqt 3001 i33.~~P  13a-    OOo J-   -    WRW-   03i23   m0
- (a-13fl3 xos    11 5130. 01-1.              r"I N3303s    I--:to             __0 3.Z o-0- oisnasi4-410       .9                     00ao
Pq.-""      na   --'o -, asI-m Ib  a.u-                                 so   oz     so.a  p.3s.  aQsa.- 5203.00  a                  '-a.- nqi
l~a3 03   33 931503-t  00  W05 .     =  t 01  0 000   30003                        0000-4 '10t7       .ls4 dS. -0  35.  **.aaf  -    Cc-iWa-*00
- O-3  .0eq   - 031-a5   3330 - ni ana  ala      1-annt.10 30133                               0.0-oasa  20~- 0.33   P-3s sla-t) £14400 -,
000    "aar..  95300   Otso03333    A3  1-061053                                      - 3           83.0. P- .oa  -C.a15  3   oajs21--  ool
OI00fltWSVi     qOl. l0.doIaq p-l~.                                                             *0*9133  v- 0131 *003t !1350 1
-tpiou P-  flat *oftz:.Tqn *it 03 fos.   -_-P   t,d-
P  300333  to.tod3.  to3d0toad30d P-                     3001  a~ -aa3.dqda  3-  ..3 lIOws  .3.  loto   -ffn.I 01 *030 y1 boS 03-
S zdWIT5 dq eq10-.t - (31   qq0    -00)on   031a  0oa..  ~3Oat33039    W- (P.--0. 500  -001 OS.   ("I-  13) vim
*fs  OS  `-0-   t                       03 J. £       013     00-i                iat.  50a.tf 
On..-  rK-tI, _j .fla-0.tl- 0.3                             001 MAd £0 9.50403  .vlJ  003 ..  3ft05  .  - 5.3-03  oTIs  J.
V    .0 -P-.  ". -i eq ':131.idW d a. .........aU  3.tto.t..                            -        ao   P- e  os-to  1010  J. fos  EL P0 --fO  -O *   -  033090
-idS.ut,aoa3   -.a1  -i          -   -On  --a.  Io  On 11..t *.                              -.L _o -;n   r-s  .0 fz-. -uaS OX os . is  -o.a  -T"
1£a l'.3   23. 3. 0.333300-2    eq -- In        - 100   ..0.ot.- 300 A0 -~ CZ 3.* AW, -  n--00  i-to  j- 0 0. J. 35                                    1.
-15   --on 310I is-   10  *t00-s      Wd-- 3.34.                                               -s033-1a0011   atn01303 vyou So "mnipqm.- ddi50fl it- 33j X0so0 d3
30 501t31tt30  -  IT-n 5 3. 05  .10-a - (ao-R.) -00    t153.                               -OP - P.5130  -T 3-si 3 4i          -        sd  -3.. 3* ATd-. 33
aa.i ~no. eq-i ~.-t.aon.'- u p-  a                 .-.aat -                                                 _00` ~011 Os- CLO  S3-0   :10-It pso..  1
3.eqnss*    0.hIna..fl    10* -i 0003 stOi- a-oJ an-pS                          -an  . 00-ad 01 O't0.ItO 3.  sn-       35  .tqf    -    .- a-M
.*33081 iou    n oth *01fi1 laa..  ~qI Inds1 S. AU4.toa    - aWt.sI                      sioiin- AD"0 *O-.300- 1.00....  O 93.Iipt- 03 T1..  Pq 331.13
eq 01W     000.0   3.05 'fs sI- 0030  -WO  - C.          T_______in     2-3 -P.-  10-ttUs1.Od -  P-o OVA dl wantao    0. *3d--s)0
0003  0q5i15003. ~005~ -  50 31561 P-* fi 61 -                                   .tPasj*1d  Nl0t333  01-r 000001-eq   3.mnoa   .03 st~ 9.0sO
iou e p-           %&I0-tn   laO- 000  20.03- -0a.-  1.1.t. -  3.00
.o,n -non              -i 5~.500         00tsd00.0. (..                     5  0 1-SS-3
30  4O    001s V--f - 3.00 _n  Zt300 20   0.30 - I           ---Stt               3     P -     £and31 aao            -.1Ta.             -    sl vs. eq
.sn.    it snj---I 15  33bi 31 JI  t.p  0 0                        eq eq  W0.t0001135               otOlp-   oa  naosdi
.3.a- Is          Ai At.O !3      .05011 5.-   .otaoI.a-Tas aO...                     -.%-P                                        .s  350    .2-   2
a010303-flltn  o-Pt'.  111-,sdn  P- s-"a .ad 311." I..a.Ot                       boi.i  30 0f3.0.       - (     901000 -   OttaS.) 't      -- 1 1-i   11-
'IatI  .tioq. *nsa.                    10550034.-l A~IT.  lfnaao. as.ad-. as   .jo  tJ            at   .
I-u-u     nq_ ou0~-t 03050  3.  05..  0--P !10330.  -  .-50103  3. 2-"-  t                                         -             T-.51)lw*503s    -W01001  All-s
mmotmOn       3v--   --.tt0OI.   A 33.i eq  nts    M   --1.a.s P--x:t                                                                                     -30
--P0 tibi Is  0.3  '093!  -1t01"54s.a
-43. a. Ps.00t. .3d 00321  -ut i"" - (O l20   000300
5 p e  0.-0 ST 3.3. dmn1A"0 lI=U  101003 .05300-d3                                                   01-0(31  -   0Id -33   - 
-(0013  eq 00.-   oW) 003"'. 000.0   - (.aa    03a..t    r                                        5000   01          W--0       t0a            3  0a  .stO
U"at119.at-COiO  11t-omi   .-0131 -I dmttotsd  -a.
1 3.11000on.  ;:.   m    2mR- =q.                                                                                     SW-nt.     105iqo114.  0Top  1 P1 3. 00  132*03101i.2d
ttt0    052000-(i=Ona30oot]to1"' -toO                                                                                        0         "'1 eq  tact 03  15"1
p.93.iao AIioaas            isPi 1001Os.53                  03n      3.0  .505320. ' --t        i
~~       iaas.o 10. a- ."ss   :t M0 zi J. AiI-  si'.'                                                         toW  .u eq  41a1 '0001 1.. s-a
2030.10030:    010001000      00.tO i=~                0393.33                     3. W.0330I) 50000.11  03000 5.4  .5013330.40-.-
de Ts.q. .00s-d.* - 0103  3. at-  I ot-100   53.00-                                                                                         300  0t"0
-.4.1-1p  in  a. -a    .   3.1003- 113  a-           10                                                      P.q-.n53-a-W       fl-.a"o. .ot
313 lW       .£0133 01.110031  -   .0f3.000033 3-011`009 3000030031 P_F-                                      eq *31 3    00q 1 01 0-1040 300  . 01-:
150.3*    3          - £32030 I- 71a0         O33, £-ta                            -a0e     32-od025010   A.O- - 900010                .  Wu01    -[-0.a
0.100a O  0.~  -   -1  3-ta   utO 000.3. t003. 30001aas.               A.50130, _-   -51ss..          f 31.1     oto  O 3 -1 020."M  dMC -
a. 000. 130    00 - *1   eq ate  13   - 5.0. 0124                 0030% 0100.003-"    ar-z 30- 3  1-at 0.ata  00-0Z.       3o
£3oo3oa 0.13109 20.' in'00...A   --03                    -.0.0.04  'la -.03 30; n.e   W£litiz-3 eq                   -a.sa 0sto.o
0.0....0030.01100n £tllJTat   ott. .oa ff.                                                  Snu 3  .0.00.000.01. 0101d -Mao  1303-  7- -              30 M10a-o
- 10- On-es3  .1000    10512159   - 0.0333  d3;25.1303 0  -00.              3 .0331  eq v  A2   0.-  3.%-P 00 5111030  1190
.1 pqp.TM q A-    Add,  11M     I v   I-0s-d -is12 P-W.2   P.0.-I3q                          300      P-1 103A1tai  3oaaa' 0.-
eq.    PWa3o Ot                        00.ltq    31Io--              3.tte                   out  .01q0dno                  0103.3e           5    0010
pnoo oousot 10.3  q '03-   ot   st .ood  o            sd o5saa o,o                S.ta-3s.t.  (M-o35  .,-3.10. 010.0
033i04mvT- 033131 Ml.; 910Wa                                    tltaL30£olu    10   n-   q0.£   .10.3   -
0190000  0-   £0.3  £0.v   p-   3093qd  T- -o20  sin -002       qta-j1-o  a .t(51                                 013305 -ttL1~l51~
3.0  d q  W  z3 -A.  - frz  ..o        -"  2-P.m -           M-.                                                  00   111e    Oo  .1 :s.sst. 20.a 1p
n2w -    a-ma-l-n  -33. wrw                      ta                     0009.fd L01115        023.£.-a    .01 001039  oa,
2-81P.. . gq ~~~~~~~~~~~~q)  M.90001333000  0 Aq   3 0300  (0303.Al3301  0310-1 dd
~~101-1 £~~ dp. eq-t'0a.                                         %-TM  MtMl- -ep.  -la." 3             03i10   1033d a.-  -0104
'0000  £0103000 eq  t-1        n e  01Z.3bo.-T-I *--3t1d00-d~Av~-v                                                          ---x-a-- - 
10 e  -o00.30k  1000I133- 0.-3  -0 -OA_nla  .t01de  On..-"                                                                       0.3    0, OKI Pdd3 q003
- 1n  &2Idmdd30£   o00T1t   t-p   o..0    ts   -                                      'o41010   0   010 011-01ot 3       53M.Wtt 01  (L13s301  I---q~  eq
eq i2            .33-1  .3.11- -1.130,0  3                   a10                     31a   -S'1o OAn303.P030"-T15a3?i                       (- 100   V-3s0s)1
.p  l    o-  £tn.5o - d%eq3  M3  -M  M- -d- '030300  o-   noqlod-9An              .C)I, A(s00  13r-311  dqz  qSo .         00 10.000. 59130    -0 dq-,d"x  W-
W  lotlnt 3           --P10 -a 0--i £0    fty. (wsa  Wn    ~       ,-n eq-30p   -.W:VTp ~ P    n-X  --
.IAU) P-I33oa  - .0  eAqs -o.~ Vi-     - a. tot-doo 50  a.qW1-n                                                                              000-    q.PE-  lT I    .   -    " 9-u -ps,3
0~~s-t~w  ~10AD   solioct10530   1                    n-s          t   nt00  10.0330 
On  e 1012004*0.300000030.    O. 00..3?010.3   n   0              dhoa    O 335000s 1             3.  000100CZ.30000103   i-P~
3.10,4  Oso~   0 s0t0 013q30  -  0.sd 3100  3. atoi30d0.01  031On lI
'131  00.0    01500101n 1.ofl~~Id0.113   0300eqo    n  0- .10.-3A-03  0.3.  0 



I  ~ ~ ~    ~      ~      ~     h1U ~~~~~~~~5d flil1i  wsmademna-1au  ,-MM 5d I :U11
+m-    &ss-    5t9-    cr-    s2           £9-                C-i11sAA no 10r1
vq    rel-    t-*         rs-s   rzv        Wb               a i          '&LIAO
9t1-    9.C5-   3ri-    3l.-    5t3    rS                           tU   JIR
*_ains    rsl      is     W,,s £stCt    S'.                    J5u        iX
5.5£5    1s-s rtnit    WzW         9.WX2                           2Ueh  A5O
t9au    Zs"      to"      so"d     "Ad     S"Al                      z1aa   olFU
Ire~~~~ ~ ~ tz Wo  ir              l       a                Ai  l   reag   DSO
ts to            ' rT-    2?t               ssZ      5                t9s      3*A2                     uZ i
**s      35       vi-     es                3.&5    s,       z..      3.ss     £.51 *eumi lE
It       * s      I2t- rs  sr-                      rtz      ru       rs.      Is   _                            O
3r2      as       ra      2:                j^s      tssz    t,       23z      s-tz gI
?-Z      rc      CIE      r-z               setn    rt       V9       rat      t1o r                          Ulvl
9rz       s      rz       WC                rms    vms    rms   r_ t    rms                       iuni *zmOe SM
s~ ~~~Vllw  Vik _CZtj Ct-m $1h _*                                   St 
£0    1ni   13(S___. 1 _~ jO
(us       1m11a atmam             _132s5    I    1Su a  JO -5
ss zz sw  1sZm   su       25Z      352                        -t.nts aiM 3maa
on               on £_t          -         ZC5 st   Cst      WI       to      is                m1            a _
____~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~mm
I*-e     -       *'W       -       rcs-    9r9-      -       tZ-        mz*m  z       MM
3rz     rz       WC       18_-              r- 3.9  3.53-    r91      £st-    3.1      Sl2                   s AD SAMA
*s      9.z      22       9.5s     r9      53t    t'91-    r4         w*S-    22       zcAiMSIS   WOOD
r2      rz       r-        0       es       eo--    *-t-    IV        r.z     t't Ms                         KS_
rz      pr-      Czs      rz       rs      £3-    3rn1       Vs      rS-      &1.      a                       1AUIw
trt     't2      9.2      £         8 Irv  9.5  t' -          I'      ra-    d'9-    895                    AMAsrtU
VI=    i-oz      rz       Wa       clo    -rs       zont-    %'At     9`22    &*'-     WCi               YmUl
r92     9.2      £2       SC      r.        2z-      -t--    VtI      we      55-      2em        8ZM 2nlm  OG
- _szA
0_t    Ijt  t~~~02.A t AGW J*t IZ t  t11 M~   t1"A                               otit
L                                                                                              u.-  S 115' t
-                  msAmsal  XZu        Sts                                                    mD Bs-       
ct'S      ' lid
31U1IVAV AdO3 1S38



(..Smflr1:.       g-a. -.   - s Vfi r4ora *103 --
&1       13         VP                          II  C h =0:  *Y                        99    *                       5LMh2X3
2"1531      S                         subs      Au.      JG"z                13.: 1 eu          S 9"I                     3bL S  Au2    a
(1,13Z1ULWAP2OU 5.Zo23A  Zh1ANOd" 110           s:.S3I4hJa2O  Muld03ftm              .%,531uzLvAw  -ImzuL5df
KIM 3aWau Ol 3to 2                      MAIn 33.UL go  S                         fuIn 3L   3go    S
-        . t           -              6e*4      Tlt       LC2      93               r    dZn3   bAW
*.       l.2-      VA                 'C        *'Z       I        *'
se      cW o-                         *aI=       ^-      *ta         SlA 5                              at_OOOJ
S.-      o'l       a-                 V_tz      LI=      alt      --_s                              amx 35Xe
6:       6.,       *'                  '1        *'1      1'v      emt                     SiOi  35I
AZ   £t ~~~~az.                  ,rd1      &,"I    4102        002 Co   3SuMOO3tI
*r   *~~~~    zi-                 .-I      9.*i      clLI     C*L                                SUMLOu
2  r::  V*            A-CL      L£L       d.~~~~~~~~~LL  cu.U3'DK3
t':      ='1:      ye_                i'w,      eu.:     e'_s      *'_w                    £ 3   ,3euo
031.9"    £U-g.1  of-rt               dlt       £91        36     &"I
2.3M rt  -hdW _      1M           9.s30"I 352mAC   AO DIAO
I-L    s Cu        &        r            -         ,o  C               :    re?o  _* penSw i 6zt     t         30  3L A0 0-
°ret: =    t,r=    lb: cr       t:    .se:    e-,c:    een:    em:    &-e "             .              41a-&h -s  x1I 3s 1_d 1±oW
L: =      ..       cr -g. i-    *IC .Zz- Z                .        **         q --                                        Stt  C  sKLO
r--      C-:       *pT       C-       *39        e-       *-        W2        Vs-      *gts    ACt       ZliM7l3 0b_
C..     *pp        *,       c.-       *z        ret-     ,q*-    _-          j         rn       cg -  aS             t11o
*= ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dO-                          .*      0 *---*t-  o-e *Ct s-  lr_-t  Cs                   b35w
I.e  1-P  CC    eL     ~~~~~~~~~Z 2.          C-i:-   --=        e's       *L       01            S3AMKg    OW GOOd
.r   -:   u:   ~~~~~~e     ~~~V       ,v I-     VZ,-    *,Cs       Zn-       9r:1    eue             g.UOw. 3510.m.36I
:-z -:                       *-z   :-S  =-II    =-Is-    =-u:-    r*0 0:lu-    £41s             cL                       swuo
*-       e2         :        £z        n:T-    eXa        -,a-     c0-       ,l t       o VAN   Ls                    BO31OUI3
_: -       ':      *'_-     *'I       zLz       *'Vt-    611-       '."      eZr-    CIO        &Z2                        ~ud
r:       O.n       rz-       yCt      _-ic      un:-      o'tI-    Z-,        V&,-    ale       sue            5VI0D13 35SIOW._ue
1~~~~~~31 12WRMS
_lP  van ir, _           ._ ___
Eu.: ez- ue.s                                    -.  *_-CRLKM - -
-t1-
319VIl1VA V Mm~ 1S39
U%p~~~~~~~.t



rjt    Z*         rztz     *.z         s        Z   zzr         t r       sz sIM   e*zt     rt   * 5C3j a1 MD A£UMi 3A
9-       Al&       At     IVIPt                                                                         inW"   MO BZMUGNGI Wt
£J.      r,zz     rtz      elm z*,s                    2r1 ss     Z   aslr         'ST n*9 sl sj o I so wINMU
elm1"    OM  r 4L          IV"      t-r         2      213      299       Vt,      Wd       *1-2                             1s23I2
- -,z£   1W&W     *,-s n   ,t                 r2 rW    z     s¶L£         WZZ1    2*4       El"        s          ADid 3wIAm  _U=
£t12ft    4*@ 9*?   f-*                       294      2.2       11£      l*       239      riws z33_ mIII2>
L941    a,=       A.'z   A£22Z                2432     Vqu2      VANI    12,2    4L92   4*ZV?                                 2Atud
i-i s      m       21^ .,     z               r121   r.zm       rz*s    V24        2*9ss    ~. zr                  un.          I 313
,'cfZ    tsian    9196     Ivswitt            419     IrLe    Ire          r16     VS       le rII                          _
1.1,1z    slam s   rmt_   V*DUC               zlw      alZs    **z         l?      C160 roez                    03z  N102a          t  a_sa   0
. te*t 3£2 *2 Z   Z   4*'t3                   vz3lZ   11GZT z2 I9    Ili=    9£"It   1t23                                   I=l =32 L_X3
Ct,"     rSc    1rts       nz                 9*A      9¶i,     2£        9,9      a,&ZI    29 2z 3UMAUd
W32      *9Z      els s     Lz  3z4*                  *Va1    9*2?t    all         99       :-                      Wmwu1Ww amuo
VAst     clot     4*4       A                 UZt         Z et  sat       Vtt      9*9      &'Zt                                awl
t*tt    -922       VW      *Iris               92      P3e2     9*L       2t       £Iz   f4*           *        20L1  A0d13 _10232i
4f16     Alto    1e29ot    211                2U9       a,       £&Lt    44L1      V&Vt    2.29                   mm_  %fO?3o3-hi0u
£99      *Al      £93t     4t                 Z'Z      * 1Z      Wde      el=      ZZ      rzt                               flUO
9Zt      Zt2      S12      4¶42               62       VG       DID       A.s      a's       ££ Z                                adS
VE       cl       WITS     CZI,               *1       I tX     S'Z%      SIR%t    *,Zs     VSt                                  YAE
ZIg   r           9-1s     ZLt         r         _  rZt  i      S22?I r   ZL       q'?Z6    .?                          -S0
£ ue_.a so
92S-     1*3      919-     U42-      U? *w1m1~ ~S2L SS-                                VW
£tZ      OCt      Ott      921                sit      eet      Sit       -        to       &                        W        on Ut 33e2
Vt-      29-      9-       Z-4                         Is       Z         a&       12-      it                             011dU2.0kno
"9      *Ott  Sgm          Z                  2*       Z&        12s      U        4                                         S9 
413      £12      222      si,                5*?      1C2      St?       VZC      I,=     "1120401
3SE      gm       91?      C31                "1       9LI      t1 ZZ sti           o1       9 *2230*i J.- 19l
49t  Z 2t         2t1      got                Mt       21       Oct       ZL       2        e                          P2w jlaJO tu12j&o
Vt       9        as       ADt                GE                 go       UA       It       9                    2.,m1u&    l bzep O*1=T.d
*39p-     Lt-     CL1-     £23P-              ti-      145-     125-      22t-     AM2-     441-                   Omni"3 1WM022  V&.SmNk
oc      9e        cc       .C                 12       1t       IL        22 *C             1Z e                                     1Z *9 2w92 t
Mt-      got-     Zt,-     1t1-               S-       Sol-    tIt-       9-       S_-    Si-                           ooa,  .'03S SON
C"       06       UR IZt                      AM  *t    tt&      CEt      t=        SL      Z"t               _qoAO1wQ1w          m Jo "*
fi51     234      223      923t              *£5t        StS    am4       St        1        Z£                     am I! iP3M2 so Sum"h
RAW      Wo       &Ts      £c                 oft      Z"2      t143      An       233      £99               jq'o0a)4S13pu2.B W2z1a   jo
I                                                                                            USLotiMAmid 30WIa6
1*41     5342     314?  * 34               *24       11?        Mt      &L4      3        £541t  t
,_                                                                           s*> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1~Pu?
IUOI.ad vae.h42   GM OU 1_11t1-1
cut                                          aLmm"v ierwA            Ad3i~
n*s @ rt_   I                         _StAd_



- 27- -   X|
ANNXE II
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF WOPLD BANK OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of September 30, l983)'
Amount, (less cancellations) 2/
Loan/Credit                                                              (US$ xillion)
Number         Year    Borrower    Puroose                     Bank      IDA 3/ Undisbursed 4/
Ten Loansl/ and seventeen Credits fully disbursed              50.78   108.7
530-SE         1975    Senegal      Education II                         15.0        2.20
633-SE          1976    Senegal     Eastern Senegal Livestock             4.2        0.14
1405-T-SE      1977    Senegal      Dakar Fishing Port          6.0                  0.54
1412-T-SE      1977    Senegal      Petite Cote Tourism         8.0                  2.35
1413-SE        1977    Senegal      Petite C8te Tourism         5.6                  1.63
775-SE         1978    Senegal      Debi-LamDsar Irrigation       -      20.0        3.33
1518-SE        1978    RCFS         Pailways III                         11.0        1.22
1665-SE        1979    Senegal      Second Airport              7.0                  2.18
S-23-SE        1979    Senegal      Water Supply Eng. & T.A.              2.5        0.79
908-SE         1979    Senegal      Education III                       22.0        11.33
991-SE         1980    Senegal      Small Rural Operations               11.0        7.87
993-SE          1980    Senegal     Fourth Highway                       28.0        8.40
1810-SE        1980    Senegal      Fourth Tiighway            10.0                 10.00
S-26-SE         1980    Senegal     Power Eng. and T.A.                   3.3        1.88
1061-SE        1980    Senegal      T.A. for Planning                    5.3         2.73
1931-SE        1981    Senegal      Structural Adjustment    13.8                    0.11
1973-SE        1981    SOFISEDIT   Investment Promotion         6.5                  5.40
1136-SE        1981    Senegal      Investment Promotion                 2.5         1.60
2025-SE         1981    SEFICS      Rail Transport             19.3                 18.41
1103-SE        1981    Senegal      Forestry                             9.3         7.27
1176-SE        1982    Senegal      Agric. Research                     19.5        17.06
1310-SE        1983    Senegal      Rural Health                        15.0        13.88
1323-SE        1983    Senegal      Petroleum Exploration                9.5         8.37
1360-SE        '983    Senegal      Phos. Ind. Dev. Eng.5/               7.7         7.50
1398-SE        1983    Senegal      Second T.A./Parapubllc              11.0        10.40
1406-SE        1983    Senegal      E.S. Rural Dev. 5/                  16.1        15.75
Total                                                     137.98   310.60      162.34
of which has been repaid                                15.67     2.56
Total now outstanding                                     122.31   308.04
IBRD    IDA
Amount sold                            3.43    0.10
of which has been repaid           3.24    0.03         0.19      0.07
Total now held by Bank and IDA 4/                         122.12   307.97
Total undisbursed                                          41.84   120.50      162.34
1/    A loan of US$3.5 million for agricultural credit (584-SE) made in 1969 was cancelled
on March 25, 1971.
2/    Prior tn exchange adjustments.
3/    Computed at the rate of the approval date.
4/    Computed at the September 30, 1983, rate of SDR = 1.05684 US$.
5/    Not yet effective.
The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate rerort on all
Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of September 30, 1983)
Amount (US$ Million)
Equity
Fiscal      Obligor             Type of Business       Loan   Investment    Total
1967    Soci-ete Industrielle   Fertilizer Plant       2.45       1.01        3.46
d'Engrais du Senegal
1972)    BUD Senegal S. A.
1973)                          Vegetable Export         -         0.84        0.84
1976)
1974    SOFISEDIT              Develolment
Finance Company         -         0.24        0.24
1980     Banque de 1'Habitat   Money and Capital
du Sen'egal, S.A.     Market                   -         0.47        0.47
1980    Societe H8teliere
du Barachois, S.A.    Tourism                 3.00        -          3.00
1982    Industries Chimiques
du Senegal            Fertilizer             25.00                  25.00
Total Gross Commitments                      30.45       2.56       33.01
Less Cancellations, s"grminations,
Repayments, Sales and Losses                  2.45       1.89        4.34
Total Commitments now held by IFC            28.00       0.67       28.67
Undisbursed Balance                          24.00       0.00       24.00



- 29 -
ANNET III
Page 1
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a)       Time taken to prepare the project:               6 months
(b)       Project prepared by:                             Government,
with assistance
from IDA staff
(c)       Date of first IDA mission
to consider the project:                         March 1982
(d)       Date of departure of appraisal mission:          September 1982
(e)       Negotiations completed:                          August 1983
(f)       Planned date of effectiveness:                   Nay 1984
Section II:     Special IDA Implementation Actions
None.
Section III:    Special Conditions
During Credit negotiations, the Governent provided assurances on the
folloving principal items:
(a)       the national equipment budget would include specific provi-
sions for contributions to road maintenance over the project
period, and payments would be made promptly as required (para.
56);
(b)       that annual exchange of views would take place with the
Association on the size and content of new road construction
investment programs (para. 47); and
(C)       DERM would conduct a mid-term review of the project, in
consultation with IDA, to assess, inter alia, progress in
implementation of road maintenance and staffing policies and
the status of project financing, as well as to agree on
appropriate adjustments (para. 65).
(d)       Special conditions of Credit effectiveness would be:  (i) the
opening of the Road Project Account with a financial i,Isti-
tution acceptable to IDA and (ii) the issuing of a Government
Arrete increasing the ceiling of the regional revolving funds
to CFAF 1.2 billion (para. 55 and 57).



- 30 -
ANJEX III
Page 2
(e)       Conditions of disbursement of advances from the proposed
Credit to the Road Project Account: (i) IDA would have
revieved and agreed on DERM's proposed annual work program and
related budgets (para. 64); (ii) the Borrower would have
financed its share of the Project for the past FY (para. 64);
(iii) beyond the equivalent of SDR 14,100,000, IDA would have
been satisfied with progress in implementation of road
maintenance policies following mid-term review (para. 64-65).



Vr                                                :i           I6                          M        A   U   R   I  T
S E NE  GAL                                          0NouakLhott
FIFTH  HIGHWAY  PROJECT                                               utoss a
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE 1983
;E  dLss   p /#a~~R,da^Srd ol
EXISTING PAVED ROADS
~-P PAVED ROADS UNDER CONSTRUCTION
GRAVEL ROADS
- - - -EARTH ROADS
1 4  RAILROADS
7==        RIVERtS                      /Td--U            A                                      t°
cil  REGIONAL CAPITALS  
IEGIOt:AL BOUNDARIES    ugo                                                    x' _-'
_ ._ INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                       DNon abn        E        hLa -snee
-g        Mt A HIS1cu0 Mously                   
t>'boYecl  K.^a2Art    _lb-G wrge   \xudtXrl  oosv
Di                                                               OD.ogon
A r Z A N Jr C X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ioc  Mlem,e Hod.,, ODU., -P -     '-
-g                                                             ' OCAN  e
-g->>  ~  pQ   a ,J      D.o Bom)d  tNcrd
KKnrong K:uAnso    l\h                                      .
1~          ~~~~~~~~ e'eIoo.   Med n
DA   a            NotBA               0        ADAgo
(~~~~~~ A                                                                      ta.  K    Fncndou 
D IDw2030ei 50190  L2_
O   10  2D 0 4D3 60 8t 0 1D SO  60   _       *_ _-.->-                         -         *       -. oa
Sodh,u  n 'e.d'   a'e Hod.-             C
<       5  v~~IGUINCHOR     ~         t             ~
CupSIsirr -                 _                          GI NCEA-B   A
C'.
b'~~~~'M                                                          Wd,J
S   ,                                          5'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lasb-
.      .       .            I                   I                                        e     -~~~~~~~~~M.  P



IBRD16850
I  rIOwt, s npPnmd bY                       foimer     f   r-                                DECEMBER 1982
I    T    A       N U  I    A             Th. Wor,ld an&.s Saue.ckosrr                 Sponih SoKoro I                    A'g               '  I ib1o
reaOws andas eackrelt bre f o r  
rN,al uv." of rhe fw id HA i B an-                                                                         )
a_d the lirdtmibonal Fii_we                                                       '         -
Co,t.lcOn rtw denoVaf,os                            Ma ur. I n n<                      -
used and rhe bwumdur.es stdi.m
on Nhus man doEa Mlr uV. on Ihe                                       \                     N
pftr of Tw Vldd thank and Ith e                                                                get
infeMifnM Fa,,n,e Co.paJronh
_a\>    _   *nv prurnrmet Lon wr                                 Catal status  --
of i-V dstnvrrelor A.n                  Gamh;.o  t       l               _             _ _  _i_    _
_t_ 5 r~~~~~."romrm ..rrnor arrlameof                                                         iprdt-_/,UP   / '
95~~~~~sc boucrdneS                                 rnisd  G  uneo)rI~-(  
IO\          -    S          L I  N w,grer. a
Sierra  LeoOn         Ivory n              Eq. Guinea.'      l
Molorn ~ ~ ~~6-                                      CosLGo-
r
dNam;rI                                                                                         'Crmroo
/,//'~~~~ ~~ ~~~~ I /.    a t' I
__  Ronerou   ,          \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~4                 5) Selzboo        ~Eq.G.ne
12                            {ffNprrl~~      ~       ~      ~    ~    ~~~orLw                      12-S /  
*~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ fSelelbaby 
/   '   't> -  f                                            \\ )           X                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~To N coo
\                                    ~         ~     ~      ~      ~ ~~~~~~~~~K.dero
~~~ \                              o~~~~~~~Trub4Lre Ba- -  ,.
Kouprokx
r  (                           _d    ' Goudiry
Koumpenfoupm
-.s.I                          Bo 5   b j                                        j                      LTo Bomkob
N d-f.,ene ab7  '  _
Mossenbe\             T MBACOUNDA
ss'll. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~Sry
0~~~~-0
$<9°'°    \    '      t              b~~~~~)04,ao                                            N
Konlkone        \      C 
Ou4zdex O   O;uxovrou  {    f                        W               } ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mko  S-'oyc
K                Tougow.c(                                                         o          edo ougo
I        a~~~~~L
Si U 
A14  flJ                                           G   U   I   N    E                   12                    (J






