OFFICIAL CREDIT NUMBER 1448 SE
DOCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Fifth Highway Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated '0 at            2         , 1984


﻿CREDIT NUKBER 1448 SE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    :Y U2 k       f              , 1984, between
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Associa-
tion).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
and
(B) the Borrower has also requested the Association in its
capacity as Administrator of the Special Fund established by its
Executive Directors by Resolution No. IDA 82-6 of October 26,
1982, to assist in the financing of the same Project by grant-
ing a Special Fund Credit (hereinafter called the Special Fund
Credit) to the Borrower in an amount equivalent to ten million
two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 10,200,000);
and the Association as such Administrator (hereinafter called
the Administrator) is willing to grant the Special Fund Credit
pursuant to the Special Fund Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Administrator (hereinafter
called the Special Fund Credit Agreement);
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, -on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the


﻿-2-
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "DERM" means Direction de l'Entretien Routier et du
Materiel, the Borrower's Directorate of Road Maintenance and
Equipment of the Direction Ggn6rale des Travaux Publics within
the Borrower's Ministry of Equipment;
(b)  "RF" means the special account (Fonds Routier), estab-
lished within the Borrower's Treasury and as reorganized pursuant
to the Borrower's Decree No. 80.963 of September 26, 1980;
(c)  "RPA" means the Road Project Account to be opened by
the Borrower in a financial institution pursuant to the provi-
sions of Section 6.01 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement;
(d)  "Sub-Accounts"   means   the   sub-accounts    ("Caisses
d'Avance") of the RF opened in the name of the Service R(gional
des Travaux Publics in each region and of the Division du
Mat6riel of DERM pursuant to Arretes No. 012682 to 012690 of
October 13, 1980 and to be replenished pursuant to Section 3.03
(d) of this Agreement;
(e) "CFAF"' means the Borrower's currency; and
(f) "FY" means the Borrower's fiscal year which runs from
July 1 to June 30.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various curren-
cies equivalent to ten million two hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 10,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and


﻿-3-
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Association shall withdraw on behalf of the Bor-
rower from the Credit Account and deposit into the RPA each
annual advance allocated to Category (1) in paragraph 1 of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement on the basis of requests by the Borrower
furnished to the Association each year and subject to the condi-
tions set forth in paragraph 3 of said Schedule.
(c) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that:
(i) any payment out of the proceeds of an annual
advance deposited in the RPA (A) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant
to paragraph (a) of this Section, or (B) was not
justified by the evidence referred to in paragraph
3 (b) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, the Bor-
rower shall, promptly upon notice from the Asso-
ciation and, unless otherwise agreed by the Asso-
ciation, prior to any further deposit into the RPA
by the Association, deposit into the RPA or, if
the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or
justified; or
(ii) any amount advanced to the Borrower by the Asso-
ciation pursuant to the provisions of this Section
will not be required to cover further payments for
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, prompt-
ly upon notice from the Association, and unless
otherwise agreed by the Association, refund to the
Association such amount so advanced.
(d) The Borrower shall, upon withdrawal by the Borrower of
the proceeds of the Credit, deposit all such proceeds in the RPA.
(e) The proceeds of the Credit deposited in the RPA pur-
suant to paragraph (b) of this Section shall be transferred to
the Sub-Accounts in a proportion satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the


﻿-4-
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1987 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05, (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association  shall   reasonably  request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each
year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 15
and September 15, commencing March 15, 1994 and ending 5. otem-
ber 15, 2033, each installment to and including the id_:a,' -ment
payable on September 15, 2003, to be one-half of one pa      cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment there-
after to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the Republic of France is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through its Ministry of Equipment with due diligence and effi-
ciency and in conformity with appropriate financial, administra-
tive and engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b) All the funds to be provided by the Borrower under
paragraph (a) of this Section shall be so provided through the
RF.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards inci-
dent to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
contract documents and procurement schedules for the Project, and
any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable
the Association's representatives to visit the facilities and
work sites included in the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association at
regular intervals all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure


﻿-6-
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any ccntract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) During execution of the Project, the Borrower shall
before May 31 in each year discuss with the Association: (i) its
proposed work program for road maintenance under the Project in
respect of the ensuing FY and its budget therefor; and (ii) the
amounts out of the proceeds of the RF and the RPA to be deposited
in each of the Sub-Accounts for such FY.
(e) The Borrower shall, no later than May 31, 1985, or two
years after the start of the execution of the Project, whichever
shall be the earlier, review with the Association: (i) the esti-
mated cost and means of financing of the next two years of the
execution of the Project; (ii) the progress made in the imple-
mentation of its road maintenance policy; and (iii) progress made
in carrying out its staffing policy of replacing all permanent
DERM staff which shall have retired during the preceding two
years by transferring staff employed on a non-permanent basis at
DERM to the positions which have so become vacant.
(f) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their
respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the


﻿-7-
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Pro-
ject, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure; (ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure; and (iii) enable the Association's
representatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the RPA and the accounts
referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association, as soon
as available, but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the report of such
audit by such auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested, including without
limitation to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors
in respect of the expenditures and records referred to in para-
graph (b) of this Section as to whether the proceeds of the
Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account on the basis of state-
ments of expenditure have been used for the purpose for which
they were provided; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning said accounts, records and expendi-
tures and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower undertakes that no feeder road
construction will be financed out of the proceeds of the RPA.
Section 4.03. During execution of the Project, the Borrower
shall annually exchange views with the Association on the size
and content of its new road construction investment program for
the following year and shall furnish to the Association all
information relating thereto as the Association may reasonably
request.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that the Decree reor-
ganizing the RF referred to in Section 1.02 (b) of this Agreement
or any of the Arr8t6s establishing the "Sub-Accounts" referred to
in Section 1.02 (d) of this Agreement has been amended, abrogated
or modified, so as to affect materially and adversely the ability
of the Borrower to carry out the Project.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional event is specified pur-
suant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that any event specified
in Section 5.01 of this Agreement has occurred.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the aggregate authorized ceiling of the Sub-Accounts has
been raised from CFAF 700 million to CFAF 1,200 million;
(b) the RPA has been opened by the Borrower in a financial
institution acceptable to the Association; and
(c) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Special Fund Agreement, except for the effectiveness of this
Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The date ;>.                   L . , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Sec ion 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
4.02 and 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or


﻿- 9 -
on a date twenty-five years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister responsible for economy and
finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Mini8tAre de l'Economie et
des Finances
Rue Charles Laine
B.P. 4017
Dakar
Senegal
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINFINANCES                        3203 SG
Dakar, Senegal
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
represeatatives thereunto   duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
*   REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
Bylb          AAAM4*4,4     V%.'
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
4 t&     Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Advance to RPA
(a) FY 1985              1,750,000
(b) FY 1986                870,000
(c) FY 1987                870,000
(2) Equipment and             2,310,000       )
spare parts                             ) 65% in FY 1984,
) and FY 1985,
) 30% in FY 1986,
) and 25% in FY
(3) Fuel and other            3,290,000      )  1987
operational costs                        )
(4) Unallocated               1,110,000
TOTAL              10,200,000
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that the proceeds of
the Credit shall not be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of items in any Category decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, in-
crease or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to


﻿- 12 -
such Category as required to be consistent with the aforemen-
tioned policy of the Association.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
(a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
September 1, 1983;
(b) in respect of any payments made for expenditures in any
FY unless the Association has received: (i) a work plan, satis-
factory to the Association, in respect of the road maintenance
works to be carried out under the Project during the FY con-
cerned, and a budget, satisfactory to the Association, whereunder
the Borrower shall finance such part of the cost of carrying out
such plan which shall not be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit or the Special Fund Credit; and (ii) except in the case of
FY 1984, evidence satisfactory to the Association that the Bor-
rower has financed through the RF during the immediately pre-
ceding FY, such part of the cost of carrying out the Project as
shall not have been financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or
the Special Fund Credit;
(c) from any Category other than Category (1) in respect of
any payments made for expenditures in a particular FY other than
FY 1984 unless the Association has received evidence satisfactory
to it: (i) that the Borrower has financed out of the proceeds of
the RF, deposited thereinto by the Borrower out of its own
resources, works or goods required for the Project during such FY
in an amount equivalent to not less than: 54% of the amount of
the annual advance allocated in Category (1) in the case of FY
1985, two times and one-third of the amount of the annual advance
allocated to Category (1) in the case of FY 1986, and three times
of the amount of the annual advance allocated in Category (1) in
the case of FY 1987; and (ii) showing that the Borrower has used
the proceeds of the annual advance deposited by the Association
into the RPA for such FY to pay for expenditures in respect of
works and goods required for the Project; and
(d) in respect of any expenditures after the aggregate of
the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account
shall have reached the equivalent of SDR 7,400,000, unless the
Association shall be satisfied, after the review to be carried
out pursuant to Section 3.03 (e) of the Development Credit Agree-
ment, that the Borrower has satisfactorily carried out its road
maintenance policy.


﻿- 13 -
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph I, above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Cate-
gory may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.
5.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
diture for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Bor-
rower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the road maintenance program of the
Ministry of Equipment of the Borrower for FYs 1984-1987 and
includes the following:
Part A:
1.   Routine maintenance of about 9,000 km of roads in the first
year rising to about 10,000 km of roads in the fourth year,
including maintenance of the feeder road network; and
2.   periodic road maintenance including repaving and regravel-
ling of road surfaces and repair of structures.
Part B:
Modernization of DERM's workshops and strengthening of
DERM's equipment maintenance capacity.
Part C:
Acquisition of maintenance equipment.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1987.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   Procurement Without Contracting
Such routine and periodic maintenance works under Part A of
the Project, as shall have been determined in agreement with the
Association, shall be carried out by force account.
B.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Parts A and C hereof, civil works,
new equipment, related spare parts for road maintenance and work-
shops, bulk purchases of imported materials and other goods shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the current edition of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Cre-
dits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the
Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding as
described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange
for the publication of such notice in order to provide timely
notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for
the goods and works in question. The Borrower shall provide the
necessary information to update such notice annually so long as
any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding.
3.   Bidders for the works included in Part A of the Project
shall be pre-qualified as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of
the Guidelines.
4.   Contracts for materials and spare parts shall be grouped in
lots costing at least $60,000 equivalent.


﻿- 16 -
5.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and simi-
lar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery, pur-
suant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account in
the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
(a) Contracts for materials and spare parts that cannot be
grouped into lots costing more than $60,000 equivalent, subject
to the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section, and contracts
for fuel shall be procured on the basis of local competitive
bidding procedures satisfactory to the Association.
(b) Minor items urgently needed may be procured by local
shopping subject to the provisions of paragraph (c) below.
(c) Items other than fuel procured under the provision of
paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall not exceed in the
aggregate $250,000 equivalent in any given year.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before qual-
ification is invited, inform the Association in detail of the
procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request.
The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of
their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any
applicant for prequalification, shall be furnished by the Bor-
rower to the Association for ite comments before the applicants
are notified of the Borrower's decision, and the Borrower shall
make such additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the
said list as the Association shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:


﻿- 17 -
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $60,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding,
paragraph (except for contracts on account of which withdrawals
are allowed from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditures), the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the res-
pective bids, recommendations for award and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was not


﻿- 18 -
consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issu-
ing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the pro-
visions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of
198
FOR SECRETARY


