Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 290la-IN
INDIA
KARNATAKA SERICULTURE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
May 14, 1980
Agriculture D Division
South Asia Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00   =  Rs 8.40  1/
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADS     =   Assistant Director of Sericulture
ARDC        Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
CB          Commercial Banks
CSB     =   Central Silk Board
CSRTI   =   Central Sericultural Research and Training Institute
DCCB        District Cooperative Central Bank
DOS         Department of Sericulture
GOI         Government of India
GOK     =   Government of Karnataka
IDBI        Industrial Development Bank of India
ISDP        Intensive Silk Development Project
KSIC        Karnataka Silk Industries Corporation
KSSDI       Karnataka State Sericultural Development Institute
LDB         Land Development Bank
PRC         People's Republic of China
PWD         Public Works Department
RBI     =   Reserve Bank of India
SA      =   Sericulture Assistant
SD          Sericulture Demonstrator
TSC         Technical Service Center
FISCAL YEAR
GOI and GOK                         - April 1 - March 31
ARDC, IDBI and Cooperative Banks - July 1 - June 30
Commercial Banks                    - January 1 - December 31
1/   Until September 24, 1975, the Rupee was officially valued at a fixed
Pound Sterling rate. Since then it has been fixed against a "basket"
of currencies. As these currencies are floating, the US Dollar/Rupee
exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions in this report are
based on the projected exchange rate during the project period.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY
Basin         - Part of a silk reeling machine in which cocoons float in warm
water.
Bivoltine     - Silkworm varieties from temperate climate countries which
breed only twice a year and whose eggs exhibit dormancy.
Charka        - Simple, hand driven silk reeling machine with one basin and
four to six ends.
Chawki        - South Indian name for very young silkworms.
Cocoon        - Silk capsule formed by silkworm larva in which it spends
pupa stage.
Cottage Basin - Mechanized silk reeling machine used in villages. Each unit
has six to ten basins each with six ends.
Degumming     - Removal of sericin from silk waste.
Denier         -  Grams silk per 9,000 meters yarn or filament, used as measure
of silk yarn or cocoon filament thickness.
Ends           -  Part of silk reeling machine where several cocoon filaments
are combined into silk yarn.
Filature      -  Large-scale silk reeling factory.
Grainage      -  Establishment for silkworm egg production.
Hatchery      -  Communally operated village establishment where eggs
hatch into silkworms.
Laying        -  Egg production from one female moth.
Multivoltine  -  Tropical silkworm varieties which breed throughout the
year and whose eggs have no dormancy.
Raw Silk      -  Silk yarn, after reeling.
Renditta      -  Measure of silk recovery from cocoon; ratio of kg cocoons
needed to reel 1 kg raw silk.
Sericin       -  Gummy substance which binds filament together on cocoons
and also binds silk waste fibers together.
Silk Recovery -  Reciprocal of renditta.
Silk Waste    -  By-product of silk reeling and raw material for spun silk.
Spun Silk     -  Silk yarn prepared from silk waste by degumming, combing
and spinning process, similar to that used for wool.
Univoltine    -  Similar to bivoltine silkworm varieties, but breed only once
during the year.
Note:     Paragraph 1.06 of this report contains a brief description of
the silk production process.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






INDIA
KARNATAKA SERICULTURE PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   THE  SECTOR  ........................................       1
General   ...........................................       1
Sericulture in India ..............................         1
The Silk Production Process .....      ..................   2
Mulberry Cultivation ..............................         2
Silkworms and Silkworm Rearing .....      ...............   3
Cocoon Marketing and Processing ....      ...............   4
Government Programs ...............................         6
Mulberry Silk Research and Technology ....     .........    6
II.   SILK PRODUCTION IN KARNATAKA ......................         7
Agriculture in Karnataka ..........................         7
Silk Production Area ..............................         8
Topography, Climate and Soils .....      ................   8
Production ........................................         9
Holding Size and Tenure ...........................        10
Reeling   ...........................................      10
Department of Sericulture (DOS) ....      ...............  10
Credit   ............................................      12
III. THE PROJECT    ..13
Project Genesis   ..13
Project Summary   ..13
Silk Production   ..15
Silk Processing   ..17
Karnataka Silk Industries Corporation Facilities           17
Research and Technical Assistance    .       .18
Land for Project Facilities   .           .20
Environmental Aspects    .            .20
Project Phasing   ..20
This report is based on the findings of a preappraisal mission
consisting of Mr. Ducksoo Lee and Ms. J. Stockard (IDA) and Messrs. T. Omura,
T. Kuwano and Y. Arakawa (Consultants) which visited India in February 1979;
and of the appraisal mission consisting of Messrs. G. Stern, J.C. Goldbrenner
and Ms. J. Stockard (IDA) and Messrs. T. Omura, T. Miyazaki, and R.G. Deshpande
(consultants) which visited India during September/October 1979.



- ii -
Page No.
IV.   COST ESTIMATES, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND
DISBURSEMENTS   .....................................                                           21
Cost  Estimates   ....................................                                          21
Financing   .........................................                                           22
Procurement   .......................................                                           22
Disbursement   ......................................                                           23
V.      ORGANIZATION  AND  MANAGEMENT   .......................                                          24
Department  of  Sericulture   .........................                                         24
Department  of  Agriculture   .........................                                         25
Karnataka Silk Industries Corporation (KSIC)    ......                                           25
Research ......                                   - .. ................    26
Credit for KSIC through the Inoustrial
Development  Bank  of  India  (IDBI)   ....                          ............            26
Credit for Silk Farmers and Silk Reelers
through  ARDC   ....................................                                        27
ARDC  and  IDBI  Interest  Rates   ......................                                       28
GOI  Ministry  of  Industries   ........................                                        28
Training   ..........................................                                           29
Project  Coordination  ..............................                                           29
Reporting  Requirements  and  Evaluation  ....                               .........          30
Accounts  and  Audits   ...............................                                         30
VI.       PRODUCTION,  MARKET  AND  PRICES   .....................                                        31
Yields  and  Production   .............................                                         31
World  Production,   Consumption  and  Trade  ....                             .......          31
Exports  and  the  Domestic  Market  in  India  ....                            ......          32
World  Raw  Silk  Price  Projection  ...................                                        33
Indian  Domestic  Prices   ............................                                         33
VII.       FINANCIAL  PROJECTIONS   .............................                                           34
Karnataka  Silk  Industries  Corporation  ....                              .........           34
Departmental  Filature  .............................                                           35
Cottage  Basins  for  Private  Reelers   ....                            ............           35
Farm  Models   .......................................                                          35
Cost  Recovery   .....................................                                          37
VIII.        BENEFITS  AND  ECONOMIC  EVALUATION   ..................                                         37
Benefits   ..........................................                                           37
Economic  Evaluation  ...............................                                           38
Project  Beneficiaries   .............................                                          39
Project  Risks   .....................................                                          41
IX.      RECOMMENDATIONS   ...................................                                            41



- 111 -
Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Schedule A - Lending Terms and Conditions
Annex 1   -  Text Tables
Table 3.1   Implementation Schedule Major Items
Table 6.1   World Cocoon and Raw Silk Production
Table 6.2   World Raw Silk Consumption
Table 6.3   World Raw Silk Exports and Imports
Table 6.4   Indian Mulberry Silk Production and Exports 1960-1978
Table 6.5   Japanese Imported Raw Silk and Silk Waste Prices 1971-1979
Table 6.6   Financial Price Projection for Raw Silk
Annex 2   - Project Cost Tables
Table 1     Project Cost Summary with Phasing
Table 2.1   Grainages:  Estimated Costs and Phasing
Table 2.2   Hatcheries:  Estimated Costs and Phasing
Table 2.3   Model Hatcheries:  Estimated Costs and Phasing
Table 2.4   A.  Technical Service Centers:  Estimated Costs and Phasing
B. Mobile Demonstration Units: Estimated Costs and Phasing
Table 2.5   Training Schools:  Estimated Costs and Phasing
Table 2.6   Cocoon Markets:  Estimated Costs and Phasing
Table 2.7   Departmental Filature:  Estimated Costs and Phasing
Table 2.8   DOS Incremental Administrative Cost
Table 3.1   KSIC Filature:  Estimated Costs and Phasing
Table 3.2   KSIC Spun Silk Mill:  Estimated Costs and Phasing
Table 4     Research:  Estimated Costs and Phasing
Table 5     Technical Assistance and Study Tours:  Estimated Costs and
Phasing
Annex 3   -  Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
Annex 4   -  Financial Analysis
Table 1     KSIC Cash Flow Projections and Financial Rate of Return
Table 2     KSIC Consolidated Income Statement Projections
Table 3     KSIC Balance Sheet
Table 4.1   KSIC New Filature Estimated Operating Profit
Table 4.2   KSIC Spun Silk Mill Estimated Operating Profit
Table 4.3   KSIC Weaving Plant Estimated Operating Profit
Table 4.4   KSIC Existing Filatures Estimated Operating Profit
Table 4.5   KSIC Twisting Mill Estimated Operating Profit
Table 5.1   KSIC Workshop:  Estimated Operating Costs
Table 5.2   KSIC Headquarters:  Estimated Operating Costs
Table 6     Departmental Filature:  Estimated Net Operating Profit
and Financial Rate of Return
Table 7     Cottage Basins:  Projected Reeler Income and Financial Returns



i v -
Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Table 8.1   0.5 Ha Irrigated Farm Model:  Projected Income and Financial
Returns
Table 8.2   1 Ha Irrigated Farm Model:  Projected Income and Financial
Returns
Table 8.3   0.5 Ha New Irrigated Farm Model:  Projected Income and
Financial Returns
Table 8.4   1 Ha Rainfed Farm Model:  Projected Income and Financial
Returns
Table 9     Departmental Facilities:  Staff Salaries and Phasing
Annex 5   -  Economic Analysis
Table 1     Economic Rate of Return to the Project
Table 2     Price Summary for Financial and Economic Analysis
Annex 6   -  Industrial Development Bank of India
Annex 7   -  Related Documents and Data Available in the Project Files
List of Charts
Chart No. WB 21296   -  Proposed Organization Chart, Karnataka Department of
Sericulture
Chart No. WB 21295   - Proposed Organization Chart, Karnataka Silk Industries
Corporation
Chart No. WB 21297   - Project Organization Chart
Chart No. WB 21303   -  Department of Sericulture Implementation Schedule of
Main Project Activities
Chart No. WB 21387   -  Project Initiation, KSIC, Technical Assistance and
Overseas Training Implementation Schedule of Main
Project Activities
Chart No. WB 21629   -  Research Implementation Schedule of Main Project
Activities
List of Maps
IBRD 14378R - Karnataka Sericulture Project



INDIA
KARNATAKA SERICULTURE PROJECT
I. THE SECTOR
General
1.01      Agriculture is the dominant sector of the Indian economy.  It
contributes 45% of the GNP, provides about 70% of the country's employment
and is the basis for almost 60% of its export earnings. Most of the 160
million ha cultivable land in India is devoted to foodgrains, pulses and
oilseeds, but industrial crops such as cotton, jute, tobacco and seri-
culture, plantation crops such as tea, coffee, rubber, coconuts and
cashewnuts, and a large range of spices and horticulture crops are important
in some states and make a sizeable contribution to the Indian economy.
1.02      During the last decade, Government of India's (GOI) development
plans have emphasized agriculture, particularly foodgrain production, by
increasing use of irrigation, fertilizers, plant protection and good seeds,
backed by improved extension and research services. Although production
has responded impressively, leading to the build up of large reserve grain
stocks, considerable further efforts are needed to insure the long-term food
supply. Consequently, GOI is again giving high priority to foodgrain pro-
duction in its Draft Sixth Five-Year Plan. However, the plan also emphasizes
alleviation of rural unemployment and poverty and therefore includes invest-
ment for labor intensive subsectors such as sericulture.
Sericulture in India
1.03      India ranks fifth among silk producing countries after Japan, the
People's Republic of China, Korea and the USSR and sericulture holds an
important place in the Indian economy. About 3.8 million people are engaged
in plant cultivation, silkworm egg production and rearing or in the predomi-
nantly small-scale reeling and weaving industry. In 1978 production reached
3,700 tons raw silk used to manufacture fabrics with an estimated value of
between US$200 and US$250 million. Since silk is rooted in Indian social
tradition, the domestic market is strong and most of the production is used
locally. However exports, mostly fabrics, have expanded, particularly over
the last five years and earned about US$45 million in 1978.
1.04      Four silk varieties 1/ are produced in India--mulberry, 2/ tasar, 3/
eri, 4/ and muga. 5/  Of these, mulberry silk, representing the bulk of inter-
nationally traded silk, comprises about 85% of total Indian silk production.
Introduced into India in ancient times, mulberry silk production received some
emphasis during World War II for parachute production, but started to expand
markedly only two decades ago and has received a boost during the last five
1/   Derived from different silk worm varieties feeding on leaves of:
2/   mulberry bushes or trees,
3/   a variety of trees chiefly oak, Terminalia and Sal,
4/   castor or cassava, and
5/   several tree species indigenous to Assam.



- 2 -
years, due to introduction of improved mulberry and silkworm varieties.
Karnataka accounts for 74% of Indian mulberry silk. Therefore, large scale
expansion there, which would be supported by the project, would have a major
impact on Indian production.
1.05      Sericulture is highly labor intensive.  One hectare of mulberry
plantation creates 12-13 man-years of direct employment annually in mulberry
cultivation, silkworm rearing, reeling, twisting, weaving and implements
fabrication. Development of sericulture therefore accords well with GOI
priorities for alleviating unemployment and rural poverty. Furthermore, the
time is propitious for expanding Indian sericulture since production is drop-
ping in the countries of leading producers, notably Japan and Korea, due to
high labor requirements and costs. India has other advantages over competitor
producers, notably an ample supply of suitable land, not available in Japan,
for instance, and year-round production (up to seven silkworm rearings) com-
pared to seasonal production (two to three rearings) in temperate countries.
Consequently, GOI has included sericulture development programs in its Draft
Sixth Plan (1978/79-1982/83) to double production and exports. The project
would contribute significantly to achieving these objectives.
The Silk Production Process
1.06      Sericulture, which in this report refers to mulberry silk production,
consists of three activities:   mulberry leaf production as silkworm feed
(paras 1.07-1.08), silkworm rearing (paras 1.09-1.13) and silk reeling (paras
1.15-1.17). Sericulturists cultivate mulberry plants and annually rear
several crops of silkworms, producing cocoons which are sold to reelers. For
each rearing, the sericulturist purchases eggs from a grainage, where, under
controlled conditions, disease-free eggs are produced from selected silkworm
varieties. After hatching, fresh leaves are harvested several times daily
and brought to the rearing house to provide a continuous feed for the silk-
worms for 26-28 days. Subsequently, in about a 48-hour period, the silkworm
extrudes a continuous filament which it winds around itself, spinning a pro-
tective shell, the cocoon. Inside the cocoon, over a ten day period, the
silkworm undergoes metamorphosis into a pupa and then into a moth. Under
natural conditions or for breeding and egg production purposes, the moth
emerges from the cocoon and lays eggs, beginning the cycle anew. The seri-
culturist, however, must sell cocoons before moth emergence so that the con-
tinous silk filament can be removed from the cocoon by reeling. The reeling
process exists at several levels of technology depending to a large extent
on cocoon quality, but all reelers must stifle the pupae to prevent moth
emergence by steam or hot air drying of the cocoons. Raw silk is generally
the term used to describe the filament after it has been reeled out of the
cocoon and combined with several filaments to produce a thread of specified
thickness, silk yarn. The yarn is then "thrown" or twisted to impart tensile
strength suitable for weaving purposes. These processes are described in more
detail below.
Mulberry Cultivation
1.07      Mulberry is a hardy and drought resistant tree.  In Karnataka it is
cultivated as a shrub in closely spaced lines and is allowed to grow two or
three meters high. The tree tolerates most soil conditions other than impeded



- 3 -
drainage and because of a range of varieties grows well from sea level to over
1,500 m altitude. Establishment is by cuttings and the first crop of leaves
is harvested five to six months after planting. Under rainfed conditions,
harvesting is seasonal and tails off during the dry time between November and
June, whereas under irrigation five harvests at roughly 10 weekly intervals
are customary. The crop responds well to inputs and good cultivation practices
as evidenced by a 3,000 kg/ha average yield under rainfed (about 700 mm/annum)
conditions, compared to commonly obtained yields of 30,000 kg/ha with a full
package of practices under irrigation. Such package includes an improved varie-
ty (M5), regular weeding, heavy manuring (100 kg N,50 kg P and 50 kg K per
hectare annually for rainfed crops and up to 300 kg N, 120 kg P and 120 kg K
per hectare annually for irrigated mulberry). Correct harvesting and pruning
methods play an important role in determining plantation yield and life.
Mulberry sticks for fuel or planting material and parts of leaves not eaten
by silkworms and used for cattle fodder, are valuable by-products.
1.08      Pests and diseases cause few problems.  While leaf spot diseases
and powdery mildew are fairly common, they have caused little economic damage
to date. Control measures are known, but their use is rarely called for. A
well tended mulberry garden comes into full production in the second year
after planting and remains productive for 10-15 years.
Silkworms and Silkworm Rearing
1.09      Silkworm varieties have adapted themselves to the climate of their
environment. Tropical silkworms, including traditional Indian varieties, are
multivoltine and produce several generations during the year. Their eggs have
no dormancy. By contrast, temperate area silkworms from Europe or Japan, are
uni or bivoltine having only one or two generations per year. Their eggs
remain dormant for some months to allow over wintering. There are artifi-
cial means of terminating dormancy so that silkworms of these varieties can
also be reared throughout the year. Multivoltine varieties have low produc-
tivity compared to bivoltines and the successful adaptation of the latter to
tropical conditions has laid foundations for a major production boost for
Indian sericulture.
1.10      The life cycle of mulberry silkworms in India lasts about 40-45 days
and comprises egg hatching, 26-28 days feeding on mulberry leaves, during
which worms undergo four moults 1/, about 2 days cocoon formation, 10-12 days
pupating, followed by moth emergence, mating and egg laying. Each moth lays
about 400 eggs. During the feeding period larvae from 100 layings consume
about 700-900 kg mulberry leaves--over 80% during the last week--resulting in
mature silkworms with about 10,000 times their birthweight. Mature silkworms
stop feeding and are transferred to cocooning frames, where they spin cocoons.
1.11      Cocoons consist of floss (a series of silk strands) with which
silkworms attach themselves to the cocooning frame, pupa and a smooth shell
consisting of silk filament. Floss and filament are formed by extrusion of a
liquid By silkworms that solidifies on contact with air. Length, thickness and
weight of filament vary with rearing method and silkworm variety. For instance,
1/   A period during which the silkworm stops feeding and sheds its outer
skin.



-4-
in traditional multivoltine varieties filament length averages 400 m, while in
modern bivoltine hybrids average lengths of 1,500 m are common. The uniqueness
of mulberry silk is that each cocoon has only one filament which is industrially
processed by reeling (para 1.15) rather than spinning employed for making yarn
from other natural fibers.
1.12      Silkworm rearing requires skill, constant attention and is beset by
many risks. Ideally rearing should take place in specially designed rearing
houses which enable growers to control temperature and humidity and apply
hygiene measures. In practice, rearing takes place mostly in farmers' houses.
Equipment used includes rearing trays, stands for the trays and cocooning
frames, all made locally by village artisans. Application of hygiene measures
are crucially important to prevent a complex of serious diseases that can
destroy a whole rearing in a matter of hours and can be carried over to subse-
quent rearings. The most important diseases are pebrine, flacherie, grasserie
and muscardine. Pebrine, caused by a protozoan parasite, can be prevented by
ensuring disease-free silkworm egg production in grainages. The other three
diseases, caused by viral, bacterial and fungal pathogens can be prevented by
disinfection of rearing houses and equipment between silkworm rearings, main-
tenance of optimum temperatures and humidities, correct feeding practices,
constant vigilance to detect diseases and immediate application of appropriate
controls.
1.13      Other important measures that determine silk yield include daily
cleaning of trays, 1/ supply of sufficient fresh and good quality mulberry
leaves, and provisiol of adequate, ventilated space at proper temperatures
for the silkworms. i-or instance, the space required for one hundred layings
increases from about 0.4 m2 after hatching to 35 m2 at maturity. Over-
crowding of worms to economize on trays is a common fault that causes
excessive competition for food resulting in low silk yields. Adequate
supply of disease-free eggs and services giving intensive farmer training
and frequent advisory visits to each grower are prerequisites for a suc-
cessful smallholder based silk industry.
Cocoon Marketing and Processing
1.14      Shortly after cocoon formation, farmers sell cocoons to reelers.
Formerly reelers purchased cocoons from farmers either directly or through
agents, but in recent years most sales take place at state regulated cocoon
markets, particularly in Karnataka where 85% of the crop passes through such
markets (para 2.16). There cocoons are auctioned by staff of the GOK Depart-
ment of Sericulture (DOS) who also supervise weighing and payment to farmers.
The large proportion of growers using these markets testifies to their effec-
tiveness in ensuring fair trade practices.
1.15      Before reeling takes place the pupa inside the cocoon is stifled
to prevent moth emergence and consequent damage to the filament. At present,
stifling in India is done by steam, but in modern processing hot air is used
which results in improved cocoon storage quality and higher silk recovery.
Reeling consists of boiling cocoons to soften sericin, which binds loops of
1/   Silkworm droppings are used as manure.



-5-
filament together on the cocoon, unwinding filaments from cocoons, combining
several to form a thread of desired thickness and then winding the yarn (or
raw silk, as yarn is known at this stage) onto reels.
1.16      Three types of reeling units are common in India:
-    the charka - a hand powered device with one basin 1/ and four
to six ends. 2/ Several of these are combined in a typical
charka enterprise;
-    cottage basin - a mechanical reeling machine with six to
ten basins of six ends. As with the charka, a typical
cottage basin enterprise has several machines;
-    filatures - mostly state owned consisting of equipment
similar in design to the cottage basin, but combined into
large units.
1.17      Cocoon quality and reeling efficiency determine silk yield (per kg
cocoon) and silk quality. India's performance on both counts is low. For
instance, in Japan 5-6 kg cocoons yield 1 kg silk while in India 12-16 kg are
needed. Quality of charka silk is lowest, but finds ready sale to handloom
weavers, but even silk from filatures does not meet international market
quality standards. Reasons for poor results are inherently low yield and
quality of local silkworm varieties and obsolete reeling equipment. Lack
of modern equipment is a contraint to the spread of bivoltine silkworm varie-
ties in Karnataka. With existing reeling machines the higher quality of
bivoltine cocoons is not translated into improved yarn quality. Consequently
such cocoons fetch only a small premium in the market at present that would
increase if efficient processing were possible. Purchase of modern reeling
equipment, would therefore be necessary to support the spread of bivoltine
silkworm varieties, and would be financed by the project (para 3.14).
1.18      Silk waste is the most important by-product of reeling and comprises
damaged cocoons, cocoon floss, other short lengths of filament and the inner
portion of cocoons which cannot be reeled. Waste is processed in "spun silk
mills" by a process similar to spinning wool. The end products are spun silk
and the coarser noil, both much in demand for carpet weaving. The dead pupae
constitute a second by-product of lesser value which is used for animal feed.
1.19      Raw silk is sold to silk merchants who in turn sell it to weavers.
Weaving is mostly done by handloom or small scale powerloom enterprises and
about 150,000 handlooms are engaged in production of silk fabrics in India -
predominantly sari materials. Silk waste is purchased by merchants partly
for resale to the three publicly owned mills in India and partly for export.
1/   In all types of reeling equipment cocoons float in one or more "basins"
of warm water. Except in automatic equipment, one operator handles a
basin.
2/   Part of a reeling machine at which cocoon filaments are combined into
yarn.



-6-
Government Programs
1.20      Silk production is a state responsibility handled by state
industries ministries. Most of the important silk production states have a
sericulture department. Central Government involvement was formalized in
1949 with the establishment of the Central Silk Board (CSB), headquartered
in Bombay, operating under the GOI Ministry of Industries. The Board advises
GOI on policy and development programs, and is responsible for silk imports,
export quality control, and assists some states with production programs,
particularly high quality egg supply. In addition, the Board is responsible
for silk research, and to some extent training of advisory staff, and operates
four central stations, seven regional stations and about twenty research
extension centers in fourteen different states.
1.21      The establishment of the Board led to increasing attention by GOI
to sericulture in successive development plans. Plan financial provision
increased from Rs 4.5 million (US$550,000) in the First Plan (1951/52-1955/56)
to Rs 255 million (US$30 million) in the Fifth Plan (1974/75-1977/78) and
proposals in the Draft Sixth Plan (1978/79-1982/83) are for provision of
Rs 1.6 billion (US$190 million) to develop sericulture. The programs have
been comprehensive and have dealt with all aspects of the industry including
development of marketing and reeling. The sound framework established by
these programs has laid the foundations for expansion of sericulture to be
supported by the project.
Mulberry Silk Research and Technology
1.22      Modern integrated sericulture research dates from 1961/62, when CSB
became responsible for the subject. The complex of CSB stations has been in-
dicated in para 1.20, but the main effort went into development of the Central
Sericultural Research and Training Institute (CSRTI) at Mysore, Karnataka,
which now has a team of about 40 scientists and 45 technicians working on
mulberry and silkworm improvement, a modest reeling and fiber technology
program, as well as offering post graduate training for field officers.
Silkworm breeding and genetics, with 10 scientists and 20 technicians, is
the strongest section of the Institute. The Institute also supervises eight
substations. One at high altitude maintains silkworm breeders' stock. The
others, called research/extension centers, perform the triple function of
applied field research, advising extension staff and farmers and feeding back
farmers' problems into the research pipeline.
1.23      Results have been impressive.  In the field of mulberry improvement
a high yielding and more nutritious variety has been evolved and tested,
together with a package of cultivation practices (propagation, spacing, fer-
tilizing, harvesting), (para 1.07), which has found ready acceptance by farmers.
Other improved mulberry varieties are being tested. Silkworm improvement has
also been successful. Local varieties have been improved and used for hybrids
giving increased filament length and yields. However, the most valuable break-
through has been adaptation of bivoltine varieties to the tropical environment
and their use for hybridizing with local varieties and more recently for
bivoltine crosses with high yield and quality potential. Yield and quality
improvements of hybrids are illustrated in the table below which shows results
of CSRTI tests.



-7-
Silk
Cocoons     Content    Filament
per 100       of       Length per       Filament
Layings     Cocoons    Cocoon          Thickness
kg          %         Meters           Denier  /a
Pure Mysore races            15.00        12-14      300-400        1.8 to 2.0
Mysore hybrids               20.40        13-15      400-500        2.0 to 2.2
Bivoltine/multivoltine
hybrids                   31.41        15-17       600-900        2.2 to 2.6
Bivoltine hybrids           35.15        20-22    1,000-1,500       2.6 to 3.0
/a   Grams silk per 9,000 meters filament.
Source: GOK.
1.24      Rearing of bivoltines was initially beset by many problems, but
successful intensive research provided solutions and led to introduction of
the Japanese method of communal hatcheries locally known as Chawki centers.
There, under departmental supervision, silkworm eggs are hatched, and larvae
reared during the initial 10 day period, which is a particularly delicate part
of the life cycle, before distribution to farmers. Communal hatcheries have
increased cocoon yields by an estimated 20% over farm-hatched silkworms, and
CSRTI work was largely responsible for adapting this Japanese innovation to
Karnataka conditions.
1.25      CSRTI publishes results in the form of advisory bulletins used by
farmers and advisory staff. As a result of close collaboration between CSRTI
and the Government of Karnataka Department of Sericulture (para 2.12), use of
unimproved local varieties is being phased out rapidly.
1.26      Despite these impressive successes there is still a considerable
gap between silk yields in India (40-50 kg/ha irrigated mulberry) and Japan
(over 120 kg/ha rainfed mulberry). To ensure long-term growth of the industry
research activities need considerable strengthening and researchers would
benefit from more contact with foreign researchers. The project would, there-
fore, help to intensify research and provide foreign technical assistance
and training.
II. Silk Production in Karnataka
Agriculture in Karnataka
2.01      The state of Karnataka is situated in Southwest India, has an area
of about 192,000 km2 (19.2 million ha) and a population of about 30 million.
Of the total land area, a little over 10 million ha are cultivated, of which
about 1.35 million ha are irrigated, partly by canal or tanks and partly by
individually owned wells. Foodgrains, including rice, sorghum, finger millet,
pearl millet and wheat, occupy roughly half the cultivated area and the state
has been substantially self-sufficient in foodgrains for some years. With
its climatic range from humid tropical coastal to more temperate upland
areas, the state has a large range of cash crops. Cotton and groundnuts are



-8-
each grown on about 1 million ha and about 130,000 ha sugarcane are spread
throughout the state. Coconuts and cashewnuts are important in coastal
areas, while the highlands account for three-fourths of India's coffee produc-
tion. The area near Bangalore, the state capital, has a thriving horticulture
industry, famous for grape production. It is also this area and neighboring
districts that produce 62% of India's silk. Sericulture, introduced 200 years
ago by Tippoo Sultan, then ruler of Mysore, is practiced by 200,000 farmers
and provides employment for about 2 million people in the state.
Silk Production Area
2.02      The mulberry area is estimated at 110,000 ha including about
30,000 ha irrigated, and 4,000 ha improved M5 variety, and remains largely
confined to the five districts 1/ comprising the former Kingdom of Mysore
(see map). However, over the last four to five years large scale cooperative
trials with farmers have proved the feasibility of profitable sericulture in
many other parts of the state and about 1,000 ha have been planted in "new
areas".  Change from local varieties in traditional areas to M5 is taking place
rapidly, now that initial bottlenecks of planting material bulking have been
overcome. In new areas, the initial planting program has created strong demand
for mulberry area expansion that DOS, with its present meager staff and equip-
ment resources cannot satisfy. The project would intensify production in
traditional areas and help to increase production in nine "new" districts 2/
comprising the central and northern portion of Karnataka (see map).
Topography, Climate .nd Soils
2.03      The sericulture areas are on an undulating plateau at an average
altitude of 600-800 m in the west and south, and of 400-600 m in the east and
north. The higher areas enjoy a temperate climate. Even summer (March-May)
temperatures do not exceed 28-3OoC whereas in the lower areas summer temper-
atures frequently reach 4OoC. In the higher areas ambient temperatures are
suitable for year round silkworm rearing and, fortunately, cooler night
temperatures of about 24oC, allow regulation of rearing houses temperatures
for successful silkworm rearing throughout the year even in the lower areas.
Temperatures are suitable for mulberry in all areas.
2.04      Rainfall, mainly between May and November, ranges from 700-900 mm
average annual precipitation in the higher areas to 500-600 mm in lower
areas, but is erratic. Annual totals frequently deviate by 50% from the
average and monthly totals also vary sharply in different years. Mulberry,
being fairly hardy, can withstand low rainfall, but irrigation doubles yield
even in higher rainfall areas of Karnataka and is essential for economic
silkworm production in drier localities. Fortunately, there are sufficient
irrigation facilities--canal or privately owned wells--to cater for the
1/   Kolar, Bangalore, Tumkur, Mysore and Mandya.
2/   Chitradurga, Shimoga, Hassan, Bijapur, Bidar, Raichur, Bellary, Dharwar
and Gulbarga. In addition, there are parts of the five traditional
districts where sericulture has not been practiced to date, which are
included in "New Areas".



- 9 -
comparatively small area of mulberry in dry areas. High humidity, associated
with high rainfall years, tends to increase silkworm disease problems, a
factor which sometimes offsets benefits from higher mulberry leaf production.
2.05      Red soils grading from sandy soils to clay loams, very suitable for
mulberry, cover the southern half of the project area, while black soils vary-
ing from medium to heavy cracking clays predominate in the northern half.
Mulberry grows well on the black soils, but care is needed to avoid poorly
drained or alkaline (ph above 8.5) conditions. Both red and black soils lack
nutrients, particularly nitrogen and phosphorus, and mulberry gives good
response to fertilizers containing those elements.
Production
2.06      Mulberry area, cocoon and silk production have been expanding stead-
ily. The table below indicates production and yield trends, but DOS staff ad-
vised that until recently, when most cocoon production started to flow through
regulated markets, production data was subject to considerable errors.
Silk Production in Karnataka
Mulberry        Production          Yield /a
Area             (Tons)           (Kg/ha)          Silk Content /a
Year          (ha)      Cocoons    Silk   Cocoons   Silk    of Cocoons %
1951/52     43,000       11,800       727      274       17         6.2
1961/62     72,000       15,100       863      209       12         5.7
1971/72     93,000       29,100    1,775       313       19         6.1
1977/78    106,000       31,600    2,300       298       22         7.3
/a   Mission calculation.
Source: GOK.
2.07      The large area of rainfed mulberry, 80,000 ha, mostly in Mysore
District, reportedly produced only 16,000 tons cocoons (about 190 kg/ha)
during 1977/78, compared to 15,600 tons from 30,000 ha irrigated mulberry
(520 kg/ha). While overall cocoon yields are low, those from irrigated
mulberry come close to Japanese yields of 600 kg/ha but, as already indicated,
there is a wide gap in silk yields between Karnataka and Japan. The difference
is due to climate, varieties and rearing and reeling technology and presents a
challenge to local research and extension services.
2.08      Improved technology in all branches of silk production has only
become available in the field in the last three to four years. Improved silk
content of cocoons is the first visible impact. Cocoon yields of 800-1,000
kg/ha in some intensively staffed village schemes and in silkworm seed pro-
duction areas have proved the value of the new technology. Large-scale
adoption requires intensification of research and advisory services, increased
and improved seed production and introduction of improved reeling technology,
all of which would form part of the project.



- 10 -
Holding Size and Tenure
2.09      According to the 1976/77 Agricultural Census, there are 3.8 million
holdings in Karnataka and average holding size is 3 ha. Distribution of
holdings by size class is illustrated in the table below:
Holdings               Percentage Share of    Average
Size Class        Number        Area             Total           Holding
ha              000        000 ha      Number       Area      Size ha
Below 1          1,274         638       33.4         5.6        0.50
1 - 2              888      1,319        23.3        11.6        1.49
2 - 4              818      2,287        21.5        20.1        2.80
4 - 10             631       3,858       16.6        33.8        6.11
Above 10           199       3,254         5.2       28.9       16.30
Total            3,810      11,356      100.0       100.0        2.98
Source: GOK.
Average farm size in the silk areas ranges from 1.2 ha in Mandya to 5.3 ha in
Bijapur and in general is below 2 ha in the higher rainfall areas and above 3
ha in drier districts.
2.10      Tenancies have been abolished by land reform legislation and accord-
ing to the 1975/76 Agricultural Census all farmers are owner-operators. Seri-
culture is practiced in 6,300 villages by almost 90% of the farmers. Conse-
quently, the state distribution of holding size also applies to sericulturists.
The mulberry area per farmer (which reflects size of rearing operation) rarely
exceeds 2 ha, and about 80% of sericulturists with about 60% of the total area
grow less than 1 ha mulberries. Usually a sericulturist with irrigation
facilities has some irrigated paddy as well as a piece of dry farming land
where he grows mostly sorghum and finger millet. However, in non-irrigated
areas about 10% of the smaller farmers in "silk villages" devote all their
land to mulberry. The reason for the universally small size of operations in
Karnataka is the high labor requirement during the final stages of the silk-
worm cycle and the need for careful timing of operations, which make large-
scale sericulture operations difficult to manage even for more wealthy farmers.
Reeling
2.11      Reeling is predominantly a cottage industry.  About 10,000 charkas
and 7,500 cottage basins account for 90% of all reeling, with the balance
processed mostly in government filatures. Up to about 1957, charkas dominated
the reeling industry, but in that year, to improve quality, GOK introduced
a 50% capital cost subsidy for establishing cottage basins. As a result, the
number of cottage basins increased rapidly and now their output exceeds that
of the charkas, which has remained constant.
Department of Sericulture (DOS)
2.12      Established in 1914, the Department, with a professional and tech-
nical staff of about 2,000, plays a key role in all aspects of raw silk pro-
duction in Karnataka and provides production, advisory and cocoon marketing
services. In addition, the Department fulfills regulatory functions, partic-
ularly in the fields of silkworm egg production and cocoon marketing. The



- 11 -
Department also used to operate an industrial wing comprised of seven fila-
tures, a spun silk factory and a silk weaving factory, that has been trans-
formed into a newly established GOK Corporation, the Karnataka Silk Industries
Corporation (KSIC), which would operate commercially (para 5.05-5.08).
2.13      Silk Farms and Grainages.  DOS operates 74 silk farms (average size
10 ha) and 80 grainages that provide farmers with disease-free silkworm eggs.
Silk farms multiply breeder stock through two succeeding generations, to final
multiplication, which is done by closely supervised farmers in two special seed
production areas, one for local "Mysore" races and one for bivoltines. Silk
farms also serve as bulking centers for improved mulberry varieties and as
demonstrations for improved sericulture practices. In grainages, cocoons are
collected from silk farms and from accredited growers, and moth emergence,
mating and egglaying take place under carefully controlled, aseptic conditions.
DOS sells eggs to farmers at Rs 35 per 100 layings, which covers grainage
operating costs.
2.14      In 1979, about half the production of 160 million layings came from
departmental grainages and the rest from 833 licensed private grainages, whose
product is of variable quality despite inspection by DOS staff. Because of
danger of spreading disease from infected eggs, and in response to strong
demand from growers for better quality eggs, departmental egg production
doubled during 1978/79 and is expanding rapidly. However, even departmental
grainages lack modern facilities and are too numerous to allow highest quality
supervision. A program to consolidate and modernize grainages and expand their
capacity would be supported by the project (para 3.08).
2.15      Technical Services.  To date advisory services have not been inten-
sive with many sericulturists receiving only occasional advisory visits. This
type of service has not been sufficient to raise yields markedly and has only
been adequate to prevent disaster from silkworm diseases because of the rela-
tively hardy nature of traditional varieties. Introduction of high-yielding
but more disease susceptible new varieties requires intensive advisory services.
A successful model has been developed in several "Intensive Sericulture Devel-
opment Projects" (ISDP) as well as in the bivoltine seed production areas.
The model is based on a technical service center (TSC) staffed by a sericul-
ture assistant (SA) who supervises 8 sericulture demonstrators (SD). About
12-13 communal hatcheries are attached to each center. Each demonstrator is
expected to visit each of about 100 farmers once every four days while rearing
is in progress and supervise one or two hatcheries. Each SA during the course
of supervising his SD also visits farmers frequently. Such intensive visits
are necessary for close monitoring of disease status of rearings and have also
served to improve sericulture practices. Even experienced growers agree that
such services are necessary particularly with modern varieties. About 60 TSC
and 640 hatcheries have been established but require additional equipment and
staff. The project would help to improve existing TSC and to establish similar
intensive technical services based on TSC throughout Karnataka silk areas.
2.16      Cocoon Markets.  GOK under 1959 legislation introduced regulated
cocoon marketing. To meet the requirement of legislation, the Department
operates 22 cocoon markets. Designed for 10,000 tons the markets already
handle about 30,000 tons cocoons and existing markets are congested and long
waiting periods for farmers and insufficient shelter from dust or rain for
cocoons are the result. Despite these inconveniences, the vast majority of



- 12 -
growers prefers this type of regulated cocoon marketing to former direct
trading with buyers and there is urgent need to expand and improve market
facilities. The project would support GOK plans for that purpose (para 3.09).
A fee of 1% of cocoon value is paid by reelers, which covers operating costs
and DOS plans to double the fee to recover a portion of capital costs as well.
Credit
2.17      Both cooperative and commercial banking is well developed in all
parts of Karnataka. The three-tier short/medium-term cooperative has an apex
bank, about 200 District Central Bank (DCCB) offices and 5,000 Primary Agricul-
tural Society offices in project districts; the two-tier medium/long-term Land
Development Bank (LDB) has 140 offices; and commercial banks (CB) have about
1,600 branches of which 1,000 are semiurban or rural. There are also several
Regional Rural Banks which cater specifically for the poorer section of the
rural community. Most banks, particularly LDB and CB, have had considerable
experience of Bank Group supported lending, notably through the Karnataka
Agricultural Credit Project (Credit 278-IN) and two Agricultural Refinance and
Development Corporation (ARDC) Credit Projects (Credits 540-IN and 715-IN),
all fully disbursed. Most of them are already engaged in sericulture lending
which they are keen to expand.
2.18      Because of currently high overdues that afflict all banks in
Karnataka and Reserve Bank of India (RBI) rules regulating cooperative bank-
ing, short-term credit cooperatives would be practically precluded from and
LDB severely limited in project participation. RBI/ARDC plans for improving
cooperative banks are under GOK consideration. In the meantime, coverage of
the project area by suitably staffed and qualified CB would be satisfactory.
2.19      A major credit scheme for sericulture development in Karnataka was
started in 1974, but has been disappointing to date. The scheme comprised
formation of combined sericulture and general service cooperatives that were
to have provided all inputs and services needed by sericulturists, including
cocoon marketing. The cooperatives were to have been supported by technical
staff on deputation from DOS and by CB and eligible DCCB for provision of long
and short term credit partly refinanced by ARDC. Formation of cooperatives
took several years, provision of technical services divorced from DOS proved
impracticable and spread of regulated marketing has reduced the advantages of
cooperative marketing. In addition, farmers complain that loan application
procedures are so tedious as to discourage many potential borrowers from using
credit. Consequently, there has been little demand for credit through these
cooperatives. For instance on June 30, 1979 only Rs 1.2 million of a Rs 30
million target had been disbursed by ARDC in 31 long term credit schemes for
cooperatives. At the same time both cooperative and commercial banks had,
over three years, disbursed well over Rs 50 million for sericulture to indivi-
dual borrowers, which proves that there is a demand for credit by silk farmers.
Consequently, for the project proposed in this report, lending would be to
individuals rather than cooperatives in new silk areas. In addition, ARDC
would explore ways of improving its ongoing schemes, providing credit in
traditional areas to individual borrowers who are not members of cooperatives
and, together with GOK, consider measures for easing burdensome loan applica-
tion procedures (paras 5.12-5.15).



- 13 -
III. THE PROJECT
Project Genesis
3.01      Because of employment generation and potential for improving rural
income, both GOI and GOK have for some time been planning measures to expand
silk production in Karnataka. Both Governments felt that Bank Group assist-
ance would be helpful for improving the silk industry. Preliminary discus-
sions between GOI and the Bank took place in early 1977. As a result project
preparation was undertaken by GOK--mainly by DOS--in collaboration with GOI's
Ministry of Agriculture Project Preparation and Monitoring Cell with assistance
by the Bank's New Delhi Office staff. The project is based on the resulting
preparation report dated January 1979 and on findings of the February 1979
preappraisal and September/October 1979 appraisal missions.
Project Summary
3.02      The project would be the first IDA assisted scheme in support of
Indian sericulture and would cover about three quarters of Karnataka's silk
producing area. It would have three major objectives: firstly, to increase
raw silk production in Karnataka by about 1,600 tons including 1,000 tons high
quality bivoltine silk per year, by providing better silkworm eggs and inten-
sive advisory services to sericulturists already cultivating about 24,000 ha
irrigated and 60,000 ha rainfed mulberry; and to those who are projected to
plant about 14,000 ha irrigated mulberry in new areas during the project
period; secondly, to introduce modern processing facilities and methods that
would upgrade raw and spun silk to export grade quality; and thirdly, for
longer term improvement of the industry, to introduce the latest technologies
from leading silk producing countries and to expand local research. To
achieve these objectives the project would include components to expand DOS
technical, silkworm egg production and cocoon marketing services; GOK and GOI
research facilities; and technical assistance, all of which would be financed
directly through GOI and GOK. Additionally, there would be project credit for
on-farm investment by sericulturists and for small-scale reelers which would
be channeled through ARDC and banks to borrowers; and for modernization of
GOK silk processing facilities which would be provided through the Industrial
Development Bank of India (IDBI) to KSIC. The following is a list of project
components:
(a) For Silk Production
(i) credit for farmers in new areas for planting 3,500 ha
mulberry, purchase of silkworm rearing equipment sufficient
for such mulberry area and construction of 1,400 silkworm
rearing houses to support the 14,000 ha mulberry planting
program;
(ii) incremental staff, vehicles, equipment and operating
costs for 150 TSC with 1,700 communal hatcheries, four
mobile training units, construction, equipment and
operating cost of 20 model hatcheries, and improvement
of an existing sericulture training institute and
establishment of two new ones for expanding and strength-
ening DOS technical services;



- 14 -
(iii) construction, equipment, staff and operating costs of 10
modern grainages to expand and improve silkworm egg supplies
from DOS; and
(iv) construction, equipment, staff and operating costs of 30
market units to expand 11 existing cocoon markets and to
establish 12 new ones.
(b) For Silk Processing
(i) establishment of a semiautomatic departmental small filature
in the new areas;
(ii) credit for reelers, for establishing 500 cottage basin
units; and
(iii) improvement of government silk processing factories by
replacing the existing seven outdated filatures with a
modern one; and renovating, modernizing and expanding
the existing spun silk factory.
(c) For Research and Technical Assistance
(i) expanding facilities at the CSRTI main station and
establishing or improving of two regional stations and
10 substations; supporting programs at three Karnataka
universities; and establishing a sericulture research
station for the Karnataka State Sericultural Develop-
ment Institute (KSSDI), which GOK is in the process of
setting up;
(ii) technical assistance programs including 70 man-months
of consultants time and 380 man-months of overseas
training to support the production, research and pro-
cessing components; and
(iii) monitoring and evaluation services.
3.03      Short-term effects of the project would be its impact on silk pro-
duction and resultant considerable increase in rural incomes and employment.
The longer-term impact on sericulture technology would be equally important.
While mulberry production has reached high levels, there is enormous scope for
improving silkworm productivity and quality of local silk products. Project
assistance by way of strengthening research, introducing modern processing
technology and providing technical assistance and training, would leave India
well equipped to meet increasing demand for fine quality silk products due to
falling production abroad. The processing industry modernization program
would be one of special importance to the Indian silk industry. Introduction
of technology for producing high quality yarn is vital in the first instance
to support spread of bivoltine silkworm varieties and to replace high quality
yarn imports, now necessary for weaving export quality fabrics. There is a
huge local market for handloom products, but export oriented production will
become important in the longer term, to allow expansion of sericulture. At
that time raw and spun silk will need to meet international quality standards
and competition. At present there is little sign of private sector investment
in modernizing the silk processing industry and GOK is therefore assuming the



- 15 -
role of innovator by introducing new technology that may stimulate private
sector investment in similar processing plants at a later date. Since the GOK
facilities would use only about 5% of available raw materials, there would be
ample scope for private sector development of modern silk processing factories.
As a first step, however, GOK must introduce and demonstrate the new processing
technology and its financial viability, both objectives that would be supported
by the project.
Silk Production
3.04      Increased silk production would entail intensification of sericul-
ture in traditional areas and expanded production in the new area (para 2.02).
Mulberry leaf production would be boosted by encouraging farmers to replace
traditional mulberry varieties with the improved variety M5 on 20,000 ha irri-
gated land in traditional areas and planting the new variety on 14,000 ha
irrigated land in new areas. The M5 variety has become very popular and vir-
tually total replacement of unimproved varieties in traditional irrigated
areas, which is proceeding at a rapid pace, may well be completed before the
end of the project. In new areas demand for expansion of sericulture is
strong and at present DOS is hard pressed to provide adequate services quickly
enough to cater for the expanding mulberry area. Silk production would be
improved by the increase in mulberry leaf production, better leaf quality,
better silkworm egg quality, spread of high yielding bivoltine silkworm varie-
ties and, above all, intensification of advisory and other supporting services
to foster adoption of proven practices for mulberry and silkworm production.
While the main production increase would come from irrigated areas, the larger
rainfed areas would also be improved. Components of the silk production
program, to be supported by the project, are described in more detail below.
3.05      Credit.  Project credit would be provided only for new areas, be-
cause traditional areas are already served by ARDC schemes which may have been
disappointing to date (para 2.19), but which ARDC is now endeavoring to improve.
Besides, most silk farmers in traditional areas own well established silk pro-
duction units, which enable them to meet development and working capital needs
from earnings, without recourse to credit. In new areas, on the other hand,
credit would be an important catalyst to expand silk production, by helping
to provide finance for farmers who are planting mulberry for the first time.
The project credit scheme would serve a second important function by improving
the credit delivery system for silk farmers in all areas. However, even in new
areas demand for credit is hard to gauge. Therefore, to avoid the problem of
a large credit component in the project that may not be fully taken up, only a
modest program has been included. It would support 3,500 ha (or 25%) of the
14,000 ha mulberry projected to be planted in parts of the new area covered
by the project and, since demand for rearing houses has been small to date
even in traditional areas, project credit would support construction of only
1,400 (or 10%) of the 14,000 rearing houses that may ultimately be needed in
the new areas. The small size of the credit component would not be an imple-
mentation constraint since possible credit demand in excess of project funds,
which may well develop, could be met from IDA supported ARDC Credits. Loans
would be available to farmers for mulberry planting, purchase of silkworm
rearing equipment, construction of rearing houses and recurrent cost for two
silkworm rearing cycles. The short-term finance would be consolidated with
medium/long-term elements for repayment purposes. Construction of rearing



- 16 -
houses would be according to DOS specifications and assurances were obtained
that such specifications, acceptable to ARDC and IDA, would be drawn up before
December 31, 1980.
3.06      Technical Services.  Based on the successful ISDP model (para 2.15)
DOS technical services would be expanded by fully staffing and equipping the
existing 60 TSC and 640 hatcheries and by establishing 90 additional TSC and
1,060 hatcheries requiring an incremental staff of 150 SA and 1,200 SD. As
a result, DOS services in the project area would allow about 90% of all silk-
worm eggs there to be hatched and initially reared in communal hatcheries and
would be able to provide one SD per 60-100 growers. Project investments would
include hatcheries equipment, TSC and hatcheries incremental operating cost,
a vehicle, spraying equipment and microscopes for each TSC. To ensure staff
mobility necessary to maintain the farm visits schedule, the project would
finance 750 light motorcycles, for purchase by SA and SD through loans, which
would be provided by DOS. In the past DOS also provided advice for mulberry
production. From January 1980, this work has been done by extension staff of
the Department of Agriculture, which is being reorganized and strengthened
under the Composite Agricultural Extension Project (Credit 826-IN). This
arrangement would improve extension for mulberry production and would give
DOS staff more time to help farmers with silkworm rearing.
3.07      In support of the technical services, the project would improve and
expand an existing training institute and establish two new ones, each with
a capacity for 1,200 trainees a year, including staff and farmers. In addi-
tion,2the project wotId finance 20 model hatcheries, including the cost of a
110 m hatchery builcing, and equipment for each and its operating expenses.
These hatcheries would be strategically placed demonstrations, to encourage
growers to form groups to operate their own hatcheries. Finally, there would
be four demonstration vans with audio-visual equipment, which would travel
throughout the project area and support demonstrations by TSC staff.
3.08      Grainages.  Private grainages were adequate to deal with relatively
hardy local varieties, but many of them are not capable of consistent produc-
tion of disease-free layings of more disease susceptible modern varieties.
Infected eggs are a threat to the industry, consequently GOK, partly reacting
to strong demand by farmers, is planning to offer farmers a greater egg supply
from its own grainages and would then be able to apply much stricter quality
control and licensing procedures to private grainages. All but the largest of
the present DOS grainages would be closed or converted into egg sale centers
and would be replaced by large modern grainages. The project would finance
ten of 5hese grainages. Each one would be a four-floor building with
3,200 m floor area, specifically designed and equipped for aseptic production
of 10 million disease-free layings per year. Seven grainages would have a
cold store each for egg storage. Such storage would allow year round produc-
tion and build-up of stocks for the peak demand period following the onset of
rains. To avoid egg spoilage in case of power outages, each grainage would
have stand by generators. Three grainages would have smaller cold store space
for preserving moths to give more flexibility for the breeding and egg laying
process. Direction of the grainage operation would be provided by senior
experts at DOS headquarters. In addition, project technical assistance and
overseas training programs (paras 3.20 and 3.21) are designed for introduction
of modern operating and quality control methods for the new facilities.



- 17 -
3.09      Cocoon Markets.  To provide adequate facilities for ongoing cocoon
production and for its expansion, the project would extend 11 of 22 existing
markets and establish 12 new ones. Eight existing and two new markets would
be Class I markets, that receive or are projected to receive more than 1 mil-
lion kg cocoons per month and the remaining 13 would be smaller, Class II
markeis. All market expansion or new construction would be based on standard
900 m floor area units that would comprise a hall for waiting sellers; an
auction area; offices and stores. Class I markets would have two or more units
each while Class II markets would each have one. Seventeen units would be
constructed at 10 Class I markets and 13 at 13 Class II markets, a total of
30 units at 23 sites. Unit design is based on experience gained during the
last seven years and on advice from the FAO Markets Specialist in Delhi.
Silk Processing
3.10      The two main objectives of project processing investments are provi-
sion of adequate reeling capacity in new areas and, by improving GOK facilities,
introduction of modern technology to increase silk recovery from cocoons and
upgrade quality.
3.11      Cottage Basins.  Most cocoons in the State would continue to be
reeled by cottage basins and the project would provide credit (channeled
through ARDC and banks) for about 500 units in new areas. Project loans would
finance machinery, a shed and funds for purchasing a two-weeks cocoon supply.
As with loans to farmers, the working capital element would form part of the
term loan. Each unit would have about one ton raw silk per year capacity. To
attract reelers to new areas, GOK provides a subsidy equal to 40% of machinery
cost (about Rs 4,000), which has worked well in fostering cottage basin devel-
opment elsewhere. This subsidy would be necessary to attract enough reelers
to the new areas and GOK would continue to provide the subsidy.
3.12      Departmental Filature.  In addition DOS would establish and operate
one modern semiautomatic filature in the new areas. The filature would test
the economics of operating modern reeling equipment in a small-scale enter-
prise and would be a demonstration and training center for potential private
investors. Investments would include a 400 ends reeling unit, a rereeling
machine, hot air cocoon drier, boiler, factory building, staff quarters, a
truck and a van. The filature would process 400 kg cocoons per day and pro-
duce about 11 tons silk yarn per year.
Karnataka Silk Industries Corporation Facilities
3.13      The Corporation would own and operate existing departmental fila-
tures, spun silk mill and weaving factory. Modernization of the filatures
and spun silk factory would form an important part of the project and is
described below.
3.14      Filatures.  Because of obsolete equipment the existing filatures can-
not achieve export quality yarn, would not be able to exploit the benefits of
high quality cocoons and are running at a loss. KSIC would modernize one of
the seven filatures and close the rest. The modernization program would mean
reduction of the labor force for all proposed KSIC facilites from about 4,000
to 2,300 workers. Part of these 1,700 redundant positions wou'ld be dealt with
by not replacing any workers that are retiring or otherwise leaving employment.



- 18 -
Many others would be offered employment in expanding DOS facilities that would
require almost 6,000 workers. For those who cannot be placed, a compensation
program has been planned. Production, presently averaging about 150 tons per
year, would be expanded slightly to about 160 tons of export grade raw silk.
Investments would include three hot air driers, three cocoon boiling units,
six semiautomatic reeling machines (each with 400 ends) and eight rereeling
machines. The existing buildings would be used to accommodate the new machinery
with some additions. The filature, together with the departmental filature
would provide adequate reeling capacity to support bivoltine cocoon production
in the earlier project years. Later on GOK would decide whether to expand
capacity which may become necessary unless the private sector decides to invest
in modern filatures.
3.15      Spun Silk Mill.  In view of the increasing and largely unsatisfied
demand for spun silk in India and in the world, and the increasing amount of
waste silk available locally, the existing spun silk mill would be expanded
from 45 tons spun silk production per year to 150 tons. The plant, established
in 1936, and expanded and to some extent reconditioned since then, now requires
extensive repairs. A renovation program, based on a technical study by
Japanese spun silk specialists would be carried out by the KSIC central work-
shop (para 3.17), to be established at the factory site. Some of the existing
machines would be replaced and the renovation program would increase plant
capacity to 60 tons spun silk per year. The product would not be suitable for
export but would be easily absorbed by the local market. In addition, a new
90 tons per year spun silk production unit would be constructed at the factory,
that would be provided with the latest equipment and would produce export
quality spun silk. Both units would use modern waste silk degumming methods
that would improve spun silk recovery from waste. No civil works would be
needed for the existing unit, but a factory building would be constructed for
the new unit.
3.16      At appraisal, GOK considered the alternative of scrapping the exist-
ing plant in favor of a new 150 tons capacity factory.  GOK decided against
the latter option because of higher capital cost, lower employment requirement,
somewhat lesser flexibility of end product suitable for local requirements,
and the fact that financial returns would be almost identical for both options.
GOK considered that these factors outweighed advantages of completely new
plant such as easier management, raw material economies, and higher quality
end product. Since studies confirm that renovation is sound, the moderniza-
tion program chosen by GOK would be satisfactory.
3.17      Central Workshop.  The existing departmental central workshop in
Mysore would also be taken over by KSIC and needs to be expanded and reequipped
for reconditioning the spun silk mill and for maintenance of the other KSIC
processing factories. New equipment would include foundry equipment, lathes,
grinders, drills, presses, sawing machines and small tools. The workshop
would be located at the spun silk mill which is a satisfactory location for
serving other KSIC facilities.
Research and Technical Assistance
3.18      Research.  The CSRTI had prepared a modest program for intensify-
ing research but the preappraisal team, pointing to the success of intensive
research in Japan and Korea, advised increase of program size. As a result,



- 19 -
GOI and GOK staff together drew up a plan for expansion of research to be
financed by the project. CSRTI would remain the lead institute, but would
collaborate with three local universities and with the Karnataka State Seri-
cultural Development Institute (KSSDI) which GOK is establishing. The plan
has been reviewed and approved by GOI and GOK expert committees and is sat-
isfactory.
3.19      Funds are required for laboratory buildings, staff housing, equip-
ment, staff and operating costs by CSRTI, to strengthen its central station,
establish two regional stations and five substations and to improve five
existing substations; by University of Agricultural Sciences, Bangalore for
strengthening its ongoing program focussed on silkworm disease control, start-
ing new programs for mulberry and silkworm pest and disease incidence surveys,
and for expanding its sericulture teaching faculty; by University of Bangalore,
for silkworm genetics and mulberry research; by Mysore University, for specific
research on silkworm genetics; and by KSSDI, to develop a research station
and laboratories to carry out research into all aspects of mulberry, silk-
worms and silk processing.
3.20      Technical Assistance.  The project would finance 70 man-months of
consultants' time and a 380 man-months program for training abroad. In the
case of consultancies, about 19 man-months would be needed for visits of 5
or 6 top level scientists to CSRTI to support mulberry and silkworm breeding
work and for exchange of ideas on other research topics. About 12 man-months
would be used for two visits by a two-man team to help DOS with grainage dev-
elopment and another expert would be needed for two visits of six months to
help with the communal hatcheries program, with special Eocus on disease con-
trol. In addition, about 27 man-months of consultancy would be used by KSIC
for training staff to operate new filature and spun silk factory equipment.
3.21      The overseas training program would benefit 10 senior DOS officials
(2 months training), 20 Assistant Directors (3 months training) and 45 SA
(4 months training). Particular emphasis of this training would be on grain-
age and hatchery operation and silkworm disease detection and control. CSRTI
would require ten study tours for senior researchers, each for attachment to
a top research institute abroad for a 12 month period.
3.22      Japan, the leader in silk technology, would be the most suitable
source of expertise and training opportunities. To attract the necessary
top-class scientists and technicians, and in view of the proposed frequent
and short-term assignments, a high man-month cost of US$15,000 has been
allowed, inclusive of air fares, living expenses and local travel. However,
even with such high remuneration there is no certainty that all the desirable
expertise can be recruited, particularly on a timebound schedule. Arrange-
ments for training should present fewer problems and the Japan International
Cooperation Agency would be able to help with arrangements. Cost per training
month has been estimated at US$3,400 which would include air travel, local
travel, tuition, living and miscellaneous minor expenses. The programs would
assist and benefit the project considerably, but no part is so vital that
the project would fail without it. With likely difficulties of recruiting
consultants in mind, assurances were obtained that the GOI Ministry of Indus-
tries in collaboration with GOK, would, by December 31, 1980 draw up a plan
and timetable for the technical assistance and overseas training program and
would use its best endeavors to implement the plan for employing consultants



- 20 -
and study tours on terms and conditions mutually acceptable to GOI and the
Association.
3.23      Evaluation Study.  The project would fund an evaluation study by a
local research institute or university. Arrangements for the study are dis-
cussed in para 5.23.
Land for Project Facilities
3.24      About 80 plots of land would be needed for DOS and KSIC components,
mostly small building plots. All but six of them are already in possession
of DOS and negotiations for official transfer of the remainder, all of which
are GOK land, are well advanced and are expected to be completed before the
end of 1980. CSRTI would require 12 land units ranging from one to eight
hectares in size for research substations. DOS has suitable land and agreed
to transfer it to CSRTI as and when needed. There would therefore be no land
acquisition constraint to impede the project.
Environmental Aspects
3.25      The project would have no adverse environmental effects.  It would
cause change in land use only by replacing traditional with new mulberry varie-
ties or one crop, for instance sugar cane, with mulberry which would cause no
environmental changes. On the processing side, large processing plants would
be of modern design adhering to Indian factory safety and effluent disposal
regulations which are satisfactory. Care would also be taken that the smaller
privately owned units, to be sponsored by the project, would adopt satisfactory
safety and waste disposal measures.
Project Phasing
3.26      GOK had started project activities such as land acquisition, estab-
lishment of KSIC, securing the project budget and sanction for appointment of
proposed project staff, and implementation of some components prior to negotia-
tions; and has started full-scale implementation from April 1980, the new GOK
financial year. In the first project year DOS would improve existing TSC and
hatcheries and concentrate on preparing to implement the other components by
finalizing designs, calling tenders and recruiting and training staff. Estab-
lishment of new TSC and hatcheries and completion of supporting facilities
(model hatcheries and training institutes) would be carried out progressively
over the following three years. The first grainages are to be commissioned
during 1982 and market units financed by the project during late 1981. The
two programs would each take two more years to complete. Construction of the
two KSIC factories would start early in 1981 and is scheduled for completion
by mid-1983. Detailed designs for most of the major civil works items were
already substantially completed at appraisal. The timing of the technical
assistance program is difficult to predict and may well extend up to mid 1985.
Depending on availability of consultants, the technical assistance program has
been tentatively projected to take place mainly during the third and fourth
project year while the overseas training program would start in the second and
extend to the fifth project year. Project phasing is shown in more detail on
Table 3.1 and Charts 21303, 21387 and 21629.



- 21 -
IV.  COST ESTIMATES, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS
Cost Estimates
4.01      Total costs are estimated at US$95.1 million equivalent of which
US$20.7 million or 22% would be foreign exchange costs and US$6.6 million
would be duties and taxes. Estimates are based on September 1979 prices.
A 10% physical contingency has been allowed for civil works and 5-10% for
machinery, equipment, vehicles and incremental operating costs. Price contin-
gencies have been applied at 10% for 1980, 7% annually for 1981 to 1983 and
5% annually from 1984 onwards for local costs and at the following rates for
imported machinery and equipment: 10.5% for 1980, 9% for 1981, 8% for 1982
and 7% annuallv for 1983 to 1985. Total contingencies amount to US$22.8
million or 24% of total cost. Detailed costs are given in Annex 2 and are
summarized below.
Summary Cost Estimates
-----Rs Million-----   ----US$ Million----- Foreign
Category                   Local Foreign  Total   Local Foreign Total  Exchange
On-Farm Credit
Plantation                 14.0    -      14.0      1.7     -       1.7    -
Equipment                  17.5    -      17.5      2.1     -       2.1    -
Rearing Houses             18.9    -      18.9      2.3     -       2.3    -
Credit for Reeling
Cottage Basins             16.0    -      16.0     1.9      -       1.9    -
Subtotal Credit        66.4    -      66.4      8.0      -      8.0    -
Dept. of Sericulture
Grainages                  85.7   0.5    86.2    10.2    0.1    10.3    1
Hatcheries                 73.4    -      73.4     8.7      -       8.7    -
Model Hatcheries            5.1    -       5.1      0.6     -       0.6
Tech. Service Cntrs.       85.8    -      85.8    10.2      -      10.2    -
Mobile Demo. Units          1.1    -       1.1      0.1     -       0.1    -
Training Schools            7.7    -       7.7     0.9      -       0.9    -
Cocoon Markets             25.3    -      25.3     3.0      -       3.0    -
Filature                    2.6   3.4      6.0     0.3    0.4       0.7   57
Inc. Admin. Cost           25.6    -      25.6     3.1      -       3.1    -
Subtotal DOS          312.3   3.9   316.2    37.1    0.5    37.6    1
KSIC
Filature                    6.8  35.6    42.4      0.8    4.2       5.0   84
Spun Silk Mill             17.4  65.8    83.2      2.1    7.8       9.9   79
Hdqrtrs. and Workshop       6.1    -       6.1     0.7      -       0.7    -
Net Inc. Working Cap./a   3.9    -         3.9     0.5      -       0.5    -
Subtotal KSIC          34.2 101.4   135.6       4.1   12.0    16.1   75
Research Component           55.3  11.8    67.1       6.6    1.4      8.0   18
Tech. Asst./Study Tours       1.4  18.5    19.9       0.2    2.2      2.4   92
Project Evaluation Study    1.5    -         1.5      0.2     -       0.2    -
Base Cost Estimate       471.1 135.6   606.7    56.2   16.1    72.3   22
Physical Contingencies   25.2  11.8    37.0        3.0    1.4       4.4
Price Contingencies       127.8  27.0  ,154.8    15.2    3.2    18.4
Total Project Cost          624.1 174.4   798.5    74.4   20.7    95.1   22
/a  Working capital to finance incremental inventories, receivables and cash
balance necessary for efficient operations.



- 22 -
Financing
4.02      The proposed IDA credit of US$54 million would be made to GOI on
standard terms and would cover about 61% of project costs net of duties and
taxes, 57% of total project costs, or all foreign costs and 45% of local costs.
The balance would be met by GOI, GOK, ARDC, IDBI, banks, silk farmers and
reelers as shown in the following project financing plan:
Financing Plan
Farmers!   IDA    % of
Total  GOI/GOK  ARDC  IDBI   Banks   Reelers   Amount Total
--------------------- Rs Million --------------------------
Farmers/Reelers    82.3    -       29.8    -      7.5      8.0       37.0   45
DOS                415.5  165.5 /a -       -       -        -       250.0   60
KSIC               182.3   60.8    -      41.5    -         -        80.0   44
Research            91.5   31.5    -       -      -         -        60.0   66
TA/Study            26.9    -       -      -      -         -        26.9  100
Total         798.5  257.8   29.8   41.5   7.5         8.0     453.9
% of Total    100      32      4       5      1         1       57
/a   About Rs 75 million is estimated cash generation from grainages, markets
and the small filature.
4.03      GOI would onlend US$4.4 million of the IDA Credit to ARDC to
refinance silk farming development loans to farmers and cottage basin
development loans to reelers; and US$9.5 million to IDBI to lend to KSIC
for modernization and expansion of silk processing factories. ARDC and
IDBI interest rates are discussed in para 5.16. GOI would bear the foreign
exchange risks for finance onlent to ARDC and IDBI. GOI would use US$5.5
million for implementing the technical assistance, overseas training and
CSRTI research programs and would channel the balance to GOK for components
to be carried out by DOS, Universities and the KSSDI, in accordance with GOI
standard arrangements for IDA assisted state development projects. Retroac-
tive financing to cover early project implementation costs from October 1,
1979, up to US$1 million have been included. This financing would mainly
cover expenditure for the departmental program for establishment of TSC and
communal hatcheries.
Procurement
4.04      Civil works for KSIC, the departmental program and the research
program costing about US$8.2 million, would be carried out on about 90
sites over five years. Contracts for such work would not attract foreign
bidders and would be awarded after local competitive bidding, using GOI or
GOK procedures, which are satisfactory to IDA.
4.05      About 250 motor vehicles (US$1.9 million) would be required by
project agencies, mainly DOS. They would be purchased over a five-year
period and would be widely spread in rural areas. Adequate maintenance and
availability of spare parts would be of paramount importance, and this would
necessitate purchase of locally made vehicles of types already in use by
project agencies. Procurement would be according to GOI and GOK procedures.



- 23 -
Motorcycles (US$0.3 million) would be purchased by individual departmental
staff, from loan funds provided by GOK.
4.06      Reeling and spinning machinery and major items of ancillary equipment
such as boilers for KSIC and for the departmental filature (US$14.0 million)
and cold store equipment, refrigerators, and generators for departmental
grainages (US$1.9 million) would be procured by international competitive
bidding, following Bank Group guidelines for procurement. A 15% preference
on bids based on the CIF price of each item or the actual custom tariff,
whichever is lower, would be granted to domestic manufacturers. However,
contracts for these items of machinery and equipment costing less than
$100,000, when grouped together, may be awarded in accordance with local
competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Association.
4.07      Other equipment would consist of furniture, silkworm rearing equip-
ment, farm and laboratory equipment (US$9.1 million) to be purchased over
five years for use over a wide area. These items are not suitable for inter-
national bidding and would be purchased by local competitive bidding procedures.
Farmers and silk reelers drawing loans for mulberry planting, silkworm rearing
equipment and cottage basins (US$8.0 million) would purchase materials and
equipment individually from dealers of their choice and would also arrange
construction of rearing houses and reeling sheds locally. Technical assistance
and overseas study tours (US$2.4 million) and the project evaluation study
(US$0.2 million) would be arranged on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
The balance of the project cost (US$30.7 million) would cover DOS incremental
operating costs and staff salaries and those of participating research agencies,
KSIC working capital and land purchase for the research cDmponent, which would
not involve procurement. The above figures include physical contingencies
(US$4.4 million), but exclude price contingencies, which amount to US$18.4
million.
4.08      Small, off-the-shelf items, costing less than US$10,000 and not more
than US$1 million in aggregate, which are required urgently for project execu-
tion, would be purchased by prudent shopping, through normal commercial channels.
For all contracts for civil works exceeding US$200,000 and for purchase of
equipment and supplies exceeding US$100,000, draft tender documents, proposals
for advertising, bid evaluations and award proposals would be sent to IDA for
review before contract award. Copies of such contracts would be sent to IDA
immediately after award. Assurances were obtained that procedures outlined
in paras 4.04 through 4.08 would be observed.
Disbursement
4.09      Disbursements from the credit would cover:
(a) 55% of ARDC refinance of loans to farmers and reelers;
(b) 70% of loans to KSIC for civil works, machinery and
equipment;
(c) 75% of civil works, vehicles, equipment, farm develop-
ment and incremental staff costs for DOS and partici-
pating research agencies; and



- 24 -
(d) 100% of the cost of technical assistance, training abroad
and evaluation studies.
4.10      Disbursements under item (d) and for expenditures under item (b)
and (c) exceeding Rs 50,000 for machinery, vehicles and equipment and for civil
works exceeding Rs 100,000 would be made against full documentation supplied
to IDA through GOI. Disbursements for item (a) would be made against certifi-
cation by ARDC and for all other items against certificates of expenditure
submitted by implementing agencies including DOS, and research agencies. Sup-
porting documents for these payments would not be submitted to IDA but would
be retained by the implementing agency and made available to IDA during the
course of review missions. Certificates of expenditure would be audited at
least once every six months and a report submitted to IDA promptly thereafter.
The cost of land purchases or working capital for KSIC would not qualify for
disbursement of IDA funds. A schedule of disbursements is shown in Annex 3.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Department of Sericulture
5.01      The Department of Sericulture would implement all components con-
nected with cocoon production, including development, grainages, TSC, communal
and model hatcheries, training centers and cocoon markets. The Department
would cooperate close.y with credit agencies (para 5.12) which would carry
out the lending progrim for silk farmers and reelers and finally, DOS would
establish and operate a filature in the new areas.
5.02      DOS is part of the State Ministry of Industries and is headed by
the Director of Sericulture, responsible to the Secretary of Industries. At
appraisal, DOS was essentially organized into four zones each under a Deputy
Director supervising about six Assistant Directors (ADS). There were also
adequate administrative and finance staff at Headquarters as well as four
senior (Deputy Director and Joint Director Level) 1/ specialists for grainages,
marketing, cooperatives and supervision of seed areas. The Department is
dynamic and well organized and its staff responds well to its strong leader-
ship. DOS is reorganizing in preparation for doubling its technical staff
over the project period and the proposed organization and services that it
would operate are shown on Chart 21296. The field services would be organ-
ized on a District basis with a Deputy Director in charge. Each District would
have divisions (5 in Mysore, 3 in Bangalore and 2 in all other Districts)
headed by an ADS, whose primary task would be organization and supervision of
TSC and communal hatcheries. At Head Office, apart from a Senior Technical
Advisor, there would be five Joint Directors and a Joint Registrar of coopera-
tives to broaden the specialities dealt with at Headquarters to include silk
farms and technical services. With the exception of the large new grainages
and a filature to be constructed under the project, which would be directed
1/   Ranking in most government departments in India is as follows in descend-
ing order of seniority: Director, Additional Director, Joint Director,
Deputy Director and Assistant Director.



- 25 -
by Head Office staff, all departmental facilities and services in the field
would be supervised by District staff. Other Head Office specialists would
provide services, guidance, standardization and coordination for their relevant
specialities and would supervise them on behalf of the Director. They can be
regarded as senior subject matter specialists. Because of its size, each new
grainage would be headed by a Deputy Director who would report to the Joint
Director Grainages at headquarters.
5.03      The Department would also strengthen its administrative services at
headquarters adequately to deal with the extra workload caused by expansion
of staff and services. To carry out the heavy construction program under the
project, the Department would establish an engineering cell by secondment of
a superintending engineer supported by about five executive engineers and 20
assistant engineers from the State Public Works Department (PWD). Because the
project construction program has been planned to commence early during the
project period, assurances were obtained that the engineering cell would
be established by September 30, 1980.
Department of Agriculture
5.04      Village level workers of the Department of Agriculture would provide
extension for mulberry cultivation using T and,V extension methods. Subject
Matter Specialists to support extension staff would come from the Department
of Sericulture. There would be close liaison between the two departments at
state, district and taluk level.
Karnataka Silk Industries Corporation (KSIC)
5.05      The Government of Karnataka established the KSIC in early April 1980,
to take over the present DOS run filatures, twisting plant, weaving plant and
spun silk mill and implement the filature and spun silk mill modernization
program (paras 3.14-3.16) to be financed by the project. Main reasons for
forming the Corporation are to put operations on a more commercial basis,
relieve DOS from the task of operating the processing complex and let it con-
centrate on the silk production program; and provide access to institutional
credit, which is not available to the Department, particularly for financing
the modernization program.
5.06      The activities of the processing plants, each with its own manage-
ment, were coordinated by a small central staff at DOS Headquarters. The
Department had installed a satisfactory accounting and reporting system which
could serve as the basis of the Corporation's management control system.
Existing staff is expected to transfer to the Corporation and would provide
factory floor level staff and the core of management level staff. The weaving
and spun silk plants have been making profits over the last five years, but
overall results from all facilities showed deficits due to losses by filatures,
caused by obsolete equipment.
5.07      The Corporation would be controlled by a Board nominated by GOK.
The management team would be headed by a managing director, supported by a
finance director and a technical director responsible for all manufacturing
operations, research and development and centralized cocoon purchasing. These
three officers would be on the Corporation Board. Other senior staff to



- 26 -
assist the managing director would be the personnel and administration manager,
internal auditor, secretary and marketing manager (see Chart 21295). Each
plant would be headed by a general manager reporting to the technical director.
As with the DOS program, an engineering unit would be deputed by the State
Public Works Department to supervise project construction. Agreement was
obtained that the unit would be established before December 31, 1980.
5.08      The managing director of the Corporation has been appointed.  The
two other directors, administration and personnel manager, and the chief
accountant (who would report to the finance director) would be needed at an
early stage of the project, and assurances were obtained that they would be
appointed before September 30, 1980. Recruitment of senior management and
technical staff would be on a national basis. Some senior staff may be
deputed from GOI or GOK service. Since staff continuity would be important
for the success of the Corporation, GOI and GOK would endeavor to ensure that
deputed staff, unless unsatisfactory to the Corporation, would be retained in
their posts for a reasonably long period.
Research
5.09      The research component would be carried out by CSRTI, three univer-
sities and by KSSDI. The latter had not yet been established at appraisal
and assurances were obtained that it would be established before December 31,
1980. Responsibility for research programs would rest with the head of each
participating institute--director CSRTI, the Vice Chancellor of each university
and the director of KSSDI. The latter had not yet been selected at appraisal
and assurances were obtained that the director, head of KSSDI administration
unit and at least two of the proposed department heads would be appointed
before December 31, 1980. Coordination of research programs is described in
para 5.21.
Credit for KSIC through the Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI)
5.10      Project loan finance for the industrial component to be undertaken
by KSIC would be channeled through IDBI. IDBI, established in 1964, had up
to December 31, 1979 approved total financial assistance of Rs 46.1 billion
(US$5.5 billion) for a large variety of industrial investments, either directly
or together with other financing agencies or as refinance for onlending agen-
cies. IDBI has a large staff experienced in preparation, appraisal and super-
vision of industrial projects including investments in textile industries
similar to processing investments to be financed by IDBI for the project. The
Bank Group has already been involved with IDBI through two lines of credit for
State Finance Corporations, also for financing development of the fertilizer
industry, construction of an apple juice concentrate factory and through a
loan for financing joint/public sector projects. IDBI is financially sound
and well managed and well qualified for financing the KSIC development program. 1/
5.11      Under financial arrangements to be made between GOI and IDBI, GOI
would onlend part of the IDA credit to IDBI at an interest rate of 7.25% per
1/   Detailed description of IDBI is given in Report No. 1736A-IN of
January 15, 1978 updated by notes in Annex 6.



- 27 -
annum for periods between 5 and 9 years and at 7.75% per annum for periods
between 10 and 15 years, with a rebate of 0.25% for timely repayment in each
case. The repayment period would be the same as that of the IDBI subloan to
KSIC. Completion of the financial arrangements between GOI and IDBI satis-
factory to IDA would be a condition of disbursing the relevant part of the
Credit. IDBI would lend up to 70% of construction, equipment and machinery
costs for a period up to 10 years, which would include a two-year grace period
for payment of capital and interest installments, the latter being capitalized.
Annual interest rate would be 9-1/2% for the first Rs 20 million and 11% for
the balance which would give IDBI a spread of 3.55%, which is satisfactory. A
1% commitment fee may be charged by IDBI on undrawn amounts. Repayment would
be in semiannual installments. These lending terms and conditions were dis-
cussed and agreed at negotiations. IDBI would appraise the KSIC modernization
proposals on the basis of a feasibility report prepared by Messrs. Tata Con-
sulting Engineers (a local group with international experience) and would send
appraisal findings to IDA for review. Appraisal is in progress and is expected
to be completed before the end of June 1980.
Credit for Silk Farmers and Silk Reelers through ARDC
5.12      Under financial arrangements with ARDC, GOI would onlend part of the
credit to ARDC for refinancing participating banks which would provide loans
to silk farmers and silk reelers. Completion of financial arrangements between
GOI and ARDC would be a condition of disbursement of the ARDC refinance com-
ponents of this Credit. To ensure adequate and suitable banking arrangements,
ARDC, in consultation with GOK and local banks, has prepared a draft banking
plan which was discussed at negotiations. The plan woull be completed and
sent for IDA review by about September 30, 1980, and in any case before sub-
mission of applications to IDA for disbursements against ARDC refinance for
loans made to farmers and reelers. The final plan would include inter alia
a definition of ARDC's role in project implementation and proposals for:
banking coverage; preparation, supervision and monitoring of schemes; reha-
bilitation or development of banks or branches as needed; recruitment and
training of staff, as necessary by participating banks; supporting services
to be provided by DOS; and proposals for improving lending procedures where
possible. As already indicated (para 2.19) ARDC is endeavoring to improve
performance of ongoing schemes for cooperatives in traditional areas and would
also seek ways of making ARDC refinanced credit available to silk farmers who
are not members of cooperatives.
5.13      Project schemes would most likely be prepared on a district rather
than on a bank by bank basis, a measure that should speed up preparations for
project lending. While banks would be allocated certain areas in which they
would canvass loans intensively, lending for project purposes by other banks
in that area, due to existing business connections, would also be refinanced
from project funds. To ensure effectiveness of credit services, banking
arrangements would be reviewed at state level once a quarter and changes made
as necessary. With respect to ensuring recoveries, CB in particular were
interested in linking loan repayments to marketing. They would, therefore,
together with DOS, explore possible procedures for effecting recovery in GOK
regulated cocoon or silk markets. If successful, such an arrangement would
cover participating cooperative banks.



- 28 -
5.14      ARDC would also explore measures to improve burdensome and time con-
suming lending procedures, particulary those connected with obtaining mortgages.
Such measures may include possible substitution of a charge on land for mort-
gages; or introduction of a credit passbook system which would also obviate
the need for mortgages. To speed up processing of loan applications, GOK is
experimenting with "camps" of all government staff involved in loan approval
procedures to process all outstanding applications in the area during the
duration of the camp. GOK is also considering amendment of cooperatives legis-
lation, that would enable LDB to accept hypothecation of assets other than land
as collateral instead of only mortgages as at present and would facilitate
greater LDB participation in lending for rearing houses and cottage basins.
5.15      Through participation in about 40 projects, ARDC has ample experience
of Bank Group project execution. 1/ Lending terms and conditions for farmers
and reelers are outlined in Schedule A and were discussed and agreed at
negotiations.
ARDC and IDBI Interest Rates
5.16      Interest charged to final borrowers in lending channeled through
ARDC would be 9.5% for small farmers 2/ and 10.5% for other borrowers; and in
the case of lending through IDBI, 9.5% for up to Rs 20 million for investments
in industrially backward areas and 11% for all other lending. Inflation in
India between 1976 and 1979 averaged 2-1/2% annually. Inflation in India
between 1974/75 and 1978/79 averaged only 1.5% per annum. With the sharp
increase in oil price, during 1979 coinciding with a severe drought, prices
spurted by almost 15% between April and December 1979 and are anticipated to
increase another 10% during 1980/81. Given past GOI determination and success
in containing inflation, and the likelihood of a strong agricultural recovery
and improved supply of industrial inputs, the rate of price increase over the
project period is expected to average somewhat below 7% per annum. The pro-
posed on-lending rates would be positive in real terms throughout the project
period and would compare favorably with real rates in other developing countries.
GOI Ministry of Industries
5.17      The Central Ministry of Industries would be the GOI agency respon-
sible for the project. The Development Commissioner Handlooms, acting on
behalf of the Secretary of Industries would handle matters connected with the
project.  The Ministry, through the Central Silk Board, would be responsible
for the CSRTI research component and would also arrange technical assistance
and the overseas training programs. For this purpose the Ministry would enter
into discussions with representatives of Japan for obtaining assistance of the
Japanese Ministry of Agriculture in selecting consultants and of the Japan
International Cooperation Agency, which informed the appraisal mission that
it would be prepared to help arrange project training programs in Japan.
1/   Detailed description of ARDC is given in the Staff Appraisal Report of
the Third Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation Credit
project. Report No. 2404-IN of June 21, 1979.
2/   Defined in Schedule A.



- 29 -
Training
5.18      Training courses for SA are provided by CSRTI (9-15 months courses);
for sericulture inspectors by the University of Bangalore (6 months) and are
to be initiated by the University of Agricultural Sciences. Total capacity of
those courses would be about 150 trainees per batch. SD training is carried
out departmentally and includes courses at the departmental training center and
practical training which lasts at least six months at the 74 silk farms and 80
grainages. The project training program for almost 2,000 new technical staff
over five years would be formidable. While training facilities would be ade-
quate, particularly after completion of the training center development pro-
gram, a formal training program had not been drawn up for each staff category.
Assurances were therefore obtained that such program, including an implementa-
tion timetable would be prepared for IDA review before September 30, 1980. In
addition, both GOI and GOK would ensure that adequate training facilities and
resources would be made available for the SA and sericulture inspectors project
training program at CSRTI and at participating universities. Training of KSIC
staff in use of new equipment would be conducted by equipment manufacturers
and would also be supported by experts under the project technical assistance
program (para 3.20).
Project Coordination
5.19      State Level.  Overall project organizational features are illustrated
on Chart 21297. The GOK Ministry of Industries under the Development Commis-
sioner would be responsible for the project and has established the Sericulture
Project Committee to monitor and coordinate project implementation. GOK Ministry
of Finance and PWD representatives, a GOI representative, Director of Sericulture,
Director of Agriculture, Managing Director KSIC, a representative each of proj-
ect research services, ARDC, IDBI and of participating banks are members. The
Director of Sericulture would provide committee secretariat. The committee
would meet at least quarterly. The committee would, each year, approve the
annual project implementation plan and assurances were obtained that the plan
would be sent for IDA review by March 31 of each year during the project period,
starting March 31, 1981.
5.20      To support implementation of the silk production part of the project,
there would be a district level coordination committee in each project district.
Convenor and chairman would be the District Deputy Director of Sericulture and
membership would include the District Agricultural Officer, representatives
of participating banks, inputs supply agencies, PWD and the District Adminis-
tration. The Committee would meet quarterly or more frequently if necessary.
In addition, as already indicated, ARDC would organize quarterly review of
banking arrangements at state level.
5.21      Research Coordination.  A project Sericulture Research Committee has
been set up to coordinate research programs and development programs. The
head of CSRTI, KSSDI, Director of Sericulture and representatives of partici-
pating universities are members. The Committee would review program proposals
from participating institutions and formulate an agreed annual program, based
after the initial year, on evaluation of results from previous and ongoing
work. Assurances were obtained that the committee would send the first annual



- 30 -
program for IDA review before March 31, 1981 and thereafter annually not later
than the same date. The committee would also arrange to publish a consolidated
summary annually of results of the year's trials.
Reporting Requirements and Evaluation
5.22      DOS as main project agency would prepare a quarterly progress sum-
mary, and an annual report and, within six months after completion of the
project, a completion report acceptable to IDA which would deal with all proj-
ect aspects; based on data collected by its own staff for DOS activities and
on contributions of the other project agencies. Quarterly and annual report
formats would be mutually acceptable to GOK and IDA. Quarterly summaries
would reach IDA within two months after the end of each calendar quarter and
annual reports within two months after the end of the reporting year. The
above reporting procedures were discussed and agreed to at negotiations.
5.23      Quarterly and annual reports would constitute a monitoring system
of implementation progress both for project management and IDA. Progress of
the industrial component would be apparent from statutory annual reports and
accounts, but measurement of the impact of the project and its individual
components on silk production, employment and rural income would require
separate study that should also provide data for management decisions. The
Department of Sericulture has already initiated discussions with a local
economic research institute and preliminary proposals for relevant studies
are broadly acceptable, but require refinement. Assurances were obtained
that GOK would, by March 31, 1981, initiate an evaluation study satisfactory
to IDA. To ensure adequacy of study design and methodology, GOK would by
June 30, 1981, submit an inception report for IDA review, prepared by the
institute which would conduct the study, which would detail the work plan,
scope, methodology, data processing, analysis and reporting output and which
would also include preliminary survey questionnaires.
Accounts and Audits
5.24      In accordance with commercial practice, KSIC would install and
maintain financial and cost accounting systems which would show the results
of each of its factories separately and would allow effective internal control,
including inventory management and internal audit. Its annual accounts would
be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. Accounting and auditing
procedures of ARDC, IDBI and participating commercial and cooperative banks
are satisfactory. They would maintain clearly identifiable accounts for
project loans.
5.25      GOI and GOK would cause participating research agencies and DOS to
maintain separate records of project expenditures, which would be audited,
in the case of GOI agencies, according to GOI procedures and in cases of GOK
departments and agencies according to GOK procedures, all of which are satis-
factory. DOS and research agencies, within nine months after the end of each
fiscal year, would submit: (a) a statement of project expenditure during the
year certified correct by the Accountant General or other authorized accounting
authority; and (b) an account of such expenditures, classified according to
the components shown in Annex 2 of this report. Assurances were obtained



- 31 -
that accounting and auditing procedures outlined in this and the preceding
paragraph would be followed and that audited accounts and audit reports of
KSIC, ARDC, IDBI, and participating banks would reach IDA headquarters within
nine months after the end of the financial year of each relevant project agency.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKET AND PRICES
Yields and Production
6.01      GOK is planning to increase raw silk production in Karnataka from
2,300 tons per year at present to about 4,500 tons. Of the total, production
of bivoltine silk is expected to increase from 100 to 1,700 tons. Out of
those totals, project activities are projected to increase raw silk production
by 1,600 tons per year including about 1,000 tons bivoltine silk over a seven
year period. The increase would result from about 17,000 tons additional
cocoon production per year and from improvement of silk recovery from cocoons,
from about 7.3% at present to about 8.3% (from about 6.5% to 7% in rainfed
areas and from about 8% to 9% from irrigated mulberry). Cocoon yields in
rainfed areas are projected to increase from about 200 to 250 kg per hectare
mulberry and those in irrigated areas from about 530 to 700 kg. Yields from
traditional and new areas are likely to be similar. The traditional areas may
be climatically slightly more suitable and have experienced growers. However,
silkworm disease problems may be more difficult to control there than in new
areas and experience may not be a great advantage in tha. newcomers may adopt
improved practices more readily than established sericult:urists.
6.02      Several factors would be combined to raise silk production.  About
half the additional silk would come from the 14,000 ha irrigated mulberry ex-
pansion in new areas. Also there would be the spread of improved M5 mulberry
variety to over 90% of the 24,000 ha mulberry to be covered by intensive proj-
ect services in the existing irrigated areas. M5 not only has a 30% leaf
yield advantage over existing varieties, but has a more nutritious leaf
which in itself would result in greater silk output. Improved silkworm egg
production and widespread use of hatcheries would lead to a better start of
the rearing cycle which translates into higher silk production. In addition
there would be large-scale introduction of bivoltine silkworm varieties with
higher cocoon yield, better silk content and better quality than local varie-
ties. One of the most important factors for improving production would be
intensive advisory services both for mulberry cultivation and silkworm produc-
tion. Because there would be five or more silkworm rearings per year, farmers
would have much greater opportunity for learning new practices than with
normal field crops. The assumption therefore, used in yield projections, that
target yields would be achieved over three years (the equivalent of 15 crops)
from the time that intensified services start in any area, is considered to
be reasonable.
World Production, Consumption and Trade
6.03      As a natural fiber, silk has been valued culturally for centuries,
and continues to be rooted in social tradition of countries where national



- 32 -
dress and ceremonial occasions dictate an irreplacable role for it. Addi-
tionally, Western European haute couture has contributed to establishing a
reliable market by consistently expressing fashion in silk.
6.04      Over the last five years, world cocoon production has fluctuated
between 300,000 to 400,000 tons with estimated raw silk production ranging
from 47,000 to 50,000 tons (Annex 1, Table 6.1). Until the early 1960s, Japan
was the dominant silk producer and exporter. Since then, the People's Republic
of China (PRC), from which information has become available only recently about
the extent of its productive capability and potential future supply to the
world market, has taken the lead in both respects. Because of the high sea-
sonal labor input required in sericulture, former major producers and trade
leaders, notably Japan and Korea, are experiencing decreasing production due
to urbanization and relatively higher wage rates of industrialized economies.
The comparative advantage has shifted to countries such as the PRC, India and
Brazil that have labor available at competitive wage rates.
6.05      Global demand for raw silk is expanding, and with it, the export mar-
ket. In the period from 1974-1978, total raw silk consumption in countries for
which data is available rose from 36,000 to 40,100 tons, an increase of 11% over
five years, or about 2.2% annual increase (Annex 1, Table 6.2). Domestic con-
sumption in Japan has gradually increased over the last fifty years to a cur-
rent level of about 21,000 tons per year. Estimated consumption in the PRC has
increased similary, to approximately 10,000 tons in 1978. Demand from manufac-
turers in We!.tern Europe and the substantial domestic market within India each
have increased to an .verage annual consumption level of about 4,000 tons.
6.06      Japan's imports represent typically 50-60% share of total traded raw
silk, two-thirds of which is supplied by the PRC, another 30% by South Korea,
and a small portion by Brazil. Over the last five years, domestic raw silk pro-
duction in Japan has decreased by 3,000 tons, approximately 18%, and reliance
on relatively cheaper imports has been necessary to contain production costs of
silk manufactures. The second largest share of imports goes to Western Europe,
distributed among five countries with established silk manufacturing industries.
These countries, notably Italy, imported 3,160 tons or about 37% of traded silk
in 1978. The United States, although once the world's largest importer and
processor of raw silk, is the third largest importer with typically about 3%
of market share (Annex 1, Table 6.3).
Exports and the Domestic Market in India
6.07      According to available information, India currently ranks as the
world's third largest consumer and fifth largest producer of raw silk. Mul-
berry silk production has increased steadily over the last two decades (Annex 1,
Table 6.4); more rapid growth has taken place in the last five years due to
development and dissemination of improved varieties of mulberry and silkworms.
Consumption of raw silk reached an estimated level of 4,200 tons in 1978, and
by a small margin India was a net importer. Accurate statistics on the domes-
tic market, reported as mill consumption and stocks in sericulturally advanced
countries, are not available due to the predominance of small-scale handloom
weaving in India. Exports primarily in the form of fabrics and finished gar-
ments have expanded considerably, however, registering an average annual



- 33 -
increase of 10.7% from 1960 to 1978 (Annex 1, Table 6.4). In 1978, foreigR
exchange earnings from mulberry silk exports reached US$45 million from 10.5
million m  of silk finished goods and about 1,500 tons of silk waste. 1/  At
present, India's silk exports are confined to narrow markets, to a large extent
saris for Indians living abroad, because of low quality compared to the inter-
national trade standard. Export trade in raw silk demands a quality standard
suitable for industrial powerloom finishing, such as the bivoltine Chinese,
Korean or Japanese varieties. Two of the primary objectives of the project
would be to increase production of bivoltine hybrid cocoons and to improve
reeling techniques for production of silk meeting international quality
standards.
World Raw Silk Price Projection
6.08      Prices for Japanese imported raw silk (standard 20/22 denier, mixed
quality grades) for the last nine years in current and constant terms is pre-
sented in Annex 1, Table 6.5. Although fluctuations occurred at the beginning
of the decade, over the last three years prices have been stable, with an
average weighted price of US$40.85/kg for a blend of qualities. If the present
supply and demand trends for raw silk continue, and based on the current average
annual increase in world consumption, demand will out-pace supply within five
to ten years. Assuming demand and supply elasticities of 0.5-1.0, the relative
price increase would be 7-10% over the present level. A median range price of
US$43.80/kg for good quality raw silk (standard 20/22 denier) which assumes a
relative price increase of 7% has been used as the 1985 projected world market
price (expressed in 1979 price levels), as illustrated in Annex 1, Table 6.6.
Indian Domestic Prices
6.09      Based on the best available information, cocoon and raw silk prices
in constant terms have risen over the last three years, despite increasing pro-
duction. Quality standards are not in use, but ranges are roughly established
for cocoons suitable for charka, cottage basin and filature operations. Accord-
ingly, raw silk produced by type of reeling process falls within a type of basic
quality price range, although again, standard quality measurement such as the
testing systems used in sericulturally advanced countries has not yet been in-
troduced. To ensure fair and stable prices to induce growth and quality improve-
ment in the industry of Karnataka, GOK has taken the lead of other countries to
establish a raw silk exchange (a regulated raw silk market), and a Silk Market-
ing Board which would be able to buy up part of raw silk market arrivals should
intervention be necessary to stabilize prices. For the project, constant finan-
cial prices for KSIC silk manufactures have been used based on domestic market
averages for 1978/79, and are expressed in late 1979 price levels. For cocoon
and raw silk prices, price levels have been used in the analysis that are up
to 10% below current levels, based on DOS anticipation of trends with operation
of the raw silk exchange. A summary of financial and economic prices is shown
in Annex 5, Table 2.
1/   Indian controls exports of silk waste to protect supply to the domestic
spun silk and noil yarn industry.



- 34 -
VII. FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
Karnataka Silk Industries Corporation
7.01      Financial Structure and Operating Assumptions.  KSIC is projected
to start operations by mid 1980. Authorized share capital would be Rs 150
million and two thirds of the plant modernization program would be financed
by loans. To allow adequate debt servicing capacity assurances were obtained
that KSIC would operate within the debt equity ratio stipulated by IDBI.
Resulting from discussions during negotiations, agreement was reached that
KSIC would not exceed a debt equity ratio of 2:1 without IDBI approval, during
the period that loans for the capital works program are outstanding. The
assets (mainly current assets) of DOS run filatures, twisting unit, weaving
plant and spun silk mill would be transferred to KSIC at net book value.
About Rs 10 million equity would be needed to establish the corporation, with
additional requirements to finance the project estimated at about Rs 5 mil-
lion, Rs 13 million and Rs 55 million in the first, second and third year
of the project.
7.02      Existing filatures and the twisting unit would be phased out over
a two-year period, starting April 1981, during which the new filature would
be built. The weaving plant would be operated on a two shift basis, starting
March 1980, instead of the present single shift. The present spun silk mill
would be reconditioned over a two-year period also starting April 1, 1981 and,
since only a few machines would be treated at a time, would continue to pro-
duce. The new spun silk unit would become operative in mid 1983, and would
increase annual capacity to 150 tons of spun silk. All the raw silk needed
by the weaving plant would be supplied from the filature and all the waste
silk produced by the filature would be used by the spun silk mill.
7.03      Financial Results.  The Corporation is projected to show an oper-
ating loss for three years before building up to an operating profit of Rs 35
million (see Annex 4, Table 2). The cash flow projections (Annex 4, Table 1)
show that KSIC would be able to dispense with short-term borrowing in the
seventh year, start paying dividends in the eleventh and be able to expand
facilities thereafter.
7.04      Separate rates of return were calculated for filatures, spun silk
mill and total investments (Annex 4, Tables 1-5). A summary of results and
sensitivity tests is shown below in percent:
KSIC Financial Analysis
Results of Sensitivity Tests
Spun Silk   Total
Filature          Mill     KSIC
Capital Cost (US$ million)          5.8            11        17.5
Base Rate of Return                20              15        16
Investment up 10%                  18              13        14
Revenue down 5%                    18              13        15
Operating Cost up 10%              17              13        14



- 35 -
The rates of return are sensitive to changes in revenue and operating costs
indicating the importance of management controlling the profit margins. Any
risk involved is considered well worthwhile, in view of the pioneering nature
of the proposed investments and the benefits to the Indian silk industry from
introduction of modern technology (para 3.03).
Departmental Filature
7.05      Financial rates of return were calculated for investment in the
departmentally operated semiautomatic filature to be established in the new
sericulture area. Based on a 12-year analysis with full capacity operations
after three years and conservative assumptions regarding cocoon procurement
and silk yarn prices, the return is 14%. Sensitivity analysis indicates that
the return is fairly vulnerable to changes in operating costs or benefits. If
revenue rises or operating costs drop by 5%, the rate of return rises to 18%;
conversely, the rate of return falls to 9-10% by a 5% change in the opposite
direction. As the unit would essentially be experimental and would also
serve as a training center the conservatively estimated base rate of return
is acceptable; however, since the operation of the unit will serve to demon-
strate financial viability in reeling for possible replication by private
entrepreneurs, DOS should adopt careful measures to curtail operating costs,
and as planned, initiate piece-rate wages where possible to induce efficient
production.
Cottage Basins for Private Reelers
7.06      Incremental analysis based on a charka operator upgrading to cottage
basin operation is presented in Annex 4, Table 7. The model is based on a
Rs 20,000 total investment in a 5-basin unit reaching full capacity of 910 kg
silk yarn (10 tons cocoon throughput) per year, after three years. Financing
is calculated on the basis of 10% reeler equity contribution, Rs 4,000 govern-
ment subsidy and the balance in a 7-year term loan at 10.5% interest with two-
year grace period. Based on a three-year build-up to 250 operating days per
year, two years of operating deficit would occur before annual incremental
net benefits of Rs 16,700 would be achieved, compared to a before development
net income of Rs 3,500. The financial rate of return to total investment over
12 years is 32%. Sensitivity analysis indicates that small changes in oper-
ating costs or revenues cause significant changes in the rate of return.
However, widespread cottage basin operations in India indicate that entre-
preneurs are sufficiently adroit to operate profitably. Additionally, with
government subsidy, the return to reeler equity is over 50% and is not sen-
sitive to major changes in operating assumptions.
Farm Models
7.07      In general, farmers in Karnataka regard sericulture as the most
profitable form of land use. The steady cash flow is as much an attraction
as the high total returns. Since crops follow each other in rapid sequence
the farmer can quickly recoup losses from a crop failure by better results
in the next silkworm rearing cycle. However, because of the number of
variables manipulated by a sericulturist in producing farm income, farm models



- 36 -
were developed to test the most stringent combination of factors. Thus the
base cases presented in Annex 4, Tables 8.1-8.4, and summarized below repre-
sent a high degree of conservatism.
7.08      The variables controlled by the sericulturist include the initial
and subsequent area devoted to mulberry, the rapidity of planting or replant-
ing with improved mulberry variety, the number and size of silkworm rearings,
the silkworm variety and resulting cocoon quality and yield. General assump-
tions for the models were based on well-managed farms producing alternative
crops under irrigation converting to sericulture with credit assistance for
plantation, equipment and working capital for two rearings; average to good
sericulturists with irrigated farms upgrading to improved varieties with credit
assistance for rearing houses; and improvements in rainfed sericulture due to
technical services to be initiated under the project. The models are presented
in constant prices (late 1979). While current cost levels have been used,
longer-term price levels anticipated by the Department of Sericulture have
been used that are up to 10% below current price levels for better quality
cocoons. Family labor has been included at the market wage rate. In all
models, it has been assumed that full yield is not achieved until the third
year. For tropical sericulture where farmers have an average of five rearings
and gain experience rapidly, this is an extremely conservative assumption;
however, this assumption adequately tests results if project implementation
is delayed and production infrastructure and technical services do not become
available as scheduled.
7.09      A 0.5 ha and a 1 ha farm model were prepared for sericulturists up-
grading to improve muloerry and silkworm varieties with credit assistance,
achieving different cocoon qualities (priced at Rs 23 and Rs 25/kg). Rearing
house construction is financed with 10-15% farmer equity contribution and the
balance by five-year term loan at 10.5% interest. Incremental net benefits
at full development are Rs 1,345 and Rs 3,075 for 0.5 ha and 1 ha farms, res-
pectively. Based on a 20-year analysis, the rate of return to total investment
is 15-16% for these models. Increasing revenues by 5%, possible with either
slightly larger rearings or an additional rearing or improved yield, brings the
rate of return to 22%. Lowering operating costs by 5% or capital investment
costs by 10% produces rates of return for both models between 17-20%.
7.10      For new sericulturists, a 0.5 ha farm model was prepared testing con-
version to mulberry with credit assistance for planting, equipment and working
capital for two rearings. Financing is based on 10% farmer equity contribution
and a four-year term loan at 10.5% interest, with interest payments only in the
first two years. Incremental net benefit at full development is Rs 1,265 com-
pared to Rs 1,950 estimated net income from traditional crops (paddy, maize,
cotton) before adoption of sericulture. Based on a 14-year analysis, return
to total investment and to the farmer's equity is 13%. An increase of 5% in
revenues, or assuming a 10% lower before development net income or 5% lower
operating costs results in a rate of return of 18-20%.
7.11      Returns to improved practices in rainfed sericulture are illustrated
in a 1 ha farm model that assumes no credit assistance is required. A modest
incremental yield of 35 kg cocoons per year and a Rs 1/kg added value in cocoon
quality because of improved practices, produces an incremental net benefit of
Rs 200 annually. Over seven years, the rate of return is over 50% and is not



- 37 -
sensitive to significant changes in parameters. This illustrates the great
potential in improving rainfed sericulture, one of the important objectives
of the project.
Cost Recovery
7.12      About one third of the project cost would relate to credit for
on-farm development, reeling and the KSIC modernization program and would be
fully recoverable. Another 35% of project cost would finance project technical
assistance, overseas training, research and extension programs for which cost
recovery is not considered appropriate. The balance of project cost would
finance grainages, cocoon markets, the departmental filature and communal
hatcheries. All these except the hatcheries (about 12% of project cost) would
be self-supporting from fees or sale of products and would generate financial
returns from 8% to 18% which are satisfactory for GOK facilities rendering
services to silk farmers. Communal hatcheries provide a service that reduces
farmers' costs and raises cocoon yields and represent an innovation well
proven on a pilot field scale, but not yet accepted by most silk farmers. GOK
ascribes importance to fostering widespread adoption of hatcheries by farmers.
Based on experience abroad, where it took several years for farmers to adopt
hatcheries on a wide scale, GOK has provided full funding for hatcheries to
cover establishment and operating costs over the project period. However, GOK
plans that ultimately farmers themselves should operate the hatcheries and is
considering ways in which those plans can be effected, including the possibi-
lity of introducing service charges in future. GOK, in the third project year
would exchange views with IDA on possible ways of recovering hatchery costs,
once the benefits of hatcheries are understood by most silk farmers.
VIII. BENEFITS AND ECONOMIC EVALUATION
Benefits
8.01      The project would help to provide a sound technical basis for
quality improvement and innovation at virtually every major stage of mulberry
sericulture in India, and would assist Karnataka in increasing raw silk pro-
duction, from 2,300 tons to 3,900 tons per year. In addition to incremental
raw silk and silk manufactures production with concomitant export earnings
resulting from 14,000 ha new production area and improved yields from better
farm practices and silkworm varieties, the project would demonstrate benefits
from improved reeling processes by introduction of modern units. Importantly,
the project would seek to enhance research and exchange with experts in seri-
culturally advanced countries to broaden and intensify the Indian research
establishment to support long-term development of the industry. A significant
number of employment opportunities -- an estimated 180,000 work-years annually
-- would be created primarily among the rural population, and project activi-
ties would contribute to increasing incomes of producers and processors as
well. Benefits from the project would be widely distributed and affect
positively the entire spectrum of the estimated two million persons engaged
in sericulture and related activities in Karnataka.
8.02      Quantifiable benefits from the project include net incremental
income to cocoon producers based on total incremental production of 17,000 tons



- 38 -
cocoons annually at full development, resulting in an annual incremental raw
silk and silk waste production of 1,600 tons and 480 tons, respectively,
valued at about US$75 million. Additionally, benefits from KSIC spun silk
mill operations have been taken at the added value in spun silk yarn and other
manufactures from processing raw silk and silk waste. Although not included
in the analysis, value from by-products of dead pupae (livestock feed), silk-
worm litter (fertilizer), excess leaf, stem and sticks (fodder, fuel), all
of which are recycled in some manner, form a considerable residual benefit
from sericulture.
Economic Evaluation
8.03      Economic costs of the project would consist of capital investment and
operating costs for production and processing infrastructure, on-farm develop-
ment and cottage basin capital and production costs, and KSIC net incremental
working capital. No attempt has been made to quantify benefits from investment
in research, technical assistance and foreign training, or the project evalua-
tion study, and costs for these components are not included in the analysis.
All costs are net of duties, taxes, price contingencies, interest and other
transfer payments, but include physical contingencies of 5-10% for civil works,
equipment, vehicles and incremental operating costs. Traded components in con-
struction costs (15%), operating costs (10%), KSIC equipment (45%) and fertil-
izer (15% of on-farm production costs) have been adjusted by estimated standard
conversion factors of 0.82-0.84 to reflect more accurately the value to the
economy of utilizing foreign exchange. 1/ Due to widespread unemployment in
rural areas, the opportunity cost for unskilled and semiskilled labor, account-
ing for approximately 65% of on-farm production costs and 35% of incremental
employment generated by departmental infrastructure, was valued at 70% of the
market wage rate, corresponding to the upper limit of the 50-70% range typic-
ally estimated for the economic cost of unskilled labor in various agricultural
projects in India.
8.04      A summary of prices used in the economic and financial analysis is
shown in Annex 5, Table 2. The export parity price for raw silk is derived from
Japanese imports of standard 20/22 denier, mixed grade quality. Japan imports
about 60% share of world trade in raw silk. The price for silk waste was
derived with reference to Japanese imports, but at lower quality grade.   The
price for raw silk and silk waste is expressed in domestic currency by conver-
sion at Rs 10 = US$1, reflecting the estimated standard conversion factor for
India of 0.8. Added value from KSIC manufactures is taken at domestic prices,
because of the specialty nature of production for the domestic market and dif-
ficulty in comparison with internationally traded fabrics that include a design
element.
8.05      In the future without the project, it has been assumed that 25% of the
targeted 14,000 ha for new production would convert to sericulture with exist-
ing yield levels, producing about 200 tons raw silk for reeling by cottage
basins and charka units, and about 65 tons silk waste. The remaining area
1/   A conversion factor is the ratio of the world market (border) price to
the domestic market price, where the domestic price is expressed in
dollars converted at the market exchange rate.



39-
(10,500 ha) would remain under well-managed irrigated farms producing tradi-
tional crops (paddy, maize, cotton, sugar cane) with an average annual net
income of Rs 3,900/ha. Area and yields for existing rainfed irrigated farms
were assumed to remain at current levels
8.06      The analysis was calculated for a 20-year period during which one
major equipment replacement was assumed necessary. Yields and processing capa-
city utilization were conservatively estimated to reach full levels only in
the third year after initiating operations (see discussion on farm models,
para 7.07). Based on these assumptions, the estimated economic rate of return
to the project is 22% (Annex 5, Table 1). A separate rate of return calcula-
tion to raw silk production or to processing was considered inappropriate due
to the direct linkages between stages of production and the supporting infra-
structure which cannot be decomposed meaningfully.
8.07      Although the base estimate represents a stringent set of assumptions,
sensitivity analysis was performed to test results under additional changes
in major parameters. The most important of these was the assumption regarding
the projected raw silk price, but a 10% decrease resulted in a rate of return
of 17%, still an acceptable return to the economy particularly with the sub-
stantial employment generation impact of the project. Combining a 10% decrease
in all benefits with a 10% increase in either capital costs, on-farm production
costs or operating costs, or with 10% increased benefits in the future without
the project resulted in 15-17% rates of return.
8.08      As an additional test, switching values were calculated for critical
variables and are summarized below. The switching value of a variable is that
value at which the net present value of the project is zero (or, when the rate
of return equals the opportunity cost of capital). The switching point is the
percentage change required over the discounted appraisal value to produce the
switching value. At an estimated opportunity cost of capital of 12%, the
switching point for total costs and total benefits is 44% and -19%, respec-
tively, within acceptable boundaries (see para 8.07).
Switching Values of Critical Variables
(OCC = 12%)
Appraisal   Switching   Switching
Variable                           Value        Value        Point
-----Rs Million------
Costs
Capital Costs                       458        1,444        >100%
On-Farm Production Costs          1,018        2,003          97%
Operating Costs                     756        1,741        >100%
Total Costs                       2,232        3,217          44%
Benefits
Raw Silk                          3,288        2,302         -30%
Total Benefits                    5,155        4,170         -19%
Future Without Project Benefits        1,938        2,923          51%



- 40 -
Project Beneficiaries
8.09      In India, it is estimated that sericulture is practiced in nearly
5% of all villages, engaging 3.8 million people in various activities, an
estimated 30% of whom are from poorer sections of the population. Karnataka,
which represents 60% of total Indian silk production and nearly two million
workers, reflects the characteristics of the industry nationwide. In the
state, there are 6,300 villages where an estimated 90% of the farmers devote
at least a portion of their land to sericulture. In the traditional districts,
approximately 80% of the sericulturists with about 60% of the total area cul-
tivate less than 1 ha mulberry, and a similar pattern is expected to emerge
in the new districts, where the 14,000 ha target for new irrigated mulberry
is estimated for adoption by approximately 25,000 farm families. However,
virtually all wage earners, from field laborers to those involved in tradi-
tional reeling and handloom weaving, would be from the poverty income target
group. The DOS estimate of annual incremental employment generated by the
project is given below:
Estimated Incremental Employment
Generated by the Project
Work-Years
Mulberry cultivation and silkworm rearing        57,300
Fabrication of rearing implements                32,000
Reeling                                          16,000
Twisting                                          3,000
Weaving - 80% by handlooms                       66,000
20% by powerlooms                      4,000
Fabric finishing - 80% dyed and printed           2,000
Total              180,000
In addition, approximately 15,000 work-years of primarily unskilled labor would
be involved in construction of supporting infrastructure under the project,
and approximately 9,000 incremental positions would be created in the Depart-
ment of Sericulture to operate supporting infrastructure, about 65% of which
would be opportunities for unskilled and semiskilled workers.
8.10      By converting to irrigated mulberry from traditional crops, a farm
family would gain an estimated annual increment of Rs 1,265/0.5 ha, compared
to a Rs 1,950 estimated net income level before conversion. This incremental
income is comparable to about US$300 per family on a 1 ha basis, or about
US$50 per capita for an average family of six members. Sericulturists
adopting improved silkworm varieties and practices would gain an estimated
Rs 3,075/ha net incremental benefit, or about US$365 per family. An addi-
tional attraction to sericulture is that the short crop cycle provides a
continuous cash flow from an average of five but up to 12 harvests annually.
Experience is gained rapidly, improvements can be introduced at frequent
intervals and any losses due to a reduced or failed crop can be recovered
within two months by better results in the next silkworm rearing.



- 41 -
Project Risks
8.11      Main project risks would be small response from silk farmers to
adopt improved practices and disease damage to impioved silkworm varieties,
which are more disease susceptible than traditional varieties. However, the
project has been specifically designed to minimize those risks, by providing
exceptionally strong advisory services (para 3.06) and since silkworm eggs
could become disease carriers, modern egg production facilities (para 3.08).
Technical assistance (para 3.20) and overseas training programs (para 3.21)
are also largely focussed on improving services to growers and on silkworm
disease prevention and control.
8.12      The project presents a difficult management task for the Department
of Sericulture. To increase production and introduce incentives for quality
production, DOS staff will need to work efficiently to provide adequate tech-
nical services and supporting infrastructure. Stepping up the scale of grainage
operations considerably and recruiting, training and managing the large numbers
of technical staff needed for the project will present a formidable challenge
to DOS. Management of KSIC will also have a challenging task in converting
departmental processing units into modern, commercially operated establishments.
However, given the priority placed on sericulture by GOK, and the high caliber
of DOS staff, the chances for effective project management are good. In view
of the employment and income generating nature of the project, promising
market opportunities likely to arise from falling production abroad, favorable
conditions for silk production in India and benefits for the industry and the
Indian economy, project risks are considered well worth taking.
IX. RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      Assurances were obtained at negotiations that:
(a)  GOI would:
(i)  by December 31, 1980 draw up a plan and timetable
for the technical assistance and overseas training
program and would use its best endeavors to imple-
ment the plan (para 3.22);
(ii) follow agreed procurement procedures (para 4.04 through
4.08);
(iii) cause the Research Committee to submit annual programs
for participating research agencies by March 31, each
year for IDA review (para 5.21);
(iv) cause its project agencies to observe project reporting
requirements (para 5.22); and
(v)  cause its agencies to fulfill project accounting and
audit requirements (para 5.25);



- 42 -
(b) GOK would:
(i)  by December 31, 1980 draw up rearing house specifications
(para 3.05);
(ii)  follow agreed procurement procedures (para 4.04 through
4.08);
(iii)  by September 30, 1980 establish one engineering cell in
DOS and by December 31, 1980 another in KSIC (paras 5.03
and 5.07);
(iv)  ensure that KSIC by September 30, 1980 would appoint
its technical and finance directors, the personnel manager
and chief accountant (para 5.08);
(v)  by December 31, 1980, establish KSSDI and appoint
the director and three senior staff (para 5.09);
(vi)  by September 30, 1980, prepare a staff training
program (para 5.18);
(vii)  prepare an annual project implementation plan to
reach IDA before March 31, 1981 and a similar
plan before the same date in each subsequent
year, during the project period (para 5.19);
(viii) cause its agencies to observe reporting requirements
(para 5.22);
(ix)  by March 31, 1981, initiate an evaluation study
(para 5.23);
(x)  cause its agencies to fulfill project accounting and
audit requirements (paras 5.24 and 5.25); and
(xi)  ensure that KSIC would operate with a debt equity ratio
stipulated by IDBI during the period that loans for
capital development are outstanding (para 7.01).
(c) IDBI would observe agreed lending terms and conditions
(para 5.11).
(d) ARDC would ensure lending terms and conditions outlined
in Schedule A (para 5.15).
9.02      Completion of financial arrangements satisfactory to IDA between GOI
and IDBI and ARDC respectively would be conditions of credit disbursement for
IDBI and ARDC components respectively of the Credit (para 5.11 and 5.12).



- 43 -
Schedule A
Page 1
INDIA
KARNATAKA SERICULTURE PROJECT
Principal Lending Terms and Conditions
1.   GOI to ARDC
(a) In respect of ARDC refinancing not exceeding 9 years:
(i) interest rate of 6.25% per annum, less 0.25% for
prompt payment, and
(ii) repayment at the end of 9 years.
(b) In respect of ARDC refinancing in excess of 9, but not exceeding
15 years:
(i) interest rate of 6.75% per annum, less 0.25% for prompt
payment, and
(ii) repayment at the end of 15 years.
(c) The Borrower (GOI) shall bear the foreign exchange risk.
2.   ARDC to Participating Banks
(a) Interest rate to be 6.5% per annum for lending to small
farmers 1/ and 7.5% per annum for lending to other
borrowers;
(b) Installment repayments to coincide approximately with
collections from ultimate borrowers; and
(c) Refinancing to be by purchase of debentures or by loans
up to 90% of individual loans.
3.   Participating Banks to Ultimate Borrowers
(a) Interest rate to be 9.5% for small farmers 1/ and 10.5%
for other borrowers;
(b) A once and for all evaluation fee of 0.5% of the cost of
investments may be charged. This fee may be waived with
concurrence of ARDC;
1/   "Small farmer" is defined as "any person primarily engaged in an
activity which provides a predevelopment net return to family
resources to such person and his family not exceeding Rs 2,000
(based on 1972 prices) per year, and net return to family resources
shall mean gross family income from the said activity less cost
actually incurred".



- 44 -
Schedule A
Page 2
(c)  Farmer's contribution (including obligatory purchase of cooperative
bank or society shares, own labor and other contributions in cash or
kind):
(i)  for lending to small farmers a minimum of 5% of investment
cost;
(ii)  for farmers cultivating land providing a predevelopment net
return to family resources to such farmers and his family
ranging for Rs 2,001 to Rs 3,500 based on 1972 prices, a
minimum of 10% of investment cost (for the purpose of determin-
ing the net returns to family resources in the case of borrowers
of reeling units, the criteria agreed to under Credit 947-IN
(ARDC III) shall apply); and
(iii) for other farmers, a minimum of 15% of investment costs.
(d) Repayment periods to be based on the ultimate borrower's repaying
capacity, but generally not to exceed:
Ci) four years on loans for plantation and replantation of improved
mulberry;
(ii)  three -,ears on loans for rearing equipment;
(iii)  five years on loans for rearing houses; and
(iv)  seven years on loans for reeling units.
Loan periods may be extended for up to two years in each case for
small farmers, at the discretion of ARDC.
(e) Grace periods may be granted at the discretion of ARDC, provided
that the repayment period of such loans is not exceeded; and
(f) Technical standards, as agreed by ARDC and the GOK Department of
Sericulture, taking into consideration IDA guidelines where applic-
able, to be observed.
4.   General
(a) Participating banks to maintain separate accounts for lending to
small farmers;
(b) Security to be in accordance with arrangements between participating
banks and ARDC;



- 45 -
Schedule A
Page 3
(c) ARDC shall refinance only sound schemes which, on the basis of
careful study are considered to be financially and economically
viable, and are backed by satisfactory technical and administrative
management to be identified at the time of scheme approval;
(d) ARDC shall forward all applications for refinance of schemes
having total investment costs of US$500,000 equivalent or more
together with appraisal reports and all other relevant data, to
IDA for its approval;
(e) Where necessary, ARDC may approve rescheduling of loans particularly
when requests for rescheduling are from districts suffering from
adverse climatic conditions;
(f) Lending Terms and Conditions from ARDC to participating banks, and to
ultimate borrowers, for similar purposes to be identical irrespective
of source of funds;
(g) Working capital for maintenance of mulberry growing and silkworm
rearing expenditures for the first two rearing cycles as well as 10
days working capital requirements for reeling units to be merged
in the term loan under a composite limit;
(h) ARDC to apply eligibility criteria for financing institutions to
obtain refinance fom ARDC, such criteria to be acceptable to IDA.
5.        These lending terms and conditions may be amended from time to time
as agreed between IDA and ARDC.



- 46 -
ANNEX 1
Table 3.1
INDIA
KARNATAKA SERICULTURE PROJECT
Implementation Schedule Major Items
Project
Activity                                               Total        80/81       81/82       82/83       83/84       84/85      85/86
Mulberry Area Benefitting
Fronm Project Services Per Year
Mulberry New Planting (Ha)                            14,000        1,400       2,800       4,200       4,200       1,400         -
Mulberry Replanting (Ha)                              20,000        2,000       4,000       6,000       6,000       2,000         -
Existing Irrigated Mulberry Improvement (Ha)           4,000          400         800       1,200       1,200         400         -
Rainifed Mulberry Improvement (Ha)                    60,000        6,000      12,000      18,000      18,000       6,000        -
DOS Facilities
Grainages Completions                                      10            -          -           2           4           4         -
Cocoon Markets Completions (Units)                         30           -          10 1/       10          10           -        -
Model Hatcheries Completions                               20            -2          8 -        4           4           4         -
Technical Service Centers Establishment/Improvement   150               60 -       30          35          25           -        -
Communal Hatcheries Establishment/Improvement          1,700          600 2/      300 3/      400         400           -        -
Training Centers Completions                                3            -           2 -        1           -           -
Demonstration Vans Purchased                                4           -           2           2           -           -        -
DOS Staff Recruitment and Training
Sericulture Assistants                                   270 4/       100          70          70          30           -        -
Sericulture Inspectors                                    100 4/       20          30          45           5           -        -
Sericulture Demonstrators                              1,500 4/       540         310         420         230           -        -
Credit for Farmers and Reelers
Mulberry Planting Through Credit Program (Ha)           3,500          350        700       1,050       1,050         350         -
No. of Rearing Houses Through Credit Program           1,400           140        280         420         420         140         -
No. of Cottage Basins Through Credit Program              500           25         75         100         150         150         -
Processing Facilities
Departmental Filature Completion                            1            -          -           -           -           1        -
KSIC Filature Completion                                    1            -          -           -           1           -        -
KSIC Spun Silk Factory Completion                           1           -           -           -           1           -        -
KSIC Central Workshop Completion                            1           -           1           -           -           -        -
Consultants (Man-Months)                                   70           -           3          44          22           1        -
For CSRTI                                                  19            -          3          12           3           1        -
For DOS                                                    24            -          -          14          10           -        -
For KSIC                                                   27           -           -          18           9           -        -
Study Tours (Man-Months)                                 380            -          65         111         121          83        -
For 6SRTI                                                120            -           6          42          48          24        -
For DOS                                                   260           -          59          69          73          59        -
Research
Laboratories Completion                                     7            -          4           3           -           -         -
Staff Houses Completion                                    60           -           -          40          20
Hostel Completion                                           1            -           1          -           -           -        -
Farm and Miscellaneous Buildings Completion                26            -          4          11          11           -        -
Farm Development Completion                                13            -          1           7           5           -        -
Scientists Appointment                                   221           27          78          91          25           -        -
1/ 4 in May 1981 and 4 in March 1982.
2/ Improvement of existing TSC and Hatcheries.
3/ One renovated, the other new.
4/  A percentage has been allowed for attritUon.   Actual staff required is 250 SA, 100 SI and 1450 SD.



- 47 -
ANNEX 1
Table 6. 1
INDIA
KARNATAKA SERICULTURE PROJECT
World Cocoon and Raw Silk Production
(tons)
1/
Cocoon Production            1938       1974         1975         1976         1977        1978
Japan                       282,200    101,900      91,200       87,800       79,300      77,600
China                        65,500    160,000    163,000       165,000      166,000    170,000
USSR                         22,300      41,000     41,000       41,000       41,000      41,000
South Korea                 21,900      37,200      36,100       41,700       31,900      28,000
India                         9,400     36,500      33,400       37,900       44,400      48,600
North Korea                       -       6,000      6,500        6,500        6,800       6,800
Bulgaria                      2,200       1,800      1,800        1,800        2,200       2,200
Brazil                          400       7,600      7,800        8,100        7,900       7,700
Iran                          3,000      3,000       3,000        3,400        3,500       3,500
Turkey                        2,300       1,800      1,600        1,700        1,400       1,300
Others  2/                   29,800 3/   3,200       4,600        3,600        5,600       5,300
Total          439,000    400,000    390,000       398,000      390,000    392,000
Raw Silk Production  4t
Japan                        43,150     18,935      20,170       17,885       16,080      15,960
China                         4,855     15,600      15,780       16,320       17,760      19,000
USSR                          1,900       3,240      3,240        3,240        3,240       3,240
South Korea                   1,825      4,385       5,545        5,495        5,580       4,235
India                           690      2,445       2,375        2,8:i0       3,080       3,475
Italy                        2,740           90         60           45           25          20
North Korea                       -         600         650          800         900       1,000
Bulgaria                        180         230         230         230          240         240
Brazil                           35         700      1,200        1,200        1,120       1,250
Iran                            210         380        380          420          430         430
Turkey                          215         170         150         160          125         120
Others  2/                      700         240         340         265          415         390
Total           56,500      47,150     50,120       48,870       48,995      49,360
Source: Mission compilation. Principal references: statistics published by International
Silk Association, Government of Japan, Japan Raw Silk Corporation.
1/ Fresh cocoons ("green" weight). Best available estimates for China, USSR, North Korea,
Bulgaria, Iran.
2/ Approximately 19 other countries.
31 Of which Italy - approximately 19,900 tons.
4/ Best available estimates for China, USSR, North Korea, Bulgaria, Iran.



- 48 -
ANNEX 1
Table 6.2
INDIA
KARNATAKA SERICULTURE PROJECT
World Raw Silk Consumption 1/
(tons)
Raw Silk Consumption        1938        1974        1975        1976        1977         1978
Japan                      15,000      21,815      23,355      21,435     17,605        21,155
China                         n.a.    10,225        9,070       9,210       9,865       10,500  3/
India                       1,600       2,985       2,940       3,420       3,805       4,200
Italy                         765         n.a.        n.a.        n.a.     2,300  2/   2,040  2/
South Korea                     -         180         300         450         690          900
France                      2,430         335         430         560         765          705
U.S.A.                     23,150         145         275         305         225          255
West Germany                    -         160          65         180         180          150
Switzerland                   200          75         150         165         135          150
U.K.                        2,)00          75          80         125         110           80
Total       45,145     35,995      36,665      35,850      35,680       40,135
Source: Mission compilation. Principal references: statistics published by
International Silk Association, Government of Japan, Japan Raw Silk
Corporation.
n.a. = not available.
1/ Excluding countries for which data not available.
2I Best available estimate.
3/ Mission estimate.



- 49-                         ANNEX I
Table 6.3
INDIA
KARNATAKA SERICULTURE PROJECT
World Raw Silk Exports and Imports
(tons)
Exports                 1938      1974      1975       1976       1977       1978
China  1/               n.a.    3,855      3,530      4,800      5,300     6,400
South Korea                -    1,955        680        370      1,150     1,485
Brazil                     -       625     1,005      1,000        850        800
Switzerland               70        20         35        45         40         45
Italy                  2,405        20         25        45         35         25
France                   130        20         15        10         15         15
West Germany               -        20         10         1          7          5
U.K.                       -         1          -         4          3          5
Japan                 29,675        45          -         -          -          -
U.S.A.                 1,255         1          -         -          -          -
Total         33,535    6,562      5,300      6,275     7,400      8,780
Imports
Japan                  1,295    5,920      2,465      2,150      3,355     5,030
Italy                     25       910     1,880      2,275      2,365     2,050
France                 2,455       320       460        575        800        680
U.S.A                 24,570       185       260        375        180        265
Switzerland              270        95       185        210        180        190
Germany                    -       180         75       180        190        155
U.K.                   2,650        75         80       130        110         85
Spain                      -         5          5        30         35         30 1/
India                  1,100        15        20         45        135        25 1/
Other Countries          680      n.a.      n.a.       n.a.       n.a.      n.a.
Total         33,045    7,705      5,430      5,970     7,350      8,510
Source:  International Silk Association.  Some temporary imports included
(re-exported thrown yarn).
n.a. = not available.
1/ Best available estimate.



INDIA
KARNATAKA SERICULTURE PROJECT
Indian Mulberry Silk Production and Exports 1960-1978
1/
------- Production -------           --------------------Exports ------------- - -- --------
Reeling     Raw        Silk          ------ Quantity---------   _-----Value-------    Total
Year             Area     Cocoons      Silk      Waste         Fabrics  2/   Silk Waste   Fabrics   Silk Waste   Value
(ha)     --------- (tons) ----------         ('000 sq m)       (tons)      -------- (Rs mil) ----------
1960              82,950   21,635      1,154      581             920              524         8.1         3.4        11.5
1965              86,190   25,045      1,634       714          1,848               599       17.3         3.7        21.0
1970              98,250   34,280      2,258       939          7,827               745      121.3         7.3       128.6
1971             104,090   32,995      2,143       838          3,853               633       58.6         5.3        63.9
1972            104,885   34,255       2,119       824          3,901               794       62.4         6.1        68.5
1973             108,960   38,990      2,411      979           4,941            1,218        94.7        21.0       115.7
1974             120,570   36,535      2,445       997          4,669              430       108.1         6.4       114.5
1975             124,915   33,450      2,376      913           4,948               718      128.5         7.4       135.9
1976            125,045   37,890       2,812    1,044           5,935            1,214       176.3        13.8       190.1
1977             131,095   44,390      3,079    1,158           7,679             1,131      244.5        15.2       259.7
1978             135,000*  48,600*    3,473    1,200           10,479            1,471       335.9        31.7       367.6
I-,,
Average Annual Increase
1960-78                2.7%     4.6%       6.3%      3.9%           10.7%             5.9%
Source:  Central Silk Board Statistical Biennial 1978, International Silk Association, * = mission estimate.
1/ Mulberry fabric exports, minor portion of tasar included in silk waste. Value expressed in current terms.
2/ Sarees, scarves/stoles, dress materials, ready made garments, ties, other specialty items.
a Z
H M
?' H



INDIA
KARNATAKA SERICULTURE PROJECT
Japanese Imported Raw Silk and Silk Waste Prices 1971-1979
4/                               5/
Year                       1971     1972       1973       1974       1975      1976       1977       1978       1979
Raw Silk 20/22 Denier
Quantity Imported (MT) 1/            4,777    6,881       4,967      4,211      1,685       834      1,746      2,620        761
Value (Yen '000,000)  1/             30,537   40,433    44,702    38,390    13,245    6,643    14,565    20,293            6,270
Price/kg in current Yen               6,393    5,876      8,999      9,117      7,861    7,965       8,342      7,745      8,233
Par Rate/Market Rate for Yen 2/   350.74   308.00    271.22    291.51    296.80   296.55    268.51    210.47    210.56
Price/kg in current US$               18.23    19.08      33.18      31.28      26.49    26.86       31.07      36.80      39.10
International Price Index  3/         36.4      40.3       48.5       60.4       69.6      70.9       76.5       89.6       95.6 -
(Average for 1979 = 100)
Price/kg in 1979 US$                  50.08    47.34      68.41      51.79      38.06    37.88       40.61      41.07      40.90
Silk Waste
Quantity Imported (MT) -/            1,182    1,453       1,902      1,439      1,264    2,171       1,697      2,542      1,560    P
Value (Yen '000,000)  1/                972    1,049      1,958      1,785        927    1,582       1,375      1,911      2,027
Price/kg in current Yen                 822       722     1,029      1,240        733       729        810        752      1,299
Par Rate/Market Rate for Yen 2/   350.74   308.00    271.22    291.51    296.80   296.55    268.51    210.47    210.56
Price/kg in current US$                2.34     2.34       3.79       4.25       2.47      2.46       3.02       3.57       6.17
International Price Index             36.4      40.3       48.5       60.4       69.6      70.9       76.5       89.6       95.6 6/
(Average for 1979=100)
Price/kg in 1979 US$                   6.43     5.81       7.81       7.04       3.55      3.47       3.95       3.98       6.45
1/ CIF Japan. Japan Exports and Imports, Japan Tariff Association, various issues.
2/ International Financial Statistics, IMF, January 1976 and March 1980.
3/ Estimated by Economic Analysis and Projections Department, IBRD.
4/ January through November.
5/ January through July.
6/ The increase from 1978 was prorated for the first 7 months of 1979.
0% 



-52-
ANNEX 1
Table 6.6
INDIA
KARNATAKA SERICULTURE PROJECT
1/
Financial Price Projection for Raw Silk
(Price per kg)
Raw Silk 20/22 denie 2/                         1985
CIF Japan                                  US$43.80
Less: Freight, Insurance (3%)               1.30
FOB Bombay                                 US$42.50
Rs 357.00
Less: Inland Transport                      3.00
Factory Gate, Karnataka  3/                  354.00
Less: Processing Costs-                    91.00
Cost of Cocoons!/    5/             263.00
Silk Recovery (Renditta = 10.5)-              25.00
Less? Cocoon Market Fee                     0.50
Farmgate Cocoon Price6/                      Rs  24.50
1/ Expressed in late 1979 constant price levels. Based
on international market projections. See Table 6.5
and para 6.08.
2/ Average weighted price, mixed grades. See Table 6.5.
3/ -Includes operating profit margin based on projected
KSIC filature operations. See Annex 4, Table 4.1.
4/ Expressed in raw silk equivalent.
5/ Silk recovery from good quality cocoon at improved
filature.
6/ Median expected price within range for good quality
cocoons.



53                          ~~~~~~~~~~ANNEX 2
Table 1
INDIA
KARNATAKA SERICULTURE PROJECT
FPROJECT COST SUMMARY WITH PHASING
(RS '000)
1             2              3              4             5        TOTALS
ON.-FARM CREDIT
rLANTATION  :1~.:                      1400           2800          4200           4200           1400         14000
EQUIFPMENT  .;:2'>                     1750          3500           5250           5250           1750         l7100
REARING HOUSES <3.3                    1890          3780           5670           5670           1890         18900
CREDIT FOR REELING
COTTAGE BASINS <-4>:                    800           2400          3200           4800           4800         16000
SUBTOTAL--CREDIT                    5840          12480          18320         19920           9840          66400
DiEPTi OF SERICULTURE
GRAINAGES                              2747         13701          24061          24426         21268          8620.3
HIATCHERIUC>                           9441         10693          16293          20290          16660         73377
MOlIEL HATCHERIES                      7107            863          1018           1174           1330          5092
TECH. SERVICE CENTERS                 11736         14954          19774          21230         18090          85784
MOBILE tIEMO. UNITS                       0            491           524             67             67          11.49
TRAININ5 SCHOOLS                       1058          3642           1004           1004          1004           7713
COCOON MARKETS                         1124          6655           7071           7486          '2964         2-5700'
FI LATURE                                 0              0             20          1811           4122          559"35
INC. ADIMIN. COST                      5944          4619           5010           5010          5010          25593'
SUBTOTAL--DOS                      32758          55618         74776          82498          70515        316164
KS IC
F ILAT URE                                0          5042          37359               0             0         42401
SPUN SILK MILL                            0         102.63         72957               0             0         83220
Ht'G(TRS. ANr' WORKSHOP,                400          570 0              0              0             0          61I0()
NET INC. WORKING CAF'ITAL                 0              0              0              0          3883          3 018,
SUBTOTAL---KSIC                       400         21005        110316               0          3883        135604
RESEARCHi                              4395         19642          18939          13417         10727          67:120
TECH.ASST./STUDiY TOURS                   0           22~37         8707           6298          '2515         19,852
F'ROJECT EVALUAT'ION STUDY              290            300           300            310)           320          152-0
BASE COST ESTIMAT'E                   43682'       111382         231358         12244.4        97800         6066607
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                 2184          6856          17304           6016          4662          3702.5
PFRICE CONTINGENCIES                   22'72        16476          56956          39470         39599         154773
TOT'AL P'ROJECT COST                 48138         134714         305618         167932        142061         798463
:1I  3,500 HA AT RS 4f000/HA.
:23,500 HA AT RS 5,000/-HA.
:3.' 1.400 HOUSES AT RS9 13P500/HOUSE.
:'4.: 500 UINI TS AT RS3 32r.000/UNII



- 54 -                            AIR=2
Table 2.1
INDIa
KARNATAKA SERICULTURE PROJECT
__________________________.,_._
GRAINAGES: ESTIMATED COSTS AND PHASINS
-----------------------------------.-._
(RS '000)
1            2            3             4            5       TOTALS
NO. OF GRAINAGES '<1>                  2            4            4             0            0            t0
CIVIL WORKS
GRAINAGE BUILDING <2'               906          3989         6708         5439          1O88        18130
AESTIVATION CHAMBERS                   0          600         1200           600            0         240)
SUBTOIAL                          906         4589          7908         6039          1088        20530
FHYS. CONT. (10%)                  91           459          791          604           109         20S3
TOTAL                           997         5048          8699         6643         1197         22583
EQUIPMENT
COLt, STORAGE FLANT  3'             900          3900         4942          1733            0        11475
GENERATORS <:4'-                    240          1040         1307           438            0         3025
WOODEN TRAYS                        103           447          688           482            0         1/?0
DOUBLE STANDS                       103           447          688           482            0         1720
CENTRIFUGES                            3           12           18            12            0           45
MICROSCOPES                          34           148          228           160            0          5/0
MOTH CRUSHING MACHINES                14           62           96            68            0          240
REFRIGERATORS z,5>                   28           120          184           128            0          460
EGG CABINETS                           4           18           28            20            0           70
ACID TREATMENT EATHS                  11           49           76            54            0          190
SUBTOTAL                         1440         6243          8255         3577             0        19515
FHYS. CONT. (5%)                   72           312          413           179            0          976
TOTAL                          1512         6555          8668         3756             0        20491
VEHICLES
SEDAN                                96           192          192             0            0          480
DIESEL MINIBUS                      124           248          248             0            0          620
SUBTOTAL                          220           440          440             0            0         1100
PHYS. CONT. (5%)                   11            22           22             0            0           55
lOTAL                           231          462           462            0             0         1155
OFERATING COSTS
STAFF SALARIES ::6                  101          1214         3238         5060          5060        14673
SEED' COCOONS R7:>                     0          850         3400         8500         13600        26350
CHEMICALS ANDI SUPPLIES                0           45          185           450          720         1395
UTILITIES                            40           160          320           400          400         1320
0GM CW, VEH, EQUIF                    40          160          320           400          400         13.U
SUBTOTAL                          181         2429          7458        14810         20190        450S8
FHYS. CONT. (5%)                    9           121          373          741          1009         2253
TOTAL.                          190         2550          7831        15551        21189         4733L
BASE COST ESTIMATE                 2747         13701        24061        24426         21268        86203
PHYSICAL CONTINSENCIES              183           915         1598          1523        iltl          5337
TOTAL                              2930         14615        25659        25949         22386        91540
<1: CAF=10 MIL LAYINGS/UNIT/YR. AFTER 3 YRS., SUPFLYING 2000 HA.
.2> 4-LEVEL BLDG., 3020 sO. M 2 RS 600/SQO H.
3.3> 238 SO. M, 12.5T CAF' IN 7 UNITS, 80 55. M. 2.5T CAF IN 3 UNITS.
4.- TWO GEN. EACH 60 KVK CAP IN 7 UNITS, 1 GEN. 12 NVK CAP IN 3 UNITS.
<5'. IMPORTEII, 286 LITER CAPACITY.
(6> FOR DETAILS, SEE ANNEX 4 TABLE 9.
<7> 25 MIL BIVOL, COCOONS e RS 50/1000, 15 MIL MYSORE e RS 30/1000/YR.



- 55 
ANNEX 2
Table 2.2
INDIA
K(ARNATAKA SERICULTURE FPROJECT
HATCHERIES: ESTIMATEDi COSTS AND PHASING
(RS '000)
1             2              3             4              5       TO0T AL,
NO. OF HATCHERIES <:l>                  600           300            400           400              0          1700
EQUIPMENT
WOODEN TRAYS                          2340           1170           2343          2400              0          8253
WOODEN STANDS                         1537            769           1298          1318              0          4922
LEAF CHAMBERS                            65            60             80            80              0           285
HYGROMETERS                              33            30             40            40              0           143
MICROSCOPES                             660           330            440           440              0          1870
GLASS SLIDESP COVERS                    126            63             84            84              0           357
MANUAL SPRAYERS                         120           1 11           148           1 48             0           52 7
SUBTOTAL                            4881          2533           4433           4510              0         16357
PHYS. CONT. (5%)                     244            127           222            226              0           81.8
TOTAL (:2>:                       5125          2660           4655          4736              0         17175
OPERATING COST
BUILDtING RENTS <3'.,                 1080           1620          2340           3060           3060         11160
FARMER HONORARIUMS4                     720         .1800           2640          3600           4080         12040
LABOR WAGES <5:,                      2160           3240           4680          8120           612-0        22320
PARAFFIN F'AFER,  FOAM                  300           750           1100          1500           1700          5350
DISINFECTANTS                           300           750           1100          1500           1700          5350
SUBTOTAL                            4560          8160          11860         15780          16660         57020
PHYS. CONT. (5%)                     228            408           593            789           833           2851
IOTAL                            4788           0568         12453          16569          17493         59871
BASE COST ESTIMATE                    9441          10693         16293          2-0290        16660          73377
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                  472           535            815          1015            833          3669
TOTAL                                 9913          112.28        17108          21305         17493          77046
<1:.CAPACITY APPROX. 100,000 LAYINGS/MO/HATCHERY.
<2::~2, EQUIPMENT COST/HATCHERY=RS 10t100.
<3)> RS 150/MO/HATCHERY.
<;4>". RS 200/MO FOR MANAGEMENT SERVICES.
<.5> TWO LABORERS PER HATCHERY  ~ RS 150/MO/LABORER.



-56 -
ANINEX 2
Table 2.3
IN iT IA
KARNATAKA SERICULTUR.E PROJECT
MODEL HATCHERIES: ESTIMATEDt COSTS AND PHASING
(RS '000)
I              23                            4              5        TOTALS)
N.OF MODEL HATCHERIES                    4              4              4              4              4             20
CIVIL WORKS
HATCHERY BUIULDING  -'I'.                300            300            300            300            300           15-O00
S UPTO0T AL.                          300             300            300            300            300           1.500
PHYS. CONT. (5%)                        15             15             15             15             15             75
TOTAL                               315            315           .315            315            315           15 7 5
E GOU I FME N T
LJOODEN TRAYS                             24             2 4            24              24             24           1 20
W4OODEN STAND'S                           13             13              13             13             1 3            66
LEAF CHiAMBIE RS                           2,                     2              2              2                      8
HYGIROMETERS                                1              I              1              1              1              4
MICROSCOP"ES                              is             18             18              18             18             92
GLASS SLIDES,COVERS                         4              4              4              4              4             18
P'OWER SPRAYER                            29             29             29              29             29            146
SMALL IMFPLEMENTS                          4               4              4              4              4             1n
INCUBATORS <-2::-                        167            167            167            167            167            836
SU'LBTOTAL                            262             262            262            262            262           1308
P'HYS. FONT. (5%,,)                     13             13             13             13             13             65
IOTAL <>275                                        275            275            275            275           1373
DF'ERATING COSTS
STAFF SALARIES <~4>~                     136            271            407            542            678           2034
PARAFFIN PAPEP~ FORMALIN                    2              6             10             14             18             50
DISINFECT ANTS                              6            20             34              48             62            170
MiISC SUPPLIES, UTILITIES2                                 4              6              8             10             30
SUPTOTAL                               1 46           301            457            612            768           2284
PHYE. CONT. (5%)                         7             15             23             31             38            114
TIOTAL.                             153            316            400            643            806           23Z98
EPASE COST ESTIMATE                      707            863           1018           1174           1330           5092
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                    35;            43             51             59              66           2 55
TOTAL                          7~~     ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~43  906  1069      1233           1396           53;47
1.~*110 SO, h e RS 640/'SO, h.
.7>4 810O. OXYGEN DEMANDI INCUBATORS/HATCHERYP AT- RS 10r440/INCUBATOR.
i   TOTAL EOUIPMENT COST PER HATCHEPY=RS 68,760.
4~ FOR DETAILS, SEE ANNEX 4 T'ABLE 9.



- 57 -
ANNEI 2
Table Z.4
INDIA
KARNATAKA SERICULTURE PROJECI
A. TECHNICAL SERVICE CENTERS: ESTIMATED COSTS APT' 9HASINu,
B. MOBILE DEMONSTRATION UNITS: ESTIMATED COSTS AND' FHASIN6
(MS '000)
1      2             ~       ~       ~~~3  4        5        TOTALS
A. TECH SER CNTRS (150)
NO. IF TSC    .1>,                        61              30             35             24              0            150
EQUIPMENT
INCUBATORS   2>                         1910            940           1096            752               0          4696
POWER SF'RATER'S                         628            438            512             3 51             0           1(79
MICROSCOF'ES, SLIDIES                    III             75              87             60              0            33.T
TYP'EWRITERS                             293            144             168            115              0            720
OFFICE FURNITURE                            0            30              35             24              0             89
SUB'TOTAL                            2942            1627           1898           1302               5          7769
THYS. CONT. (5%)                       1 47            81             95             65               0           393 
TOTAL (3                           3089           1708           1993           1367 -0                       5)
VEHICLES
DIESEL JEEP'S  (1/7SC)                  3757           1848           2156           1470               0          9239
MOPED'S (5/TSC)                          915            450            525            360               2          2200(
jUETOTAL                             4672           2298            2681           1838               0         11429
FPHYS. CON7.  (5%)                     234            115            134             92               0           5714
TOTAL                              4906           2413           2815           1930               0         12063
OPERATING COSTS
STAFF SALARIES :4                       3233           9646          13356          15900          15900          5801)T
BUILDING RENT   5>                       219            327            453            540            540           2079
0DM VEHICLE                              366            576            756            900             900           3193
FORMALIN  (1 TON/TIC/YR)                 213            376            441            525             525           2040
MISC SUPPFLIES, UTILITIES                 91            144            189            225            225             874
SUBTOTAL                             4122          11029          15195           18090          18090          66526
FHYS. CONT.  155)                      206            551            760            905            905           3326
TOTAL                              4328          11580          15955          10995.         18995         -69052'
BASE COST ESTIMATE                     11736          149?54         19774          21230          18090          85704
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                   587            748            989           1062             905          4289
TOTAL                                  12323          15702          20763          22292          18995          90073
B. MOBILE DEMO UNITS (4)
4 DIESEL VANS (1,5 TON)                     0           313            313               0              0            626
>HY5. COAT. (5%.)                        5             16             16              0               0             31
TOTAL                                 0            329            329               0              0           658
EQUIPMENT
F'RIJE CTOINS                               0            23              23              0              0             46
FILMS                                      0             21              21              0              0             42
EXHIBITS                                   0            100            100               0              0            200
SUBTOTAL                                 0            144            144              0               0           288
PHYS. CONT.  (5%)                        07                     7                     0               0             14
TOTAL                                 0            151            151               0              0            302
OFERATING COSTS
STAFF SALARIES /3.                          0            10              19             19             19             67
0DM VEHICLES                                0            24              48             45             48            168
SUBTOTAL                                 0             34             67             67             67            235
FPHYS. CONT.  15%)                       0              2              3              3              3             12
TOTAL                                  0            35              71             71             71            247
BASE COST ESTIMATE                          0           491            524              67             67          1149
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                     *05.                          26              3              3             57
TOTAL                                       0           515            550              71             71          1207
,IAPPROX. 55 TSC    IN RAINFED AREAS ANMD 95 TIC IN IRRIGATET' AREAS.
.2BIOLOGICAL OXYGEN DEMAND INCUBATORS, 3/TOC AT RS 10,441/UNIT,
.3' EQIUIPMENT COST PER TSC=RS 123,840.
.4, FOR DiETAILS, SEE ANNEX 4 TABLE 9.
.5  RS 300/M0.



ANNIX 2
Table 2.5
Page 1
INDIA
KARNATAKA SERICULTURE PROJECT
TRAINING SCHOOLS 1>: ESTIMATED COSTS AND PHASING
--------------------------------------------------
(RS '000)
1            2            3             4            5       TOTALS
A.  EXISTING SCHOOL (1)
________________________
CIVIL WORKS
HOSTEL BUILDING <2>                 728             0            0             0            0          728
SUBTOTAL                          728             0            0            0             0          72B
PHYS. CONT. (10%)                  73             0            0            0             0           73
TOTAL                           801            0             0            0            0           801
EQUIPMENT
HOSTEL FURNISHINGS                   14             0            0            0             0           14
PROJECTOR                            12             0            0            0             0           12
FILM PRINTS                           10            0            0            0             0           10
POWER SPRAYER                         7             0            0            0             0            7
MICROSCOPES                           6             0            0            0             0            6
TYPEWRITER                            5             0            0             0            0            5
LIBRARY EQUIPMENT                     4             0            0             0            0            4
BOOKS          -                      4             0            0            0             0            4
SUBTOTAL                           61             0            0            0             0           61
FHYS. CONT. (5X)                    3             0            0            0             0            3
TOTAL                            64            0             0            0            0            64
VEHICLES
DIESEL JEEPS                         62             0            0            0             0           62
SUBTOTAL                           62             0            0            0             0           62
PHYS. CONT. (5%)                    3             0            0            0             0            3
TOTAL                            65            0             0            0            0            65
INC.OPERATING COSTS
STAFF SALARIES (3>                  133           133          133          133           133          665
TRAINEE STIFENDS                     60           120          120          120           120          540
OSM CW.VEH.,EQUIF.                   10            50           50           50            50          210
MISC SUPPLIES, UTILITIES              5             5            5             5            5           25
SUBTOTAL                          208          308           308          308           308         1440
F'HYS. CONT. (5%)                  10            15           15           15            15           72
TOTAL                           218          323           323          323          323          1512
BASE COST ESTIMATE                 1058           300          308          308           308         2290
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES               89            15           15            15           15          15L
TOTAL                              1148           323          323          323           323         2441
L> CAPACITY 100 TRAINEES/MO/SCHOOL. 1-4 WEEK COURSES.
-2  845 sO. M 2 RS 860/SO. M.  ACCOMMODIATIONS FOR 50 TRAINEES.
-3  FOR DETAILS, SEE ANNEX 4 TABLE 9.



-59                                          2 abe2.5
I NDIA
KARNATAKA SERICULTURE PROJECT
TRAINING SCHOOLS <1>1 ESTIMATED COSTS ANI' P'HASING
(RS '000)
1              2              3              4              5        TOTALS
B.  NEW SCROOLS (2)
CIVIL WORKS
SCHOOL BtUILDtING <4>                       0            952              0               0              0           952
HOSTEL BUILDING <:2>'                       0          1456               0               0              0          1456
SUBTOTAL                                 0           2408               0              0              0           2408
PHYS,  CONT. (10%)                       0            241               0              0              0            2-41
TOTAL                                  0          2649               0              0               0          2649
EQUIPMENT
HOSTEL FURNISHINGS                          0             60              0               0              0             60
PROJECTORS                                  0             23              0              0               0             2,3
FILM PRINTS                                 0             21              0               0              0       -    21
POWER SPRAYERS                              0             15              0              0               0             15
MICROSCOPES                                 0             24              0               0             .024
TYPEWRITERS                                 0             10              0               0              0             10
LIBRARY EQUIPMENT                           0             60              0               0              0             60
BOOKS                                       0            110              0               0              0            110
SUBTOTAL                                 0            322               0              0              0            322
PHYS. CONT. (5%)                         0             16               0              0              0             16
TOTAL                                  0           338               0              0               0           338
VEHICLES
DIESEL JEEP'S                               0            123              0               0              0            123
SUBTOTAL                                 0            123              '1              0              0            123
PHYS,  CONT. (5%)                        0               6              0              0              0              6
TOTAL                                  0            129              0              0               0           12 9
OP'ERATING COSTS
STAFF SALARIES <3>                          0            266            266            266            266           1064
TRAINEE STIPENDS                            0            120            240            240            240            840
OSM CW,VEH.,EQUIP,                          0             90            180            180            180            630
MISC SUPPFLIES.  UTILITIES                  0              5             10             10              10             35
SUBTOTAL                                 0            481            696            696             696          2>-69
P'HYS. CONT. (5%)                        0             24              35             35             35            120
TOTAL                                  0            505            731            731            731           2697
BASE COST ESTIMATE                          0          3334             696            696            696           5422
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                      0            207             35             35              35           392
TOTAL                                       0          3621             731            731            731           5014
TOTAL COSTS--ALL SCHOOLS
BASE COST ESTIMATE                      10S8           3642            1004           1004           1004          71713
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                     89            303             50             50             50            542
GRAND TOTAL                             1148           3945            1054           1054           1054           8255
1: CAP'ACITY 100 TRAINEES/MO/SCHOOL,  1-4 WEEK COURSES.
2;' 845 SO. M @ RS 860/SO. M. ACCOMMODtATIONS FOR 50 TRAINEES.
.3 FOR DETAILS, SEE ANNEX 4 TABLE 9.
-4% 550 S50. M 9 RS 860/SO, M.



- 60 -
ANNEX 2
Table 2.6
INDIA
KARNATAKA SERICULTURE PROJECT
_____________________________
COCOON MARKETS: ESTIMATED COSTS AND PHASING
--------------------------------------------
(RS '000)
1           2            3           4            5      TaTALS
NO. OF MARKET UNITS <1>             0           10          10           10            0          30
CIVIL WORKS
__.__________
MRKT. BUILDING UNITS <2>          500         5000        5000         4500            0       15000
SUBTOTAL                        500         5000        5000         4500            0       15000
FHYS. CONT. (10%)                50          500         500          450           0         1500
TOTAL                         550        5500         5500         4950           0        16500
EQUIPMENT
TICKET PRINTING MACHINES            0          400         200          110            0         710
WEIGHING SCALES                   125          241         121          100            0         587
TOP-PAN BALANCES                  125          162          62           50            0         399
DENIER SCALES                      19           39          21           15            0          94
METAL CONTAINERS                   85          177          54           50            0         366
TYPEWRITERS                        20           10          10            8            0          48
SUBTOTAL                        374         1029         468          333           0         2204
PHYS. CONT. (5%)                 19           51          23           17            0         110
TOTAL                         393         1080         491          350           0         2314
OPERATING COSTS
STAFF SALARIES  3>                250          520        1395         2320        2514         6989
MISC. OFFICE EXPENSES               0          106         218          333         450         1107
5UBTOTAL                        250         626         1603         2653        2964         8096
FHYS. CONT. (5%)                 13           31          90          133         148          405
TOTAL                         263         657         1683         2786        3112         8501
BASE COST ESTIMATE               1124         6655        7071         7486        2964        25300
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES             81          583         604          599          148        2015
TOTAL                            1205         7238        7675         8085        3112        27315
==========  =======    ns==a =-=====a==========  =====
:- 30 UNITS e 23 SITES, 12 SITES=NEW MRKTS., 11 SITES=EXISTING MRKTS.
2. UNIT=845 SO. M e RS 590/SQ. n.
3  FOR DIETAILS, SEE ANNEX 4 TABLE 9.



41-                       ~~~~~~~ANNIEX2
T510. 3.7
J NlDIA
KARNATAKA SERICULTURE P'ROJECT
DEPARTMENTAL FILATURE <1 1: ESTIMATED, COSTS AND P'HASING
(RS '000)
1              2              3              4              5        TOTALS
CIVIL WORKS
LANED
CITE-4 ACRES                                0              0            20               0              0             20
SUBTOTAL                                 0              0             20              0               0            20
PHYS.CONT.410%)                          0              0              2               0              0              2
TDTAL                                  0              0             22              0              0             22
CIVIL WORKS
SITE DEVELOPMENT                            0              0              0             70             30           ,100
COMP'OUNDI WALL                        -    0              0              0             50              0             50
STAFF QUARTERS 42)                          0              0              0             70             30            100
MAIN BUILDING <3>                           0              0              0           306             131            438
SUBTOTAL                                 0              0              0            496            191            608
PHYS. CONT, (lOX)                        0              0              0             50             19             69
TOTAL                                  0              0              0           546             210            756
EQUIPMENT
REELING UNIT (400 ENDS)                     0              0              0           990           2310           3300
RE-REELING UNITS <4>                        0              0              0                            11             16
COCOON NOT AIR DRYER                        0              0              0              6             14             20
BOILER                                      0              0              0             28             12             40
PRESSURIZED COOKING UNIT                    0              0              0             36             84            120
WOODEN COCOON TRAYS                         0              0              0              0              5              5
MISC,  SMALL EQUIPMENT                      0              0              0              0              7              7
SUBTOTAL                                 0              0              0           1065           2443           3508
PHYS,  CONT. (5%)                        0              0              0             53            122            175
TOTAL                                  0              0              0          1118           2565           3e6-El,
VEHICLES
TRUCK (3-TON)                               0              0              0            130              0            130
DIESEL VAN                                  0              0              0             75              0             75
SUBTOTAL                                 0              0              0            205               0           205
PHYS. CONT. (5Z)                         0              0              0             10               0            10
TOTAL                                  0              00                         215               0           215
OPERATING COSTS
STAFF SALARIES 5                            0              0              0              0            283           263
COCOONS  6&'                                0              0              0              0          1035           1035
0tM CW, VEH, EQUIP'                         0              0              0             20            120            140
UTILITIES                                   0              0              0             25             50             70,
SUBTOTAL                                 0              0              0             45           1488           15,33
PHYS,  CONT. (5%)                        0              0              0              2             74             7?
TOTAL                                  I              0              0             47          1562           16-09
RiASE COST ESTIMATE                         0              0             20          1811           4122           5Y53
P,HysiCAL CONTINGENCIES                     0              0              2            115            216           333
TOTAL                                       0              0             22          1927           4338           6286
~.1  SEMI-AUTOMATIC. CAP=400 KG COCOONSI/DAY WITH DOUBLE SHIFT OFEP.
'2': HOUSING FOR GEN. MGR.PSECTION OFFICERS.
,3.> 680 S0. M B RI 645/Sg. H.
.>4> TWO UNITS OF 10 MACHINES EACH.
.5>  FOR DETAILS. SEE ANNEX 4 TABLE 9,
6. 400 KS/D1AY  AT RS 23/KG FOR 300 DAYS OPERATION/IKYP



- 62 -
ANNEX 2
Table 2.8
INDIA
KARNATAKA SERICULTURE PROJECT
_____________________________
DOS INCREMENTAL ADMINISTRATIVE COST <1i
---------------------------------------
(RS '000)
1           2            3           4            5      TOTALS
VEHICLES <2>                     1550            0            0           0            0        1550
EQUIPMENT                        1730            0            0           0            0        1730
INC. STAFF SALARIES              1277         2874        3193         3193         3193       13730
INC. OPERATING COSTS              287          645         717          717          717        3083
ENGINEERING CELL <3              1100         1100         1100        1100         1100        5500
SUBTOTAL                       5944         4619        5010         5010         5010       25593
PHYS. CONT. (5%)                297          231         251          251          251        1280
TOTAL                        6241         4850        5261         5261        5261        26873
<1> 4 JD, 9 DIST, 15 DIV. OFFICES, 1 MONITORING AND 1 ACCTS. UNIT.
<2> 33 VEHICLES (SEDANS, JEEPS).
-3> ENG. STAFF DEPUTED FROM STATE PWD FOR SUFERVISION OF CONSTRUCTION.



- 63 -
ANNEX 2
T*bO  3. I
INDIA
KARNATAKA SERICULTURE PROJECT
KSIC FILATURE <1>: ESTIMATED COSTS AND FHASING
(RS '000)
1            2             3             4             5       TOTALS
CIVIL WORKS
SITE DEVELOF'MENT                       0            15             0             0             0            15
NEW REELING HALLS (2>                   0           869           580             0             0         1449
REMOD. FRESENT HALLS <3.                0            80            54             0             0          134
AUXILIARY BUILDINGS <4..                0           112            75             0             0          187
ADMINISTRATIVE BLOCK (5>                0           250           166             0             0          416
MISC. SMALL WORKS *6                    0           151           100             0             0          251
STAFF UUARTERS <7>                      0           240           160             0             0          400
SUBTOTAL                              0         1717          1135              0             0         2852
PHYS. CONT. (10%)                     0           172           114             0             0          285
TOTAL                              0          1889          1249             0             0          3137
EQ UIPMENT
REELING MACHINES  8                     0          1609        23037              0             0        24646
COOKING UNIT <9>                        0           706         10121             0             0        10827
RE-REELING UNITS  o10:                  0             5            46             0             0            51
COCOON HOT AIR DRY.  111                0           128          1149             0             0         1277
STEAM GENERATORS                        0            81           755             0             0          836
ELECTRICAL EQUIFMENT                    0            46           416             0             0          462
FEES AND INSTALLATION                   0           400           320             0             0          720
FURN., OFFICE EQUIP.                    0             0           250             0             0          250
SUBTOTAL                              0         2975         36094              0             0        39069
FHYS. CONT. (10%)                     0          298          3609              0            0          3907
TOTAL                              0          3273         39703             0             0        42976
VEHICLES
TRUCKS                                  0           350            90             0             0          440
SEDANS                                  0             0            40             0             0            40
SUBTOTAL               -              0          350           130              0            0           480
PHYS. CONT. (5%)                      0            18             7             0            0            24
TOTAL                              0           368           137             0             0           504
BASE COST ESTIMATE                      0          5042        37359              0             0        42401
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                  0           487         3729              0             0         4216
TOTAL                                   0         5529         41088              0             0        46617
1-  ANNUAL PRODUCTION CAPACITY=162 TONS RAW SILK.
2-  2,318 SQ. M B RS 625/SQ. M.
3   1,160 SQ. M B RS 116/SQ. M.
:4--  320 SQ. M t RS 585i'SO. M.
"5.  520 SQ. M B RS 0o0/SQ. M.
-6   BOILER SHEDS. WATER TREATMENT, TRENCHES, ROADS, SOIL FIFING, EIC.
- S00 SCG. M t RS SOO/SQ. M.
S   6 IMFOPFEtt mACHINES OF 400 ENDS, CAPACITY 5.6 KG/HR/MACHINE,
-,?-. 3 IMPORTED BOILERS, CAFACITY 125 KG/HR/MACHINE.
1'    MACHINES. CAFACITY 6 KG/HR/MACHINE.
IJ    HOT AIR DRYERS, CAPACITY 375 KG/HR/MACHINE.



-64-                             AM= 2
Table 3.2
IN ['IA
KARNATAKA SERICULTURE PM)JECT
KSIC SPUN SILK MILL <:4>?-  ESTIMATED COSTS AND P'HASING
CR5 '000)
1              2              3              4              5        TOTALS
CIVIL WORKS
SITE DIEVELOP'MENT                          0            15               0              0              0             15
NEW MILL <2>":                              0          1500           1000               0              0          2500
AUXILIARY BUILDING <3>-                     0            86             57               0              0            143
ADMIN..BUILDING <,4>                       0            194            130               0              0            324
STAFF QUARTERS <5>                          0           143              95              0              0            238
INFIRMARY <"'6>                            0             65             43               0              0            108
MISC. SMALL WORKS                          0            175            117               0              0            292
SUBTOTAL                                 0          2178            1442              0              0           3620
PHYS. CONT. (10%)                        0            218            144              0               0           362
TOTAL                                 0           2396           1586               0              0          3982)
EQUIUPM EN T
IMP'ORTED, EQUIP'MENT                      0           3954          61664               0              0         65618
LOCAL EQUIP'MENT                            0           896           8065               0              0          8961
RE'CONDITIONING  7>0                                   2795            750               0              0          354 5
FEES AND, INSTALLATION                      0           400            761               0              0          1161
FIJRN.v OFFICE EQIUIP.                      0              0           '275              0              0            275
SUBTOTAL                                 0          8045          71515               0               0         79560
P'HYS. CONT. (10%)                       0            805           7 1521            0               0          7T5 6
TOTAL                                 0           8850          78667               0              0         87516
VE HIC LES
SE-DAN                                      0            4 0              0              0              0             40
SUBTOTAL                                 0             40              0              0               0            40
PHYS. CONT. (5%)                         0              2              0              0               0
TOTAL                                  0            42               0              0              0             4-2
BASE COST ESTIMATE                          a         10263          72957               0              0         8,3220
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                      0          1024           7296               0              0.         8320
TO TA L                                     0         11287          80253               0              0.        91510
<1ANNUAL PRODUCTION CAPACITY=150 TONS SPUN SILK YARN AND, BYP'RODIUCTS.
2  4,000  SQ. M  ~ RS 625/SQ. M.
:<:3>: 204 SQI. M @ RS 700/SO. M.
::4:: 405 SQ. M 9 RS 800/SQ. M.
HOUSING FOR GEM MGRP WRKS MGRY O&M SPYVR. 29'7 SQ M 9 RS 800/SQ M.
S: 135 SQ. M 9 RS 800/SQ. M.
.'T;Or WHICH RS 2.5 MILLION FOR PARTS,  RS 1.05 MILLION F'OR LAB3OR



--AG 2
- 65 -                              Table 4
IND IA
KARNATAKA SERICULTURE PROJECT
RESEARCH: ESTIMATED COSTS ANti F'HASING
(RS '000)
1             2             3             4             5       TOT6i
GOVT. OF KARNATAKA
SERI. RESEARCH INSTITUTE
CIVIL WORKS                           460          2388            700             0             0          3',4P
EQUIFMENT                            1000          6050              0             0             0           070'
VEHICLES                              120           480              0             0             0           60(O
STAFF SALARIES                        448           896          1792           1792          1792          6'0
OPERATING COSTS                        30           210            342           342           342          126'.
SUBTOTAL                           2058         10024          2834          2134          2134         191e4
UNIV. OF AGRIC. SCIENCES
CIVIL WORKS                           165          1859              0             0             0          2024
EQUIPMENT                             491           675          1100              0             0          276 
VEHICLES                               64              0             0             0             0            64
STAFF SALARIES                        198           363            527           527           527          2142
INC. OPER. COSTS                       75           137           182            182           182           751
SUBTOTAL                            993          3034          1809           709           709          7254
UNIV. OF BANGALORE
EOUIPMENT                             471          1139              0             0             0          1610
VEHICLES                              310              0             0             0             0           310
STAFF SALARIES                        150           150            601           601           601          2103
INC. OPER. COSTS                       69           102           275            275           275           996
SUBTOTAL                           1000          1391           876           876           876          5019
UNIV. OF MYSORE
CIVIL WORKS                            60           424              0             0             0           484
EQUIPMENT                             100           229              0             0             0           329
VEHICLES                               64              0             0             0             0            64
STAFF SALARIES                        100           200           200            200           200           900
INC. OPER. COSTS                       20            40             40            40            40 1_0
SUBTOTAL                            344           893           240           240           240          1957
CENTRAL SILK BOARD
CSRTI CENTRAL STATION
CIVIL WORKS                              0         1500          1000              0             0          2'i00
EQUIPMENT                                0             0         1500           1000          1125          362'i
VEHICLES                                 0             0           350             0            75           425
STAFF SALARIES                           0             0         2091          2091           2091          6273
INC. OPER. COSTS                         0             0           153           153           153           459
SUBTOTAL                              0          1500          5094          3244          3444         13282
REGIONAL STATIONS (2)
LAND                                     0          800              0             0             0           800
CIVIL WORKS                              0          500          1322           1000             0          2022
EQUIPMENT                                0             0           510           240           150           900
VEHICLES                                 0             0           130             0             0           130
STAFF SALARIES                           0             0         1052           1052          1052          3156
OPERATING COSTS                          0             0           344           344           344          1032
SUBTOTAL                              0          1300          3358          2636          1546          8040
SUB-STATIONS (10)
LAND                                     0         1000              0             0             0          1000
CIVIL WORKS                              0          500          1500           1000             0          3000
EQUIPMENT                                0             0           800           800             0          1600
VEHICLES                                 0             0           650             0             0           650
STAFF SALARIES                           0             0         1410           1410          1410          4230
OF'ERATING COSTS                         0             0          368            368           360          1104
SUBTOTAL                              0          1500          4728          3578          1778        11504
GRAND TOTAL RESEARCH
LAND                                     0         1800              0             0             0          1800
CIVIL WORKS                           685          7171          4522           2000             0        14378
EQUIPMENT                            2062          8093          3910           2040          1275        17380
VEHICLES                              558           480          1130              0            75         2243
STAFF SALARIES                        896          1609          7673           7673          7673        25524
INC. OPER. COSTS                      194           489          1704          1704          1704          5795
BASE COST ESTIMATE                   4395         19642         18939         13417         10727         671'0
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                439          1964          1894          1342           1073          6712
TOTAL                                4834         21606         20833         14759         IISOO         73031



- 66 -
ANIEX 2
Table 5
INDIA
KARNATAKA SERICULTURE PROJECT
_____________________________
TECH. ASSISTANCE AND STUDY TOURS: ESTIMATED COSTS AND PHASING
(US$ '000)
1            2            3            4            5       TOTALS
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
___ ________________
NO. OF EXPERTS
________________
DEPT. OF SERICULTURE                0            0            3            3            0             6
KSIC                                0            0            6            5            0            11
CSRTI                               0            1            2            2            1             6
TOTAL NO. OF EXPERTS                  0            1           11           10             1           23
TOTAL NO. OF MONTHS                   0            3           44           22             1           70
TRAVEL COST <1>                     0            2           22           20            2           46
MONTHLY RATE <2>                    0           36          528          264           12          840
LOCAL SUBSISTENCE <3>               0            7          106           53            2          168
TOTAL COST-TECH. ASST.                0           45          656          337           16         1054
==s==swsssssss=s===c==. s=ss=z=.==s s=======  =s == =:========      
STUDY TOURS
DEPT. OF SERICULTURE
NO. OF STUDY TOURS                  0           17           20           21           17           75
NO. OF MONTHS                       0           59           69           73           59          260
CSRTI
NO. OF STUDY TOURS                  0            2            4            4            0           10
NO. OF MONTHS                       0            6           42           48           24          120
TOTAL NO. OF STUDY TOURS              0           19           24           25           17           85
TRAVEL COST <1>                     0           38           48           50           34          170
TOTAL NO. OF MONTHS                   0           65          111          121           83          380
MONTHLY COST <4>                    0          195          333          363          249         1140
TOTAL COST-STUDY TOURS                0          233          381          413          283         1310
======  ===s======== ======  ============  = =====
GRAND TOTAL
USS '000                              0          278         1037          750          299         2364
RS '000 EQUIVALENT                    0         2337         8707         6298         2515        19858
<1> USS 29000 FOR RT ECONOMY AIR TICKET.
.:2 USS 12000/MO. FEES.
.::3> 20% OF MONTHLY RATE.
4 USS 39000/MO. TUITION AND EXF'ENSES.



- 67 -
ANNEX 3
INDIA
KARNATAKA SERICULTURE PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements .1/
(IJS$ millions)
Cumulative Dis-
IDA Fiscal Year            Disbursements During              bursements at
and Quarter                     Quarter                    end of Quarter
1980/81
March      31                  1.0                            1.0
June       30                  2,0                            3.0
1981/82
September  30                  2.0                            5.0
December   31                  2.0                            7.0
March       31                 2.0                            9.0
June       30                  2.0                           11.0
1982/83
September  30                  4.0                           15.0
December   31                  3.0                           18.0
March       31                 4,0                           22.0
June       30                  5.0                           27.0
1983/84
September  30                  5,0                           32.0
December   31                  3,0                           35.0
March       31                 3.0                           38.0
June       30                  3.0                           41.0
1984/85
September  30                  3,0                           44.0
December   31                  3.0                           47.0
March       31                 3.0                           50.0
June       30                  3.0                           53.0
1985/86
September  30 2/               1.0                           54.0
1/ Assumes Credit Effectiveness September 30, 1980.
2/ Assumes Project Completion by June 30, 1985 and Credit Closing on
December 31, 1985.



INDIA
KARNATAKA SERICULTURE PROJECT
KARNATAKA SILK INDUSTRIES CORPORATION
CASH FLOW PROJECTIONS AND FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN
(Rs 000's)
WITHOUT PROJECT                                                             WITS PROJECT                        _-
IndEan FP.OY.                                      80 - 81
onward          80 - 81    81 - 82    82 - 83    83 - 84    84 - 85    85 -R           86 - 87    87 - 88    88 - 89    89 - 90    90 - 91    91 - 92   92 - 93
1. Cash Tfl.fow
(1)  Reve-ne                                       75672            75672        74028      44796        74592     112234       112234      112234      112234      112234      112234      112234      112234    112234
Long term debt -/                                                -         15001       75591          -           -            -           -
Incresse/(Decrease) in short term
debt                                                           -          (248)      (9822)       7202          -        (10000)      (6779)
Eqoity                                         4172            4945        13000       55000          -           -            -           -
Total Cash Inflow                           79844           80617       101781      E65565       81794      i12234       102234      105455      1122234     1122322     34          112234      112234    112234
Cash Oatf low
(2)  Fixed As-et.                                       -             400       19960      110316          _-                                    -                       -            -           -           -     (4894)-/
(3)  Increass/(Decrease) in working
capital   3/                                    -              12         (276)      (8452)       4356       8243            -           -            -           -           -           -           -    (31034)1/
(4)  Operating eT7eos-es 11                        76897            77177       79164       60399       54106      77505         77505       77505       77505       77505        77505      77505       77505      77505
Income tax 3/                                     _-                          -           -           -          -             -           -            -           -           -       12588       17327      29314
lnterext on short tern debt 4/                 2947            2947         2928        2173        1977       2517          1767         508           -           -           -           -           -         -
Long term debt sernice-Interest 5/                -              -            -           -        10039       8743          7447        6151        4855        3559         2263        967
Long tern debt service-Priocipal 5t               -              _                        -        12139      12139         12139       12139       12139       12139        12139      12136
Dividendst6                                       -              -            -           -           -          -             -           -            -           -           -        9825        9825       9825
Total Cash Outflow                          798'+           80536       101776      164436       826t7    109147          98858       96303       94499       93203        91907    113021       1U4657      80716
Net Cash Flow/(autflow)                              -              81            5        1129        (823)      3087          3376        9152       17730       19031        20327       (787)       7577      31518
Cumolative Net Cash Flow                                            81           86        1215         392       3479          6855       16007       33742       52773        73100      72313       78890    111408
IT. Financial Rate of Retain
Ixcreme-tal Net Besef its before PhvsIcal 8/                   (692)      (23595)   (116242)       17355     27711          35954      35954        35954       35954        35954      35954       35954      447319-
( i)- ( 2 ) - ( 3) - (4)     Continaancisc
Phyiacal Contingencies                                           -         (1511)    (ilO25)          -          -             -
Increemental Net Benefits Including Physical                   (692)      T25106)   (127267)       17355      27711         35954       35954       35954       35954        35954      35954       35954      44731
Contingencies                                 FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN 16%
1/  Se  Table 4. 2.                                       4/  At 15% p.o.          F/ Salnage value.
2/  7/3  f Ee . .t         t                              5/  10 year loan with 2 years grace period at 9.5%. p.a. op to RE  20 million,                      8/ Net of Rs 1.225 million segati-e benefit in                5 bi
3/   Cash, tefore  or-pl.s  fonda, receivables,               at 11% p.a. for the balsoce.                                                                       "without project" case.                                     -0
is-ent-ies l     payahle.                            6/  12% of share capital see Table 3.                                                              9/ Net of reco--ry of RE  27.151 million of working
capital for "without project" case.



INDIA
RARNATARA   ~E ICRU0LT U RIPROJ ECT
KARNATAKA S1ILK INDUSTRIII I;UK)RFUATIJN
CONSO)LIPATI) IOM ITTPETROJECTTONS2
(R. OGOs.)
WITTHOUT PEODJECT       -________                                                      WITH PROJECT
Tndian JUY.                                          80 - 81                                                                                                                                            0     90       1   91      2     92-3
onward           80 - 81    81 - 82        82 - 83       83 - 84      84 - 85       85 - 86    86 - 8/         87 - 88      88 - 69    85-   9         90-   9       91-   9       92- 9
Revenue
Pilsiu-es 1/                                        40134             40134         38490        15484         22800        47358        47338         47358        47358         47358         47358        47358         47358        47358
Weav.ing   ill 2/                                   14712             14712         14712        14712         14712        14712        14752         14712        14712         14712         14712        14712         14712        14712
Sp_t  aili mIll 3/                                  16420             16420         16420        14600         37080        50164        50164         30164        50164         53164        10164         50164        00164         50164
Twisting mill  L                                     4406              4406          4406             -                   -            -             - 1124         f7          TT73          TTZ-          TI2- T C                   123
Total Revenue                                    7T5672                                        4472 7U2  796 7S2        T23           tf7
Operting  Expanse
C.~~~..rs I/ ~~~~44298                                  44298        42880         19757        23085         41553        41553        41953         41553        415453                      453          453           453
3114 Waste  3/                       ~~~~~~6325         6325          6363          6101        10812        13987         13987        13987         13987        13987         13987        13987         13987         13987
CSric  i   andt tnsn3     ls13                                      1739          i754          1602         2042         2354          2354         2354         2354          2354          2354         2354          2354          2354
Sub Total                                      5202526                         502 7b                      5993Z                       79 578942894                            7894        T9?          57894        3789          579
Other roots                                                                                                                  3(             80          3O             8030                       BO30                       8030
Iiaue    /                                 13108              13168        13751         20156         2654          380          30            30580780                                30            3800         3800           3800
Weaving mill 2/                                    4457              4457         4457          4457         4457          4457         4457          4457         4457          4452745                     47            4745
p-c sill, mill 7/                                  5266              5286          5525         6045          6785         9083         9083          9383         9083          9083         9083          9083          9083          9083
Twitin   c/l 4                                 9/                924          2099             -            -                   -             -             -            -
Worknlhcp 5/                                        236               295           7501         750           750          751          150           750          750           750           750          750           750            750 
Headquarters 6/                                     484                705         1605         1531          1521         1521         1521          1521         1521          1571          1521         1521          1521           1921
Total Operating inpenses                       76 89 7            77177        79164        60399         54106        77505         77505        77505         77505        77505         77905         77505        77505          77505
Opecaiicg  0t-fIlc/Lnoa                               (1225)             11505)       (5136)      (16033         20486        34729         34729        34729         34729        347228        34729         34729        34729          34729
Depreciation 2-'                                      664               664           664           826        13229        13228        13228         13228        1322          13228         13228         13227        13223          12228
Inteest  n shrt ten dbt A/                    2922947                        2928          217          1973         2547          1767           508             -            -             -
Interest or 1L-ne tern debt 9,--                                                                               10039         8741          7447         6151         485-5 239                                                    
Net  profit/(L-s)  brior   taxe                        (4836)            (SIlO)       (8728)       (18602)       (4758)        10241        12287         14842        16646        17942         19230         20534        21501208
Irnrattflent allowance  10/  -  -       -             -            -             -            -             -            -             -       (19375)        (5127)            -         24502~~~~19375  (517)  -2450
income tax-                                                                ------                                                                                                                           (12589        (17327)       (29714)
6et  Peafit(ne          fte txs(4836)                                    (5116)       (6728)       (18602)       (4738)        13241        12287         14642        16646        17942          11377         2019         7.174         17273
1/  For detaIls ee  talbles  4.4, 4.1.                       5   Foe details see Table  5.1.                              9/ 10 year loan with 2 years grace period on interet and principal, et 9.10. p.-  up
2/l  Fur details see Table  4.3.6   Foe details see Table 5.2.                                                                to Rn 20  million, at 111. p.o. far the balnc..
5/For details se  fable 4.2.                               7/  30 yeats for civil weeks, 10 years foe                  l0/ 18.751%, oH nee fixed assts,  revesd 10 year   ft-r rho i,cv-tment.
T/  For detaile see Table 4.5.                                      -ah-soy aed equipment,  straight li-e                Tii7 At the rate of 57.757. of taxai le income. Taxa.ble linsome in determined axing declining
8/  At 151, p...                                                balance deptecietion. Tax losnes are carried forward until absorbed by profits.Inet
meet credit of 253  of new fined assets   lse   and 204,~ tan rebate  -vai   ble far hank-
ward oreas (T. Niarxslpor, Mysere).



INDIA
KARNATAKA SERICULTURE PROJECT
KARNATAKA SILK INDUSTRIES CORPORATION
BALANCE SHEET
(Rs 000's)
March 80  March 81  March 82  March 83  March 84  March 85  March 86  March 87  March 88  March 89  March 90  March 91  March 92  March 93
Assets
Cash                                             1,022      1,115      1,149      1,979      1,155      4,299       7,675    16,827    34,562    53,593    73,920          73,133    80,710   111,408
Receivables                                      6,306      6,306      6,169      3,733      6,216      9,352      9,352       9,352      9,352      9,352      9,352       9,352      9,352
Inventories                                    19,968    19968  -19,797    13,945    15,983    21,059    21,059    21 059    21,059    21,059    21,059    21,059    21  059
Subtotal current assets                      27,296    27,389    27,115    19,657    23,354    34,710    38,086    47,238    64,973    84,004   104,331   103,544   111,121
Net Fixed Assets                                 1,551      1,287    21,382   136,590   123,362   110 134    96,906    83.678            70,450    57,222    43,994    30,766         17,538           -
Total Assets                                 28,847    28,676    48,497   156, 24    146,716   144844   134,992   130,916    135,423   141,226   148,325   i34,310   128.659   111,408
Liabilities
Payables                                           145        145        142        133        171        197         197        197        197        197        197         197        197
Short term borrowings                           19,647    19,647    19,399        9,577    16,779    16,779        6,779           -          -          -           -          -          -
Current portion of long term debt                    -          -          -    12          1           2139      12,139    12 139    12 139    12,139    12 136                           -
Subtotal current liabilities                 19,792    19,792    19,541    21,849    29,089    29,115    19,115    12,336             12,336    12,336    12,333            197        197
Long term debt                                       -          -    15,800    84,970    72,831    60,692    48,553    36,414    24,275    12,136                               -          -
Investment allowance                                                                                                                                           19,375     24,502     24,502           -
Share capital                                   9,055     14,000    27,000    82,000    82,000    82,000    82,000    82,000    82,000    82,000    82,000                82,000    82,000    82,000
Retained earnings                                    -    (5,116)  (13,844)  (32 446)  (37,204)  (26,963)  (14.676)              166    16,812    34,754    34617    27,611    21,960    29 408
Net worth                                     9,055      8,884          13,156    49,554    44 796    55,037    67,324    82,166    98 812   116,754   116,617   109.,611   103960   111.408
Total Liabilities                            28,847    28,676    48.497   156 373   146,716   144,844   134,992   130,916   135,423   141,226   148,325   134,310   128,659   111,408
1/ For purpose of rate of return analysis, (Table 1) sale of assets at net value is assumed.
ID



-71 -                               ANNEX 4
Table 4.1
INDIA
KARNATAKA SERICULTURE PROJECT
KARNATAKA SILK INDUSTRIES CORPORATION
NEW FILATURE:   ESTIMATED OPERATING PROFIT
(Hs OOO's)
84 - 85
Indian F.Y.                         81 - 82      82 - 83        83 - 84      onward
Raw Silk Production (t)                 -            -            90           162
Raw Silk Revenue at 340 Rs/kg           -            -          30600         55080
Waste Silk -/       -                   -                         563          1013
De&d Pupae                                           -            100            178
Total Revenue                   -            -           31263         56271
Raw Material
Cocoons -/                            -            -          23085         41553
Consumlt_  -                          -            -             90           162
Sub-Total                                               23175         41715
Utilities
Pover-/                               _           15             78           106
Coal-/                                -           10             95           171
Sub-Total                       -           25            173            277
Salaries & Wages                       57          117           1771          2168
Overheads
Repairs & Maintenance -               -            -            110           220
Insurance & Other                    25           35            115           135
Sub-Total                      25           35            225           355
Selling Expenses-/                     -             -            485          1000
Training                              55           105              -             -
Total Operating Costs         137          282          25829         45515
Operating Profit/(Loss)              (137)        (282)          5434        .10756
1/ 252 of raw silk production at 25 Rs/kg.
2/ 552 of raw silk production at 2 Rs/kg.
3/  Silk yield 10%.       Cost 25.65 Rs/kg including 0.4 Rs/kg for transportation.
4/  1 Rs/kg of silk produced.
5/ 165 KVA at 264 Rs, 570 thousand units at 0.11 Rs/unit at full capacity.
6/ 855t at 200 Rs/t at full capacity.
7/ 1% of civil works. 0.5% of equipment starting in 84 - 85.
8/ Packing and Transportation at 0.34 Rs/kg, Silk Exchange Commission at 2% of raw silk sales,
excluding internal sales to weaving mill.



- 72 -                                 ANNEX 4
Table 4.2
INDIA
KARNATAKA SERICULTURE PROJECT
KARNATAKA SILK INDUSTRIES CORPORATION
SPUN SILK MILL: ESTIMATED OPERATING PROFIT
(Rs 000's)
Indian F.Y.              Without Project                  With Project -
80-81            81-82      82-83    83-84       84-85
onward                                           onward
Production (t) 2/
Spun silk yarn                          45               45        40        110         150
Noil yarn                                45              45         40        63          80
Noils - Old process                      11             .11         10        13          15
New process                      -               -          -          5           8
Revenue 3/                            16,420           16,420    14,600    37,080       50,164
Operating Costs
Raw Material
Silk waste 4/                      7,500           7,500      6,625    11,375       15,000
Chemicals 5/                         270             270        240        660         900
Subtotal                         7,770           7,770      6,865    12,035      15,900
Utilities
Power 6/                             215              215       204        615         732
Coal 7/                              180             180        180        400         400
Subtotal                           395             395        384      1,015      1,132
Salaries & wages                     3,720           3,979      4,266      5,824       5,824
Overheads
Repairs & maintenance 8/             700             700        700      1,000       1,300
Others                               400             400        400        500         600
Subtotal                         1,100           1,100      1,100      1,500      1,900
Selling expenses 9/                     51               51        45        196         227
Training                                  -               -       250        250           -
Total operatirg costs           13,036          13,295    12,910    20,820       24,983
Operating profit                       3,384            3,125     1,690    16,260       25,181
1/ Year 80-81 same as without project.
2/ Old process used for first three years. New process in operation in 1983-84 at 67%
capacity, from 1984-85 onward at 100% capacity, reconditioned equipment operating at
80% capacity in 1983-84,100% from 1984-85 onward.
3/ Selling prices: spun silk yarn300 Rs/kg, noil yarn 60 Rs/kg, noils 8 Rs/kg for new
process and 20 Rs/kg for old process.
4/ Yields: 15% for old process before reconditioning, 20% after reconditioning, 30% for
new process. Cost 25 Rs/kg.
5/ 6 Rs/kg of spun silk yarn produced.
6/ 440 KVA at 264 Rs and 0.9 million units at 0.11 Rs/unit at full capacity for old pro-
cess; 1,210 KVA and 3.8 million units at 0.11 Rs/unit for new process.
7/ 900 t for old process, 1,100 t for new process at 200 Rs/kg.
8/ 700,000 Rs for existing equipment plus 1% of civil works and new equipment after year 3.
9/ Packing at 0.5 Rs/kg, advertising 100,000 Rs starting third year.



- 73 -
ANNEX 4
INDIA                                        Table 4.3
KARNATAKA SERICULTURE PROJECT
KARNATAKA SILK INDUSTRIES CORPORATION
WEAVING PLANT: ESTIMATED OPERATING PROFIT
(Rs 000's)
WITHOUT PROJECT -
80 - 81
Unit Selling Price                  onward
Indian F. Y.                                          Rs/m                Volume 21          Amount
Revenue
Plain Fabrics 60g/m                               50                    24                1200
Plain Fabrics lOOg/m                               75                   96                6912
Printed Fabrics 60g/m                             60                    40                2400
Gold Lace lOOg/m                                 105                    40                4200
Total                                                          200               14712
Operating Costs
Raw material
Raw silk 3/                                                                               7436
Chemicals and dyes 4/                                                                      100
Gold for Gold Lace 5/                                                                     1112
Consumables 6/                                                                              80
Subtotal                                                                          8728
Utilities
Power 7/                                                                                   129
Coal 8/                                                                                     36
Subtotal                                                                           165
Outside Printing Charges 9/                                                                    400
Salaries and wages                                                                            3091
Overheads
Repairs and maintenance                                                                     50
Insurance and other                                                                        130
Subtotal                                                                           180
Selling Expenses
Packing 10/                                                                                100
Showroom expenses 11/                                                                      144
Discounts 12/                                                                              230
Advertising 13/                                                                            147
Subtotal                                                                           621
Total Operating Costs                                                                    13185
Operating Profit                                                                                1527
1/  With project, profit will be Rs 1527 in 80-81 through 82-83, and Rs 1063 onward due to chanse
in raw silk price from 32D Rs/kg to 340 Rs/kg.
2/  In km.
3/  Raw silk loss in degumming process 25%.  Raw silk cost 320 Rs/kg without project and for
80-81 through 82-83 with project, 340 Rs/kg afterwards.
4/  At 0.5 Rs/m of material produced.
5/  400 kg at 2780 Rs/kg.
6/  0.4 Rs/m of material produced.
7/  Based on 200 KVA and 690,000 units at 264 Rs/KVA and 0.11 Rs/unit.
8/ 180 t at 200 Rs/t at full capacity.
9/  Outside charges at 10 Rs/m.
10/ At 0.5 Rs/m.
11/  Rent:   12,000 Rs/year/showroom for the 4 existing showrooms.  Office expenses
24,000 Rs/year/showroom.
12/ For bulk purchases: 6 1/4% on 25% of sales.
13/ 1% of sales.



- 74 -
INDIA                                   ANNEX 4
Table 4.4
KARNATAKA SERICULTURE PROJECT
KARNATAKA SILK INDUSTRIES CORPORATION
EXISTING FILATURES ESTIMATED OPERATING PROFIT
(RS '000)
WITHOUT PROJECT         WITH PROJECT-
Indian F.Y.                                        80-81             81-82    82-83
Onward
% Capacity Utilization                              100                97
Revenue
Raw Silk 2/                                 50,240            48,632   22,407
Silk Waste 3/                                1,175             1,137       524
Dead Pupae 41                                   190               184       85
Duppion Silk 5/                                 960               930      428
Total Revenue                             52,565            50,883   23,444
Operating Expenses
Raw Material
Cocoons 6/                                  44,298            42,880   19,757
ConsumabTes 7/                                  157               152       70
Sub-total                                 44,455            43,032   19,827
Utilities
Power                                            75                73       34
Coal 8/                                         640               620      285
Sub-total                                    715               693       319
Salaries & Wages                               11,041            11,550 8/18,862 9/
Overheads
Repairs & Maintenance                            58                55       35
Insurance & Other                              445               440       335
Sub-total                                    503               495       370
Selling Expenses 10/                               909               876      323
Total Operating Expenses                  57,623            56,646   39,701
Operating Profit/(Loss)                      (5,058)          (5,763) (16,257)
4   Year 80-81 same as without project.
i/  157T without project; 152t and 70t respectively for 81-82, 82-83 with
project.  Selling price Rs 320/kg.
3/ 30% of raw silk production. Selling price Rs 25/kg, All sales are internal
to Spun Silk Mill.
4/  60% of raw silk production.  Selling price Rs 2/kg.
35  5% of raw silk production.  Selling price Rs 120/kg.
6/ Silk yield 9%. Filature gate price Rs 25.65/kg.
7/ Rs 1/kg of raw silk produced.
8/ 3,200t at full capacity, at Rs 200/ton.
9/ Includes provision for retired employes.
10/ Packing and transporation at Rs-0.34/kg. Silk Exchange Commission at 2% of
raw silk sales, excluding internal sales to weaving plant and twisting mill.



- 75 -
ANNEX 4
Table 4.5
INDIA
KARNATAKA SERICULTURE PROJECT
KARNATAKA SILK INDUSTRIES CORPORATION
TWISTING MILL: ESTIMATED OPERATING PROFIT
(Rs 000's)
WITHOUT PROJECT                 WITH PROJECTV
Indian F.Y.                           80 - 81
onward                 80 - 81           81 - 82
Revenue
Twisted silk, llt at 360 Rs/kg             3960                    3960              3960
Fabrics, 16.5 km at 27 Rs/kg                446                     446               446
Total                                    4406                    4406              4406
Operating Expenses
Raw Material
Raw Silk 12t at 320 Rs/kg                  3820                    3820              3820
Chemicals & Consumables                      20                      20                20
Sub-Total                                3840                   3840               3840
Dyeing & Printing                            125                    125               125
Power & Coal                                  82                     82                82
Salaries & Wages                            585                     585              1760 2/
Overheads                                   132                     132               132
Total Operating Expenses                 4764                    4764              5939
Operating Profit (Loss)                   (358)                  (358)            (1533)
1/ Twisting mill will be closed down in March 1982.
2   Includes provision for retired employees.



- 76                                                            I
ANNEX 4
Table 5.1
INDIA
KARNATAKA SERICULTURE PROJECT
KARNATAKA SILK INDUSTRIES CORPORATION
WORXSHOP: .ESTIMATED OPERATING COSTS
(Rs 000's)
WITHOUT PROJECT                   WITH PROJECT
Indian F.Y.                        80 - 81                                         81 - 82
onward                          80 - 81         onward
Annual
Staff                          No.      Cost      No.    Salary    No.   Cost    No.   Cost
(,eneral Manager               -        -        1     30          -      -       1     30
Works Manager                  -        -        1     22.5        1     23       1     23
Design Engineer                -        -        2     19.5        1     20       2     39
Draftsman                      -        -        1      9          1      9       1      9
Accounts Officer               -        -        1     13.5        -       -      1     14
Administrative Assistant       -        -        1     11.3                -      1     11
Storekeepers                  -         -        3      9          -       -      3     27
Supervisors                             9        2      9          1       9      2     18
Foremen                        -        -        2     11.3        -       -      2     23
Skilled Mechanics            18       162       41       9        18    162      41    369
Helpers/Peons -               10       45       19      4.5       10     45      19     86
Clerks, Typist, Cashier       -         -        7      7.5        1      7       7     52
Total                    29       216       81                33    275      81    701
Consumables                            20                                20             49
Total operating costs             236                               295            750



- 77 -
ANNEX A
Tal<5.2
INDIA
KARNATAKA SERICULTURE PROJECT
TARNATAKA SILK INDUSTRIES CORPORATION
HEADQUARTERS: ESTIMATED OPERATING COSTS
(Rs 000's
WITHOUT PROJECT                            WITH PROJECT
Indian F.Y.                         80 - 81                                                                           83 - 84
onward                            80 - 81        81 - 82       82 - 83           onward
Annual
Staff                            No.    Cost        No.    Salary    No.    Cost   No.   Cost    No.   Cost    No.   Cost
Managing Director               1      30           1     45          1       45      1     45       1      45       1     45
Financial Director              -        -         1      45          1       23      1     45       1      45       1     45
Technical Director              -        -         1      45          1       23      1      45      1      45       ]      45
Secretary                       -       -          1      22.5        1       17      1      23      1      23       1      23
Personnel Manager               -        -         1      30          1       23      1      30       1     30       1      0
Marketing Manager               -        -         1      30          -        _-             -       1     15       1      30
Purchase Manager                -        -         1      30          -        _      _       _       1      8       1      30
Internal Auditor                -       -          1      30          _        _      _       _       _              1      30
Chief Account Officer           -       -          1      22.5        1       12      1      23       1     23       1      23
Purchasing Assistants           -        -         7       7.5        -        -      -       -       2     15       7      53
Administrative Officer          -        -         1      13.5        1       11       1     14       1      14       1     IL
Technical Assistants            -        -          2     19.5        1       10       1     20       1      20       2     39
Cost Accountant                 1      23          1      22.5        1       23       1     23       1      23       1     23
Accounts Officer                5      38           3       7.5       3       22       3     22       3      22       3     2,
Audit Assistants                3      22           3       7.5       3       22       3      22      3      22       3      .2
Personnel Assistants            -        -          6       9         2       18       4      36      6      54       6      54
Research & Development
Officer (Filature)              -        -          1      30         1       15       1      30       1     30       1      30
Market Economist                -        -          1      19.5       -        -       -       -       1     10       1      2 0
Marketing Assistants            -        -          2      13.5       -        -       -       -       1       7      2      2,
Civil Engineer                  -        -          1      22.5       1       17       1      23       1     23
Clerks/Stenographer             2      15         15        7.5       4       30       8      60      15    113      )5    -1
Drivers/Peons                   8      36          10      ;4.5       8       36       8      36       8    _36      _( 10 
Total                     20      164         62                31      347       37    497       52    623      61    76~
Other Expenses
Rent                                   20-/                                  108             108-/           108-1          1o8--
Travel                                150                                    100             500             400             30
Administrative Expenses               150                                    150              500            400            'y
Total operating costs             484                                   705             1605           1531            1521
1/ 6000 sq ft at 18 Rs/year
2/ Assessment for occupied square space in Department of Sericulture



- 78-
ANNEX 4
INDIA                                      TABLE 6
KARNATAKA SERICULTURE PROJECT
DEPARTMENTAL FILATURE:   ESTIMATED NET OPERATING PROFIT
AND FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN
(Re '000)
OPERATING YEAR                              PRE-                  1               2              3-11              12
C CAPACITY UTILIZATION                       OPERATION              37%             67%             100%             100%
SEMIAUTOMATIC FILATURE
Cocoon Throughput (tons/yr)21              -                   45              80              120              120
Raw Silk Production (kg/yr)-               -                4,285          7,805            12,000           12,000
Revenue
Raw Silk at Rs 340/kg 3/               -                 1,457          2,654            4,080             4,080
Silkwaste at Rs 25/kg-                 -                    28             50                75               75
Total Revenue                   -                1,485          2,704             4,155            4,155
Operating Costs
Staff Salaries                         -                   115            190              283               283
Cocoons                                -                 1,035          1,840            2,760             2,760
O&M CW, Veh., Equip.                   20                   70            100              150               150
Utilities                              25                   25             50                60               60
Total Operating Costs           45               1,245          2,180             3,253            3,253
Operating Profit (Loss)                  (45)                 240            524               902              902
Financial Rate of Return
Total Revenue                          -                1,485           2,704            4,155            4,155
Less:  Capital Investment-/         1,901               2,775              -                -               (720)
Operating Costs    5/          45                1,245          2,180            3,253             3,253
Net Working Capital-           -                    52             -                 -               (52)
Net Benefits (FRR = 14%)           (1,946)             _2,587)            524              902            1,674
1/  Calculation for semiautomatic filature with five machines of 40 ends each, processing at full capacity 400 kg cocoons per
day with double shift operation 300 days per year.
2/  Renditta assumed to improve from 10.5 in first year to 10.0 in third year.
3/  Approx. 2.5% of cocoon throughput.
4/  For details, see Annex 2, Table 2.7.   Includes physical cunLingencies.  Salvage value of land and assets in year 12.
5/ Two weeks supply of cocoons. Recovered in year 12.



INDIA
KARNATAKA SERICULTURE PROJECT
Cottage Basins:  Projected Reeler Income and Financial Returns
(Rs )
Before    l
YEAR                                 Development -                1               2               3              4                 5                6                7              8-11               12
Cocoon Throughput (kg/yr) -  /          2,000                  Z,000          6,000           8,000           10,000           10,000           10,000            10,000           10,000           10,000
Silk Yarn Production (kg/yr) -            167                    167             510            695              910               910              910              910              910              910
CASH INFLOW              4
Revenue from Silk Yarn -               40,000                40,000         137,700         187,650          245,700          245,700          245,700           245,700          245,700          245,700
Revenue from Silk Waste 5                 900                    900          2,500           3,600            4,500            4,500            4,500             4,500            4,500            4,500
CASH OUTFLOW
Capital Investment 6                         _               (20,000)              -               -                -                -                -                _                 -            3,000
Operating Costs  2 8                  (37,400)               (37,400)      (138,000)       (184,000)        (230,000)        (230,000)        (230,000)         (230,000)        (230,000)        (230,000)
Inc. Working Capital -                      -                      -        (12,000)               -                -                -                -                -                -           12,000
NET BENEFIT BEFORE FINANCING
Total                                   3,500                (16,500)       C 9,800)          7,250           20,200           20,200           20,200            20,200           20,200           35,200
Incremental                                 -               (20,000)        (13,300)          3,750           16,700           16,700           16,700            16,700           16,700           31,700       1
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN = 32b.
FINANCING 91
OK Subsidy                                  -                 4,000                -               _
Loan Receipt -                                                14,000          12,000
Less:  Debt Service                         -                      -               -         (9,375)          (8,710)          (8,045)           (7,380)          (6,705)                -                -
NET BENEFIT AFTER FINANCING
Total                                   3,500                  1,500           2,200         (2,125)          11,490           12,155           12,820            13,495           20,200
Incremental                                 -                (2,000)         (1,300)         (5,625)           7,990            8,655            9,320             9,995           16,700           31,700
RETURN TO REELER's EQUITY = 50+%
1/ Incremental analysis based on charka operator upgrading to cottage basin (five basin unit).
2/  Before development = 200 day operation per year; cottage basin operations build from 150 to 250 days per year in three years.
3/ Before development renditta of 12, improving to 11 in three years of cottage basin operation.
4/ Charka quality Rs 240/kg; cottage basin quality Rs 270/kg.
5/  Improving from 35% to 33% of silk yarn production, at Rs 15/kg.
6/  Cottage basin capital costs = reeling shed (40 sq m) @ Rs 10,000; reeling unit (five basins) I Rs 4,500; re-reeling machine, cleaning stand, skeining and bundling machine
@ Rs 1,500; denier scale, cooking vessels, boiler @ Rs 2,000; fees and installation @ 2,000; Total Rs 20,000.  Salvage value in year 12.
7/  Before development operating costs = cocoons @ Rs 17/kg, labor at Rs 10/day (two workers) and fuel at Rs 4/day.  Cottage basin operating costs 2 cocoons @ Rs 21/kg,
labor at Rs 50/day (10 workers) and utilities at Rs 30/day.
8/  Two weeks supply cocoon, recovered in year 12.
9/  Farmer equity = 10%, contributed before subsidy and loan.
10/ 407 of equipment cost or Rs 4,000, whichever is lower.
11/ Inc. working capital included in long-term loan. Seven-year loan at 11%, two-year grace with interest capitalized.



ANNEX 4
Table 8.1
INDIA
KARNATAKA SERICULTURE PROJECT
0.5 Ha Irrigated Farm Model: Projected Income and Financial Returns
(Rs)
YEAR                          BEFORE
PARAMETERS-I               DEVELOPMENT       1         2         3         4        5      6-20
Avg. No. of Rearings             5             5          5         5         5       5       5
No. of Layings3/             1,500         1,350     1,500      1,500    1,400   1,400   1,400
Cocoon Yield (kg/0.5 ha)       260           235       305        330      350      350     350
Cocoon Price (Rs/kg)            21            21        22.2/      23       23       23      23
CASH INFLOW
Cocoon Revenue   4/          5,460         4,935     6,710      7,590    8,050   8,050   8,050
Byproduct Revenue-             655           590       740        760      805      805     805
Total              6,115        5.525      7.450      8,350    8,855   8,855   8,855
CASH OUTFLOW
Production Costs5
Productiond   Costsnr       45            45        45         45       45       45      45
Land Tilling-4
Fertil zer:6               800           975     1,175     1,305    1,305   1,305   1,305
Power77          8         100           100       100        100      100      100     100
Rearing Materials-/         -             -         25         35       35       35      35
Eggs29/    10/             375           335       450        525      490      490     490
Field Labor -              425           450       480        540      540      540     540
Rearing Laborll/         2,500        2,000      2,810      3,125    3,125   3,125   3,125
Subtotal  12/       4,245         3,905      5,085     5,675    5,640   5,640   5,640
Capital Investment-             -          6,750        -          - - -                     _
Total             4,245        10,655      5,085     5,675    5,640   5,640   5,640
NET BENEFIT BEFORE
FINANCING
Total                        1,870        (5,130)    2,365      2,675    3,215   3,215   3,215
Incremental                     -         (7,000)      495        805    1,345   1,345   1,345
FINANCING X/                                        INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN - 15%
Loan Receipt                    -          6,075        -         -         -        -       -
Less:  Debt Service             -             -      2,385      2,210    2,030   1,850       -
NET BENEFIT AFTER
FINANCING
Total                        1,870           945        (20)      465    1,185   1,365   3,215
Incremental                     -           (925)   (1,890)   (1,405)    (685)   (505)  1,345
RETURN TO FARMER'S EQUITY - 15%
1/  This model is based on a sericulturist producing average quality multivoltine cocoons who
upgrades to bivoltine cocoon production. Traditional mulberry variety is replaced with
improved variety over years 1 and 2 while multivoltine cocoon production continues at a
reduced-level. Credit assistance is taken (based on 10% farmer equity) for construction
of a rearing house in year 1, which is used for three rearings of bivoltine silkworms
in year 2. Family labor is included at the market wage rate (Rs 5/day).
2/  Cocoon production per 100 layings assumed to increase from 17 hg before development to 25
kg at full development, reflecting improved quality of eggs and lower silkworm mortality
with the project.
3/  Price based on two rearings multivoltine, three rearings bivoltine hybrid cocoons.
41 Excess leaf, stems (for fodder), silkworm litter (for fertilizer): reduced from 12% to
10% of cocoon revenue over the period of development.
5/  Bullock team ploughing for seven days at Rs 6/day.
6/ At full development:  90 kg urea; 60 kg N,P,I  (compound fertilizer); 10 tons FYM.
Approx. half dosage applied to traditional mulberry variety.
7/  Electricity 500 kwh at Rs 0.20/kwh.
8/  Foam, parafin  paper, tray replacement, cocooning frame rental, etc.
9/ Rs 25/100 layings before development, rising to Rs 35/100 layings at full development.
1O/  108 workdays at full development, at Rs 5/day
11/  125 workdays per rearing at full development, at Rs 5/day.
12/  Rearing house (55 sq m).
13/  Farmer equity = 10%.  Five-year loan at 10.5% interest.



- 81 -
ANNEX 4
Table 8.2
INDIA
KARNATAKA SERICULTURE PROJECT
1 Ha Irrigated Farm Model: Projected Income and Financial Returns
(Rs)
Before
YEAR                               Development       1         2         3         4         5      6-20
PARAMETERS
Avg. No. of Rearings                      5           5         5         5         5         5         5
No. of Layings 2/                     3,000       2,300    2,975    3,000    2,800    2,800    2,800
Cocoon Yield (kg/ha)                    520         400       595       660       700      700       700
Cocoon Price (Rs/kg)                     23          23        25        25        25        25       25
CASH INFLOW
Cocoon Revenue                       11,960       9,200   14,875   16,500   17,500   17,500   17,500
Byproduct Revenue 3/                  1,435       l,100    1,635    1,650    1,750    1.750    1,750
Total                     13,395      10,300   16,510   18,150   19,250   19,250   19,250
CASH OUTFLOW
Production Costs
Land Tilling 4/                      90          90        90        90       90        90        90
Fertilizer 5/                     1,605       1,950    2,350    2,610    2,610    2,610    2,610
Power 6/                            200         200       200      200       200       200       200
Rearing Materials 7/                  -          30        50        70       70        70        70
Eggs 8/                             750         575      890    1,050        980       980       980
Field Labor 9/                      850         900       965    1,075    1,075    1,075    1,075
Rearing Labor 10/                5,000       4,000    5,625    6,250    6.250    6,250    6,250
Subtotal                   8,495       7,745   10,170   11,345   11,275   11,275   11,275
Capita-l Investment 11/                   -      13-500         -         -         -         -        -
Total                      8,495      21,245   10,170   11,345   11,275   11,275   11,275
NET BENEFIT BEFORE FINANCING
Total                                 4,900    (10,945)   6,340    6,805    7,975    7,975    7,975
Incremental                               -    (15,845)   1,440    1,905    3,075    3,075    3,075
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN = 16%
FINANCING 12/
Loan Receipt                              -      11,475         -         -         -         -        _
Less:  Debt Service                       -           -    4,500    4,170    3,835    3,500             -
NET BENEFIT AFTER FINANCING
Total                                 4,900         530    1,840    2,635    4,140    4,475    7,975
Incremental                               -      (4,370)  (3,060)  (2,265)    (760)    (425)   3,075
RETURN TO FARMER'S EQUITY = 16%
1/  This model is based on an experienced sericulturist producing good quality multivoltine
cocoons who upgrades to bivoltine cocoon production. In Year 1, total yield is temporarily
reduced while traditional mulberry variety is replaced with improved variety and credit
assistance is taken (based on 15% farmer equity) for construction of a rearing house.
Family labor is included at the market wage rate (Rs. 5/day).
2/  Cocoon production per 100 layings assumed to increase from 17 kg before development to
25 kg at full development, reflecting improved quality of eggs and lower silkworm
mortality with the project.
3/  Excess leaf,, stems (for fodder), silkworm litter (for fertilizer); reduced from 12% to
107. of cocoon revenue over the period of development.
4/  Bullock team ploughing for 15 days at Rs. 6/day.
5/  At full development:  180 kg urea; 120 kg N, P, K (coumpound fertilizer); 20 tons FYM.
Approx. half dosage applied to traditional mulberry variety.
6/  Electricity 1,000 kwh at Rs. 0.20/kwh.
7/ Foam, parrafin paper, tray replacement, cocooning frame rental, etc.
8/ Rs. 25/100 layings before development, rising to Rs. 35/100 layings at full development.
9/ 215 workdays at full development at Rs. 5/day.
10/ 250 workdays per rearing at full development at Rs. 5/day.
11/  Rearing house (95 sq m).
12/  Farmer equity = 15%.  Five-year loan at 10.57. interest.



- 82 -
ANNEX 4
INDIA                                                        Table 8.3
KARNATAKA SERICULTURE PROJECT
0.5 Ha New Irrigated Farm Model: Prolected Income and Financial Returns
(Rs)
YEAR                                BEFORE
P1/A~TERSif            DEVELOPMENT            1             2              3             4             5-13             14
PAtRAMETERS= 
Avg. No. of Rearings                                       2            5              5             5               5                5
No. of  Layings                        _                 250          680         1,200          1,400           1,400           1,400
Cocoon Yield  (kg/0.5 ha) )                               50          150            300           350             350              350
Cocoon Price  (Re/kg)                  -                  23           23             23            23              23               23
CASH IN
Crop Revenue                       3,150               1,575           -               -- 
Cocoon Revenue u                       _               1,150        3,450         6,900          8,050           3,050           8,050
Byproduct RevenueO                                       125          345           690            805             805              805
TOTAL                 3,150               2,850        3,795         7,590          8,855           8,855           8,855
CASH OUT
Capital Investment           3/        -
Land Prep. and Planting-           -                275            -
Planting Material                  -                  75           -
Fertilizer4'                       -                715            -
Equipment5'                        -              2,500            -
Misc.                              -                 125           -
Subtotal                       -               3,690           -              -             --                     
Production Cost4-'                 1,200                 600           -
Land Tilling                       -                 -             45            45            45               45               45
Fertilizer                         -                260           975         1,175         1,305            1,305            1,305
Power                              -                  50          100           100            100             100              100
Rearing Materials                  -                  -            20            35             35               35              35
Eggs                               -                  75          240           420           490              490              490
Field Labor                        -                200           350           475           540              540              540
Rearing Labor                      -                415         1,560         2,500         3,125            3,125            3,125
Subtotal                   1,200               1,600        3,290          4,880         5,640            5,640            5,640
Net Working Capital                    -                 500           -             -                               -              (500)
TOTAL                 1,200               2,100        3,290         4,880          5,640            5,640           5,140
NET BENEFIT BEFORE                                                    INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN = 13%
FINANCING
Total                              1,950              (2,940)         505         2,710          3,215            3,215            3,715
Incremental                            -              (4,890)      (1,445)          760         1,265             1,265           1,765
FINANCING'
Loan Receipt                           -               3,7708             8-
Less:  Debt Service                    -                 395          395-'       2,280          2,080               -                -
NET BENEFIT AFTER
FINANCING
Total                              1,950                 435          110           430          1,135            3,215            3,715
Incremental                            -              (1,515)      (1,840)       (1,520)          (815)           1,265            1,765
RETURN TO FARMER'S EQUITY = 13%
1/ This model is based on a well-managed irrigated farm converting to sericulture. Before development net benefits are an
average of returns to paddy, maize and cotton production. In year 1, gradual replacement of traditional crop with
mulberry allows single cropping plus two small silkworm rearings. Credit assistance (based on 10% farmer equity) is
taken for plantation and equipment expenses and working capital for two rearings. Family labor is included at the
market wage rate (Rs 5/day).
2/ Excess leaf, stems (for fodder), silkworm litter (for fertilizer).
3/ Approx. 55 workdays at Rs 5/day.
4! 20 kg urea; 30 kg N,P,K; 10 tons FYM.
5/ Rearing trays (60), stands (3), cocooning frame (70), small implements.
6! See footnotes 5-11, Table 8.2.
7/ Farmer eauity = 10%. Four-year loan at 10.5% interest.
8   Interest payment only.



- 83 -
ANNEX 4
INDIA                       Table R.4
KARNATAKA SERICULTURE PROJECT
1 Ha Rainfed Farm Model: Projected Income and Financial Returns
(Rs)
Before
Year                            Development      1       2       3-7
PARAMETERS 1/
Avg. Nof of Rearings                   5           4       3        3
No. of Layings 2/                  1,175       1,190   1,210   1,175
Cocoon Yield (kg/ha)                 200         215     230      235
Cocoon Price (Rs/kg)                  17          17      18       18
CASH INFLOW
Cocoon Revenue                     3,400       3,655   4,140   4,230
Byproduct Revenue 3/                 680         680     680      680
Total                      4,080       4,335   4,820   4,910
CASH OUTFLOW
Production Costs
Land Tilling 4/                     70          70      70       70
Fertilizer 5/                      525         955   1,030   1,050
Rearing Materials 6/                 -          20      20       20
Eggs 7/                            235         240     265      295
Field Labor 8/                     160         170     130      185
Rearing Labor 9/                 1,575      1,575   1,575   1,575
Total                      2,565       3,030   3,140   3,195
NET BENEFIT
Total                              1,515      1,305   1,680   1,715
Incremental                            -        (210)    165      200
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN = 50+%
1/  This model is based on assumed improvements to a 1 ha rainfed mulberry
farm as a result of technical services with the project. Net benefits
are assumed to derive primarily from increased yield, with only minor
quality improvement in cocoons (6% price increase). Family labor is
included at the market wage rate (Rs. 5/day).
2/  Cocoon production per 100 layings assumed to increase from 17 kg before
development to 20 kg at full development, reflecting improved quality of
eggs and lower silkworm mortality with the project.
3/  Excess stems (for fodder), branches (for fuel), silkworm litter (for
fertilizer).
4/  Bullock team ploughing for 12 days at Rs. 6/day.
5/  At full development:  20 kg urea; 100 kg N; 50 kg P,K; 10 tons FYM.
Approx. half dosage applied before development.
61 Equipment rental.
7/  Rs 20/100 layings before development, increasing to Rs 25/100 layings
at full development.
8/  37 workdays per year at Rs. 5/day.
9/ 315 workdays per year at Rs. 5/day.



INDIA
KARNATAKA SERICULTURE PROJECT
Departmental Facilities:  Staff Salaries and Phasinge
(Rs' 000
--Per Facility--
No. of   Annual         Indian FY 80/81             81/82                 82,83                  83/84               84/85               TOTAL
FACILITY                       Staff    Salaries    (No.)            Cost   (No.)          Cost   (No.)           Cost   (No.)          Cost  (No.)           Cost      COST
GRAINAGES (10)
Deputy Dir.                       1          20.2        1           20.2        4         80.8        8        161.6         10       202.0       10        202.0      666.6
Asst. Dir                         1           14.4       1           14.4        4         57.6        8         115.2        10       144.0       10        144.0       475.2
Seri. Asst.                       5          62.0        5           62.0       20        248.0       40        496.0        50        620.0       50       620.0    2,046.0
Seri Inap.                        5          40.0        -              -       20        160.0       40        320.0        50        400.0       50       400.0    1,280.0
Serf. Demo.                     10           68.4        -              -       20        136.8       60        410.4       100        684.0      100       684.0    1,915.2
Seri. Oper.                     10           58.9        -              -      20         117.8       60        353.4       100        589.0      100       589.0    1,649.2
Office Supt.                      1           10.2       -               -       4         40.8        6          61.2        10       102.0       10        102.0       306.0
UD Clerks                         2          1b.2        -              -        8         64.8       12          97.2       20        162.0       20        162.0      486.0
St-eographer                      1            8.1       -                       4         32.4        6          48.6       10         81.0       10         81.0      243.0
LD Clerks                         2           11.7       -               -       8         46.8       12          70.2       20        117.0       20        117.0       351.0
Typist                            1            5.8       -               -       4         23.2        6          34.8        10        58.0       10         58.0       174.0
Drivers                           2            9.6       -               -       6         28.8       12          57.6        20        96.0       20         96.0       278.4
Attendaots/W.tchmen               4           19.2       -               -      16          76.8      24         115.2        40       192.0       40        192.0       576.0
Unskilled Labor                  75         135.0        -              -       30         54.0    400           720.0       750     1,350.0      750     1,350.0    3474.0
Subtotal                     120          479.7        7          96.6      168      1,168.6      694       3,061.4    1,200      4,797.0   1,200       4,79?.0   1
Staff Allowances               -           13.8        -            3.9       -          45.5        -        177.2         -        263.0        -       263.0       752.6
Total                      120          493.5        7         100.5      168      1,214.1      694      3,238.6    1,200       5,060.0  1,200       5,0O0.0  14,673.2
MODEL HATCHERIES (20)
Seri. Demo.                       1            6.8       4           27.2        8         54.4       12          81.6       16        108.8       20        136.0      408.0
Seri. Oper.                       2           11.8       8           47.2       16         94.4       24         141.6       32        188.8       40        236.0       708.0
Unskilled Labor                   8          14.6       32           58.4       64        116.8       96         175.2      128        233.6      160        292.0      876.0
Subtotal                      11           33.2       44         132.8       88         265.6    132          398.4       176        531.2     220        664.0    1,992.0
Staff Allowances               -            0.7        -            3.0       -           5.9        -          8.9         -         11.9        _        14.9        44.6
Total                       11           33-9      44          135.8       88         271.5     132         407.3       176       543.1      220        678.9    2,036.6
HATCHERIES (1,700)
Unskilled Labor                   2            3.6  1,200        2 160.0  1.800         3.240.0  2.b00        4,680.0    3,400       6,120.0  3.400       6 120.0  22 320.0
Total                        2            3.6  1,200         2,160.0  1,800        3,240.0  2,600        4,680.0    3,400       6,120.0  3,400       6        120.0 22320.0
COCOON MARKETS (30)               (All markets)
Asst. Dir.                       10          144.0       2           14.4        2         28.8        5          72.0        10       144.0       10        144.0       403.2
Seri. Asst.                      13         161.2        1            6.2        1         12.4        8          99.2       13        161.2       13        161.2      440.2
Seri. Insp.                     37          296.0        4           16.0        4         32.0       27         216.0        37       296.0       37        296.0      856.0
Seri. Demo.                    133          904.4       15           51.0       15        102.0       60        409.3       110        749.0      133        904.4    2,215.7
Seri. Oper.                     66          389.4       10           59.0       10        118.0       42        247.8        66        389.4       66       389.4    1,203.6
UD Clerks                        10          87.0        2            8.7        2         17.4        5          43.5        10        87.0       10         87.0       243.6
Typists                          23         133.4        3            8.7        3         17.4        5          29.0        23       133.4       23        133.4       321.9
Attendants/Watchmen              14           67.2       4            9.6        4         19.2       11          52.8        14        67.2       14         67.2       216.0
Skilled Labor                   60          132.0       30           36.0      30          84.0       40          88.0       55        121.0       60        132.0      461.0
Unskilled Labor                  60         108.0       30           30.4       30         68.8       40          72.0        55        99.0       60        108.0       378.2
Subtotal                     426       2,422.6       101         240.0      101         500.0     243       1,329.6       393     2,247.2      426      2,422.6    6,739.4
Staff Allowances               -           91.4        -            9.6       -          20.0              I  55.4          _         72.8        -        91.4       249.2
Total                      426       2,514.0      101          249.6      101        520.0    243        1,385.0        393     2,320.0      426      2,514.0    6,988.6
MOBILE DEMO. UNITS (4)
Driver                            1            4.8       -              -        2          9.6        4          19.2         4        19.2        4         19.2        67.2
Staff Allowance                -            0.2        -              _       -           0.4        -          0.8         -          0.8        -          0.8         2.8
Total                        1            5.0        .              -       2          10.0       4          20.0         4         20.0        4        20.0        70.0
1/ Based on project implementation schedule.  Staff generally recr-ited four to sir months prior to opening of facility to all. time for  trdlng
and pr-operating activities.  Thus, number of staff in each year represents total staff on board at close of year; salari-s are calculated r a0 x
for assumed staff months on board duriog year.  Staff allowances calculated at approximately 47. of permanert staff salaries.
2/ "Per Facility" figures are totals for all markets.



INDIA
KARNATAKA SERICULTURE PROJECT
Departmental Facilities: Staff Salaries and Phasing
(R. '000)
--Per Facility---
No. of   Annual        Indian FY 80/81            81/82              82/83               83/84                 84/85           TOTAL
FACILITY                      Staff    Salaries    (No.)          Cost    (No.)        Cost  (No.)        Cost   (No.)         Cost   (No.)          Cost   COST
TECH. SERVICE CNTRS (150)
Seri. Asst.                      8        12.4          61      378.2         91   1,128.4    126   1,562.4         150    1,860.0       150    1,860.0   6,789.0
Seri. Demo.                      8        54.7         488   1,688.4         728   4,977.7  1,008   6,892.2   1,200    8,205.0   1,200    8,205.0  29,968.3
Clerk Typist                     1         5.8           61      176.9        91      527.8    126       730.8      150       870.0       150       870.0   3,175.5
Attendant/Watctman               1         4.8           61      146.4        91      436.8    126       604.8      150        720.0      150       720.0   2,628.0
Driver                           i         4.8           61      146.4        91      436.8    126       604.8      150       720.0       150       720.0   2,628.0
Skilled Labor                   12        26.3         488      533.8               1,592.5  1,008   2,205.0   1,200    2,625.0   1,200    2,625.0   9,581.3
Subtotal                      24       1C8.8       1,220   3,070.1    1,820   9,100.0  2,520  12,600.0   3,000   15,000.0   3,000   15,000.0  54,770.1
Staff Allowances                         3 3           -      163.0          -     546.0        -      756.0        -       900.0        -       900.0   3,265.0
Total                       24      112.1        1,220   3,233.1    1,820   9 ,646.0  2          13,356.0   3,OO0   15,900.0   3,000    15,900.0  58,035.1
TRAINING SCHOOLS (3)
Principals                       1        20.2            1       20.2         3       60.6       3       60.6        3        60.6         3        60.6      262.6
Lecturers                        2        28.8            2      28.8          6       86.4       6       86.4        6        86.4         6        86.4      374.4
Asst. Lecturers                  3        24.0            3       24.0         9       72.0       9       72.0        9         72.0        9        72.0      312.0
Managers - Supt.                 1        10.2            1       10.2         3       30.6       3       30.6        3        30.6         3        30.6      132.6
Stenographers                    1         8.1            1        8.1         3       24.3       3       24.3        3        24.3         3        24.3      105.3
LD Clerks, Typists               3        17.4            3       17.4         9       52.2       9       52.2        9        52.2         9        52.2      226.2
Drivers                          1         4.8            1        4.8         1       14.4       1       14.4        1        14.4         1        14.4       62.4
Cooks/Attenders                  3        14.4            3       14.4         9       43.2       9       43.2        9        43.2         9        43.2      187.2
Subtotal                      1        127.9          15      127.9         45     383.7       45      383.7       45       383.7       45        383.7   1,662.7
Staff Allowances               _         5.1            -        5.1         -       15.3       -       15.3        -        15.3         _        15.3       66.3
Total                       1        133.0          15      133.0        45      399.0      7;      399.0        45       399.0       45       399.0   1,729.0
FILATURE (1)
General Manager                  1        13.5            -          -         - _                -                                         1        13.5       13.5
Section Officer                  1        11.8            -          -         _          _       _          _        -            -        1        11.8       11.8
Purchasing Asst.                 1        11.8            -                    _          _       _          _        -            -        1        11.8       11.8
Accountant                       1         9.7            -                                                             _                   1         9.7         9.7
UD Clerk                         1         7.8            -          -                                                                      1         7.8         7.8
LD Clerk                         1         6.0            -          -         -                                      -            -        1         6.0        6.0
Storekeepers                     3        18.0                                     -          -          -                                  3        18.0       18.0
Supervisor                       1         6.0            -          -         -          _       _          -        -            -        1         6.0        6.0
Mechanic                         1         6.0            -          -         -          _       _          _        -            -        1         6.0        6.0
Drivers                          2        12.0            -          -         -          _       _          _        -            -        2        12.0        12.0
Cleaner                          1         3.9                       -         -          -       -          -        _            -        1         3.9         3.9
Attendants/Helpers               7        27.3            -          -         -          _       _          -         -           -        7        27.3        27.3
Operatives                      20        72.0            -          -         -                                      -            -       20        72.0        72.0
Re-reelers, Sorters             15        45.0            -          -         -                        -                          -       15        45.0       45.0
Skeiners, Examiners              5        15.0            -          -         -                                      -            -        5        15.0        15.0
Hot Air Drying Assts.            2         6.0            -          -         -          _       -          -                     -        2         6.0         6.0
Subtotal                      63       271.8           -           -                                                                     63       271.8      271.8
Staff Allowances              _         19 g                       _         _                                      -            -        -        10.9        10.9
Total                       63       282.7           -                                        - _                                     63        282.7      282.7
GRAND TOTAL ALL FACILITIES                           2 587   6,012.0    4,024  15,300.6  6, 238  23,485.9   8,218   30 ,362.1   8,358   30,974.6 1lO6, 135. 2                &
_______~~~~ ~ ~_ ______                                                                         a  x r
- of which Casual Labor - Skilled                   518      569.8        758   1,676.5  1,048   2,293.0   1,255    2,746.0   1,260    2,757.0  -0,042.3                .'. e
- Unskilled            1,262   2,248.8    1,924   3,479.6  3,136   5,647.2   4,333            7,802.6   4,370       7,870.0    7,048.2



INDIA
KARNATAKA SERICULTURE PROJECT
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN TO THE PROJECT 1/
(R. Million)
Project
Year
1          2         3           4         5         6            7         8-10        11           12           13         14        15        16-19       20
COSTS
Capital Investment
On-Farm 2/                             39.3      78.7      118.3      118.3      39.3          -           -           -           -            -           -           -        -          -     (18.0)
Cottage Basins 3/                       0.6        1.7       2.3        3.5       3.5          -           -           -        0.4           1.1         1.4         2.1      2.1          -     (11.0)
DOS Infrastructure 4/                  17.3      27.4       31.9       24.2       4.2          -           -           -        13.0         16.4        15.9        10.9     2.2           -     ( 5.0)
KSIC  1/ 0.4                                     21.1       86.2          -       3.9          -           -           -        4.4          0.7            -           -       -           _     (10.6)
Subtotal                       57.6      128.9      238.7     146.0      50.9          -           -           -        17.8         18.2        17.3        13.0      4.3          -      (44.6)
On-Fare Production Costs 6/               2.4       16.8      50.3      102.7    159.4       196.5       210.0       212.1       212.1        212.1       2U2.1       212.1   212.1      212.1       212.1
Incremental Operating Costs
Cottage Basins 7/                         0        2.4      10.8       24.9      47.1       72.7        86.0        92.6        92.6         92.6        92.6        92.6    92.6        92.6       92.6
DOS Incremental Admin. Cost 8/          5.4       4.2         4.5       4.5       4.5        4.5         3.5         3.5         3.5          3.5         3.5         3.5      3.5        3.5        3.5
DOS Infrastructure 4/                   8.6      21.2       34.2       48.1      55.5       61.6       61.6         61.6        61.6         61.6        61.6       61.6    61.6        61.6        61.6
KSIC 9/                                 0.3        2.1     (15.3)    (22.9)       0.6        0.6         0.6         0.6        0.6           0.6         0.6         0.6     0.6        0.6        0.6
Subtotal                       14.3       29.9       34.2      54.6    107.7       139.4       151.7       1158.3         .3            3       1.3    583      3   158.3       158.3      158.3
Total Costs                    74.3      175.6      323.2      303.3    318.0      335.9       361.7       370.4       388.2        388.6       387.7       383.4   374.7       370.4      325.8
BENEFITS
On-Farm 10/                              (5.7)       I.5      39.2      119,9    236.3       327.8       365.5       372.2       372.2        372.2       372.2       372.2   372.2       372.2      372.2
Production
Raw Silk 11/                            6.3      44.1      138.6      298.2    480.9      621.6       695.1        707.7       707.7        707.7       707.7       707.7   707.7      707.7      707.7
Silk Waste 12/                          0.1        1.1        3.5       7.5      12.0       15.5        17.4        17.7        17.7         17.7        17.7        17.7    17.7        17.7       17.7
KSIC 13/                                  0      (1.6)    (31.0)       (1.1)    36.6        36.6        36.6       36.6         36.6         36.6        36.6        36.6    36.6       36.6       36.6
Subtotal                       6.4       43.-6111.1                     29.5       737        749.1       i6.         762.0        762.0       762.0       76-20   762.0       762.0      7       0 
Total Benefits                 D.7       45.1      150.3     424.5    765.8   1,001.5    1,114.6    1,134.2    1.134.2           1.134.2    1,134.2    1,134.2 1,134.2   1,134.2   1,134.2
NET BENEFITS                               (73.6)   (130.5)   (172.9)    121.2    447.8         665.6       752.9       763.8       746.0        745.6       746.5       750.8   759.5       763.8      808.4
FUTURE BENEFITS WITHOUT PROJECT
Raw Silk 14/                           0.2        0.9        2.6        5.7       9.4       12.5       14.2        14.7        14.7          14.7       14.7         14.7    14.7       14.7       14.7
Silk Waste 15/                            -       0.1        0.3        0.6       1.0        1.3         1.5         1.5         1.5          1.5        1.5          1.5     1.5         1.5        1.5
Crop Incomse16/                       249.5     249.5      249.5      249.5    249.5       249.5      249.5        249.5      249.5         249.5       249.5      249.5   249.5       249.5      249.5
Total                        249.7      250.5      252.4     255.8    259.9       263.3       265.2       265.7       265.7        265.7       265.7       265.7   265.7       265.7      265.7
INCREMENTAL NET BENEFITS                  (323.3)   (381.0)   (425.3)   (134.6)   187.9         402.3       487.7       498.1       480.3        479.9       480.8       485.1   493.8      498.1       542.7
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN = 227.
1/  Economic costs and benefits expressed in constant late 1979 Rupees.  Year I = Indian FY80/81.  Costs include physical contingencies, exclude duties, taxes, interest and other
transfer payments.  Adjustments for economic analysis have been made for traded components by using conversion factors of 1.19-1.21 and for unskilled labor at 70% of the
market wage rate. Permanent working capital and salvage value recovered in year 20.
2/  Rearing houses, plantation and equipment.
3/  500 cottage basins for incremental raw silk production.
4/ For details, see Anne,  2, Tables 2.1-2.8, and footnote 1.
5/  For details, see Annex 2, Tables 3.1, 3.2 and footnote 1.  Includes permanent (net incremental) working capital in year 5, recovered in year 20.
6/  For rainfed, traditional irrigated and new irrigated farms.  For details, see farm models Annex 4, Tables 8.1-8.4.
7/ For details, see Annex 4, Table 7.
8/  For details, see Annex 2, Table 2.8.
9/  For details, see Annex 4, Table 2.
10/  Incremental net benefit to cocoon producers.
11/  Incremental raw silk production; valued at projected world market price.  See Annex 1, Table 6.6, and Annex 5, Table 2.
12/  Based on 307. of raw silk production, at R. 35/kg.
13/ Added value to raw silk and silk waste.  See Annex 4, Tables 2 and 4.2.
14/ Future without project assumption.  257. of 14,000 ha new area would convert to sericulture, remainder producing traditional crops under irrigation.                                                    '
15/  Based on 33b of raw silk production, at Rs 30/kg.
16/  Net Benefits of R. 3,900/ha fron 10,500 ha traditional crops (see footnote 14); Rn 4,900/ha from 24,000 ha irrigated mulberry in traditional area; Rs 1,515/ha from
60,000 ha rainfed mulberry.



- 87 -                          ANNEX 5
Table 2
INDIA
KARNATAKA SERICULTURE PROJECT
Price Summary for Financial and Economic Analysis
Financial     Economic-
Raw Material Production
Raw Silk (Rslkg)
Semi-automatic machine                                340
Filature                                              320           420-
Cottage basin                                         270            -
Charka                                                240           -
Silk Waste (Rs/kg)                                     15-25         30-35
Cocoons (Rs/kg)
Good quality                                         23-25              2/
Average quality                                      21-23            30-
Poor quality                                         17-21
Silk Manufactures (KSIC)-3
Silk Fabrics (Rs/m)
Plain fabrics (60 g/m)                                 50            50
Heavy plain fabrics (100 g/m)                          75            75
Printed fabrics (60 glm)                               60            60
Gold lace fabrics (100 g/m)                           105           105
Neckties, scarves (60 g/m)                             77            77
Spun Silk Yarn (Rs/kg)                                  300           300
Noil yarn (Rs/kg)                                        60            60
Inputs
Fertilizer (Rs/kg)
N                                                     4.0           5.0
P                                                     3.5           4.2
K                                                     1.5           1.7
Labor (Rs/workday)
Unskilled                                             4-5        2.0-2.5
Semi-skilled                                          8-10       6.5-8.0
1/ Economic prices for traded commodities (raw silk, silk waste, fertilizer)
based on world market projections adjusted by an estimated standard
conversion factor for India. of 0.8 (Rs 10 = US$1).
2/ Average projected price for standard denier (20/22), mixed grades.
3/ Based on average domestic market prices for 1978-1979.
4/ For economic analysis, total unskilled and semi-skilled labor is valued
at 70%.



- 88 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1
INDIA
KARNATAKA SERICULTURE PROJECT
Industrial Development Bank of India
1.        The Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI) was established in
1964 and is now the largest single institutional source of industrial finance
in India, accounting for about 1.5% of annual total industrial investment. It
is wholly owned by GOI and, apart from its main role in providing direct and
indirect finance for industry, it has two principal functions: (i) it acts
as an apex institution for industrial finance, coordinating the activities of
the other all-India and state-level institutions; and (ii) it undertakes pro-
motional and technical assistance activities, including the preparation of
industrial surveys and sponsoring the establishment of specialized institutions
to assist in project identification, preparation and appraisal. IDBI's financ-
ing activities include: granting direct loans, rediscounting commercial bills,
refinancing industrial loans made by State Financial Corporations and commer-
cial banks, providing export finance, underwriting, equity investments and
guarantee operations.
2.        As of December 31, 1979, the total financial assistance approved by
IDBI, excluding guarantees, amounted to Rs 46.1 billion (US$5.5 billion), of
which Rs 29 billion (US$3.5 billion), or 63%, was in refinance, rediscounting
or export finance. O the total approvals, Rs 31.3 billion (US$3.7 billion)
has been disbursed ant the total outstanding amounted to Rs 20.6 billion
(US$2.5 billion). Approvals of direct assistance 1/ totalled 1,514 applica-
tions involving Rs 15.4 billion (US$1.8 billion) or 33% of total approvals:
Rs 9.3 billion (US$1.1 billion) had been disbursed and the total outstanding
amounted to Rs 8.2 billion (US$1 billion). In 1978-79, IDBI approved 320
applications for direct assistance totalling Rs 4 billion (US$0.5 billion),
compared with 225 applications for Rs 2.7 billion (US$0.3 billion) in 1977-78.
IDBI's direct assistance has been mainly to modern types of large industry,
including fertilizers (17%), textiles (14%), chemicals (13%), cement (10%)
and paper products (9%). The quality of IDBI's direct lending portfolio is
reasonable with 4% of principal in arrears and total arrears of principal
and interest of 8.6%. However, 36% of the portfolio is affected by arrears,
largely due to substantial arrears in sugar and paper products.
3.        IDBI has a reasonably sound financial structure:  at June 30, 1979,
it had a debt/equity ratio of 10.8:1. Its resources have been provided by:
Reserve Bank of India loans (54%); bond issues (28%); equity (9%); GOI loans
(7%) and deposits (2%). At its head office, five regional offices and eleven
branch offices throughout India, it has a large staff experienced in the
preparation, appraisal and supervision of industrial projects. Its appraisal
standards are satisfactory and it is a well managed institution. The Bank
is already involved with IDBI through a credit and loan for the State Finan-
cial Corporations, a loan for financing joint sector projects and a credit
for financing development of the fertilizer industry.
1/   Including underwriting and direct subscription to shares and debentures
of industrial concerns.



-89 -                         ANNEX 7
INDIA
KARNATAKA SERICULTURE PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project Files
A. Reports Relating to the Project
1. "Sericulture Project - Karnataka" Joint Report of P.P.M. Cell
(GOI) New Delhi and Government of Karnataka.
2. "Modernization of Silk Industries Units Feasibility Report" -
Tata Consulting Engineers - 2 Volumes
3. Government of Karnataka "Sericulture Project Karnataka Research
and Development."
4.  Government of India "World Bank Assisted Sericulture Project in
Karnataka - Research Support to be provided by the Central Silk
Board (Revised Proposals)."
5. Government of Karnataka Blue Print Plans for: Grainages;
Training School; Rearing Houses; Model Hatcheries; Small Filature
Buildings; Government Silk Farm Buildings.
B. Selected Working Papers
1. Moriculture in Karnataka and its Related Technological Problems.
2. Silkworm Rearing in Karnataka.
3. Technical Problems of Silk Reeling in Karnataka.
4. Marketing and Consumption of Silk.
5. Spun Silk Manufacturing Report.
6. Credit and Banking.



INDIA
KARNATAKA SERICULTURE PROJECT
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION CHART
KARNATAKA DEPARTMENT OF SERICULTURE
DRCTOR
OF SERICULTURE
SUPENiNTENO DMOIRING                                                           aDS O                 JOS                                        OJS
CHIEF ACCOEJEITS  JOS    ~~~~ENGINEER CON-  JOINT RED STRAR     A ND EVALU ANTGION  TEHIA                O                     DS                   DEDS                                  D
DOFFICER     ADMINISTRATION      STRLUCTION       COOP SOCIETIES           CELL           AD VISOR         TEHIAL             SEED PRODUCTION        SEE AEAS           CON MARKETS            IL
SERVICES      ~~~AND OUALITY                            AN RELNG            FAM
ACcOUNTS  ADMINISTRATION  ENGINEERING   ~~ASSISTANT REGISTRAR                           13)          14)OTO
|    STAFF       STAFF    |       STAFF          COOP SOCIETIES                                                      .GRANAGE
I  TRAINING       MOIEDS                       MYSOE    BIVOLTINE   *FLTR 
CE NTERS                1 TRAININ
El                            1101'''        121          -*            . I
'----1 1 . ' ........................;                            II
DISTR ICTI   _~j L                                                                      I _I_
JDS - JOINT DIRECTOR OF SENICOLTORE                                       4                3}     |         10       
DOS - DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF SERICUJLTURE_AD
ADS -ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF SERICULTURE                                          SOL DVISIONZI                    COCOON        ADMINISTRATION    .
SA    SERlcULT  SA   ADS  MARKETS  AND FINANCE
SD  -- SERICULTURE DEMONSTRATOR_                                                                                  CL5 
NUMtBERS IN EARENTHESIZE INDICATE DISTRICTS DIVISIONS FACILITIES OR STAFF
1/ THERE ARE 14 DISTRICTS IN THE PROJECT AREA BUT SERICULTURE ACTIVITIESr ....*
IN TWO OF THEM, GUL8ARGA AND BIDARI WILL BE SUPERVISED BY ONE 005       1131             150
2/ THERE ARE S DIVISIONS IN MYSORE DISTRICT, 3 IN BANGALORE AND?2 EACR         COCOON          TECHNICAIl...   
IN THE OTHER I1I DISTRICT UNITSMAKTSEVC                                                                   .....ii
_ _ _LIAISON                       .......                                                                                    .                     ..                 .
........ ..... SERVICES TO SILK FARMERS AND REELERS                                                                      -- - - - i
50 ~~~~~.... .......... . .-.--- i
D. -.-.---- DEPUTYDIECTR ECLTUESILK REELERS
SLLK
ADS   ASS STANT DiRECTOH OF SERICULTURE  F        r)IVISION?/             N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WldB~I - 229



INDIA
KARNATAKA SERICULTURE PROJECT
KARNATAKA SILK INDUSTRIES CORPORATION
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION CHART
KABOARD
DIRECTORS
MANAGING
DIRECTOR
DIRECTOR                                   NICALWNA                                                           MAKEIN
FINANCE                     PURHASNGANDOR
NGRESARCH             PERSONNEL       SECRETARY        INFNAMRKTG
MANAGER        DEVELOPMENT       MANAGER                         AUDITOR     L  MANAGER
CHIEF          COTINDUSTRIAL
ACCOUNTS      ACCOUNTANT    ENGINEERING
OFFICER
T. NARASIPUR  l    MYSORE         CHANNAPATNA
fILATURE       WEAVING PLANT    SPUN SILK MILL
PLANT MANAGER   PLANT MANAGER   PLANT MANAGERl
CHANNAPATNA
CENTRAL
WORKSHOP
MANAGER
World Bank -- 21295



INDIA
KARNATAKA SERICULTURE PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION CHART
HEAD OFFICE          HEAD OFFICE
FOR ~~~~~~~~~~~                    ~TANN  INSTITUREES
I~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~RJC IDB                                                                                           AT IONDC
REGIONAL_ _ _ _ _ _ 2              CENTRAL
i                    |  ~~~~~~~SILK BOARD 
OFF ICE-|                                               CENTRALSERI
OFFICE|PARTICIPATING                         COM RGK                        GSE TR                 C U          R
BANKS~ ~~~~~~~               ~O CMINDSTRIOES              FOR AGRICULTURE    |                         I 
SERICULTURE NT              AGRICULTURE       I_   DEVLOMET
CMMSSIONER         CHIEF ENG    R PW            S    H A1SILK RESEARCH
[  DISTRICT  |       | 1I TECHNICAL                                                  INSMULERR
ARANCH    | ~          COORDINATOR   --   SERVICES -    R              PRODUCTION
BANKS   |  | COMMITTEE    | 2. S LKWORM EGG         A      B
*             |  ~~~SUPPLY            -  -|  DEPARTMENTAL|
REGIONAL                           |ROJECT                                                  3UNIVED3. MULBERRY PLANTING  TANDV
...   REG L  --MATERIAL SUPPLY                                        EXTENSION
4 COCOON  MARKETING                SERVICE
SILK INDUSTRIEJ~~~~~~~O IDUTRE                                              FR GICLTR
KARNATAKA"                                                      i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KRATKSTT
' >; IREEL---ERS_______]  ................................DIRECTR .     .     .     .     .     .    .     RICUTURjLj
| CORPORATION | |       | *                                                      l            l I
SILK PROCESSING.-w                                                      X91rSILK FARMERS  |
SILK PRODUCTION
jJ SEE CHART 21295
2/ SEE CHART 21296
LINE OF CONTROL
_ _ _LIAISON OR SERVICES
..... ...CREDIT FLOW                                                       .......World Bank -2t297



INDIA
KARNATAKA SERICULTURE PROJECT
DEPARTMENT OF SERICULTURE
I mnplmntation Sdudule of Main Projoct Activitie
Xg9         |         190                                         111 i82               ISSW                    111s4                 198X
z i,, Aibn  2                         3     4 10 213              4 1    2         3     4     1     2     3     4     1      3      4     1     2     3     4     _ 2       3     4_
I. GRAINAGIES
Duign/Appo__._
T.nd.,
dr.qpn                         ._.-                                                             ___ _
2. COCOON MARKETS                                  23
. L..dAq.I.do
S. C.o.b,.uiw
Owssiro/ApproWsl|                                H                   ~        2         -         $       -                 |       -
C-m'Vw                                                                   . -   I 1                        IOU Bi                      t A,uliu
pm.mploo
Tdi...
3. TRAINING SCHOOL                            3 r_._ _
b. Cwft-tio@
TOId...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S.
T.WR.lo  .oi..
AND UQO4ATCHERIES                                                                 3TO"3T40
S. plan kev tib
S. ConSuoIo
l4..11S1APm.,on
T-od...
S. SMALEL FHATCHRIES
.. Land AwwW                                2 isW tAoa
b. CO.ldftOio
Tands./r.w
eu. sin.yEupn.
S. SMALFILAECRUTENTTANN
SCLTUR  ASSISTANT
*   ).nrae.mt SalOSa
T. .n.W.Uo  O.t
,. Trting
M1I  '.no ft w~EWp.*I  St                                                                                                                                                  WOd    -I



INDIA
KARNATAKA SERICULTURE PROJECT
PROJECT INITIATION, KSIC, TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND OVERSEAS TRAINING
Implmnentation Schedule of Main Project Activities
1_79                      190                       1iBi                      1982                       1963                       1984                       19ii
t     2      3     4      t     2      3      4     t      2      3     4      1      2     3      4      I     2      3      4     t      2      3      4      1      2     3      4
EARLY PROJECT ACTIVITIES
i. EARLY PROJECT ACTIVITES
o. lOl Awruiea of
KSIC Silk ProCeelne
D-ielo,misrt PRons
b, Appoint H.d of KSICS's
FineloI.m, Techn"c
AdniNImnmne. Penoflf41l
and Aooo,ont' Sectio
c. Est.W.1, EnOrneerins
Uni.WIn odutuI                                                                                                                                    KIEY
a,un,ntn                                                                                                                                         A Pre        1 of DrtAini. Spcllmietono. Bid i Did Do-ente tnd Clsarens eiHh IDA
d. PIIpI Ong Pln                                                             _     _O Bid Initation
a. Estebish Ketrntka Stett                                                                                                                          C Twndtr Analysit sd IDA Ciereinet
Strieuhu OeIoP ntmtv  t                                                                                                                            Deuiwry. Cons.u.tion or IntOmrtnt.rtion
IPrituu Wtnd Appoint in                                                                                                                          E  Intttil tion
Diretor and Thm  Key                                                                                                                             F Testing wd Corn'tn4.lonkn
Staff F_m                                                                                                                                        G  identification of sonrstant. or,t,tiningf ilitie.; IDA rw.W.end making
I. P.perttion of Tethnikt rW                                                                                                                                    far cxsuxts,tmt' 46it Or tr.nstg; Japtnese Iangtap training
Asiastsan mnd Ot.t                                                                                                                                   fon ura oopd.
TtrinLng Pl-ImGOBs ,di GOK_
I. P~prwtion of 00S Staff TraiSino Ron                                                                                                              H  Conw.ltoncv or t ntilgpod
h. lnitiation of EnaksutonStudy t0091
KARNATAKA SILK INDUSTRIES COMPONENTS
2. FILATURES313
a. CMWI Work.                                                                       A                    Bi- C D
b. LMehl l...y en Melo Eq.Ipenmrt                                                                 A        l                                             
.. Othew Eqolpnem tr r                                                                 -                                       I
3. SPUN SILK MILLEl                                                                                                                               
a. CMI Wrks                                                                                              a                                                                                                                                      4
b. MaVhIneE y ANd MaioR EqLps                                                                        --II G
c. Other EquIpment                                                                                A                          D
d. RIUTiUR of DEisting Machinery                                        I                                          P.              D    El/ F2  
4. CENTRAL WORKSHOP                                                       A       B        
.. CMiW Works
b. Machinery m.d Major EQuslptnet                                       AEF
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
& CSRTI
Sllker. Breeder.
Solenteim BEhtnos Visit                                                                                                                   H
6. SERICULTURE DEPARTMENT
2 Graintsss Eeparta
SHitchory Epoan
7, KSIC
aFlPimur.-Cocoon D.VIg end
2 Refllne Experts
Ccoonw Boiling 1d 2
Qoulity Control Exertsl
b. Sp..n Silk Fectry 2
OVERSEAS TRAINING PROGRAM                                                                               G                                 2                          2 
Fall.-hipse Ior Sd.nti.t.                                                                         I                               r                                    1'* 2
9. SERICULTURE DEPARITMENT                                                                                                           21?1H
Senio ONfidel,                                                                                                                     'H42
Seeiculsu. ApestseutH
11ElecrirOl end Mscharenil Equoiprnent                                                                                                                                                                              Worki 8ock -21387
V/ Tvpo st,d notc., of ..P.r", not detOrroind V.,. Thar -sold he -odod
ci.ro,g 1983/84



INDIA
KARNAJAKA SERICULTURE PROJECT
RESEARCH
Implementation Schedule of Main Project Activities
1980                       1981                       1982                       1983                        1984
1     2      3      4      1      2     3      4      1      2     3      4      1      2      3      4     1      2      3      4
1 CSRTI
MAIN STATION                       L
a. Civil Works                                                   A- 
b. Equipmnent                      Local                              A   _
c. Staff Appointment2'             Imported                       A=    _       B       _
REGIONAL STATIONS AND SUB-STATIONSI                                                               I
a. Land Acquisition                                                 A                    A                   C
A  .-                 -
b. Land Developnent                                                                           _       .   A  _                I***
c. Water Supplies                                                                                  I                        c
d. Civil Works                                                      -A  &C -            -
a. Equipment (Only Local)                                                     A
f. Staff Appointmnent-'                                                                                                     C E  5-
2. KSSDI 
a. Civil Works                      _A B                                                        C
b. Equipment                       Imported                                                       C.
c. Staff Appointmen2                               D       .           I  F201                     I  F22
3. UNIVERSITY OF AGRICULTURAL SCIENCE                                                          I                                                                                                        I
a. Civil Works                                              A                               C
Local                                         C            
b. Equipment                       Imported                                    CA             B 
c. Staff Appointment                                      D                      F14        I
4. UNIVERSITY OF BANGALORE
a. Civil Works                                          A |                     C
b. Equipment                       Imported                 A   I                           C
c. Staff Appointment                                                                                 F14
5  UNIVERSITY OF MYSORE
a. Civil Wo,ks                                          A          B             C
bh  Equipment                                           A                  _   _ E|
c. Staff Appointment2                               6   D_-_    E |                             E I|         FS F
d. Land Development                                     A                    C
e. Water Supplies                                                            C
A -Preparation of Designs, Drawing Specifications,
Bid Douments, Surveys, Plans.
B - Tender Procedures
C - Construction Purchase
D - Obtaining GOK Sanction
E - Advertising, Selecting
F - Appointment
V/ Establishment ol two Regional Stations and improvement of five substation in first phase and
establishment ol five new sub-stations in the second phase.                                                                                                     World Batk - 21629
2I Scientists






IBRD 14378R
I N  D  IA A                                                                                                                                          MAY )   I 1
KARNATAKA SERICULTURE PROJECT                                                                                                        IISTA);0  APei.Umi.
New areas under mulberry                                                                                          -PAKISTAN <           >3
',                                                   _      Traditional areas under mulberry                                                                                                    N - '0ROUTUN           r
BIDAR                                                       Rods                                                 MAHA  ASHTRA    A                                                              SolIn    B.
Ri- n    i s/oads                                                                                                          azAeuG~oDt    iJ
0      District heodquarters                                                                                              20
MAHARASHTRA                                     .                                                                              Distr t boundar es                                                                                                   -AK                          -.
GULBARGA                                K ~~~~~~~~~iLETES 0  0040    s 0        80    lOS
,0.-                                                                                                                                                                                          '   A 4t0          e n -.
.((     "J   .      BIJA PUR                                   5ANDHRA
j >,< j- J +  , P R AD ES H t*2_    
). \PRADESH                                                                                                                                                                           h2\  ~    j l ).S W  Xl                         l r tMARKETING, PROCESSING AND RESEARCH
(                 .o ..                             |        Ue       ..,3 j.  *\ 5 |                                                                                                                                                  Proposed cocoon markets
-   [~~~~~~~~~~7fT\~~~~~~~~~~~~]  ~~~~~~~                                                               R ~~~~~~Raichur  r'                     Eaisting cocoon market to Sn made-nied
PRODUCTION                                                                                                                   *          .   Existing cocoon morkets
   BbIGAUM     \>                              Z\ - |  \         ?                PROJECT  COMPONENTS                                                   B          e            ._        C                                  *   PropoSed deIaturetbemn  serzall ilatures
11   DAWRC--     whnsTeonnical ser-ce                                                                                                             IV (  ~A, A S IC tilature roS  mo dern aed
GOA r.                                H2R R r7  rO | 7    centers                 GOA). )                                                                                    A   Existing f latures to be c osed
. ( .. . \ . I[          ,       .              '   Proposed model hatcheries  \   20   c   C  Pruposed grains >hor,_ Ovr                                               O          f t k       0                          Existing ce ntral uo,kshop tooe closed
0       .6           i       e        <                RE /veBEL;ARY                        Silk tarms 74\ f-\             Tram ng centers                                                                                                         KSIC spur silk  mill to be modernized
2    )              . a. 11 -Number of proposed project coumponents                                                                            \   .                                            0   Proposed KSIC central Aorkshop
\  0.)           t5ixi~~~~~~~YLm"0n*.*~~~~~~A                        lO~- be,Oo  ot enfiring project conpcseM
NORTH                                                                                      t Z \  be                   modern-en                                                                                                       ra Kr   E- g KSIC silk weing and twisting tactory
KANARA                                              St
15- Nimber  ft H Sting pinject crp       f,NRHCentral Ye- ultura Pese-ch andTrl-g no nsitute (C.SR T
A   ~~~~~~~~(.                            O~~~~~~~-Th ... .. Om-//gn ouz     Ko-oo kop                                                                                                        E,0 niu rg main reseach Oat ot 
'  .CHITR'A_D ROGA                                     nI bor /0 f /C-  -// b n/csed euhn rb,                                                           3P /                 .                         t posed negional reseorch sat ons
,S SHIMO.A   j  . .....wen  IcenonnonsAniecoreme                                                                                                                                                             Enisriri sub-stato.-cumr-ntersicn centers
0 r,SSHIIMOGA  '.J  >  ), | \  g  \ |  ( r  R                                                                                                                               >            ,05 _sed /a.gz grz_r zpzs baght OSZRZhOt \:t; V.. 5 % itradu gcf \    P roposed sub-stationi-cum-extens on centers
k   X  t  ~~~~~  g-X   <~~~~  or  y |   _  0  <  $;  i j e a ( < 4_ 0 i/ (0 8un9 Oa: C Omp vs~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bagalre omp
CHIKMAGALUR                      ~ UMKOR     /          KOLAR                                                                                   Jn                                                                                 G |  *    -    Uni-ers ty of Bango ore
CKERAGAOe  .5                                                                                                                                                                        /           O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hga  -ruxr ty of Mysore
~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                        ..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L    C Karnataka State Sericultura
HASSAN                                                                                                                               \. :  K.                                                                               Deceloperent InstitutD eproposed)
SOUTH t                                                   j                                                                                  noloreBongo)rl/o
KAAR                         MN A             A AOR          CCueHsson  /                                                                                                              ' 
Rb                 N.-
At7AB/AN    SBA                   '                      MYSORE       ~              >+                                                                                        t         "9w                                         * ?                                          rs =Jne si: .niOor o,R Cin
KERALA                                TAM L NADU                                                                 .ERALA$,                                                           TAMILNADU
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TMLND



