Document of
The World Bank    FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-28 13-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO INDIA
FOR THE
KARNATAKA SERICULTURE PROJECT
May 14, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(as of May 12, 1980)
US$1.00        5   Rs 7.931277
Rs 1.00            Rs 0.12608
Rs 1 million   =   US$126,080
(Since September 24, 1975, the Rupee has been fixed against
a "basket" of currencies.  As these currencies are now
floating, the U.S. Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject
to change. Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were
made at US$1.00 to Rs 8.40, which represents the projected
exchange rate over the disbursement period.)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ARDC  -  Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
CSB   -  Central Silk Board
CSRTI - Central Silk Research and Training Institute
DOS   - Department of Sericulture
GOI   - Government of India
GOK   -  Government of Karnataka
IDBI  -  Industrial Development Bank of India
KSIC  -  Karnataka Silk Industries Corporation
KSSDI - Karnataka State Silk Development Institute
SA    -  Sericulture Assistant
SD    -  Sericulture Demonstrator
TSC   -  Technical Service Center



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
KARNATAKA SERICULTURE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            India, acting by its President.
Beneficiaries:       The State of Karnataka, the Agricultural Refinance and
Devevelopment Corporation (ARDC), the Industrial Develop-
ment Bank of India (IDBI), Karnataka Silk Industries
Corporation (KSIC), the Central Sericultural Research and
Training Institute (CSRTI), the Karnataka State Sericul-
tural Development Institute (KSSDI), and three universities
in the State of Karnataka.
Amount:              US$54 million equivalent.
Terms:               Standard.
Relending Terms:    GOI to the State of Karnataka, the research institute and
the universities:  financing in accordance with Borrower's
standard arrangements for development assistance.
GOI to ARDC to refinance loans to silk farmers and reelers:
(a)  GOI to ARDC, interest rate at 6% per annum in
respect of ARDC refinancing for up to 9 years
and 6.5% for refinancing for up to 15 years.
GOI to bear foreign exchange risk.
(b)  ARDC to Participating Banks, interest rate at
6.5% per annum for lending to small farmers 1/
and 7.5% for lending to other borrowers. Install-
ment repayments to coincide approximately with
expected collections of loans financed.
(c)  Participating Banks to Borrowers, interest rate
at 9.5% per annum to small farmers and 10.5% to
other borrowers. Repayment periods to be based on
borrowers' repayment capacity.
1/   Small farmers are defined as those cultivating land providing a pre-
development net return to family income not exceeding Rs 2,000 annually
(based on 1972 prices).
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
GOI to IDBI for lending to KSIC:
(a) GOI to IDBI, interest rate at 7% per annum for period
between 5 and 9 years and 7.5% per annum for period
between 10 and 15 years. GOI to bear exchange risk.
(b) IDBI to KSIC, interest rate at 9.5% for the first
Rs 20 million and 11% for the balance of loan
amounts. Repayment period would be up to 10 years.
Project
Description:       The project is designed to promote the integrated develop-
ment of sericulture in India. Its main objectives would
be: to increase raw silk production in Karnataka by 1,600
tons per year, including a significant increase in high
quality silk; to introduce modern processing facilities
and methods to upgrade raw and spun silk to export quality;
and to introduce the latest technologies from leading
silk producing countries and to expand local research for
the longer term improvement of the silk industry.
Estimated Cost:                                              (US$ Millions)
Local   Foreign   Total
Credit for Silk Production          6.1        -        6.1
Ccedit for Reeling                  1.9        -        1.9
Dept. of Sericulture
Grainages & Hatcheries             19.5       0.1      19.6
Technical Service Centers          10.3        -       10.3
Training Schools                    0.9        -        0.9
Markets                             3.0        -        3.0
Filature                            0.3       0.4       0.7
Incremental Administrative Costs  3.1          -        3.1
KSIC
Filature                            0.8       4.2       5.0
Spun Silk Mill                      2.1       7.8       9.9
Headquarters and Workshop           0.7        -        0.7
Net Incremental Working Capital   0.5          -        0.5
Research                            6.6       1.4       8.0
Technical Assistance & Studies    0.4         2.2       2.6
TOTAL BASE COST               56.2      16.1      72.3
Physical Contingencies              3.0       1.4       4.4
Price Contingencies                15.2       3.2      18.4
TOTAL PROJECT COST 1/         74.4      20.7     95.1
1/   Includes US$6.6 million in taxes and duties.



Financing Plan:                                              (US$ Millions)
Local   Foreign   Total
IDA Credit                         33.3      20.7     54.0
GOI/GOK                            30.7       -       30.7
ARDC                                3.5       -        3.5
IDBI                                5.0       -        5.0
Banks                               0.9       -        0.9
Farmers/Reelers                     1.0       -        1.0
74.4     20.7      95.1
TOTAL
Estimated                                                (US$ Million)
Disbursement:                           FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86
Annual               3.0      8.0   16.0   14.0   12.0    1.0
Cumulative           3.0    11.0   27.0   41.0   53.0   54.0
Rate of Return:      22%
Appraisal Report:   No. 2901a-IN dated May 14, 1980.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO
INDIA FOR THE KARNATAKA SERICULTURE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed dev-
elopment credit to India in an amount equivalent to US$54 million on standard
IDA terms to help finance a project designed to develop sericulture in the
State of Karnataka.  The Government of India (GOI) would relend US$4.4 million
to the Agriculture Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC) at 6% per year
for lending to farmers for up to 9 years and at 6.5% per year for lending of
up to 15 years to refinance loans to farmers for silk farming and reeling;
and US$9.5 million to the Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI) at 7%
interest per year for lending for up to 9 years and 7.5% for up to 15 years
to lend to the Karnataka Silk Industries Corporation (KSIC) for modernization
and expansion of silk processing factories. GOI would bear the exchange risk.
Of the balance, GOI would use US$5.5 million to implement technical assistance,
overseas training and research programs, and would pass the remaining US$34.6
million to the Government of Karnataka (GOK) in accordance with its standard
arrangements for development assistance to the States of India.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(2431-IN dated April 9, 1979), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on April 13, 1979. Country data sheets are attached as Aknnex I.
Background
3.        India is a large, low-income country with 652 million people (in
mid-1979) whose average income is US$180 per annum. The agricultural sector
dominates the economy, employing over two-thirds of the labor force and con-
tributing over 40% of value added. Although smallholder agriculture provides
a fullsome subsistence to many, the land base is inadequate to provide all
families in rural areas with an adequate livelihood under current conditions,
and many who are landless or nearly landless have only an insecure grasp on
the means of existence. Industrialization in India has not been rapid enough
to bring about the economic transformation that has led to higher productivity
*         and rapid urbanization in some other countries.  The urban population was 18%
of the total in 1960, 20% in 1970 and is 21% now. The share of manufacturing
has grown slowly and since the late 1960s has remained roughly constant at
16% of GDP.
4.        Economic growth has been slow in the past, with GDP growing at a
trend rate of 3.6% per annum from 1950 to 1975. Agricultural output grew at
2.4% per annum over the same period. Slow growth in agriculture acted as a
1/   Parts I and II of the report are substantially the same as Parts I and
II of the President's Report for the Kerala Agricultural Extension
Project (Report No. P-2797-IN), dated May 1, 1980.



- 2 -
drag on overall growth, not only because of its sheer weight in the total, but
also because of the need to use scarce foreign exchange to import food. Growth
in industrial output has been higher at 5.2% per annum between 1950 and 1975,
but not as high as in many other developing countries nor as high as can be
expected.
5.        This slow growth has persisted despite a quite creditable domestic
saving and investment performance. Domestic saving has grown from 9% of GDP
in 1951 to the current high level of 24%. Gross domestic investment has risen
from 10% to 24% of GDP over the same period. Foreign savings have never
financed a large portion of domestic investment and have financed no more than
5% of investment since 1970. Foreign savings have been important in financing
imports, and a shortage of foreign exchange has acted as a constraint on the
economy for most of the period. External assistance has been low both as a
percentage of GDP and in per capita terms. Net external assistance is less
than 2% of GDP now, has never risen above 3% and fell to less than 1% in the
early 1970s. Exports have grown relatively slowly--5.4% per annum in US
dollar terms and 2.8% per annum in volume terms between 1950/51 and 1975/76.
So far during the 1970s, exports have grown much more rapidly, by 18% per
annum in US dollar terms and 8% in volume terms over the period 1970/71 to
1976/77. During the same period imports grew by 17% per annum in US dollar
terms but only by 2% per annum in volume terms, reflecting a 28% fall in
India's terms of trade over the period.
6.        Irdia has the capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace than
has been achieved so far. Although the industrial sector is small compared to
the size of the total economy, it nevertheless has a highly diversified struc-
ture and is capable of manufacturing a wide variety of consumer and capital
goods. Basic infrastructure--irrigation, railways, telecommunications, roads
and ports--is extensive compared to many countries, although considerable
gaps remain. India is rich in human resources and institutional infrastruc-
ture, although there is much scope for improvement. India is reasonably
well-supplied with natural resources, not only land and water but minerals,
including oil, gas and coal. With good economic policies and sufficient
access to foreign savings, India should be able to manage these considerable
resources to accelerate the longer-term growth trend.
Recent Trends
7.        India has managed faster growth during the recent past.  Growth of
GDP in 1978/79 is estimated to be between 3% and 4%; this is a strong perform-
ance coming on top of the previous year's 7.2% growth in GDP and considering
agricultural output grew less than 2%. Even this agricultural growth is
highly creditable given the previous years' record harvests in most crops.
Industrial output grew by 8-10% in 1978/79. Over the four years, 1975/76 to
1978/79, growth in real GDP, agricultural output and industrial output has
averaged 5.3%, 4.4% and 6.9% per annum, respectively. Although these rates
represent growth over the depressed base of the early 1970s, they are signi-
ficantly higher than the longer-term past trend and comparable to the target
growth rates for the medium-term future. Buoyant domestic demand, stagnating
output and world inflation have led to significant increases in prices during
the first half of the 1979/80 fiscal year. The wholesale price index for



September 1979 was 18.4% above that of the previous September. Together, the
rise in the prices of food products, crude petroleum and mineral oils accounted
for over two-thirds of the increase in the index. However, prices of almost
all commodities moved up significantly over this period as reflected in the
9.6% increase in the prices of the residual commodities. Government attempts
to regulate the supply and price of commodities like sugar and edible oils,
ceilings on credit, adjustment of some interest rates and the seasonal downturn
of the fruit and vegetable prices after summer helped the wholesale price
index to level off after September. However, if allowance is made for the
seasonal factors, prices are still rising at approximately an 18% annual rate.
The Indian economy will no doubt continue to face inflationary pressure during
the 1980/81 fiscal year. Its intensity will to a large extent depend on the
developments in world inflation, especially the rise in oil prices and India's
success in alleviating the supply bottlenecks that emerged during 1979.
Although the current inflationary pressures need not seriously impair medium-
term growth prospects, given available aggregate resources and production
capacity, significant improvements are likely to be required in the organ-
ization of key sectors if an economic slowdown is to be avoided.
8.        The 1978/79 foodgrain crop exceeded the 1977/78 record crop of
126 million tons, and many non-food crops did well. The 1978 monsoon rains
were timely and adequate, although severe flooding in some areas destroyed
both lives and property and ruined some crops. The basic inputs into agricul-
tural production continued their rapid growth of the recent past. Additions
to area under irrigation have doubled from 1.3 million hectares a year during
the five-year period ending 1973/74 to 2.6 million hectares a year during
1977/78 and 1978/79. Fertilizer consumption in 1978/79 reached 5 million
nutrient tons, an increase of 18% over 1977/78. This growth has been impres-
sive, particularly since it followed two successive years of very high growth--
18% in 1976/77 and 26% in 1977/78--so that fertilizer consumption in 1978/79
was 75% higher than in 1975/76. However, prospects for agricultural produc-
tion in 1979/80 are not good. India experienced a severe drought in 1979.
The monsoon was delayed and subsequent rainfall was deficient throughout the
country. Consequent damage to the kharif crop has been substantial. Tenta-
tive estimates indicate a shortfall of 10-12 million tons in kharif crop from
last year's level of 78.7 million tons. Delayed sowing, lack of soil moisture,
low levels of water in tanks and wells as well as power cutbacks and recent
shortages in diesel fuel for irrigation pumps are adversely affecting the
rabi crop. Depending on the performance of the rabi crop, total shortfall
in grain crop is expected to be 10-12 million tons below the 1978/79 level.
9.        The growth of industrial output in 1978/79 came from a sharp rise
in the output of food industries, particularly sugar, a modest increase in
textiles, important increases in the hitherto depressed engineering sector
and the revival of demand for consumer durables. Production would have been
still higher but for recurring shortages of steel, coal, railway wagons and
electric power and capacity constraints in fertilizer, cement, vegetable oils
and petroleum products. Labor unrest also constrained output in some indus-
tries, particularly in textiles, steel and mining; man-days lost in 1978 ex-
ceeded the high level of 1977 and only in 1974 were the number of days lost
higher. Power production increased by 12% but continuing shortages in many
States necessitated power cuts and curbs on new demand. During the first



- 4 -
half of 1979/80 supply bottlenecks in basic industrial inputs began to retard
overall industrial production. In addition to coal and steel, cement, sugar,
cotton textile and cotton yarn output fell below last year's levels. Strong
demand has continued to sustain other important industries such as fertilizers
and chemicals, but it appears increasingly unlikely that these can counter-
balance the constrained sectors.
10.       The trade deficit grew and both the current account surplus and the
balance of payments surplus of recent years shrank in 1978/79. The import bill
is expected to reach US$8.4 billion, which brings the average rate of increase
in US dollar terms to 19% per annum since 1976/77. Non-foodgrain imports rose
even more dramatically by 28% per annum over the past two years. The growth
of imports and the liberalization of import control policies represents a
desirable adjustment to enhanced foreign resources. Although exports grew
much faster during the 1970s through 1976/77 than earlier, export growth in
1977/78 and 1978/79 has slowed somewhat. After rising by 12% in 1975/76
and 23% in 1976/77 in US dollar terms (virtually all growth in export volume),
export earnings rose by only 9% in 1977/78 (with little or no volume growth)
and an estimated 8% in 1978/79 (with 5-8% volume growth). Although part
of the decline is attributable to unfavorable conditions in foreign markets,
export profitability has been allowed to deteriorate somewhat. With net invi-
sible receipts in 1978/79 estimated the same as in 1977/78--US$2 billion--the
widened trade deficit resulted in a significantly reduced current account
surplus, from US$1 billion in 1977/78 to US$400 million in 1978/79. Despite
some increase in net aid disbursements from their low level in 1977/78, the
increase in reserves declined from about US$2 billion in 1977/78 to about
US$1.5 billion in 1978/79 to reach US$7.4 billion. Exports during the first
three months of this fiscal year are 32% higher than the same quarter of last
year. Imports in the first quarter of 1979/80 are around 7% higher than the
same period of the previous year. However, the impact of recent increases
in petroleum prices are only partially reflected in this figure. India's
total POL import bill for 1979/80 is likely to reach $3.2 billion, $800 million
higher than earlier estimates. As a result, there should be a sharp decelera-
tion in the rate of growth of reserves sufficient to significantly reduce the
number of months of imports covered by reserves during 1980.
Development Prospects
11.       The faster growth of the recent past has been made possible by the
much-increased inward flow of foreign exchange from increased exports, workers'
remittances and external assistance; greatly improved agricultural performance;
the impressive saving effort; the liberalization of import controls; and ex-
panded public expenditure on development programs. Although sustaining the
high growth rates of the recent past in the medium-term is by no means assured,
especially if there is a repeated drought in 1980, India has a level of re-
sources with which to manage the economy that had not existed before. The
comfortable foreign exchange position, and the large foodgrain stocks have
greatly eased the pressures to deal with short-term crises and freed India's
economic managers to continue planning a more ambitious course for the economy.
The policy improvements needed to achieve the better performance now possible
have begun in some important areas but in others have yet to be initiated.



- 5 -
12.       The Draft Plan, which was released in March 1978 and is expected
to be finalized and approved by the National Development Council later this
year, sets out India's development strategy for the five years 1978/79 to
1982/83. The principal objectives of the Draft Plan are to achieve within
a period of ten years: (i) the removal of unemployment and significant
underemployment, (ii) an appreciable rise in the standard of living of the
poorest sections of the population, and (iii) provision by the Government of
some of the basic needs of the people in these low-income groups. While the
Plan recognizes the importance of achieving more rapid expansion of the economy
than in the past to meet the employment and welfare objectives, the targeted
rate of growth at 4.7% per annum is lower than projected in most earlier Plans.
According to the planners, this reflects in part the increased emphasis given
to the distribution rather than the level of income generation, and in part
the need for greater realism in the macro-economic assumptions underlying the
Plan. While the trade-off between growth and distribution is not immediately
obvious from the Plan model, the adoption of a more realistic growth target
is in itself well justified -- even at 4.7% per annum, the targeted growth
rate is higher than actually achieved during any of the previous Plan periods,
and is substantially above the longer-term trend growth rate.
13.       In agriculture, despite the 1979 drought, economic policies, dev-
elopment programs and secular trends all seem favorable for resuming a period
of sustained high growth after 1979/80. Fertilizer prices have been reduced
progressively from their very high level in early 1975 and despite some fall
in market foodgrain prices, the fertilizer: foodgrain price ratio has fallen
to a clearly profitable range. Good harvests and higher farm incomes provide
the money to finance higher fertilizer purchases, creating something of a
virtuous circle. Pricing policies for many crops--rice, wheat, sugarcane,
pulses and others--have concentrated recently on supporting prices to maintain
incentives to farmers rather than trying to administratively control prices
to contain inflation. The ambitious irrigation and rural electrification
investment program in the new Five-Year Plan, if fully funded, will help pro-
vide the water control needed to increase yields directly and to induce further
productivity-increasing investments. The effective reorganization of the
agricultural extension service will raise yields as it takes hold gradually
across India. Finally, there are several heartening trends in foodgrain pro-
duction: one is the steady growth of area planted to high-yielding varieties
of rice; another is the growing adoption of summer rice cultivation in the
traditional wheat-producing areas (Punjab and Haryana). These two trends
along with the other favorable developments have caused rice production to
rise impressively in the last two years. Another good omen for foodgrain
production is the rapid growth of winter wheat cropping in traditional rice
areas (West Bengal, Assam and Orissa).
14.       In industry, despite some uncertainty in industrial policy and
the lack of strong policy stimulus to improve efficiency in the industrial
structure, recently strengthened demand forces, increase in planned invest-
ment along with adroit input supply management should allow the industrial
sector to continue to grow at the improved rate of the recent past, at least
for the near- and medium-term future. Over the longer term, growth of indus-
trial production at or above the rate experienced in the recent past--e.g.,
7% per annum during the last four years--will require some changes in policy



- 6 -
to induce a more efficient industrial structure. Recent industrial policies
have sent mixed signals to private manufacturers and investors. Some, such as
reserving certain lines of production for small-scale enterprises or prohibit-
ing the location of new firms in municipal areas, have been restrictive.
Others have been stimulative, such as the raising of the exemption limit of
industrial licensing for capital investment or favorable adjustments in the
pricing and production controls in several major industries, including cement,
steel, and textiles. In addition the liberalization of import controls is of
considerable benefit to increasing industrial production. However, there are
some worrisome supply shortages that are currently threatening continued rapid
industrial growth. Many can be handled through imports, if needed, as long
as India maintains a healthy foreign exchange position. However, two supply
constraints likely to persist in the future -- namely, rail transport and
power -- cannot be eased through imports. The new Plan contains a major power
investment program to increase capacity rapidly. The railway investment pro-
gram is more modest. Another crucial input into both of these sectors, and
into most other major sectors, is coal, whose supply needs careful management.
15.       The main reason for expecting sustained growth in industrial pro-
duction is improvement in demand prospects for each of the four major sources
of industrial demand. The first is market demand for manufactured consumption
goods, which is expected to pick up in response to the increase in disposable
income due in particular to improvement in agricultural output. Although its
effect has been delayed somewhat, this broad-based demand is finally making
itself felt and is eypected to continue into the future unless the growth
in agricultural output is constrained by repeated droughts. Another source
of demand is public expenditure on development projects, which has grown in
a major way in the last few years and is scheduled to continue to grow under
the new Five-Year Plan. A third source of growth is export demand for indus-
trial goods. There has been a sustained growth in the export of manufactures
such as engineering goods, garments, gems, finished leather and some chemical
products. This export growth should continue in the future with proper policy
support.  A final source of growing demand is private investment by both the
household and corporate sectors.  There are as yet only a few signs of this
growth, such as increased disbursement by term lending institutions and in-
creased use of inputs; investments should become stronger as growth in the
other sources of demand continues and as capacity limitations begin to con-
strain production in more industries.  The net result of increasing demand
should be continued high growth in industrial production in the near and
medium term within existing policies.
16.       Import policy is an area where there has been significant improve-
ment in the recent past; but some improvement in export policy is required
to raise incentives to export. India has liberalized import control policy
significantly in the past two years and imports have responded. Future growth
in imports, and in the benefits of price stability, enhanced production and
increased efficiency which imports bring, will depend to a great extent on
how the now liberalized policy is administered. A delicate touch is required
to yield the benefits without bringing about undesirable damage to vulnerable
industries. India has the foreign resources to allow imports to grow at the
rapid rates of the past two years for a few more years and continue to relax
the very severe restraints imposed on the economy during the early 1970s by



- 7 -
suppression of imports. But, given the import liberalization undertaken so
far and the expected growth of imports, by the end of the Plan period (1982/
83), foreign exchange reserves will have fallen to six months of imports, or
less, and some adjustment in the balance of payments will be required. Part
of the adjustment will very likely be a reduction in the growth rate of
imports; the import bill need not grow 15% in volume terms indefinitely to
sustain the target growth in GDP. Part of the adjustment must come from the
achievement of a growth rate of exports,in the vicinity of 7-8% or higher in
volume terms. Faster export growth is needed not only to provide the foreign
exchange to sustain the rapid growth in imports but also to allow foreign
demand and competition to improve the efficiency of Indian industry. Finally,
part of the adjustment should come from an increased net transfer of external
assistance.
17.       India's population policy continues to aim at reducing the birth
rate to 30 births per thousand people by 1983 through completely voluntary
acceptance of fertility control methods supplied by a family welfare system
integrated with the supply of basic health, maternal and child health and
nutrition services. Since 1977, the family planning achievements in terms
of number of acceptors have been below that needed to achieve the 1983 goal
or even to keep the birth rate from rising above its current level. The low
performance is primarily the result of the reaction to the harsh birth control
policies introduced during 1976. Since then family planning performance has
been gradually returning to the rising trend which was discernible before it
was disrupted by the intensive drive of 1976/77. Given continued support for
the program of family welfare, Bank estimates indicate that India's rate of
population increase should remain below 2% per annum and fall to 1.5% by about
the year 2000. Despite the declining trend in the rate of population increase,
a net reproduction rate (NRR) equal to one (replacement level) would only be
achieved around the year 2020. At this time, the total population is estimated
to reach 1.2 billion persons, an increase of about 84% over the mid-1979 level
of 652 million.
18.       In addition to stimulating overall economic growth and constraining
population growth, reduction of poverty in India requires special attention
to ways of raising the income and productivity of low-income groups. More than
one-third of the world's poor live in India and more than 80% of the Indian
poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers and small farmers.
The prospects for alleviating their poverty by providing these families with
more land are not good because of the virtual absence of uncultivated arable
land, the slow progress in implementing land reform and the limited amount of
land that would be available if land reform were carried out. Estimates of
the amount of land that would be available if land reform were carried out vary
greatly. One estimate is that there would be about 9 million hectares avail-
able for distribution. This compares to roughly 45 million families in the two
poorest groups in rural India: landless families and families owning less than
one hectare of land, whose average holding is 0.31 hectares. An approach to
the amelioration of poverty more promising than land reform is the creation
of more employment opportunities for the landless and small farmers in rural
areas. Although the basic thrust must come from the market by a more rapidly
increasing agricultural output, there will be a role for employment-intensive
rural works programs. The new Plan provides for increased rural employment



- 8 -
both through direct employment schemes and through ambitious programs of
investment in rural infrastructure in addition to the more general rural
development programs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
19.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 57 loans and 118 development
credits to India totalling US$2,529 million and US$7,255 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,055 million had
been repaid, and US$3,226 million was still undisbursed as of March 31, 1980.
Bank Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through March 31,
1980, totalled US$517 million, representing an increase of about 44% over the
same period last year. Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements
as of March 31, 1980, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
20.       Since 1959, IFC has made 18 commitments in India totalling US$72.5
million, of which US$17.4 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.9 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$40.6 million, US$31.5 mil-
lion represents loans and US$9.1 million equity. A summary statement of
IFC operations as of March 31, 1980, is also included in Annex II (page 5).
21.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit operations
and in providing direct support to major and medium irrigation. Marketing,
seed development, agricultural extension, and dairying are other agricultural
activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group has been active
in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector and, through its
sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in a wide range of
geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial enterprises. IDA
financing of industrial raw materials and components for selected priority
sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better capacity utilization in
industry. The Bank Group has also been active in supporting infrastructure
development for power, telecommunications, and railways. Family planning,
water supply development, and urban investments have also received Bank
Group support in recent years.
22.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, power, water supply and other infrastructure
sectors remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs, particularly water and
credit for on-farm investments, will continue to receive emphasis. Improved
water management and intensification and streamlining of extension systems
form an important institution-building aspect of the Bank Group's program for
the next several years. Special emphasis will be given to projects benefit-
ting small farmers. The Bank Group's continuing role in the fertilizer sector
also assists India in the more efficient provision of another key input in
the agricultural growth process. Projects supporting water supply, sewerage,
and urban development also form an integral part of the Bank's lending
strategy to India for the next several years. Lending in support of infra-
structure and industrial investments will focus on those subsectors which have



- 9 -
recently emerged as key constraints on India's overall growth, primarily power
and transportation.
23.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid 1970s. However,
the need for increased foreign assistance to adjust to an even greater deter-
ioration in balance of payments prospects during the 1980s by augmenting
domestic resources and stimulating investment, remains. As in the past, Bank
Group assistance for projects in India should include, as appropriate, the
financing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods
because of the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods
industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small in
most projects. This is particularly the case in such high-priority sectors
as agriculture, irrigation, and water supply.
24.       India's poverty and needs are such that as much as possible of
India's external capital requirements should be provided on concessionary
terms. Accordingly, the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been,
and should continue to be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA
funds that can reasonably be allocated to India remains small in relation
to India's needs for external support, and India should be regarded as credit-
worthy for some supplemental Bank lending. The ratio of India's debt service
to the level of exports was 12% in 1978/79 and is projpcted to remain below
20% through 1995/96. As of March 31, 1980, outstanding loans to India held
by the Bank totaled US$1,516 million, of which US$556 million remained to be
disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding of US$960 million.
25.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 62%, 27% and 38%,
respectively, in 1978/79. On March 31, 1979, India's outstanding and dis-
bursed external public debt was US$15.3 billion, of which the Bank Group's
share was US$4.6 billion or 30% (IDA's US$4.0 billion and IBRD's US$0.6 bil-
lion). Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in the form
of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly. In 1978/79,
about 17.5% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.
PART III - SERICULTURE IN INDIA
General
26.       Sericulture holds an important place in the Indian economy.  Nearly
four million people are engaged in plant cultivation (mainly mulberry), silk-
worm egg production and rearing or in the predominantly small-scale reeling
and weaving of silk. In 1977, about 131,000 ha of land were under mulberry
cultivation. India ranks fifth among silk producing countries after Japan,
the People's Republic of China, Korea and Russia. In 1978, India produced
3,700 tons of raw silk, used to manufacture fabrics with an estimated value



- 10 -
of US$200-250 million. Since silk is rooted in Indian social tradition, the
domestic market is strong and uses most of the production. Exports, mostly
fabrics, have expanded, particularly over the last five years, and were valued
at about US$45 million in 1978.
27.       Four silk varieties are produced in India - mulberry, tasar, eri
and muga - which are derived from silkworm varieties feeding on leaves of
different plants. Of these, mulberry silk, representing the bulk of inter-
nationally traded silk, constitutes about 85% of the total silk produced in
India. About 75% of the Indian mulberry silk is produced in Karnataka.
28.       Sericulture is highly labor-intensive.  Development of sericulture,
therefore, accords well with the Government of India's priorities for alleviat-
ing unemployment and rural poverty. The time is propitious for expanding
sericulture in India, since production is dropping in leading producer coun-
tries, notably Japan and Korea, due to high seasonal labor requirements and
costs. India also has a greater amount of suitable land available for seri-
culture than does Japan, and has an additional advantage of year-round produc-
tion (up to seven silkworm rearings) compared to seasonal production (two
or three rearings annually) in temperate countries. Consequently, GOI has
included several sericulture development programs in its Draft Sixth Plan
(1978-83) aimed at doubling production and exports.
Mulberry Cultivation
29.       Mulberry is a hardy and drought-resistant tree, tolerating most soil
conditions other than poor drainage, and, because of a range of varieties, it
grows well at altitudes from sea level to 1,500 meters. Established by cutt-
ings, the first crop of leaves is harvested five to six months after planting.
Harvesting under rainfed conditions in India is seasonal and tails off during
the dry season between November and June, whereas under irrigation five
harvests at roughly 10-week intervals are customary. The crop responds well
to inputs and good cultivation practices, as evidenced by an average yield
of 3,000 kg/ha of leaves under rainfed conditions compared to commonly obtained
yields of 30,000 kg/ha with a full package of improved practices under irriga-
tion. Pests and diseases cause few problems.
30.       Mulberry farming, combined with silkworm rearing, is more profitable
than any other crop in silk-producing areas, particularly those under irriga-
tion.   Furthermore, continuous harvesting throughout the year is an attraction
as it produces steady cash income to the farmers. However, it requires a very
high labor input and careful management. As a result, most silk farmers have
less than one hectare of mulberries. The production of mulberry can be
improved by the use of improved high-yielding varieties.
Silkworm and Silkworm Rearing
31.       The nucleus of the sericulture industry is the "grainage" where
eggs of selected silkworm varieties are produced under controlled hygienic
conditions for sale to sericulturalists who hatch them and rear their result-
ing silkworms to produce cocoons. In a grainage, selected seed cocoons are
kept in a controlled environment to synchronize the emergence of moths from



- 11 -
cocoons of different races for egg layings.  The eggs are then examined for
disease, and only disease-free eggs are issued to the sericulturists for rear-
ing. For the first 26-28 days after their hatching the farmers feed the silk-
worms with mulberry leaves; during this time the worms grow to about 10,000
times their birth weight. At the end of this phase of their life-cycle, the
worms stop feeding and are transferred to cocooning frames. There each worm
ejects a silk filament which it spins around itself to form a cocoon.  Each
comprises a single unbroken filament, the quality of which--determined by
length, thickness and weight--depends on the genetic quality of the worms,
rearing method and quality of the leaves fed to them.
32.       Tropical silkworms, including traditional Indian varieties, are
multivoltine and produce several generations of worms in a year. Temperate
silkworms, from Japan and Europe, are uni- or bivoltine having only one or
two generations per year. Their eggs remain dormant for some months to allow
over wintering, but there are artificial means of terminating dormancy, so
that they too can be grown throughout the year. Multivoltine varieties of
worms spin an average of 400 meters of continuous filament, but in the case
of bivoltine hybrids average lengths of 1,500 meters are common. In India,
particularly in Karnataka, increased efforts have been made over the last
decade to improve silkworm varieties, and the success in introducing and
acclimatizing bivoltine varieties represents a significant advance in Indian
technology.
Cocoon Marketing and Processing
33.       About five days after cocoon formation, farmers sell cocoons to
reelers. Formerly, reelers purchased cocoons from farmers either directly or
through agents. But in recent years most sales take place at State-regulated
cocoon markets. In Karnataka, 85% of the cocoons pass through such markets.
34.       Before reeling takes place, the pupa inside the cocoons must be
killed; otherwise, on the tenth day, the worm transforms into a moth and
emerges from its cocoon, cutting the continuous filament. Traditionally,
the pupa is stifled by steaming the cocoon, but in more modern processing hot
air is used. By joining eight to ten filaments together, silk yarn of standard
thickness is produced in the process called reeling. Small producers use the
traditional 'charkha' or improved equipment termed cottage basins for this
purpose. Large factory-type units known as filatures are used on an indus-
trial scale. The yarn is treated on 'twisters' for increasing its tension,
and sold to weavers. Waste material from the cocoons, once the filament is
removed, is used for making spun silk yarn.
35.       The amount of silk obtained from cocoons and its quality are low
in India compared to other major producers. For instance, in Japan 5 to 6 kg
of cocoons yield one kg of silk, while in India 12-16 kg of cocoons are
required. The quality of charkha silk is lowest but finds a ready market with
handloom weavers. Even the silk from filatures is below international market
standards. Reasons for low quality include the poor varieties of silkworms
and obsolete reeling equipment. Raw silk is sold to silk merchants who in
turn sell it to silk weavers. About 150,000 handlooms or small-scale powerloom
enterprises are engaged in production of silk fabrics, mainly saris. Silk waste



- 12 -
is purchased by merchants partly for resale to the three publicly owned mills
in India and partly for export.
Government Programs
36.       Silk production is a State responsibility handled by State indus-
tries ministries. The Central Government is involved through the Central
Silk Board which is responsible to the GOI Ministry of Industries. The Board
advises GOI on policy and development programs, and is responsible for silk
imports, export quality control, and for assisting States with production
programs. In addition, the Board is responsible for silk research and some
training; it operates four central research stations, seven regional stations
and about twenty extension centers in fourteen different States. GOI's
financial provision for these activities increased from US$550,000 in the
First Five-Year Plan (1951-56) to US$30 million in the Fifth Plan (1974-78);
US$190 million is targetted in the Draft Sixth Plan (1978-83).
Mulberry and Silk Research and Technology
37.       Modern integrated sericulture research began in India in 1961 after
the Central Sericultural Research and Training Institute (CSRTI) at Mysore
was established under the Central Silk Board. The Institute has a team of
40 scientists and 45 technicians working on mulberry and silkworm improvement,
a modest reeling and fiber technology program, and a post-graduate training
program for field officers. The research and extension centers under the
Institute perform the triple functions of applied field research, advising
extension staff and farmers and feeding back farmers' problems into the
research pipeline.
38.       Research results have been impressive.  In mulberry improvement, a
high-yielding and more nutritious variety has been evolved, together with a
package of cultivation practices which has found ready acceptance by farmers.
In silkworm improvement, local varieties have been improved and bivoltine
varieties and hybrids have been successfully adapted. To improve rearing of
bivoltine varieties, communal hatcheries have been introduced for operation
under Government supervision. Despite these impressive successes, there is
a considerable gap between silk yields per hectare in India (40-50 kg/ha of
irrigated mulberry) and Japan (over 120 kg/ha of rainfed mulberry). To ensure
longer-term growth of the industry, research activities need considerable
strengthening and Indian researchers would benefit from more contacts with
their foreign counterparts.
Sericulture in Karnataka
39.       The State of Karnataka, situated in Southwest India, has a popula-
tion of about 30 million and a cultivated area of about 10 million hectares
(of which 1.35 million ha are irrigated). Foodgrains, including rice, sorghum
and millets, occupy half the cultivated area, and production has been adequate,
for some years, to meet the State's food requirments. With the State's climatic
range of humid tropical coasts to more temperate upland areas, Karnataka has
a large range of cash crops including cotton, groundnuts, sugarcane and horti-
culture crops. The State produces over 60% of India's silk. The topography



- 13 -
and climate are ideal for sericulture which was introduced in the State some
200 years ago. Sericulture is now practiced by 200,000 farmers and provides
employment for about two million people in the State.
40.       The mulberry area is estimated at about 110,000 ha, of which about
30,000 ha are irrigated and 4,000 ha are under the improved M5 variety. It is
largely confined to Bangalore and four adjacent districts. However, over the
last five years mulberry plantation has extended to other parts of the State,
and 1,000 ha have been planted in such new areas. The total mulberry area
increased from 43,000 ha in 1951/52, to 106,000 ha in 1977/78. Similarly, silk
production has increased from 727 tons in 1951/52 to 2,300 tons in 1977/78.
Yields range from 190 kg of cocoons from each hectare of mulberry plantation in
rainfed areas in Mysore District to close to the Japanese yield of about 600 kg
from one hectare of mulberry in some irrigated areas. Improved technology in
sericulture has only become available in the last three or four years. Cocoon
yields of 800-1,000 kg per hectare of mulberry in some intensively staffed
village scheme areas have proved the value of the new technology. Its large-
scale adoption requires intensification of research and advisory services,
increased production of improved seed and introduction of improved reeling
technology.
41.       The Department of Sericulture of the Government of Karnataka (GOK),
with a professional and technical staff of 2,000, plays a key role in all
aspects of raw silk production in the State, and provides production, advisory
and cocoon marketing services. In addition, the Department fulfills regulatory
functions, particularly in the fields of silkworm egg production and cocoon
marketing. It also used to operate an industrial wing, comprising seven fila-
tures (silk reeling factories), a twisting plant, a spun silk factory and a
silk weaving factory, which has recently been transformed into a GOK Corpora-
tion to operate commercially.
42.       The Department operates 74 silk farms (average size 10 ha) and 80
grainages that provide farmers with disease-free silkworm eggs. In silk
farms, breeder silkworm stock are multiplied and provided to closely super-
vised farmers for further multiplication. In departmental grainages cocoons
from such farmers are collected for egg production in controlled aseptic con-
ditions. The Department sells eggs to farmers at prices which cover grainage
operating costs. In 1979, about half of the 160 million layings used in
Karnataka came from departmental grainages and the rest from 833 licensed
private grainages. The private grainages also obtain cocoons from GOK super-
vised farms but quality control is below the standards of the departmental
grainages and thus the product is of variable quality. Due to increasing
demand, departmental production is expanding rapidly, but departmental grain-
ages lack modern facilities and the Department needs additional staff to
allow appropriate supervision of their operations.
43.       Technical services so far have been sufficient to raise yields only
slightly although they have been effective in preventing any catastrophic
disease outbreak. Recently, however, the Department has established a system
of serving the industry that has been successful and appears to be the way of
achieving greater inpact in the future. The system is based on a technical
service center staffed by a sericulture assistant who supervises eight seri-
culture demonstrators. About 12-13 communal hatcheries are attached to each



- 14 -
center. Each demonstrator is expected to visit each of the 100 farmers in his
area of responsibility, once every four days while rearing is in progress and
supervise one or two hatcheries. About 60 technical service centers and 640
hatcheries have been established but require additional equipment and staff.
44.       GOK introduced regulated cocoon marketing under 1959 legislation,
and the Department operates 22 cocoon markets at which cocoons are sold by
auction under Departmental supervision. Farmers prefer this type of marketing
to direct trading. Designed for 10,000 tons, the markets already handle about
30,000 tons of cocoons. Therefore, there is an urgent need to expand the
markets. Reeling is predominantly a cottage industry. About 10,000 charkhas
and 7,500 cottage basins account for 90% of all reeling, with the balance
processed mostly in government filatures. Until 1957, charkhas were predom-
inant, but in that year GOK introduced a 50% capital subsidy for establishing
cottage basins to improve quality. As a result, cottage basins now exceed the
output of charkhas.
45.       Credit for sericulture activities is provided by cooperative and
commercial banking, which is well developed in Karnataka. The three-tier
short/medium-term cooperative system has about 200 District Central Bank
offices and 5,000 Primary Agricultural Society offices in project districts,
the two-tier medium/long-term Land Development Bank has 140 offices and
commercial banks have about 1,600 branches of which 1,000 are semiurban or
rural. There are also several Regional Rural Banks which cater specifically
to the poorer section of the rural community. A major credit scheme formu-
lated in 1974 for se-iculture development in Karnataka has been disappointing
to date. It comprised formation of combined sericulture and general service
cooperatives to provide long and short term credit and technical and marketing
services. There has been little demand for credit through these cooperatives.
For instance as of June 30, 1979 only Rs 1.2 million of a Rs 30 million target
had been disbursed by ARDC in 31 long term credit schemes for cooperatives.
At the same time both cooperative and commercial banks had, over three years,
disbursed well over Rs 50 million for sericulture to individual borrowers.
Consequently, lending would now be to individuals rather than cooperatives
in new silk areas.
Bank Group Activities in Karnataka
46.       The Bank Group has been involved in Karnataka through a number of
projects, mainly in the agricultural sector. The Mysore Agricultural Credit
Project (Cr. 278-IN of January 1971) provided US$40 million to finance agri-
cultural loans to farmers, and was fully disbursed by June 1977. The
Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project (Cr. 378-IN of May 1973) has
provided US$8 million to establish agricultural markets in strategic locations.
After initial delays, almost all of the 39 markets envisaged are either com-
pleted or underway. A US$30 million credit for the Karnataka Dairy Development
Project (Cr. 482-IN of June 1974) is being implemented to support dairy
development along the lines of the successful Amul dairy cooperative system.
Another multi-state agricultural project, the US$35 million Drought Prone Areas
Project (Cr. 526-IN of January 1975) includes one district of Karnataka and is
progressing well. In May 1978, a US$126 million credit was provided for the
Karnataka Irrigation Project (Cr. 788-IN) to irrigate about 105,000 ha of



- 15 -
land and promote agricultural development in the area. In addition, the Second
National Seed Project (Cr. 816-IN of July 1978) and the Composite Agriculture
Extension Project (Cr. 862-IN of February 1979) finance seed development and
agricultural research and extension activities, respectively, in Karnataka
among other States. Non-agricultural activities of the Bank Group include
family planning and nutrition activities under a US$21.2 million Population
Project (Cr. 312-IN of June 1972) which is nearing completion.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
47.        The project was prepared by the Sericulture Department of the Gov-
ernment of Karnataka (GOK) in collaboration with GOI's Ministry of Agricul-
ture Project Preparation and Monitoring Cell and with assistance by the Bank's
New Delhi Office. The project was appraised in September/October 1979, and
negotiations were held in Washington, D. C. in April 1980. The Indian nego-
tiators included Mr. S. Sharma, Development Commission, Ministry of Industry,
GOI, Mr. B. S. Lamba, Deputy Secretary, Ministry of Finance, GOI, and Mr. V.
Balasubramanian, Director of Sericulture, GOK. The Staff Appraisal Report
(No. 2901a-IN) is being circulated separately. A Supplementary Project Data
Sheet is attached as Annex III.
Project Description
48.        The proposed project would represent a major effort for the inte-
grated development of sericulture in India. Its main objective would be:
-    to increase raw silk production in Karnataka by about 1,600
tons per year, including an increase in high quality bivol-
tine silk from 100 to 1,000 tons;
-    to expand reeling capacity and introduce modern processing
facilities and methods that would upgrade raw and spun silk
to export grade quality; and
-    to introduce the latest technologies from leading silk produc-
ing countries and to expand local research for longer-term
improvement of the silk industry.
49.        Silk Production.  Silk production would be supported by strengthening
and improving of the Department of Sericulture advisory services, providing
hatcheries under the Departmental supervision for most of the silk production
requirements and expanding cocoon markets to cater for the projected increased
production. The advisory services, apart from helping farmers improve silkworm-
rearing practices, would encourage replacement of 20,000 ha of local mulberry
varieties in traditional areas with improved M5 varieties, planting of 14,000
ha of M5 in new areas to increase the mulberry area there from 1,000 to 15,000
ha, and improving mulberry cultivation in all areas including the 60,000 ha of
existing rainfed mulberries. A modest credit program for 3,500 ha of mulberry
(25% of the planting target) would support the planting program in new areas
(para 60). The project would provide funds for lending to farmers to establish



- 16 -
new plantations, purchase silkworm rearing equipment, construct improved
rearing houses, and cover recurrent costs for two rearing cycles. The rearing
houses would be constructed in accordance with Department of Sericulture
specifications acceptable to ARDC and IDA, and such specifications would be
drawn up by December 31, 1980 (Section 2.08 of the Project Agreement).
50.       Technical services would be provided for silk producers, based on
the successful technical service center (TSC) model (see paragraph 43). The
project would provide funds for strengthening the existing 60 TSCs and 640
hatcheries and for establishing 90 additional TSCs and 1,060 hatcheries.
Most of the sericulture area would be covered, within which about 90% of all
silkworm eggs could be hatched and initially reared in communal hatcheries.
The project would finance incremental staff totalling 150 Sericulture Assis-
tants (SA) and 1,600 Demonstrators, which would result in placing one Demon-
strator per 60-100 growers and one Sericulture Assistant to supervise eight
Demonstrators. The project would also finance hatchery equipment, TSC and
hatchery incremental operating costs and vehicles. To ensure staff mobility
for farm visits, 750 light motorcycles would be procured for purchase by staff
through loans. Extension advice for mulberry production would be provided by
the Department of Agriculture. The Department of Agriculture is employing the
Training and Visit System and is receiving IDA support under the Composite
Agriculture Extension Project (Cr. 826-IN).
51.       In support of the technical services, the project would improve and
expand an existing training center and establish two new ones, each with a
capacity of 1,200 trainees a year, including staff and farmers. In addition
the p5oject would finance 20 model hatcheries including construction of a
110 m hatchery building, and provison of equipment and incremental operating
costs. As private grainages have not been able to meet the exacting standards
needed for high quality egg production GOK would expand production from
departmentally owned grainages. Under the project, most of the present 80
departmental grainages would be closed or converted into egg sale centers and
would be replaced by 10 large modern grainages to be financed under the
project. To provide adequate facilities for ongoing cocoon production and for
its expansion, the project would extend markets in 11 of 22 existing sites and
construct markets on 12 new sites. A total of 30 market units would be
established in those 23 sites.
52.       Silk Processing.  The project would create processing facilities in
new sericulture areas and, at the same time, it would also improve the exist-
ing facilities by introducing modern technology to increase silk recovery from
the cocoon and to upgrade quality. In the new areas, the Department would
establish one small semi-automatic filature and would also encourage invest-
ments in privately owned cottage basins (see paragraph 34). The Department
filature would also act as a demonstration, training and cocoon testing
center. Since most cocoons in the State would continue to be reeled by
cottage basins, the project would provide credit (channeled through ARDC and
banks) for 500 units of about one ton per year silk reeling capacity in new
areas. GOK provides a subsidy equal to 40% of machinery cost, which would be
continued.



- 17 -
53.       GOK has established a Karnataka Silk Industries Corporation (KSIC)
to operate the existing departmental filatures, spun silk mill and weaving
factory (see paragraph 59). KSIC would modernize one of the existing seven
large filatures and expand its production capacity. The existing GOK spun
silk mill, established in 1936, requires extensive reconditioning. A reno-
vation program, based on a technical study carried out by Japanese spun
silk specialists, would be implemented by KSIC, and its capacity increased
from the present 45 tons of spun silk production to 60 tons per year. In
addition, a new 90-ton-per-year spun silk production unit would be con-
structed at the factory, and would be provided with the latest equipment to
allow it to produce export-quality spun silk. The project would also finance
expansion and equipping of the existing GOK workshop, which would be taken
over by KSIC and would carry out the spun silk mill renovation program.
54.       Research and Technical Assistance.  The project would provide funds
for laboratory buildings, staff housing, equipment, and incremental staff and
operating costs required by: (i) the Central Sericultural Research and
Training Institute (CSRTI), to strengthen its central station, establish two
regional stations and five substations and to improve five existing substations;
(ii) University of Agricultural Sciences, Bangalore, for strengthening its
ongoing program focussed on silkworm disease control, for starting new programs
for mulberry and silkworm pest and disease incidence surveys, and for strength-
ening its sericulture teaching faculty; (iii) University of Bangalore for
silkworm genetics research and a broader program on mulberries; and (iv)
Mysore University for specific research on silkworm genetics. In addition,
GOK, with its heavy stake in the silk industry, would ei3tablish the Karnataka
State Sericultural Development Institute (KSSDI) to car:-y out research into
all aspects of mulberries, silkworms and silk processing. A Sericulture
Research Committee would coordinate the research program (para 62).
55.       Longer-term development of the silk industry in India would require
the introduction of the latest technologies from leading silk producing coun-
tries like Japan and Korea. The project would therefore finance 70 man-months
of consultants' time and a 380 man-month program for training abroad. About
19 man-months would be needed for visits of 5 or 6 top-level scientists to
CSRTI to support mulberry and silkworm breeding work and for exchange of ideas
on other research topics. About 12 man-months would be used for two visits by
a two-man team to help the Department of Sericulture with grainage development
and another expert would be needed for two visits of six months each to help
with the communal hatcheries program, with special focus on disease control.
About 27 man-months would be used by KSIC for training staff to operate new
filature and spun silk factory equipment.
56.       Japan, the leader in silk technology, would be a most suitable
source of expertise and training opportunities. To attract the necessary
top-class scientists and technicians, it is expected that US$15,000 per
man-month, inclusive of air fares, living expenses and local travel, would be
required. However, there is no certainty that all the desirable expertise
can be recruited, particularly on a time-bound schedule. It is assumed also
that most, if not all, project financed overseas training would be in Japan.
The cost per training month has been estimated at US$3,400. GOI would,



- 18 -
by December 31, 1980, draw up a plan and timetable for the technical assistance
and overseas training program on terms and conditions mutually acceptable to
GOI and the Association (Sections 3.02 and 3.03 of the Development Credit
Agreement).
57.       The project would provide funds for an evaluation study by a local
research institute. The study would evaluate the impact of the project and
its individual components on silk production, employment and rural income.
GOK would initiate an evaluation study, by March 31, 1981, with terms of
reference satisfactory to the Association (Section 2.13 of the Project Agree-
ment).
Project Implementation
58.       The Department of Sericulture would implement all components con-
nected with cocoon production, including development of silk farms, grainages,
technical service centers, communal and model hatcheries, training centers
and cocoon markets. The Department would cooperate closely with credit agen-
cies (paragraphs 60 and 61) which would carry out the lending program for
silk farmers and reelers, and with the Department of Agriculture which would
provide extension for mulberry cultivation. The Department of Sericulture
is part of the State Ministry of Industries and is headed by the Director of
Sericulture, responsible to the Secretary of Industries. The Department is
dynamic and well organized and its staff responds well to its strong leader-
ship. The Department is undergoing reorganization in preparation for almost
doubling its technic;l staff over the project period. To ensure adequate
training for new staif, GOK would draw up a training plan by December 31,
1981 and submit for IDA's comments (Section 2.07 of the Project Agreement).
The field services would be organized on a District basis with a Deputy
Director in charge. Each District would have divisions (5 in Mysore, 3 in
Bangalore and 2 in all other Districts) headed by an Assistant Director,
whose primary task would be organization and supervision of technical service
centers and communal hatcheries. At the Head Office, apart from the Senior
Technical Advisor, there would be five Joint Directors for the different
specialities as well as for silk farms and technical services. To carry
out the construction program under the project, the Department would estab-
lish an engineering cell. The engineering cell would be established by
September 30, 1980 (Section 2.07 of the Project Agreement).
59.       The Government of Karnataka has recently established the Karnataka
Silk Industries Corporation (KSIC) with an authorized capital of Rs 150 mil-
lion. It would take over and operate the GOK-run processing facilities and
would implement the modernization program financed under the project. The
Corporation would be controlled by a Board nominated by GOK.  The management
team would be headed by a managing director. Heads of KSIC's Technical,
Finance, Personnel and Accounts Divisions would be appointed by September 30,
1980 (Section 2.10(b) of the Project Agreement). An engineering unit with
staff deputed from the State Public Works Department would supervise project
construction for KSIC. The engineering unit would be established by December 31,
1980, (Section 2.10(c) of the Project Agreement). To allow adequate debt serv-
icing capacity the Corporation would maintain a debt:equity ratio as determined



- 19 -
by IDBI (Section 2.01(d) of the Project Agreement). The ratio is expected to
remain less than 2:1 during the project period.
60.       Credit for silk farmers and reelers would be provided by the parti-
cipating banks and refinanced by the Agricultural Refinance and Development
Corporation (ARDC) under a financing arrangement between GOI and ARDC. ARDC
has ample experience of Bank Group project execution through participation in
about 40 projects. To ensure adequate and suitable banking arrangements, ARDC
would draw up a banking plan which would include a definition of ARDC's role
in project implementation and proposals for: banking coverage of the project
area; preparation, supervision and monitoring of project schemes; rehabilita-
tion or development of banks or branches as needed; recruitment and training
of staff; and proposals for necessary improvements in lending procedures.
Execution of financial arrangements between GOI and ARDC, satisfactory to
IDA, would be condition of disbursement against loans for farmers and reelers
under the credit (Paragraph 3(b) of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement and Section 2.02 of ARDC Agreement).
61.       Financing for the industrial component (para. 53) would be channeled
through the Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI), a public sector corp-
oration established to finance small- and medium-scale industrial enterprises.
IDBI has experience dealing with the Bank Group, as a beneficiary of three
projects (Cr. 356-IN of February 1973, Ln. 1260-IN of June 1976 and Ln. 1511-IN
of March 1978) and as a financing channel for the Jammu & Kashmir Horticulture
Project (Cr 806-IN of July 1978 and the Fertilizer Industry Project (Cr. 598-IN
of December 1975). IDBI would appraise the factories' modernization proposals,
prepared by a local consulting firm with international experience and their
findings would be sent for IDA's review. IDA's approval of the terms and
conditions of the financial arrangements between GOI and IDBI would be a
condition of disbursement for the relevant part of the credit (paragraph 3(c)
of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement and Section 2.02 of IDBI
Agreement).
62.       The research component would be carried out by the Central Sericul-
tural Research and Training Institute (CSRTI), three universities and by the
Karnataka State Silk Development Institute (KSSDI). The latter would be estab-
lished, with key staff, before December 31, 1980 (Section 2.09 of the Project
Agreement). Responsibility for the development and research programs would
rest with the head of each participating institute--Director CSRTI, the Vice
Chancellor of each university and the Director of KSSDI. In order to coor-
dinate research programs, a Sericulture Research Committee has been set up
including the head of CSRTI, the Director of Sericulture and representatives
of participating universities as members; the Committee would also include the
Chief of KSSDI, when it is established. The Committee would review proposals
from participating institutions, formulate annual research program and send
each year's plan for IDA's comments by every March 31 (Section 3.04 of the
Development Credit Agreement).
63.       The Central Ministry of Industries would be the agency responsible
for the project at the Center. The Development Commissioner (Handlooms), under
the Secretary of Industries, would handle matters connected with the project.



- 20 -
The Ministry, through the Central Silk Board, would be responsible for the
CSRTI research component and would also arrange technical assistance and the
overseas training programs.
64.       Overall project coordination, management and monitoring would be pro-
vided by a Project Coordination Committee. The Committee has been established
and includes representatives of all agencies involved including a representa-
tive of GOI. The GOK Director of Sericulture would provide for its secretariat.
To support silk production activities, there would be a district level coor-
dination committee in each district. The Committee would review and approve
the annual programs for the execution of the project and would furnish each
year's program, by March 31, for IDA's comment (Section 2.12 of the Project
Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
65.       The total project cost is estimated at US$95.1 million, including
US$6.6 million for taxes and duties. Foreign exchange costs are estimated
at US$20.7 million or 22% of the total cost. Included in the costs are:
US$8.0 for credit for on-farm activities and for silk reeling; US$37.6 million
for sericulture development activities under the GOK Department of Sericulture;
US$16.1 million for processing activities under the Karnataka Silk Industries
Corporation (KSIC); US$10.6 million for research, technical assistance and
studies; and US$22.8 million for physical and price contingencies.
66.       The proposed credit of US$54 million equivalent would finance, net
of duties and taxes, about 65% of costs of components to be implemented by the
Government Departments and about 50% of costs of relending through ARDC and
IDBI. The balance would be met by GOI and GOK (32%), ARDC (4%), IDBI (5%),
lending banks (1%) and farmers/reelers (1%). The project would provide
retroactive financing of up to US$1 million to cover early implementation
costs incurred after October 1, 1979.
67.       GOI would on-lend (i) US$4.4 million to ARDC to refinance silk
farming development loans and cottage basin development loans to reelers, and
(ii) US$9.5 million to IDBI to lend to KSIC for modernization and expansion of
silk processing factories. The terms of these loans are described in para-
graph 1. GOI would use US$5.5 million for implementing the technical assist-
ance and overseas training component and the research program under CSRTI
and would channel the balance to GOK for the components to be carried out by
the State, the Universities and the Karnataka State Silk Development Institute.
68.       GOI's onlending rates to ARDC and IDBI and the interest rates to
be applied through the ultimate borrower are consistent with the prevailing
overall rate structure in India. Intersectoral differences are small.
Inflation in India between 1974/75 and 1978/79 averaged only 1.5% per annum.
With the sharp increase in oil prices during 1979 coinciding with a severe
drought, prices spurted by almost 15% between April and December 1979 and are
anticipated to increase another 10% during 1980/81. Given past GOI determin-
ation and success in containing inflation, and the likelihood of a resumption
of the strong agricultural growth that was disrupted by the 1979 drought and
an improved supply of industrial inputs, the rate of price increase over the



- 21 -
project period is expected to average somewhat below 7% per annum. The
proposed on-lending rates to farmers would be positive in real terms through-
out the project period and would compare favorably with real rates in other
developing countries.
Procurement and Disbursement
69.       Civil works for KSIC, the departmental program and the research
program costing about US$8.2 million, would be carried out on about 90 sites
over five years. Contracts for such work would not attract foreign bidders
and would be awarded after local competitive bidding, using GOI or GOK pro-
cedures, which are satisfactory to IDA.
70.       About 250 motor vehicles (US$1.9 million) would be required by
project agencies, mainly DOS and purchased over a five year period. Adequate
maintenance and availability of spare parts would be of paramount importance,
and this would necessitate purchase of locally made vehicles of types already
in use by project agencies. Procurement would be according to GOI and GOK
procedures. Motorcycles (US$0.3 million) would be purchased by individual
departmental staff, from loan funds provided by GOK.
71.       Reeling and spinning machinery and major items of ancillary equip-
ment such as boilers (US$14.0 million) for KSIC and cold store equipment,
refrigerators, and generators for departmental grainages (US$1.9 million)
would be procured by international competitive bidding, following Bank Group
guidelines for procurement. A 15% preference on bids based on the CIF price
of each item or the actual custom tariff, whichever is lower, would be granted
to domestic manufacturers.
72.       Other equipment would consist of furniture, silkworm rearing equip-
ment, farm and laboratory equipment (US$9.1 million) to be purchased over
five years for use over a wide area. These items are not suitable for inter-
national bidding and would be purchased by local competitive bidding proce-
dures. Small, off-the-shelf, items costing less than US$10,000 and which
are required urgently for project execution, would be purchased by prudent
shopping, through normal commercial channels. Farmers and silk reelers
receiving loans for mulberry planting, silkworm rearing equipment and cottage
basins (US$8.0 million) would purchase materials and equipment individually
from dealers of their choice and would also arrange construction of rearing
houses and reeling sheds locally. Technical assistance and overseas study
tours (uS$... million) and the project evaluation study (US$0.2 million) would
be arranged on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. The balance of the
project cost (US$30.7 million) would cover Departmental operating costs and
staff salaries and those of various research agencies, KSIC incremental work-
ing capital, and land purchase for the research component which would not
involve procurement. The above figures include physical contingencies (US$4.4
million), but exclude price contingencies, which amount to US$18.4 million.
73.       IDA would disburse: (a) 55% of ARDC refinance for loans to farmers
and reelers; (b) 70% of loans to KSIC; (c) 75% of civil works, vehicles and
equipment and farm development and incremental staff costs for the Sericulture
Department and participating research agencies; and (d) 100% of the costs of
technical assistance, training abroad and evaluation studies. Disbursements



- 22 -
for all ARDC refinancing and for other expenditures would be made against
certificates of expenditures, except for expenditures exceeding Rs 150,000
for vehicles, equipment, staff salaries and incremental operating costs and
exceeding Rs 300,000 for civil works for which full documentation would be
required. Supporting documents for which payments were made against certi-
ficates would be retained by the implementing agency for review by IDA review
missions and these expenditures would be audited at least once every six
months.
Marketing
74.       Social traditions, the comfort of the natural fiber and Western
European haute couture provide a reliable and expanding market for silk.
While demand for silk is growing at a little over 2% per year, production, at
present about 50,000 tons per annum, is dropping, notably in Japan and Korea,
two of the leading producers, due to high labor requirements and costs. These
supply and demand trends are expected to continue, and demand is projected to
outpace production within five to ten years. There is an enormous and as-yet-
unsatisfied demand for silk in the local Indian market, but falling production
by leading producers abroad opens up excellent export opportunities for Indian
sericulture. The project with its emphasis on quality improvement through
introduction of high-quality bivoltine silkworm varieties and modernization of
processing technology would provide essential preconditions for developing
silk exports from India. With such promising export opportunities opening up
and with the domestic market still expanding, there would be no problems of
marketing the anticipated additional 2,200 tons of silk production from the
project.
Cost Recovery
75.       About one third of the project cost would relate to credit for
on-farm development, reeling and the KSIC modernization program and would
be fully recoverable. Another 35% of project cost would finance project
technical assistance, overseas training, research and extension programs for
which cost recovery is not considered appropriate. The balance of project
cost would finance grainages, cocoon markets, the departmental filature and
communal hatcheries. All these except the hatcheries (about 12% of project
cost) would be self supporting from fees or sale of products and would gener-
ate financial returns from 8% to 18% which are satisfactory for GOK facili-
ties rendering services to silk farmers. Communal hatcheries provide a serv-
ice that reduces farmers' costs and raises cocoon yields and represent an
innovation well-proven on a pilot field scale, but not yet accepted by most
silk farmers. GOK ascribes importance to fostering widespread adoption of
hatcheries by farmers, and has provided full funding for hatcheries to cover
establishment and operating costs over the project period. However, GOK
plans that ultimately farmers themselves should operate the hatcheries and
is considering ways in which those plans can be effected. GOK, in the third
project year would exchange views with IDA on possible ways of recovering
hatchery costs, once the benefits of hatcheries are understood by most silk
farmers.



- 23 -
Project Benefits and Risks
76.       The project would help to provide a sound technical basis for
improvements in production, productivity and qual;t-y at virtually every major
stage of mulberry sericulture in Karnataka. Its principal benefit would be an
increase in annual raw silk of 1,600 tons and silk waste of about 480 tons
valued at about US$75 million. In addition to incremental production, a
general improvement in the quality of raw silk silk would be brought about.
To sustain these improvements, the project would seek to enhance research and
exchanges with experts in sericulturally advanced countries to broaden and
intensify the Indian research establishment to support long-term development
of the industry. Very importantly, a significant number of employment oppor-
tunities--an estimated 180,000 work-years annually--would be created, primarily
among the rural population, and project activities would contribute to increas-
ing incomes of producers and processors as well. Benefits from the project
would be widely distributed and affect positively the entire spectrum of the
estimated two million persons engaged in sericulture and related activities
in Karnataka. The economic rate of return from the project is expected to
be 22%.
77.       The main project risks would be (a) limited response from silk
farmers to adopt improved practices and (b) disease damage to improved silk-
worm varieties, which are more disease susceptible than traditional varieties.
However, the project has been specifically designed to minimize those risks,
by providing exceptionally strong advisory services and modern egg production
facilities (para 51). Technical assistance and overseas training programs are
also largely focussed on improving services to growers and on silkworm disease
prevention and control.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
78.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the
Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the
State of Karnataka, the draft ARDC Agreement between the Association and
ARDC, the draft IDBI Agreement between the Association and IDBI and the
Recommendation of the Committee provided for Article V, Section l(d) of
the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
79.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
80.       The additional conditions of disbursement, specified in paragraph 3
of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement would be the following:
(a)  execution of Financial Arrangements between GOI and ARDC
would be a condition of disbursement against ARDC refi-
nancing; and



- 24 -
(b) execution of Financial Arrangements between GOI and
IDBI would be a condition of disbursement against IDBI
lending.
81.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
82.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
May 14, 1980



ANNEX I
IOU - socA  DIC OUTA SM                                 Page I of 5
MIA                Alrum= cr   um yW 
LAID ARA (TUOUSAND SO. Kl)      3                       _UCE                        S     TrUA
TOTAL          3287.6                                                 Sl         S        11|  llCEE
ACUCULTUIAL    1818.3                        '*am                             C mCC    C EGa
1960 A     1970 A  ISTINAFE tb     *lz IC       oW:  C    02009
cP m  CAPITA (US5)                   60.0       90.0    180.0            191.1     209.6       467.5
URIc! COUSIPIOUQ| PU CU1ST
(KILOCRAN Of 0? L EQUIVALET)     142.0       181.0    216.0            69.1       83.9       262.1
POTOIATION AND VITAL STATITCS
POPULATIIO, Km-Ts" (3LIOIS)       4.9        547.6    631.7L
n3l1 POPULAION (PRCIT OT OTL) 17.9           19.7      20.7.           13.2      16.2        24.6
POPULATION PIOCJCI
POPULATOU  DN TEA& 2000 (U.LIONS)                    973.0
STATIONAtY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                    1643.0
TR STATIONRY POPULATION IS  A                       2150
POPULATIo DUSITY
PE SQ. M.                       132.0      167.0    192.0            86.6       49.4        45.3
PER SQ. 11. 4GUCULTL LAD    247.0          308.0    347.0            330.2     252.0       149.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PLCUT)
0-14 YIS.                       40.8        42.5      42.0           44.3       43.1        45.2
15-64 Ys.                        55.7        54.6      55.0           52.4       53.2        51.9
65 Ys. AND AuOV                   3.5         2.9       3.0            3.1        3.0         2.6
POPATION GW         RATE (PzUCnT)
TMTAL                             1.9        2.3       2.1            2.4        2.4         2.7
ORA                               2.SLA      3.3       3.1            4.1        4.6         4.3
CRUDE lI S gTE (PU T2OUUI0)    43.0           40.0      35.0            44.4      42.4        39.4
CRUDE DEATH LATE (PZU T1tUSD)    21.0         17.0      14.0            16.4      15.9        11.7
GROSS EPRODUCTION RATE              3.2        2.9       2.4            3.2        2.9         2.7
JANKIL PLANNING
A5CEPTO3S. AUAL (TE'OUSADS)    64.0       3782.0   4518.0
USERS (PYICZNT OP MAUD WOE)    ..           12.0      16.9            7.9       12.2        13.2
OOD AND mnRTIoN
nOaX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PU CAPITA (169-71-100)          100.0      102.0    101.0            99.4       96.2        99.6
PU1 CAPITA SUPPLY Of
CALOlIES (PUCNT OF
lEUIRENNTS)                    95.0       92.0      89.0            93.0      93.3        94.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAT)        51.0        53.0      48.0           56.1       52.1        54.3
OF WIICE ANIMAL AD PULSE       19.0       16.0      12.6            10.4      13.6        17.4
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MOTALTY RATE    28.0         22.0      18.0            19.2      18.5        11.4
HEALTE
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT SDn TE    )    43.0        48.0      51.0           49.1       49.3        54.7
TINANT MORTALITY RATE (PU
THOUSAND)                           ..       134.0        ..             ..      105.4        68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATRI (PCZNT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..        17.0      33.0            31.5      26.3        34.4
URBAN                              ..       60.0      83.0           63.9       58.5        57.9
RURAL                             ..         6.0      20.0           20.1       15.8        21.2
ACCESS To EZ1   DISPOSAL (PEZCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..        16.0      20.0            15.7      16.0        40.8
URBAN                              ..       85.0      87.0           66.8       65.1        71.3
RURAL                             ..         1.0       2.0            2.5        3.5        27.7
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        5800.01k    4890.0   3135.0           7107.9   11396.4      6799.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON   9630.0L    5220.0   6320.0          12064.0    5552.4       1522.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          2590.0L_,  2020.0   1231.0          2738.4    1417.1        726.5
iHBAN                             ..          ..        ..             ..      197.3       272.7
RURAL                             ..          ..        ..             ..    2445.9       L404.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL RED         ..          ..        ..             ..       24.8        27.5
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
.OTAL                            5.2          ..       5.2             ..        5.3         5.4
URBAN                            5.2          ..       4.9             ..        4.9         5.1
RURAL                            5.2          ..       5.3             ..        5.4         5.5
AVERAGE NMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
IOTAL                            2.6         2.5       ..
UR3AN                             ..          ..        ..
RURAL                             ..
ACCESS TO -LECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELL:NGS)
7OTAL                             ..          ..        ..             ..       22.5        25.1
3x3BAX                             ..         ..         .             ..       L7. 8       45. 1
RLRAL                             ..          ..       ..              ..         ..         9.9



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA           C         lELL=  GROUPS (ADJUSTED AYEAGES
- lMOST RECENT ESTINATE) -
SUIE        SAME     ETY UCaER
MOST RHOUT       OCRAtUIC    INCOmE        ICOHE
1960 lb     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b      REGION /c  GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ZNIOLLMZNT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                61.0         72.0      79.0            59.5        63.3        82.7
MALE                 80.0         87.0      94.0            74.9        79.1        87.3
LEMAU                40.0        55.0       63.0            43.7       48.4         75.8
SECONDARY,  TOTAL                 20.0         29.0      28.0            19.5        16.7        21.4
MALE                 30.0        39.0       36.0            27.8       22.1         33.0
FOUIL                10.0        17.0       18.0            10.0       10.2         15.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. t2 OF SICOMDUAY)   8.0          6.0/j      *-              1.3        5.6         9.8
PUPIL-TEACHER IATIO
HEIMARY                           29.0         40.0      42.0            42.2        41.0        34.1
SECONDARY                          16.0        17.0        ..               ..       21.7        23.4
ADMLT LITERACY RATE (PRCET)          28.0        33.0      36.0             25.5       31.2        54.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.7          1.0       1.2             2.3         2.8         9.3
RADIO RECEIVnS PER TROUSAND
POPULATION                         5.0         21.0      24.0            15.5        27.2        76.9
TV RECEIVERS PER ThOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..         0.1       0.5               ..        2.4        13.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENCRAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPUILATION                11.0         16.0      16.0             6.2         5.3        18.3
ClNEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.0          6.3       3.8               ..        1.1         2.5
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (ThOUSANDS)   188670.0   226870.0  261000.0/k
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  31.3         32.6      32.2            21.4        24.8        29.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             73.0         73.0      73.0            66.3        69.4        62.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                11.0         11.0      11.0             9.6        10.0        11.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               43.0         40.2      39.2            35.8        36.9        37.1
1MALE                                57.1        52.3      51.3             52.3       52.4        48.8
FEMALE                              27.9         27.1      26.2             15.7       18.0        20.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.0         1.1       1.1              1.3        1.2         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT oP PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT O HOUSEHOLDS   26.7        26.3/1       ..              ..         ..         15.2
iIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.7         48.97t      ..               ..        ..         48.2
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OIP HOUSEHOLDS    4.1         6.771      *-              *-          *-         6.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT o0 HOUSEWOLDS   13.6         17.27T      ..               ..         ..        16.3
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
L'R8AN                              ..          ..       83.0            86.5        99.2       241.3
RURAL                                ..         ..       73.0            74.2        78.9       136.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..         ..              ..        91.9       179.7
RURAL                               ..           ..      50.0            50.4        54.8       103.7
ESTI!ATED POPULATION SELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY 'NCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
FRBdAN                              ..          ..       47.0 o.3                    44.1        24.8
RURAL                                ..         ..       52.0            52.4        53.9        37.5
.Not available
.Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the Indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries azong the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
'c    South Asia;  Id  Low Income (S280 or less per capita 1976);  /e  Lower MUddle Income (5281-550 per capita,
1976);  !f  1978 mid-year population is estimated at 640.. million;    j  1951-60;   'h  1962;
_   1958;  'j  1967;   !k  1978 mid-year labor force is escimated at 261 million;   /1  1964-t5.
Most Recenc Estirate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August, 1979



ANNEX t
DU'AEPTP    OF   IJL INDC.ATORS                                                                 Page   3   of   5
Note: Altboigh the data ae draw  from  ore  general&ly judged the most   thoritatire ad reliable, it should alan be anted that they may not be interna-
tionalLy comarblebecaus  of the lack of standadized definitions and noasopte used by different coutries in collecting the data. The data are, nonetheless,
usefkl to desribe orders of magitude,I indicate trends  and  =braterine certain major difference  betneen coutrie.
The adjusted group avrugen for each indicator  re poplathon-wighted geomtrie mea,  -neldieg the  eiArn oluen of the badioator and the moot ppoplted
.-utry in each grop.  W.s to lack of data, grop avrgssa of all.  adioators fee Capita.1  urplue Oil  nprete-  and of idicatora of Aocesa to Water and Eoorta
DIapoal, Hooing, incm  Distribution and Povety for other .o-tey grops  r  pejssltio-eeigbted geomtric ae-   without excluion of thc entrec value  and
the matppltdcuty    ic  hecvrg   fcutiasgteinlaosdpnso   vielt  - I ta and in sot unifoern  cation must be e-eeiard
In retlato=vrages ofton  iadientor to anthr.  Ths-vrgsaeual                               saeoiais   fepected" values aba oomaiag the o-les ofon
indisator at a time-amas the coun.try and referenc neonp..
LA"D AREA (thousadfaq.km.(                                                               Mon  obrt   ips) (eon   fpdsai    -total_ urban, and rurl 
Total - Total      . sraearen coprising hand are  and inland eater..                     Number of  ~peope  toal  urban  an   or        ere   _y urta disposal as
Agri-ult-1a  -  mnt recent estimate of agricultural area used teewrs.idy                 peroe..tagen of their -epective ppslatiosn. E.-reta disposalI my inclde
orPermaently foe crps, pastures, maket and kitebon gardens or to                     the  _ofletios and disposal, nith or nithout treatmet, of humso ec-rta
leeflow,                                                                            and eate-wator by oate'.-hon   system   or the use of pit privies and -iailar
SEP flP CAPiA (upS) - O? per capit  esodates a  current maket    ..i.s   Popnatindper Poician - FPpultios dicided by nao  of practicig phy-iban
calculated by sam  conerion method an World Rank Atlas (1976-78 basin;                   quIlfife  froml a dmedal school at anbe-ity leve.
1960, 1970, and 1978 data.                                                             Pnpsltioa per  ursing Person - Population divided by este o-f peactsing male
M .YlEtC:dGLiPW5PP   PEP CAPITA - An-..I consuption of    -rial eSerY                      and femle graduateuss  p-atioal ssn,ad neultetat nuse.
(ca   n   inte,. Petrole, natural gas and bydro-, anoea  end g.-               Poosltios per Hsneital hBed - total urbanadrrl-  Population (tota., orbs,
tbee-l eleotrioity) in kilograms of coal equiraot percapita  1960                        and-rural  divided by their renrtvenmero   opota  beds available in
1970, and 1976 data.                                                                     pli  and private genral and  pcialkied hotpita  and rohnbilitationoe-tor
Hospital  are establinh-nte permanetly staffed by at 1eaut  -e  ,sys!ivin.
POPULATIONI PNP VITAL STATISTICS                                                           n bIshmets providing prisospaly  utsdinl caear                ts -inlded  coral
Total Popslatin. Mid-YearNm1li...(   As of July 1; 1960, 1970, and                       hospitals, h-ser, include health and medical casters not permanotly stafico
197? dabs.                                                                            by a physician (but by a medical ass istant, surse, midwife, etc.) hkiob offer
Urba  Population (percent of totn( -Ptio of urban to toted population;                   n-patient ncsdatios and provide a limited range of medical faclitIes
difrntdfniin  ofubnnesm :ff-et comarbility of data                                  Admissions per Hioapital hed - Total -unbr of amsin  to or dinchergos f eon
aogoot-es; 1960, 1970, and 1975 datahoptl   divddby the  ,ester of bed-.
Porsilt ico Projection
Ponclatios is Year  000 - Cur.ret poplatios projeotions ac  bha.od on              OEUSING
i977  tota  pPu-Isosby age and nec  n  t ermortality and fertility                AeaeSloe of Houshold (Person  per household  - total urban, sad ru-I -
rete.t Frojctio  paramtersfr   raity rates o-prine of three                         A ba-sbold consists  fan of       ofiniv          -hl.eb  share living quarter  and
leel  assum..Ing life e-p-tany  t histb isore-ing with .-utry'.                     their main meals. A boarder or lodger my or my sot he i-oludod is tho
Per capita -cona  level, and feesle life sop.eotany ntsilising at                   howuehold for statistical purposes.
77.5 yenro   The par-mtor  for fertility rate also hav  three level               Average sober of Persoson,        o    total, urban, and rura  - Aerage somber
555-5mg deolo-  In fetlity accrding to ic"m  leve  and pant                         of person  p:er mona isn. uran       ,ndrua  occupied cov-tioso  doelliogo,
famil  olsosiag pXrfrsa= ce  task v-uty In tbn assigned one of thes                 repcivl. Weflingn occlude son-perenet etrutures and  --ocp-d ptro
ciscostinations of aeotality sod fertility trends for projeotiseAcs  oietiiy(ecn   fdefig)-ttl.ra,sdcrd-Co
-purpse.                                                                             retional deellings nit  el_tr~ity in living qnrtera a  perc-tago ol
Station.sry populstioo -    IG   stetiosavy pupultios there ia no growth              total, urban, and rura  dwellings  epciey
since the birth rate Is equal to thc desth rate, and also the ago
stutur   esssooat.Tiisahiee  onI                      fter fortuity rates       EDUCATION
do-lo 1  cik  rpacmet  eelofuit         Ioe-t repeordaction rate, * eke           Adjusted is-rllm-t Setso
eah genertive of sc-   replace  itself eu...tly.  The stationa-y pupa-               P-rosy schoo.Ittl,sle and female - Ge.o. total, saesd fenale  -11oh-
lticet'i-ensoetinaed 00 the b-oiu of the projected characteristics                   mast ofalae t the "esar  leve  no pernctges of'repective p-rany
of the popltiosis the peer 2000, and tke rate of dnchise of fertility                 school-age popuations; s-esaly includes children aged 611 peur  hot
rot  to r"P'nea    level                                                               sd.-ted for different 1vogtbs of prinay education; lor,ooteic-stb
roa   toticor ..  pnio -I reachd - The year  be- stationary population                    ......aI education  -nr1leet my asced 100 percen.tosc    anpupils
sloe hau been reahed.                                                                  are below or shov  the offic-l school age.
Popnlatios D,-sty                                                                        le-oday school - total. male and female - Computed so s..,          --duosor
For os. in. - Mid-yea  populot-o  per square ksl ter (100 heotaren) of                   eduction requires at least four year  of ppr-od prlasr   -cotr_tlo
t'tal  re                                                                              proides gonera -1 o-tional, or teasher trsining isiotis   i  pupls~
Pee so. Ion.gri-1ltu-l land - Computed an aho- foe agricultural land                     onualy of I2 to 17 yearn of ago; -responden-ooiooar   mosl
only.                                                                                  -colded.
P.-I   i. Ag.St-t-    p  -t)- Childre  (0-lb your), sorking-age                Vs-ti-a enrolleest (pceece.t of secondary) - Vocational  -ntitoti-c  iso1odo
year        re,U. tired  65 years and o-v) so p-rotagen of aid-year              tehoical, industrial, or other prngram- uhih operate iodopeodeetlyorn
popolatoow   i6o, 1970, nd 1977 data,                                              dpeprtmets of secondary isotiotioss.
tolihon Groth Ot (peots  - total - Annua  eroth mOos. of total mid-                   Pupil-e -uEr rtio - primary  so  ... seodary - Total studsto  coisod in
yea  populti... for 1950-hO, 1900-70, sd1970-77.                                         primay and seodI         eeodvddb   obr   fteacers on Ilcvrc
Ponulntiho  Growth Hate (-eoet) - urban - Annul growh -at-s of urban                       o`odig hovels
populations for h90bO  1707,nd 1970-79.                                                Adult literacy rein (peevet) - Literte ado1to (tile tq crud sod write) s
Crude Birth Pain  ep- thounud) - Annua  live biethn Poe thousnd of nod-                      p_r-otage of total edult popuhatioc aged 15 Year  and over.
year populitos; 1  0,~ 190,ad 197 data.
Crud heath Pte  pe tosn) _A- na deatho Per thou-acd of old-yea                      COEIJWI"TP
population; 1900, 1970, sad 197its                                                   Psee  Can (cer thausand posuhation   - Ponoeger car  -oprisenbro
Gros Pepr-d-tios Pate-doerW ag -wner of daogkte-              u  nill bea                setn   esta   ih   esn;    ldsahlne,haunad elitar
is bee noreal rPe-du-tir- p-od of oh  -pe-cih--e  presen.t ag-ceil.
oPevific f-etilityr.etes; usually  ir--sar averges ending is 190,                   hdoPwiro(one tho-ond --olation) - All types of re.oi..e. toe,  di.
h970, and 0975.                                                                       broadcasts to g-sne1 public  e  huadofpoaio;eolodesoohico
Faily i'lsno1io9b- Acceptorsl =oa (thousands) - AnnuaI nuaber of                         reevesiscutries and In year aso  regiora _s ofIuio  -eto O.i
acetoso birtb-_ntrol deioe _ er ausPices of national  f saly                     offe-t; data for recet years my sot is  -op-rble -inc  s.:-t co-tries
plsosYisg prgmo.                                                                        abolished lcnig
Feallo Plaoiag - Uors  poe-et of ried  mnic) - P-eestgc of narried               TV Peceive- (per thousad noechtion,) - TV recivers  foe b-od-st to geso-s
nnsof child-bearn   ag  (5-_  year)  hAn us  hlrth-o...trI d-ciceI                 public per th-usnd  popultion; enlds onliteseed TV -eeier-              soot-s
to nil maried ...e. insane age grouP.                                                 an   sya    ho.e regi-tesic  of 7V stswo  in effect.
Nesae   iroultios (per thousand peat"'s  - ihoso the ovrge-           eoltc
POOl) ANI) NUTRITION                                                                       of "dily general ist -t-est aeonpaper' dfinedI sope i-Ioa  publivatino
Tndeo ofFood roFduotio- per Cepita (1969-71-100) - loden of Pee capita                  devoted Primail  to recording genral. news   Cs is cosnidored to hr 'doily"
-nsa  productIon of all food commoditie.  Pro.ductine enludes seed and                 if it appeast ileas  fou. ie      ed
feed adi o        ndneyerbasi.  Cosdit    -- cvr priosry goods                      Gnesa An..ual Attendnc  Per Capits ow  Oea-n-ased on the oubo  o~f.ti Icoo
(..sgar-nne isetoad of sugar)  hbih ar  odible and ...otnic ntrients               oddrn.h   er  shdo   disost   rv-scsesadstt
(eg.cffee nod ten se -colded).  dggrognte peoduntico of .s-h ouety                   uits.1di     h                           i.   t   rv-.i -1
is basd on satiosel  Icrg   rdooee pric  weights.t
Fee onPita supply of ouore  (p_e_et:of roleet)-Cmue   ie                          lt  iC
eno rgy equivaet of set food ophe  aibe in country pee -apita                     Totalbo  Foc       Itosnds)    Icnmc yntion perons, i-olodiag ar-d
Per day. Availble  -ppliet comrise d-netic prodotio, ipoota less                    foce  and onomplywd but e-oluding hcones-ices, studests  cto  hefioit mr-
e-port, and ohnoges is stosk.  Pet supplie  eclod.eanimal feed, sends,              is vaioscontries sen sot comparble-
quatities  -od 10 food processng, nd base  is diotribution. Pequire-              P.-I.4Pjpp .ept( - F-sal  labor force1 aspercetage of tota1l Ibor forte.
vets oor  etiented by FAG basdonphysiciogiosl scouft fr.normal                    Ari-Iurjeeroe..3t( - Labor forc  infriedg, foc-try, bhsting sod
et ithy sd isu1hi .. cosdofongvoisesa  teprtre               -oy ights,            fishing as percentage of total labor force.
age sd ... dostrobut_o  ofpopolin  acd nlloiog tO peroet for                       ndsry (sersent) - Labor forc  is mining, so-t-t-io,  -ofacturiag acd
snote at boosebohi bosh, elec~~~tricity, wutor and gasa percetage of total 1mice for-e
Fee onIt suppl of proto   'r-n see dyp) - P-tteje  ots   fpr                        PriinisPt  peet -ttotal, sale  no   eah                       rstic'Iptino
capita set supply of food pee day. Net supply of food is deshnd an                  acIity rats, arecoPutds  total,mle, sodfeloub frcase-
above  Reqoireots for all1 countries established by USDA provide foe a                _eetas of. totalslean  fomal  populssi-o of nlae               pciey
aici-o  edosc f 60 gea_  of total proteiw  per day and 20 sgas o                    196, 1970, and i975 dnta. Thes  are I1,1.' part-iplsiocrntos-fleotisg
soina1 and pulse peo-in, of chiob 10 gene  should be animal protein.f               ag-e-tutr   ftepplto,sd l..g tiso treed.  A fenestiote-
These stand nd, se  1o-r than those of 75 gram  of total protein and                ar        . enntionl  nron
25 gene  of aiea  p-oteis as - averge for the ouId, proposed by FAQ               Passnain Dependency Ratio -  Patio of pspultios  oder 15 sod 65 and ovr to
in the lhind World Food Surey.                                                      the labor forc  in age group of 15-6b years.
Per cast prtin supl  fe.a solsa andple P rotoin supply of food
drived froaiNlCnOuleMngaspw  dy                                                        ET D  bTON
Ckild (ages 1-u) Mortalty Hate (per thousand)    Anuldnbsprtonad          PeeIae ofPivate Psa  (bhot In cah and hind) -  eceired by richest
is age grop   Iu er, to cbiidree is this ag  group; foe sot devel-                    5pers.-t, richest  PDernon t, poorest PC peren.t, sad posrest 40 perosot
oPi. cutre  dayta derived fro  Life tabls                                             ofh households..
IDiAITH                                                                                POVERTY TAPOIGZ  GROUPS
life Pupectany at Birth (years  - Average somber of year  of life                     EstImated Absol ute  oet  IsoeLevel (UV,$ Pee capIta) - urha  andrua-
ressainin  at  ir1k 100, 1970, nod 1977. data                                    Absolute pse-ty Iscm ee  Is that I=-om  leve  below  hbloh a nism
Osfant Mortality Hose leer thousnd) - dA-usI deaths of infants under one                 nutritionally adequate diet plus e..s.stis1 son-food requirenot  s o.t
year of age per thousand lIve births,                                                  affrdable.
Accs toSf   ae     ecs   fpouais     oa    ra,ad ral-                                  Estimated Relative Po,eety Icom  e bevel (UPS! per caIta).-Iuba   ndrra1
saf  oster suPpply(iwoudetreated surface waters or untreated but                       personl incom  of the coutry. Urban leve  Is derived fron the rura  1e-o
_nnotanisatedostr suh as         ts from protnctod horobois, springs,                 nith  ajsmnfohier coat of living in urban area.
and usaitsry veils) as perctentges of their repective populations. n                EtmtdP          lation hiss. Absolute Pov-te scanlve H(eet"  rbnad
an ucha  area a public founitais or standpost located sot mere than                    -rurl - Percet of population (urbaanrul)osre'bltepc"
10  mters fr.a a house my be considered as being within reaonable
anoes  of that house,  in rura  areas reasonable access  -sld imply
that she h..s.oife or asters of the househsld do sot have t  spend a                                                         DEssAicd sad Scia1 Data Division
dlsprop-tsio..ate part of the day is fotshing ta family. a wter nseds                                                  Do-oic Analysis and Projasti... Dpeprtment
Augut 1979



AMNEX I
so~~cmwmmaZTs                                             Page 4 of 5
in CAPTr 11 1977  U   150
C60S IU103AUL  nowes IN 1977/7$                               L  US O n. *ntnt rt eae
0ln/61-194/65      lSL/W     29/O     1S70/72z1. 76n77
Go at merket Price              101.47      100.0                                                 3.9                 3.S                3.2
,ross Domestic Investment        21.65       21.3
ross Natieual Swins              22.77       22.4
Current Account BaLane  jV        1.04        1.0
Sesourc  balanae  g/            - 0.31      - 0.3
OUTP1T. U3O I    IID hPMSClTT  11 1972
v1lue                                                             Per. S' toller
EJil..     ~                          f Nationl Averea
Ariculture                        24.5           4.6               13%0.0    72.1            1"                4
Industry                         ll.d           22.3               20.2    11.2             552              1SS
sr,icas                            .3           31.1               vZ       16-7            AM
Totallavsrage                     52.6          100.0              1*0.4   100.0             292             ii
GOVIC  S  F1IM8         .'/
tmbrel  Coe~ t                                              Centrl 1 Cre_et
19c 51n      1977/73    1974/75-l177                        ft            97/75   2197A/72-19f1/t8
Current aceipta                 164.42         16.9          18.2                             93.62         11.0           10.5
Current  netaditurs             157.29         16.6                      SU                                  .9bl
Current Surplu/Djeficit           7.13          0.8           1.6                              0.35         n.e.            0.6
Capital IQendituree  f/          62.58          7.2           7.0                            43.31           5.0            5.0
Ixernal Assistance (est) J/       9.82          1.1            1.6                             9.62          1.1            1.6
MGM, CUfS  AND PUIs                19p0/71    1973/74    1974/75    197576    1976/77    1977/75       Saetcer 1977        mteg,r 1978
(B  Billion eotistAding at ed of period)
Noey sad Quasi mony                  121.4      19N.4      220.3      254.7      306.9      365.1          334.8            395.6
lak  Credit to Gevrmect (nt)          52.6       87.3      95.3      101.1       110.2      129.7          119.3            139.5
sank Credit to Cmercial Sctor        64.6      107.0      126.7       153.9      U5.1       210.0          195.3            223.5
(Percantae Or inAex  umbere)                             Ji.r 197z          Jamr- 1i9n
NOD" and Quit Mony as S of am         30.1       33.5       31.5       34.5       38.8        41.9
Wholesale Price Index
(1970/71 * 100)                   100.0      139.7      174.9      173.0      176.6       165.8        184.5              164.6
Ammal percentage c_Cge  In:
Wholeals Price Index                  7.7        20.2      25.2       - 1.1        2.1         5.2          3.2               0.1
Bank Credit to Gonruset (nat)        10.5       12.3        9.2        6.1         9.0        17.7         13.4              16.9
lank Credit to Comrcial Sector        19.4       22.6       18.4       21.5       20.3        13.5         16.6              14.4
*/ TM per capita me estimte is at m*at prices, calculated by the coveresio  techniu  used ti the World Atlas.
All other ceversioas to dollars in this table ar*  at the avers  exchang0 rate prevailin  debring 2   period coverd.
b/ Quick Ustimtes.
c/ Ceuated iroa tred line of 1   at factor cost series, including one observation betfre first year and ane
observation atter last yer of listed period.
d/ World Bank estimates; not necessrily consistent with official National Account Statistics.
i/ Tranfers betwen Centre and States have been netted oet.
f/ All loas sad advances to third parties hve been netted out.
if Uutral grants and loans  less principal repanynts  as recorded in the Central budget.



P&Se 5 of 5
BALAECR OF (  IAT)WS           1975/76    J9 Z         1977/7Z    1978/79 It/           iJChUNDIU  UxpoT   AVhG  1975/76   19- 77/78)
Rxports of Goods                 4,672      5,753        6,276       6,800               Inginsering Goods              610        11
Imports of Goods                 -6,449    -5,928       -7,237      -8,400               Tea                            417         7
Trade Balance                    -1,777     - 175        - 961      -1,600               Cm                             377          7
NuS (net)                           310       360          650         700               Clothing                       331         6
Leather and Leather
Resource Balance                 -1,467       in         - 311      -  900                       Products               278         5
i/                                                             Jute lanufectures              267          5
Interest Payment  (net)          - 216      - 180         - 50          -                Iron Ore                      265          5
Other Factor PaYMent  (est)          -         -            -           -                Cotton Textiles                248         4
let Transfers  tI                   470       730        1,400       1,300               Super                          244         4
Other.                      2,530         45
Balance on Curreat Account       -1.213       fLU        1,039         400
Official Aid                                                                            bSSI.                        5,567        100
Disbursoeentt                 2,341      1,953        1,628       1,805              UTUUAL DE8T. H4RCU 31. 1978 h
Amortixation                  - 531      - 560        - 645       - 725                                                   US$ billion
Transactions with IYW               242     - 337        - 330       - 158               Outstanding  t4d Disbursed              14.8
All Other Items                    - 45     - 216          384         205               Undibur-ad                               4.3
Outstanding, including
Incrosse in Reserves (-)          - 794    -1,575       -2,076      -1,527                    Undisborsed                        19.1
Gross Reserve. (end year)         2,172     3,747        5,823       7,350                                               h/l/
Not  esaerves (end year)  k/      1,365     3,276        5,668       7,350              DOT SEVICZ RATIO FOR 1977/78             15.0  percent
Fuel and Related Materials                                                              1JRD/IDA LUNDIWI. RDCUIR 31. 1978
Imports                           1,417     1,581        1,817       1,980                                                    US$ uillion
of ibich: Petroleum            1,417      1,581        1,817      1,980                                                 ABaD          1
Exports                              43        37           33       M.S.                Outstand.us. *ud Disbursed         613        3,864
of which: Petroleu                22         21           s18     na.                Undisbursed                        615         1,992
*f *hich  Patro22n21Outatanding, including              P/
Undisbursed             1,228         5,856
RATE QV IICHAGE
Jume 1966 to mid-Dceomber 1971       :  US$1.00 - Rs 7.5
Rs 1.00 - Us$0.133333
Kid-December 1971 to and-June 1972       US$1.OO - Rs 7.27927
Es 1.00 - us$0.137376
After and-June 1972                  :  Floating Rate
Spot Rate *nd-Decber 1978            :  US$1.00 - Rs 8.168
us$1.00 - Es 0.122
h/  Estimated.
i/ Figures given cover all invet_ant incoae (net). Major payments are interest on foreign loons
and charges paid to IW, and major receipt is interast earned on foreign assets.
J/ Figures given include workers' rmittances but eclude official greant asstaence, which is
-   included within official aid disbursements.
k/  Excludes net use of IM  credit.
1/ Aaortization and interest paymnats on foreign loans as a percentoge of merchandise exports.
!/ Excludes exchange adjust_nt, but includes us$ 22 million due to third parties.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 17
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1980)
US$ million
Loan or                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower        Purpose              Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
41 Loans/                                             1,163.2
60 Credits fully disbursed                                     3,624.6
312-IN     1972   India    Population                 --         21.2      .33
342-IN     1972   India    Education                  --         12.0    5.31
356-IN     1973   India    IDBI I                     --         25.0    8.44
378-IN     1973   India    Karnataka Agricultural
Markets                --          8.0    3.19
390-IN     1973   India    Bombay Water Supply I   --            55.0    6.09
456-IN      1974   India    HP Apple Processing
& Marketing            --         13.0    7.63
481-IN      1974   India    Trombay IV Fertilizer   --           50.0      .20
1011-IN     1974   India    Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD 52.0          --     21.99
482-IN     1974   India    Karnataka Dairy            --         30.0   20.55
502-IN     1974   InUia    Rajasthan Canal CAD        --         83.0   34.24
520-IN     1974   Inlia    Sindri Fertilizer          --         91.0      .24
521-IN     1974   India    Rajasthan Dairy            --         27.7   15.60
522-IN     1974   India    Madhya Pradesh Dairy    --            16.4    6.28
526-IN     1975   India    Drought Prone Areas        --         35.0    9.95
1079-IN     1975   IFFCO    IFFCO Fertilizer          109.0       --      10.03
1097-IN     1975   ICICI    Industry DFC XI            95.6       --       3.88
532-IN     1975   India    Godavari Barrage
Irrigation             --         45.0   10.27
541-IN     1975   India    West Bengal Agric.
Development            --         34.0   12.98
562-IN     1975   India    Chambal (Madhya
Pradesh) CAD           --         24.0    6.40
572-IN     1975   India    Rural
Electrification I       --         57.0   12.46
585-IN     1975   India    Uttar Pradesh Water
Supply                --         40.0   22.02
598-IN     1975   India    Fertilizer Industry        --        105.0   54.05
604-IN     1976   India    Power Transmission IV   --           150.0   78.89



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 17
US$ million
Loan or                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower        Purpose              Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
609-IN     1976   India    Madhya Pradesh
Forestry T.A.          --         4.0     2.22
610-IN     1976   India    Integrated Cotton
Development            --        18.0    13.60
1251-IN    1976   India    Andhra Pradesh
Irrigation           145.0        --    105.52
1260-IN     1976   India    IDBI II                   40.0        --     23.72
1273-IN     1976   India    National Seeds I          25.0        --     24.00
1313-IN     1976   India    Telecommunications VI  80.0           --     23.42
1335-IN     1976   India    Bombay Urban Transport 25.0           --     10.12
680-IN     1977   India    Kerala Agric.
Development            --         30.0   27.82
682-IN     1977   India    Orissa Agric.
Development            --         20.0   94.18
685-IN     1977   India    Singrauli Thermal
Power                  --        150.0   15.15
687-IN     1977   India    Madras Urban
Development            --         24.0   15.74
690-IN     1977   India    WB Agric. Exten-
sion & Research        --         12.0   12.00
695-IN     1977   India    Gujarat Fisheries          --          4.0      .98
1394-IN     1977   India    Gujarat Fisheries          14.0       --      14.00
712-IN     1977   India    Madhya Pradesh
Agric. Dev.            --         10.0    9.09
720-IN     1977   India    Periyar Vaigai
Irrigation             --         23.0   17.16
728-IN     1977   India    Assam Agricultural
Development            --          8.0    7.04
1473-IN     1977   India    Bombay High Offshore
Development           150.0       --     54.84
736-IN     1977   India    Maharashtra
Irrigation             --         70.0   50.03
737-IN     1977   India    Rajasthan Agricul-
tural Extension        --         13.0   10.54
740-IN     1977   India    Orissa Irrigation          --         58.0   48.31
1475-IN     1977   ICICI    Industry DFC XII           80.0       --     35.81
747-IN     1978   India    Second Foodgrain
Storage                --        107.0   93.84
756-IN     1978   India    Calcutta Urban
Development II         --         87.0   50.80
761-IN     1978   India    Bihar Agric.
Extension &
Research               --          8.0    7.48



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 17
US$ million
Loan or                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower        Purpose              Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
1511-IN     1978   India    IDBI Joint/Public
Sector                 25.0       --     24.72
1549-IN     1978   TEC       Third Trombay
Thermal Power         105.0       --     93.75
788-IN     1978   India    Karnataka Irrigation    --           117.6   99.74
793-IN     1978   India    Korba Thermal Power        --        200.0  178.77
806-IN     1978   India    Jammu-Kashmir
Horticulture          --         14.0   13.91
808-IN     1978   India    Gujarat Irrigation         --         85.0   78.99
815-IN     1978   India    Andhra Pradesh
Fisheries              --         17.5   17.15
816-IN     1978   India    National Seeds II          --         16.0   15.87
1592-IN     1978   India    Telecommunications VII 120.0          --     59.80
824-IN     1978   India    National Dairy             --        150.0  141.98
842-IN     1979   India    Bombay Water
Supply II              --        196.0  193.44
843-IN     1979   India    Haryana Irrigation         --        111.0   79.84
844-IN     1979   India    Railway Modernization
& Maintenance          --        190.0  172.69
848-IN     1979   India    Punjab Water Supply
& Sewerage             --         38.0   34.07
855-IN     1979   India    National Agricultural
Research               --         27.0   26.84
862-IN     1979   India    Composite Agricultural
Extension              --         25.0   23.50
871-IN     1979   India    NCDC                       --         30.0   23.00
1648-IN     1979   India    Ramagundam Thermal
Power                  50.0       --     50.00
874-IN     1979   India    Ramagundam Thermal
Power                  --        200.0  182.38
889-IN     1979   India    Punjab Irrigation          --        129.0  120.30
899-IN     1979   India    Maharashtra Water
Supply                 --         48.0   47.73
911-IN     1979   India    Rural Electrification
Corp. II               --        175.0  175.00
925-IN     1979   India    Uttar Pradesh Social
Forestry               --         23.0   21.68



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 17
US$ million
Loan or                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower        Purpose               Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
947-IN      1979   India      ARDC III                  --      250.0     230.86
1743-IN*    1979   India       Thal Fertilizer         250.0       --      250.00
963-IN*    1979   India       Inland Fisheries                   20.0      20.00
Total                                   2,528.8  7,255.0
of which has been repaid                995.3     59.8
Total now outstanding                   1,533.5  7,195.2
Amount Sold                    133.8
of which has been repaid   116.2         17.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/    1,515.9  7,195.2
Total undisbursed (excluding*)            555.6  2,669.9
*    Not yet effective
1/   Prior to exchange adjustment.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 17
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1980)
Fiscal                                                    Amount (US$ million)
Year                   Company                         Loan      Equity     Total
1959        Republic Forge Company Ltd.                 1.5        -         1.5
1959        Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.                  0.9        -         0.9
1960        Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                      1.4        -          1.4
1961        K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                           0.2        -         0.2
1963-66     Precision Bearings India Ltd.               0.6        0.4       1.0
1964        Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.                0.8        0.4       1.2
1964-75-79  Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.              11.8        1.3      13.1
1964        Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.                  1.0        0.3        1.3
1967        Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                     1.0        0.1        1.1
1967         Indian Explosives Ltd.                     8.6        2.9      11.5
1969-70     Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.                  15.1        3.8      18.9
1976        Escorts Limited                             6.6         -        6.6
1978        Housing Development Finance
Corporation                                4.0        1.2        5.2
1980        Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.            7.5        1.1        8.6
TOTAL                               61.0       11.5       72.5
Less:  Sold                                  5.9        1.7        7.6
Repaid                              17.4         -        17.4
Cancelled                            6.2        0.7        6.9
Now Held                            31.5        9.1       40.6
Undisbursed                         10.5        1.7       12.2



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 17
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding reason-
ably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below. The
level of disbursements was US$538 million in FY79, compared to US$497 million
in the previous year. Disbursements in the current fiscal year through
March 31, 1980 totalled US$517 million, representing an increase of about
44% over the same period last year. The undisbursed pipeline of US$3,226
million as of March 31, 1980, reflects the lead time which would be expected
given the mix of fast- and slow-disbursing projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 1097   Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100.0 million loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
Ln. No. 1475   Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$80.0 million loan of July 22, 1977
Effective Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-scale
industries, which often employ high technology and are export-oriented. Loan
1097 is fully committed and disbursements are slightly ahead of schedule.
Disbursements under Loan 1475 are also ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1260 Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Loan No. 1511 IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25.0 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Loan 1260 is designed to assist the Industrial Development Bank of
India in promoting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening the
State Financial Corporations involved. Loan 1511 is designed to encourage the
pooling of private and public capital in medium-scale joint ventures. The
project also assists IDBI in carrying out industrial sector investment studies
and in strengthening the financial institutions dealing with the state joint/
public sector.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 17
Cr. No. 947    Third Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC) Project; US$250.0 million credit of August 20, 1979;
Effective Date: January 2, 1980; Closing Date: June 30,
1982
Refinancing of lending to farmers has been started under this project
after the completion of the Second ARDC Project towards the end of 1979.
Cr. No. 747    Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107.0 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
As of September 1979, satisfactory progress was being made in
the construction of bag storage warehouses, despite problems of land acqui-
sition at some sites. However, construction of flat bulk warehouses and
port silos is not expected to be completed until 1985, as a result of delays
in the employment of consultants and the longer time required for the prepa-
ration of technical specifications and tenders and the construction itself.
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13.0 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project encountered prolonged initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems. These problems have been largely resolved, but con-
struction progress remains slow due to material shortages and severe winter
conditions. Initial packing house operations were undertaken in the last
two seasons with favorable response from farmers. The project is scheduled
for completion by December 1980.
Cr. No. 806    Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$US$14.0 million credit
of July 17, 1978; Effective Date: January 16, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The principal executing agency, J&K Horticulture Produce Marketing
and Processing Corporation, is under strong management and rapid progress has
been made in start-up operations with only minor slippage. The project's
research activities, however, are behind the original schedule due to poor
organization.
Ln. No. 1313   Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan
of July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976
Closing Date:  March 31, 1982
Ln. No. 1592   Telecommunications VII Project; US$US$120.0 million loan
of June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Both projects are progressing satisfactorily, although as of
November 1979, when they were last reviewed, imports of electronic switching
equipment and local production of electro-mechanical switching equipment



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 17
were behind schedule, resulting in a reduced growth rate for the installa-
tion of direct exchange lines. Institutional improvements envisaged under
the projects have been achieved, and the financial situation of the Posts
and Telegraphs Department remains sound.
Ln. No. 1079   IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$US$109.0 million loan of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: April 28, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Cr. No. 598    Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Ln. No. 1743   Thai Fertilizer Project; US$250.0 million loan of August 20,
1979; Effective Date: July 31, 1980 (ex-pected);
Closing Date: November 30, 1984
The IFFCO project was delayed by about a year as a result of a
change in feedstock from fuel oil to naphta and delays in completion of
engineering contracts. However, project construction is now proceeding
satisfactorily and commissioning is expected within the next six months.
Credit 598 is designed to increase the utilization of existing fertilizer
production capacity. The project has encountered delays in sub-project
preparation and investment approvals by the Government. Further, some of the
sub-projects identified earlier may not materialize because of reconsideration
by the Central and State governments. IDA has agreed to a list of sub-projects
to replace the ones that are likely to be dropped. Because of the above, the
project is likely to be delayed by about 18 months.
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Delays in project implementation were encountered as a result of
frequent changes in management in the early stages, and these have necessi-
tated an extension of the closing date by 18 months to June 30, 1981, to allow
for completion of works and withdrawal of the credit. Progress is improving,
however. As of May, 1979, construction on 36 of the 39 markets envisaged under
the project was underway or completed, and trade had shifted to about half of
these. An additional five markets may be included in the project at the
request of the State government.
Cr. No. 312    Population Project; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972;
Effective Date: May 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
This credit is designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The project's
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings, equip-
ment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected districts
in each state, is virtually complete. The two Population Centers, established
to design and monitor research aimed at improving the family planning program,



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 17
are now functioning. The Population Centers are expected to complete their
evaluation of family planning strategies and the introduction of management
information and evaluation systems by the present closing date.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The project involves the development of the agricultural univer-
sities in Assam and Bihar. The primary aim of the AUs project is to improve
the quality and practical training of undergraduates and so the spectrum of
their employment opportunities; and to strengthen university structure to
enable it to give an impetus to agricultural and rural development. Consider-
able progress has been made in achieving the latter objective; but achieving
educational objectives is more slowly attainable, constrained by traditional
attitudes and structures where consistent effective leadership falters.
Changes to a more functional orientation are now planned. The Project
Director and others responsible are aware of the constraints and are support-
ing efforts to remove them.
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 842    Seconi Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196.0
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date:
June 12, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 848    Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38.0 million
credit of October 27, 1978; Effective Date: January 25, 1979,
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 899    Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$48.0 mil-
lion credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: November 9,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Having overcome earlier difficulties, including cost overruns caused
by inflation (requiring project redefinition in February 1975), redesign of
major project components and the addition of a supplementary study on sewage
disposal, Credit 390 is now progressing satisfactorily. The water treatment
works were successfully completed on schedule at the end of 1979. Completion
of construction of the project sewerage works is scheduled for mid-1980.
Financial performance of the project entity is satisfactory. Implementation of
Credit 842, a second stage of the ongoing Credit 390, is proceeding to schedule.
Preliminary work in connection with implementation of Credit 848 is progressing
satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 17
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: Jure 30, 1980
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation
of technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the
engagement of consultants. While improvements have been made in the physical
execution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag so that
disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at the time
of appraisal. In order to improve the situation, arrangements have been
made to closely supervise and coordinate implementation.
Cr. No. 756    Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The project is proceeding quite well in most sectors, in spite of
the severe floods of September 1978 and serious Statewide electric power
shortages. Procurement is generally on schedule for equipment and consultants'
services, though somewhat behind for larger civil works contracts. Staff
shortages in some of the implementing agencies continue, although more exten-
sive use of consultants has to a great degree alleviated this problem.
Cr. No. 687    Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1981
Physical progress is generally satisfactory and costs are within
appraisal estimates on most components. However, land acquisition problems
and consequent delays in construction on one of the three sites and service
areas will result in about 15 months delay in the completion of the final
sections of these areas. Inadequate attention and staff has been given to
the financial analysis and marketing strategies required to ensure that anti-
cipated cost recovery in the sites and services and slum upgrading components
and thus replicability is actually achieved. However, there is still ample
time to deal effectively with these problems; technical assistance is being
sought to strengthen financial management and analysis.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 17
Cr. No. 824    National Dairy Project; US$150.0 million credit of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy devel-
opment projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy coopera-
tive scheme in Gujarat State. More than 2,100 dairy cooperative societies
(DCS) have been established under the three state projects (Karnataka 923,
Rajasthan-926, Madhya Pradesh-272). Farmer response had been excellent and
project authorities are under considerable producer pressure to speed up the
establishment of DCS. Profitability in almost all of the DCS is good and con-
struction of dairy and feed plants is now proceeding at a satisfactory pace.
Limited milk processing capacity has been the major constraint to DCS formation
in all three projects. Under the National Dairy Project, three subprojects
with an estimated total cost of approximately Rs 1,000 million have been
appraised by the Indian Dairy Corporation and a further eight subprojects are
in various stages of preparation and appraisal. Advance procurement of dairy
equipment is well underway though disbursements have been slow, mainly as a
result in the start of project operations.
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45.0 million credit of
March 7, 1975; Effective Date:  June 9, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52.0
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83.0
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date:
December 12, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24.0 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Ln. No. 1251   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)         Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window)
of June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720    Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30,
1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736    Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70.0 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date:  January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 17
Cr. No. 740    Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58.0 million of October 11,
1977; Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing Date:
October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788    Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 10, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 808    Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$85.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 843    Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111.0 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Date: December 14, 1978;
Closing Date: August 31, 1983
Cr. No. 889    Punjab Irrigation Project; US$120.0 million credit of
March 30, 1979; Effective Date: June 20, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing ty reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects
is generally satisfactory with the exception of the Nagarjunasagar compo-
nent of Loan 1251 where water losses have proven higher than anticipated.
Specific efforts are underway to redesign this project so that it can
achieve its original objectives.
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34.0 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1981
The progress of shallow tubewells is well ahead of the appraisal
schedule, but progress in all other areas is slow. The project will not
fully disburse by the closing date, and GOI's request for an extension is
expected.
Cr. No. 682    Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690    West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date:  September 30, 1982



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 17
Cr. No. 712    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 728    Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 737    Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13.0 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective
Date: February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761    Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8.0
million credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2,
1978; Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 862    Composite Agricultural Extension Project, US$25.0 million
credit of February 16, 1979; Effective Date (expected):
December 14, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
These seven credits finance the reorganization and strengthening
of agricultural extension services and the development of adaptive research
capabilities in nine States in India. In areas where the reformed extension
system is in full operation, field results have been very good, both in terms
of adoption of new ag:icultural techniques and of increased crop yields. In
Rajasthan, Assam, and Orissa, in particular, significant gains have been made
under the projects. In West Bengal, where a change in government brought a
review of the organizational principles underlying the new extension system
and an accompanying hiatus in project implementation, a recent Cabinet deci-
sion has reaffirmed the State Government's commitment to the project and
revised implementation plans are under preparation. In Bihar and Madhya
Pradesh, staff shortages, particularly in supervisory and managerial posts,
have hampered project implementation, although progress in areas where
regular extension visits are being made attests to the efficacy of the
system itself. Finally, in Gujarat, Haryana and Karnataka, all covered
under the Composite Agricultural Extension Project (which is not yet effec-
tive), project implementation is still in the very early stages, although
important early administrative and financial steps have been taken which
should pave the way for effective operation of the reorganized extension
system.
Cr. No. 855    National Agriculture Research Project; US$27.0 million
credit of December 7, 1978; Effective Date: January 22,
1979; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
While the initial sanctioning of research subprojects under this
project was somewhat slower than expected, due to staff shortages in the
Project Unit, the pace has picked up considerably in recent months. Commit-
ment of funds to research subprojects in FY80 is expected to meet or even
exceed appraisal estimates, although corresponding disbursements may lag
somewhat behind the original estimates. Additions to the staff of the
Project Unit are being recommended to expedite further progress under the
project.



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 17
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Overall progress of this project continues to be satisfactory.
Implementation of most components is proceeding well. Dairying and dryland
farming components show particular promise for the drought-prone areas.
Cr. No. 680    Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Project implementation started slowly due to initial staffing and
funding delays. The project has now gained momentum and the planting opera-
tions, which were one season behind original schedule, have been rephased
to make up for lost time.
Cr. No. 871    National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project;
US$30.0 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 3, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
As of October, 1979, when the project was last reviewed, construc-
tion of godowns had begun in the three participating States of Haryana, Orissa,
and Uttar Pradesh. Consultants were being recruited to assist NCDC and State
Cooperative Banks in strengthening their institutions. Initial project
preparations have been completed on schedule; disbursements are therefore
expected to follow the appraisal targets.
Cr. No. 844    Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190.0
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date:
January 10, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Credit 844 was designed to help the Indian Railways reduce manu-
facturing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock and to
improve their performance and availability.  The project is still at an
early stage of implementation but is progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 609    Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective
Date:  May 17, 1976; Closing Date:  December 31, 1981
A feasibility study financed under this Credit and completed in
November 1979 has recommended the establishment of two mills, one for sawn-
wood and one for pulp, as the basis of the development of a forest-based
industry in Bastar district.
Cr. No. 925    Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: January 3,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This project was designed to expand the social forestry program
in Uttar Pradesh, to provide a source of energy to the villages, and supply



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 17
raw materials to cottage industries. The project provides for large-scale
tree plantation on 48,600 ha of public and village lands, primarily along
roads, rails and canals, and on village common lands and degraded forest
reserves.
Cr. No. 610    Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million
credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project's progress remained very disappointing in all areas
until the 1978 season, resulting in negligible disbursements. Due to renewed
interests from GOI and the States, the project has now started to progress
well. Short-term credits are increasing significantly, new processing units
are being established in Haryana and Maharashtra, and plant protection
activities have started progressing well.
Ln. No. 1273   National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 816    Second National Seed Project; US$16.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
These projects were designed to increase the availability of high
quality agricultural seed, and cover nine States (four by Ln. 1273-IN and
five by CR. 816-IN). The first project started slowly due to organizational
difficulties and is almost two years behind schedule. Progress in the
second project States is more satisfactory. The role of various organizations
(National and State) in the production and processing of seed is being reviewed.
Ln. No. 1335   Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The bus procurement program supported by the project has proceeded
on schedule, with all 700 bus chassis and bodies having been ordered and 589
already in service. Total fleet strength has increased from 1,530 buses at
the inception of the project to 1,900 buses in September 1979, in accordance
with appraisal estimates. Depot capacity expansion is lagging somewhat behind
fleet expansion, but should match fleet size by early 1980. However, delays
in construction of new workshop facilities have been more substantial and will
not be fully recoverable. Traffic management civil works are also somewhat
behind schedule, although efforts are being made to speed up the works program.
Ln. No. 1394   Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14.0 million loan and US$4.0
(TW) and       million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 695    July 19, 1977; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 16 of 17
Cr. No. 815    Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit
ofJune 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984
In Gujarat, harbor construction at Mangrol and Veraval are under
way, and although some delays have been encountered, the project is progress-
ing satisfactorily and no major problems are evident. In Andhra Pradesh,
preliminary work on implementation is progressing satisfactorily, and harbor
works at Visakhapatnam and Kakinada are scheduled to commence shortly.
Cr. No. 685    Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793    Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 14, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1985
Ln. No. 1549   Third Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105.0 million loan
of June 19, 1978; Effective Date: February 8, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 1648   Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$50.0 million loan and
and Cr.        US$200 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
No. 874        May 22, 1979; Closing Date:  December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 604    Power Transmission IV Project; US$150 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Credit 685 assists in financing the first stage of the 2,000 MW
Singrauli development which is the first of four power stations in the
Government's program for the development of large central thermal power
stations feeding power into an interconnected grid. The second such
station, at Korba, is being financed under Credit 793. The National Thermal
Power Corporation (NTPC) has been carrying out construction and operation
of these power stations. Organization and staffing of NTPC is proceeding
satisfactorily. Loan 1549 is supporting the construction of a 500 MW
extension of the Tata Electric Companies' station, in order to help meet
the forecast load growth in the Bombay area. Loan 1648 and Credit 874 sup-
port the construction of the first three 200 MW generating units in Andhra
Pradesh together with related facilities and associated transmission. All
these large-scale thermal power projects are progressing satisfactorily.
Under Credit 604, contracts aggregating about US$114 million have been ap-
proved to date. Although this project suffered delays in preparation of
technical specifications and evaluation of bids for highly sophisticated
equipment, the project is now progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 572    Rural Electrification Project; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980



ANNEX II
Page 17 of 17
Cr. No. 911    Rural Electrification Corporation II Project; US$175.0
million credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: October 17,
1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Credit 572 consists of a tranche of rural electrification schemes
financed by the Rural Electrification Corporation. There are now thirteen
State Electricity Boards (SEBs) eligible for onlending, compared with six at
the time of appraisal. The project got off to a slow start, due principally
to the need to adapt the specifications and tendering procedures to interna-
tional competitive bidding, but the position has improved and the full amount
of the Credit has been committed. Credit 911 provides continued support to
the Rural Electrification Corporation's lending program, and is helping to
finance about 1,700 rural electrification schemes in fourteen SEBs, including
the newly participating Uttar Pradesh SEB. The project is at an early stage
of implementation, and procurement is progressing satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1473   Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$150.0 million
loan of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: October 20, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Gas and oil pipelines
from Bombay High to shore were commissioned in June 1978. Most contracts for
Phase III of Bombay High development have been laid, construction should be
completed by mid-1980 and the loan should be fully disbursed by its original
closing date.



ANNEX III
Page 1
INDIA
KARNATAKA SERICULTURE PROJECT
Section I:        Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
About one year
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
The State of Karnataka, under overall coordination
of GOI.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date
of the first mission to consider the project
October 1977; February 1979
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
September 4, 1979
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
April 28, 1980
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness
September 1980
Section II:       Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III:      Special Conditions
(a) GOK to submit to IDA, by December 31, 1980 specifica-
tions for construction of rearing houses (para 49);
(b) GOI to prepare and submit to IDA, by December 31, 1980,
a timetable to carry out the technical assistance
and overseas training program (para 56);



ANNEX III
Page 2
(c) GOK to initiate an evaluation study, by March 31,
1981, with terms of reference satisfactory to IDA
(para 57);
(d) GOK to draw up plan to train sericulture staff
(para 58);
(e) GOK to establish an engineering cell in its Depart-
ment of Sericulture, by December 31, 1980 (para 58);
(f) KSIC's debt-equity ratio to remain as determined by
IDBI (para 59);
(g) GOK to establish the Karnataka State Silk Development
Institute by December 31, 1980 (para 62);
(h) The Sericulture Research Committee to prepare, and
furnish to IDA, its annual programs (para 62); and
(i) The Project Coordination Committee to furnish around
programs by every March 31 (para 64).



IBRD 14378R
MAY 19 0
IN  D  IA                                                                                                     DE. RE EU
KARNATAKA SERICULTURE PROJECT                                                                                                          A          IG.A
T            New areas under muleerry                                                                                          PAKISTAN>                                       f UN
Traditional areas ceder erlberry                                                      .                                   j        N..Jh    'P,B ^UA       ,
.TBIDAR ) \                                    1 I I FtrJ Roads                                                MAAHAREASHTRA    4    >                                                         e    "2.j7
--    R-ersBUM
X      State capitol                                                                                                                                                   et
0      Distr[ct headquorters
MAHARASHTRA                                              - J-   -DiStrct baundories
4f-   5L Bt CUISARGA                                            e KILOMETcRS      40       BO       120      160                                                                                                            S u l bergc g   Zo~/dere6ed    atI iBrAn
.. ...os}  k W ->J--W .. ; { ~ 0 l  R  _2                                                                                                                                              Ibo ;'
MESYO      20     4'0    60      B0    100                                                                                                             tL'\eiANeA
J-K 1-.I(R ; UBfR           i                      IANDHRA                                                                                                           or
PRADESH  PRODUCTION                                                                               ,2\  mrt\e |   bra  Raickcr?MARKETING, PROCESSING AND RESEARCH
~~~:.'  FY7F771   I                                                                                                                                        cocoar market ta be maeetnieed~~~~~~~~~~~~~.ihu  0 E.st,gCooo   no,ett.bernde,ie
. .                     R             ( ' r                                              PRO CTPDUC      TION                                                                                                                                            mk Existing cocoon rorkets
Rt BELGAUM                                                                                                                                          B  I                                                                       A, AL  Proposed deportmentol smEoll filetres
*   r~~~-..r ~.                                                                                                    Tec,'                            '-secA                                                                                   SIC filatir,etrabernader-ead
I.OHARWAR                                       ) t >  Cammral rato.er.es   3           60'\q6 9 2errs   ert i   d                                                                                                  A   Enistirg t latures tr be closed
I\Ii\rit I  ' .. J  Proposed                                  moeal hercheries  - t      *       Praposed gra                               .s. ad                                 t r                               d  Exsting central  orkshsop to bn clsrd
A.               'BELLARY                          ~ ~~~~~~~Sulk ters 74 -      2 Trar,ing Ca,trt                                                                                                             SCpL   ik-I ob              dr
,','~~~~~                                     ~(-NmOrbs at propasdpoetO                                    ll0 Poposed  SIC Central workshap
r NO RTH                                                                                  to   +   Xy   i  Sd h    flc 3rm NN su  mber  ..deo f n 'ed pr aje c t  com ponents dK                                                              spur  s       t oi           d
KANARA        *                  I      .15i-Number of e-istng project components                                                                     ORTH                                                                             Cariiro Ser rirol Reseorch rd Trining Irstitute (C.S.R T I)
*Th-r -r  OOadl orrANARArtkeTX                                                                                      (                              Ecistifminq  research stotion
'-                                                                  mrcecood ar           e  b....       . rCHITRADURGAp e-ar                                                                                          Prapserd regional research staoions
x                    Cititradu 22 ' 'er rn b n r n   .r \ c . .  t   Exs  subc uia-taionrcum-extercor centers
'\    c    eSHIMOG                                                                                                                                                                                   tcd. .-s   l.    ,                    Propased .ub-starior-cum-e arersin ceeters
Iy- of:fae                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ct O---t,,.,,.,,.,t,.,
\  .:    .             .                                                                                                                                                                                                                    \ . ]  \  Etina Un siTe r;eu-rElitfi,gitrrsito ,,-h-i.:j
A'DCMN S/:A \t _Jeiv 8\ . , rsitE o Sk 9 ) wfJl sA 1!1 idir cronEn Seress-
C      (!              f  -   \                          . 0 I ;Y;A Ba5nq \-/ { S r0dtdnbsateB lare cams
4      0           Dharwar campus
TUMKUR  KOLAR                                                       f,                                                                                 (D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~    Un versity 'of Barg.Eor
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0g    JArv c,QersXilyt,ril! ait >| rco h e
2        I                                      .K:-trko Stf tte SericultAraO
N  A    ~ ~ ~           U  TeASed eB ~~Deveopment Isatitte (proposd)
KANAIRA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ONAA~lssee 
MYSORE                                                                                                                                                                                                           - I b, I~~~ \-
TAMIL NADU                                                                                                       R                           TAML NAD



