DOCUMEN~TS    CREDIT NUMBER 1034 IN
ARDC Agreement
(Karnataka Sericulture Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Dated October 27, 1980


﻿ARDC AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 27, 1980, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (hereinafter
called ARDC).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to fifty-four million dollars ($54,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that ARDC agree to undertake
such obligations toward the Association as are hereinafter set
forth;
WHEREAS by financial arrangements to be entered into between
the Borrower and ARDC, part of the proceeds of the Credit will be
made available to ARDC on the terms and conditions therein
set forth; and
WHEREAS ARDC, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. ARDC shall carry out Parts A.1 and B.2 of the
Project in accordance with a banking plan satisfactory to the
Association,as such banking plan may be amended from time to time
by agreement between the Borrower, ARDC and the Association.


﻿-2-
ARDC shall act with due diligence and efficiency and in confor-
mity with appropriate administrative, agricultural and financial
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds
required for the carrying out of Parts A.1 and B.2 of the Project.
Section 2.02. ARDC shall enter into Financial Arrangements
(hereinafter referred to as the ARDC Financial Arrangements)
with the Borrower on terms and conditions agreed upon between
the Borrower and the Association. ARDC shall duly perform all its
obligations under the ARDC Financial Arrangements. Except as the
Association may otherwise agree, ARDC shall not take or concur in
any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the ARDC Financial Arrangements or any
provision thereof.
Section 2.03. The lending terms and conditions for carrying
out Parts A.1 and B.2 of the Project shall be agreed upon amongst
the Borrower, ARDC and the Association.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
ARDC shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) ARDC: (i) shall maintain records adequate
to record and monitor the progress of Parts A.1 and B.2 of the
Project (including their costs) to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the
Borrower, and to disclose their use in Parts A.1 and B.2 of the
Project; and (ii) shall furnish to the Association at regular
intervals all such information as the Association shall reasonably
request concerning Parts A.1 and B.2 of the Project, the cost
thereof, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so relent
to it and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(b) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Associa-
tion and ARDC, ARDC shall prepare and furnish to the Association
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation
of Parts A.1 and B.2 of the Project, their costs and the bene-
fits derived and to be derived from them, the performance by ARDC
and the Association of their respective obligations under this
Agreement and the ARDC Financial Arrangements and the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Credit.


﻿-3-
Section 2.06. (a) ARDC shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion:
(i) exchange views with the Association with regard
to the progress of Parts A.1 and B.2 of the Pro-
ject, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the ARDC Financial Arrange-
ments, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit; and
(ii) furnish to the Association all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request in respect
of Parts A.1 and B.2 of the Project.
(b) ARDC shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the
progress of Parts A.1 and B.2 of the Project, the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by ARDC of
its obligations under this Agreement and under the ARDC Financial
Arrangements.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ARDC
Section 3.01. ARDC shall: (i) at all times manage its
affairs, maintain its financial position, plan its future expan-
sion and carry on its operations, all in accordance with sound
business and financial practices and under the supervision
of experienced and competent management assisted by experienced
and competent staff in adequate number; and (ii) take all steps
necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers,
privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful in the
conduct of its business or in the carrying out of Parts A.1
and B.2 of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. ARDC shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.


﻿-4-
Section 4.02. ARDC shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of ARDC and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 4.03. ARDC shall cause the Participating Banks:.
(i) to maintain separate accounts for loans made in respect of
Parts A.1 and B.2 of the Project; and (ii) to send to the Asso-
ciation through ARDC their audited accounts (together with an
analysis of overdue and bad debts and a statement certified by
ARDC of their Project lending) not later than nine months after
the end of their fiscal years.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of ARDC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) a date twenty years after the date of this Agree-
ment; or
(ii) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its term.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (i) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
ARDC of this event.


﻿-5-
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any partial
cancellation or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United Stntes of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For ARDC:
Managing Director
Agricultural Refinance
and Development Corporation
ShriNiketan
F Block
Shiv Sagar Estate
Dr. Annie Besant Road
Worli, Bombay, 18 W.B.
India


﻿-6-
Cable address:
AGREFINANS, WORLI
Bombay 18, India
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement, on behalf of ARDC, may be taken or executed by its
Managing Director or such other person or persons as ARDC shall
designate in writing, and ARDC shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03 This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By)is( T
Acting Regional Vice President
South Asia
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
By IS1 M   I     -   bN
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the  c *P      day of
198   .
FORSECRITARY


