Report No. 348a-PH                                                     FILE  COPY
Philippines
Appraisal of the Aurora-Penaranda
Irrigation Project
April 1, 1974
Irrigation and Area Development Division I
Asia Projects Department
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept
responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00   *    Pesos (t) 6.729
J 1.00    -    US$0.149
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES - METRIC SYSTEM
1 hectare (ha)                -    2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)      2       a   0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km }      -    0.3886 square miles
1 meter (i)      2                 39.37 inches
1 square meter (m )           -    10.76 square feet
1 cubic meter (mi3)      3   .    35.31 cubic feet
1 million cubic meter (Mm )  -    810.7 acre feet
1millimeter (am)              -    0.039 Inches
1 kilogram (kg)               -    2.2 pounds
1 cavan (paddy)               -    44 kg
22.7 cavans                         1 metric ton
INITIALS AND ACRONYMB
NIA       -    National Irrigation Administration
UPRP      -    Upper Pampanga River Project
DAR       -    Department of Agrarian Reform
BAES      -    Bureau of Agricultural Extension Services
BPI       -    Bureau of Plant Industry
NGA       -    National Grains Authority



PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF THE AURORA-PENARANDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ............ ...................
I.   INTRODUCTION           ..........................................
II.   BACKGROUND .............................................          1
General ........       ..................................   1
The Agricultural Sector .....         ..................... 1
The Critical Role of Water Development ....        .......    2
Project Formulation ..............................    3
III. THE PROJECT AREA ... 4
General ..........................................          4
Climate ..........................................          4
Topography, Drainage and Soils ...................          5
Land Tenure and Farm Size ....................   ....       5
"NExisting Irrigation Facilities .;  ................         6
Agricultural Production ......      ...................     7
Transportation ..........        .........................    7
IV.   THE PROJECT ...........................................    7
Project Works .......        ............................    8
Water Supply, Demand and Quality .................          9
Status of Engineering ......        ......................   11
Central Luzon Irrigation Development Study    .......  11
Cost Estimates .......       ............................   12
Financing                      ...   13
Procurement ...........   13
Disbursements ...........                                  14
Accounts and Audit          ..........................     14
Environmental Effects         ............................   14
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ...........................   14
Project Management        ...............................   14
Supporting Agricultural Services ..............     ...   16
Recovery of Cost       .................................   17
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission, composed
of Messrs. E. G. Giglioli, M. El Moghazi (Bank) and L. W. Bartsch (Consultant).



-2-
Page No.
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES AND FARM INCOMES        19
Production ....................    19
Market Prospects ....................   19
Prices .....................    19
Farm Income ....................    20
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .      . ..........................  21
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ................. 22
ANEXES
1.   Climatological Data
2.   Land Tenure and Reform
3.   The Upper Pampanga River Project
4.   Project Works
5.   Water Supply, Demand and Quality
6.   Central Luzon Irrigation Development Study
7.   Construction Schedule
8.   Cost Estimates
9.   Equipment List
10.   Schedule of Expenditure and Disbursements
11.   Organization and Management
12.   Supporting Agricultural Services
13.   Present and Projected Cropping Patterns and Production
14.   Marketing and Prices
15.   Crop and Farm Budgets
16.   Farm Labor Analysis
17.   Economic Analysis
CRARTS
Construction Schedule No. 8152
Proposed Organization for Project Construction No. 8211
Proposed Organization for Operation and Maintenance No. 8212
Proposed Cropping Calendars No. 8214
MiAP S
Central Luzon Basin No. 10769
Upper Pampanga River Project No. 10921
Project Area No. 10770
Aurora Diversion Works No. 10981



PHILIPPINES
AURORA-PENARANDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        The Government of the Philippines has requested Bank Group
assistance to carry out the Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation Project located
in Central Luzon. The project includes the construction of two diversion
dams to lead water from the Aurora basin, through a diversion channel, into
the Pantabangan reservoir, the rehabilitation of 16,700 ha of the existing
Penaranda irrigation system and the construction of a new system on some
8,600 ha. It also includes provision for carrying out an irrigation devel-
opment study to assess the land and water resources of Central Luzon, to
propose a plan for effective development of the resources and to identify
priority projects within the plan.
ii.       According to the Bank's Agricultural Sector Survey, an annual
total of 50,000 ha of newly constructed or rehabilitated irrigation
development on rice lands would have to be carried out for the remainder
of the decade to allow the country to achieve foodgrains self-sufficiency.
Improvement of water control is a prerequisite to optimum utilization of
the modern high yielding rice varieties. The proposed project would be the
third in a series of Bank assisted projects aimed at providing greater
security of water supply for dry season rice cropping in Central Luzon,
the largest rice producing region in the Philippines. The first was the
Angat Dam (Loan 297-PH) and the second the Upper Pampanga River Project
(Loan 637-PH). The proposed project would be an extension of the latter.
iii.      Total project cost, including interest during construction and
the irrigation study, is estimated to be t 269 million (US$40 million),
of which US$19.0 million, or approximately 48%, would be in foreign
exchange. The Bank would finance the foreign exchange component. The total
cost of civil works and equipment to be put to international competitive
bidding would be US$11.2 million and US$2.3 million, respectively. The
Government's executing agency, the National Irrigation Administration (NIA),
would employ consultants to assist in design and construction supervis!on
on the Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation Project and to provide support for
review, analysis, plan formulation and training required for the irrigation
study. The project would take five years to execute.
iv.       The Government of the Republic of the Philippines would be
the borrower with the NIA the executing agency for the project. Both the
Aurora-Penaranda component of the project as well as the irrigation study
would be implemented by the Upper Pampanga River Project (UPRP) office.
The UPRP organization is well staffed with competent personnel and with the
employment of consultants would be able to implement the project success-
fully. An Agricultural Development Coordinating Council (ADCC) would be
established in the project area to ensure coordination of the Government
agencies providing agricultural supporting services to the farmers. A



- ii -
Steering Committee composed of all Government agencies with interests
in land and water development in Central Luzon would be set up as part of
the study, to ensure that all users' points of view are taken into account
in designing the irrigation development plan for the area.
v.        At full development, ten years after project commencement, annual
paddy production for the project area is expected to reach 202,000 tons
compared with a current level of production of 82,000 tons. The incremental
production would make a contribution to the campaign for self-sufficiency
in rice by providing enough of the staple food to support just over half
a million people per annum.
vi.       The Government is engaged in a program of land reform aimed at
transferring ownership of the land to the cultivators. The most likely
immediate effects of the program would be the disappearance of the few
large landholdings in the area and the abolition of inequitable share-
cropping as a form of tenure. The project area is cultivated by 10,000
farm families operating smallholdings of approximately 2.5 ha. Some 80%
of the farmers are tenants of small landowners. The project would result
in rises in annual per capita income on an average farm size from about
US$75 at present to US$170 at full agricultural development in 1983. These
levels of income would still be low in comparison with the national average
which is projected to rise to US$330 by 1983, but would lead to a narrowing
of the income gap between the project area and the rest of the country.
vii.      The project is expected to generate an increase in farm labor
employment opportunities, with the equivalent in full-time jobs rising
from the present 15,000 to 21,000. In addition, it would also generate
increased employment in the services sector. The economic rate of return
of the project is expected to be about 17%. The rate of return is sensitive
to increases in cost and delays in benefits and relatively insensitive to
other factors. However, even under extremely adverse conditions, the rate
of return would not be less than 11%.
viii.     The proposed project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$9.5
million on the usual terms and a Bank loan of US$9.5 million for a period of
25 years, including a 7-year grace period. The borrower would be the Republic
of the Philippines.



PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF THE AURORA-PENARANDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Philippines has requested Bank Group
assistance in financing the construction of the Aurora-Penaranda Irriga-
tion Project in Central Luzon. Upon completion the project would provide
a dependable water supply for year round irrigation of about 25,300 ha.
The projec;; is an extension of the Upper Pampanga River Project (UPRP)
currently being built with Bank assistance (Loan 637-PH).
1.02      A feasibility study for the project was prepared under the pro-
visions of Loan 637-PH by the National Irrigation Administration (NIA) with
the assistance of Engineering Consultants, Inc. of Denver, Colorado and
Engineering and Development Corporation of the Philippines, of Manila.
This report is based on that study and the findings of the Bank's appraisal
mission which visited the Philippines in September/October 1973. The mission
was composed of Messrs. E.G. Giglioli, M. El Moghazi (Bank) and L.W. Bartsch
(Consultant). Mr. B. Kanchanalak (Bank) also contributed to preparation of
the report.
II. BACKGROUND
General
2.01      The Philippine archipelago covers about 298,000 km  (115,000 sq mi)
scattered over more than 7,000 islands between the Pacific Ocean and the
China Sea. However, most of the area (98%) is encompassed in the 45 largest
islands. According to latest estimates, the population is around 39.0 mil-
lion and growing at a rate of 3.0% annually. Per capita GNP, which during
the last decade grew at 5 to 6% a year, was r 1,429 (US$212) in 1972, how-
ever this growth was not associated with any change in income distribution.
2.02      Out of a total land area of some 30 million ha, more than half
is in forests and about one-third is presently under cultivation or in
plantations. It is estimated that there might be 2.0-2.5 million ha of
fairly level or slightly rolling lands still suitable for cultivation
including up to 1.0 million ha of cogon grass lands which are difficult to
rehabilitate. Agricultural exploitation of this additional land by itself
would be insufficient to meet increasing demands for food for a population
which is expected to reach 50 million by 1980 and to significantly improve
incomes in the rural areas. These objectives call for increasing the pro-
duction of presently cultivated areas through yield improvements and in-
creased cropping intensities.
The Agricultural Sector
2.03      Agriculture is still the most important sector in the economy,
accounting for about one-third of net domestic product, one-half of total
employment and 70% of commodity export earnings. In the first half of the
1960s the rate of growth of agricultural output was slow and failed to keep



- 2-
up with populazior growth. In the latter half of the decade, largely as a
result of the adoption of improved rice varieties, it accelerated and sur-
passed the substantial growth recorded in the non-agricultural sector. How-
ever, employmenit in agriculture increased during the early period of low
growth and levelled off during the later years. Although most of the in-
crease in the labor force between 1965 and 1970 was accommodated in
non-agricultural employment, the unemployment rate, especially in the
rural areas, remairned high. Moreover, since the new rice varieties have
not increased :ot-al labor requirements over the traditional varieties,
underemployment, reflecting seasonal slack of farm operations, also remained
high.
2.04      With a rapid growth rate in agriculture and little change in
employment, productivity per worker increased sharply in 1965-70, while
productivity in the non-agricultural sector remained much the same. Thus,
the gap in incomes between workers in agriculture and those in other sectors
has narrowed appreciably although incomes in agriculture are still substan-
tially lower. Farmers who used improved technology, such as the new rice
varieties, shared in the higher agricultural incomes, but those who continued
in the traditional ways of farming were largely unaffected.
2.05      There is considerable pressure of people on land in the Philippines,
where the population density is 131 people/sq km compared with an Asian
average of 86. Lowland areas best suited for rice have been fully occu-
pied for over a decade. Migration is heavy from the overcrowded regions
of Central Luzon and the Visayas to the Cagayan Valley in Northeast Luzon
and Mindanao in the south. Even though the resource base can still be ex-
tended, this alone will not meet increasing denands for food for a population
which will approach 50 million by 1980, or significantly improve farm incomes.
These goals can only be realized by raising the productivity of the resource
base.
2.06      Agricultural sector performance will be crucial in determining
whether the drive towards a more rapid but more equitable income expansion
succeeds. The major goals for the sector are self-sufficiency in cereals,
particularly rice and corn; expansion of agricultural exports; intensification
of agrarian reform; better conservation of natural resources; and strengthen-
ing of institutional support. Reaching self-sufficiency in cereals is
important not only to strengthen the balance of payments, but also to raise
incomes for much of the rural population.
The Critical Role of Wlater Development
2.07      Mie P?ilippines cannot reach self-sufficiency in rice without
substantial investment in irrigation expansion and rehabilitation. Per-
formance of irrigation systems in the country falls far short of their
potential. Tke Sector Survey 1/ estimates that, out of a total area of
960,000 ha which could be served by existing irrigation systemas, only
1/   IBRD Agricultural Sector Survey, Philippines, May 2, 1973 (Report No. 39a-PH).



- 3 -
630,000 ha are served in the rainy season and 254,000 ha in the dry season.
Almost all of the irriga"..ed area is devoted to rice cultivation.  The
National ::rrigation Administration's (NIA) gravity systems are the main
component. In addition, NIA has constructed or rehabilitated a substantial
part of the small privately operated communal systems, averaging 250-300 ha.
The Irrigation Services Unit (ISU), now under NIA's administrative supervision
is responsible for pump irrigation schemes. The 104 NIA gravity systems,
varying in size from 130 ha to 30,000 ha, are usually run-of-the-river schemes
with insufficient control structures in the canals, inadequate drainage and
little provision for access. Even when the system is new, water distribution
is uneven during the wet season and limited during the dry season. Main-
tenance has been minimal due to staff and fund shortages and the lack of access
for maintenance machinery. A vicious circle has developed by which lack of
maintenance discouraged farmers from paying operation and maintenance charges
and lack of the latter precluded further maintenance.
2.08      This unsatisfactory situation began to change in the late
sixties. The NIA was reorganized, more advanced irrigation designs were
introduced and much higher levels of water management aimed at. Simultaneously
the need for intensified agricultural supporting services on irrigation pro-
jects was realized. The Bank-assisted Upper Pampanga River Project (UPRP),
and the Angat-Magat Integrated Agricultural Development Project, assisted by
the Asian Development Bank, typify the new approach. The pattern of rehabili-
tation, new construction and operation exemplified by these projects is
essential for large-scale rice production. Indeed, to meet domestic rice
demand in the 1970s an annual program of rehabilitation and new construction
in the rice lands of 50,000 ha will be needed for the remainder of the decade.
The proposed Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation Project would thus be entirely com-
patible with Government objectives for water resources development.
Project Formulation
2.09      The proposed project is the second phase in the development of
the Pampanga river basin. It would provide dry season irrigation to lands
in the Penaranda area by utilizing the storage capacity created by the
Pantabangan dam, the main feature of the UPRP. Although the proposed Central
Luzon Irrigation Development Study (para 4.15) would establish investrent
priorities for irrigation development in the region, it is reasonable :o
proceed with the Aurora-Penaranda project at this time for the following
reasons:
(a) in terms of soils, land use, farm size and existing level
of irrigation facilities the project area is highly
suitable for modernization of rice cultivation, being
wholly similar to the various sytems being rehabilitated
and expanded under the UPRP;



-4-
(b)  being an extension of an-ongoing project it would take
full advantage of the organization facilities set up to
construct and operate the UPRP. In particular it would
involve economies of scale in terms of operation and
maintenance as well as for development of coordinated
agricultural supporting services;
(c)  the diversion of Aurora water into the Pampanga basin would
be a net addition to the water reserves of the major rice
growing region of the Philippines. Irrigable lands are
far in excess of available water supplies in the Pampanga
basin, while the reverse is true of the Aurora basin.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
General
3.01      The project is located in Central Luzon, the largest rice pro-
ducing region in the Philippines, which contains about 20% of the area
planted to rice annually and accounts for 27% of total national production.
The mean rice yield in this region is about 30% above the national average.
This is attributable to the existence of irrigation systems in the area and
the rapid adoption of high yielding varieties developed by the International
Rice Research Institute (IRRI) and the College of Agriculture of the University
of the Philippines (Los Banos).
3.02      The proposed project covers some 25,300 ha located in the Provinces
of Nueva Ecija, Bulacan and Pampanga about 100 km north of Manila. The project
area includes the 16,700 ha of the existing Penaranda River Irrigation System
(PENRIS) and some 8,600 ha of rainfed lands to the southwest. The area is
bounded on the north by the Penaranda river, on the east by PENRIS lateral "C"
canal and its proposed extension, on the south by the Maasim river and on the
west by the Candaba swamp and the Pampanga river (see Map).
3.03      There are a number of small towns scattered throughout the area
with populations between 5,000 and 10,000. The larger towns provide banking,
storage and processing facilities as well as supplies of inputs to the
surrounding agricultural areas. A good highway network and a railroad con-
necting the project area with Manila ensure an easy inflow of supplies and
outflow of produce.
Climate
3.04      The climate in the project area is tropical and monsoonal.  Warm
temperatures throughout the year allow a twelve-month growing season with
irrigation. About 85% of the average annual rainfall of 1,850 mm falls in
the wet season from May through November, during which heavy rains occur, and
typhoonal storms may pass through the area causing floods and some damage to
crops and engineering works. The rainfall, together with river flows in the
wet season, is generally adequate for a single rice crop. Dry season cropping,



however, entails considerably more risk and a supplemental irrigation supply
is essential for an assured crop. Further climatic details are presented in
Annex 1.
Topography, Drainage and Soils
3.05      Lands in the east and southeast of the project area are gently
sloping or undulating, while in the central and western portion they are
relatively flat. The whole area is dissected by many small creeks and rivers,
serving as natural drainage-ways running from the north and northwest to the
southwest. The recently formed flood plains and terraces along the Penaranda.
and Pampanga rivers are subject to flooding; the natural levees along the
river banks protect the older alluvial terraces making up most of the project
area from flooding due to overflowing of the two rivers. The southwestern
part of the area is relatively low and borders the Candaba swamp. The
capacity of the creeks and rivers running through the project area is usually
exceeded during periods of high and intensive rainfall. Flooding is aggravated
by the absence of a drainage network in the existing PENRIS. The low areas
in the southwest along the Penaranda and Pampanga rivers are affected by
flooding. While subsurface drainage is generally poor due to the fine-textured
Soils, the lands bordering the rivers have better internal drainage because
of higher sand and gravel contents.
3.06      Soils are fertile, generally dark, medium to fine-textured,
with slightly acidic to neutral reactions and slow internal drainage.
They are eminently suited to year round paddy cultivation. The flat
relief, fine texture, slow internal drainage and existing layout in small
paddy fields would all militate against successful cultivation of dry-
foot crops unless greatly improved surface and some subsurface drainage
were provided.
Land Tenure and Farm Size
3.07      Since the beginning of the century various legislative measures
have been introduced with the intention of ameliorating the lot of the
tenant farmer. With the introduction of the Agricultural Reform Code
in 1963, the Government committed itself to the gradual transfer of land
ownership from the landlords to the tenant cultivators. The progression
was to be from sharecropper to leaseholder, to amortizing owner 1/ and
finally to full owner-operator. Within the project area the first stage
of the process is clearly apparent; before 1964 sharecroppers accounted
for 50% of the farmers compared to 28% at present. While the achievement
is modest, it is far higher than the national average and of real significance
to the individuals concerned. The leaseholder has security of tenure and pays
a fixed annual land rent, while the sharecropper has little security and must
pay a major share of the proceeds of his crop in rent. There has been no
change in the relative proportion of owner-operators to tenant farmers.
3.08      Following the declaration of martial law in October 1972,
the Government has given priority to land reform and has issued-a number
1/   An ex-tenant during the peft.d of purchase of his holding under the
Agricultural Reform Code.



-6-
of decrees to accelerate the transfer of land to the cultivators.
The decrees abolish sharecropping and eliminate the requirement for
an intermediate stage as a leaseholder between being a sharecropper and
becoming an amortizing owner. They also provide for the landowner to
retain up to seven ha of land if he cultivates it himself, while proposing
to establish tenant farmers on "family-sized" farms of three or five ha,
respectively, depending on whether the land is irrigated or rainfed.
More progress in transferring land to the tenants has been achieved
in the first year of the new land reform program than in the previous ten.
However, the question of how to deal with tenants on holdings of seven ha
or less poses a difficult problem, particularly in cases where part of the
holding is cultivated by the owner. Many of the small absentee landowners
are people whom it would be politically difficult to dispossess. It is hard
to estimate the ultimate farm ownership in the project area since the average
size of holding there is already only 5.75 ha. A reasonable scenario for the
tenurial situation in the project area at full development is likely to have
the following features: the disappearance of sharecropping; an underterminable
but substantial increase in the number of owner-operators and amortizing
owners; and possibly some residual lease-holding to accommodate small-
owners unable to engage in farming. There is unlikely to be, however,
any major change in the present farm size distribution.
3.09      Surveys carried out by the Department of Agrarian Reform
(DAR) show that some 10,000 farm families, averaging six members per
family for a total of 60,000 people, live in the project area. The
average farm unit is 2.5 ha, with about 621 of the farms, covering 52Z of
the area, falling between 1 and 3 ha. The farm size distribution is:
Farm Size      Farm Holdings        Cultivated Area
(ha)        --      …_…_ -(x)…___
Less than         1                   9                     3
1-2                27                    17
2-3                35                    35
3-4                19                    24
4-5                 6                    10
More than         5                   4                    11
Total                          100                   100
The land in the project area is owned by about 4,700 people, 82Z of whom
own less than 7 ha. Fewer than 30% of the owners are actively engaged
in farming and work about 3,500 ha. Over 85% of the farmers in the
project area are tenants, two thirds of which are leaseholders and the
balance sharecroppers (Annex 2).
Existing Irrigation Facilities
3.10      Approximately 16,700 ha of land in the project area fall within
the existing PENRIS operated by NIA. The system, which was completed
in 1930, suffers from insufficient maintenance and an inadequate number
of control structures, leading to wasteful use of water in the higher
reaches of canals and shortages in the lower reaches. Only some 10,000 ha



-7-
can be irrigated during the dry season because of low flows in the
Penaranda river. Outside the PENRIS there are small areas served by
privately owned pumps and communal irrigation systems built by groups
of farmers using their own funds, with or without financial assistance
from the government. These systems account for only a few hundred
hectares and also suffer from a water shortage during the dry season.
Agricultural Production
3.11      Rice grown by transplanting is by far the most important crop
in the area. There are small, scattered patches of crops such as maize,
water melons and vegetables. In the irrigated areas most farmers have
adopted the high yielding varieties, while in the rainfed areas there is a
substantially greater use of the lower yielding, but hardier traditional
varieties. Fertilizer and agrochemical use is generally low, particularly
in the rainfed area. In the irrigated area the mean yield runs to 2.3
and 2.4 ton/ha of paddy for the wet and dry seasons respectively. The
yield of rainfed rice averages 2.0 ton/ha. The low yield levels are
partly due to unsatisfactory water management and partly to poor farming
practices, such as inadequate weeding and insufficient use of inputs.
3.12      Few farmers rely entirely on machinery for land preparation,
but many employ a combination of animal drawn and mechanical equipment.
Small power tillers are popular. Use of machinery is more frequent in land
preparation for the dry season crop where timing is important. Approximately
half of the present crop is threshed mechanically. Nearly all mechanical
equipment is operated by contractors.
Transportation
3.13      The project area is traversed by the National Highway from Manila
to Northern Luzon. This road is presently being rehabilitated and
upgraded and these works are expected to be completed by 1975. There is
a good network of roads connecting the barrios or hamlets to the municipal-
ities with neighbouring provinces. Under the project feeder roads would
be rehabilitated and new roads contructed to handle the increased produc-
tion from double cropping.
IV. THE PROJECT
4.01      The project proposed for Bank Group financing would provide
irrigation and drainage facilities allowing year round cultivation of
some 25,300 ha through more effective control of water and a transbasin
diversion to bring in supplemental water for the dry season. It would
include:
(a)  Construction of two earth and rockfill diversion dams on
the Canili and Diayo rivers in the Aurora basin with
diversion channels to divert the water into the Pampanga
river basin;
(b)  Raising and improving the Pampanga-Bongabon diversion dam;



- 8 -
(c)  A canal connection between the Pampanga-Bongabon dam
and the Penaranda diversion dam by enlarging and
extending for 19 km the main canal and lateral G-2
of the Pampanga-Bongabon River Irrigation System
(PBRIS);
(d)  Rehabilitation of an existing 16,700 ha irrigation
and drainage system;
(e)  Construction of a new irrigation and drainage system
to serve an 8,600 ha area which is now rainfed;
(f)  Improvement of existing drainage channels and con-
struction of cross-drainage and diversion structures
to collect local flows;
(g)  Upgrading of about 40 km of existing project roads and
construction of approximately 15 km of additional roads
in the area;
(h)  Upgrading of agricultural supporting services; and
(i)  Procurement of vehicles and equipment.
The project also provides for a comprehensive study of the water and land
resources of the Central Luzon basin to identify potential irrigation projects
and formulate a plan for their development, with due consideration to other
beneficial users of water. Consultants would be engaged to assist project
staff with the planning, design and construction of the works and to assist
with the Irrigation Development Study. A detailed description of the project
works is given in Annex 4.
Project Works
4.02      Aurora Diversion Works.  To provide supplemental dry-season
irrigation water to the project area, two dams would be constructed on
the Canili and Diayo rivers respectively to divert their flows into the
Pantabangan reservoir in the Pampanga river basin by a trans-basin diversion
channel cut into a saddle on the ridge dividing the Pampanga and Aurora basins.
The Canili dam would rise about 75 m above the stream bed and have a crest
length of approximately 700 m. The Diayo dam would rise about 47 m above the
stream bed and have a crest length of 200 m. The dams and reservoirs
would provide the elevation to divert water, but would not allow storage.
Both dams would be earth and rockfill structures with impervious cores
and outer shells of pervious materials. As all river flows, including
the flood flows, would be passed by the trans-basin diversiSn channel into
the Digoliat river, a tributary of the Pampanga river, no spillway or
outlet works would be needed at the dams.
4.03      Penaranda Service Area.  In order to deliver the additional water
to the project area the Pampanga-Bongabon diversion dam on the Pampanga
river would be increased in height, the main canal of the PBRIS would be



- 9, -
enlarged and Lateral G-2 of the PBRIS would be enlarged and extended to
the existing Penaranda diversion dam. A conduit would be constructed along
the face of the dam to convey the water directly into the headworks of the
existing Penaranda main canal.
4.04      The Penaranda River Irrigation System (PENRIS), now delivering
water to approximately 16,700 ha, would be rehabilitated and upgraded by
repairing existing canals and structures and providing additional control
structures and turnouts to manage water deliveries more effectively. New
irrigation works would be constructed to serve about 8,600 ha of rainfed
lands south of the PENRIS. These would include the enlargement of Lateral
C of the PENRIS to provide capacity to carry the additional diversion, and
structures on local rivers to divert the inflows. Adequate control struc-
tures and turnouts would be provided on the canal system for efficient water
control and delivery.
4.05      The project would be brought to the same levels of on-farm-develop-
ment as the UPRP, which are the highest in the country. The canal systems
would have a turnout for each 10 ha from which project built farm ditches
would provide direct delivery to about 80% of all holdings. Each 10 ha block
would also be served by a collector drain. With minor exceptions, all canals
would be unlined. Small buildings would be provided for Water Management
Technologists operating each 500 ha of irrigated land (para 5.05). Some
roads would be rehabilitated and, where needed, new ones would be constructed.
Roads for operation and maintenance would be built along the major canals.
Water Supply, Demand and Quality
4.06      The Penaranda river and three minor local streams, together
with rainfall, would provide sufficient water in the wet season to
meet the crop water requirements of the 25,300 ha project area. However,
in the dry season the water supply is deficient and only some 10,000 ha
can be irrigated. To increase the area under irrigation in the dry season
an additional supply of water would be provided by diverting flows from
the Aurora basin into the Pampanga basin, where the water would be stored
in the Pantabangan reservoir of the Upper Pampanga River Project (UPRP).
4.07      Water studies for the entire Pampanga basin, including the project
area, were undertaken by NIA and the consultants. These update the earlier
1968 studies and take into consideration data collected since then. The now
studies show that up to 93,000 ha could be irrigated in the dry season in the
UPRP and Penaranda project areas without the Aurora diversion. The additional
water available in the Pampanga basin would be used to expand the UPRP from
the original area of 72,500 ha, referred to as Stage I, by two further stages
to an ultimate service area of 89,000 ha. Construction on Stage II, which
would bring the service area to 82,400 ha, is now under way (Annex 3). For
supplies above and beyond those needed for the Stage I area to materialize,
a major improvement in the presently low levels of irrigation efficiencies
would be needed. Such improvements are only likely to be achieved gradual-
ly (para 4.10), and in the interim it will be necessary to depend upon the
Aurora diversion to meet the project area requirements. Once the higher
irrigation efficiencies are realized, additional lands can easily be brought
under irrigation in the Pampanga basin.



- 10 -
4.08      Stream flow records on the Penaranda river at the diversion
point are very limited, although satisfactory records extending from
1960 are available on two tributory streams which measure 85% of the
Penaranda flows at the diversion point. Satisfactory correlations on
an area basii, were obtained from these records. Adequate correlations
have been obtained with the Penaranda flows to estimate the monthly flows
of the three minor streams.
4.09      In the Aurora basin, flows at the diversion point have been
recorded only since May 1972. Synthesized flows were obtained by cor-
relation with a downstream gauging station and with rainfall records
extending back to 1955. An average annual diversion of 164 Mm3 is expected.
Because of the limited hydrologic data in the basin, correlations with out-
basin data were also carried out and indicate a possible range of average
annual diversions from 137 Mm3 to 204 mm3. The higher flows could easily be
handled by the diversion works. The effects of a 25% reduction in the
expected average flow have been considered in the economic analysis of the
project (para 7.02). The NIA is continuing stream gauging at all water
supply points, and this additional information would be taken into consid-
eration during preparation of final designs. Agreement was obtained
that NIA would present the final plans to the Bank for approval before
initiating construction. Operation studies of the Pantabangan reservoir to
examine the effects of storing the additional Aurora diversion water showed
that only minor changes in reservoir operation would be necessary, as the
additional water would amount to only 5% of the reservoir's storage capacity.
4.10      With assured water control cropping intensities on project area farms
could be as high as 250%. However, water requirements for the project were
based on an intensity of 200%, i.e. two rice crops in each calendar year to
reflect peak power and organizational constraints likely to hold back cropping
intensities. Taking into account the higher irrigation efficiencies expected
at the farm level upon completion of the project, conveyance losses and effec-
tive rainfall, annual diversion requirements were estimated to average 22,000
m3/ha for two rice crops. Based on the above assumption, a dependable water
supply from Pantabangan dam and local streams would be available for about
83,000 ha in UPRP and for 25,300 ha in the project area. After completion of
the project, farm efficiencies are expected to slowly improve even further
over a period of years as NIA staff is trained to effectively manage the more
complex water distribution system, and the farmers acquire a sense of water
discipline. However, once surplus water becomes available, it could be used
elsewhere in the Pampanga basin where there is no lack of irrigable land.
4.11      Tests of water samples from all sources to be used in the project
show equally good quality of water with low salinity and less than 300 ppm
of dissolved solids.  Water from the Penaranda river has been utilized since
1930 in the project area without any evidence of harmful effects. NIA has
requested water supply rights from the Bureau of Public Works and assurances
were obtained that the necessary water rights would be granted to the NIA
and that no other water rights which could adversely affect the project's
water supply would be granted. Further details on water supply, demand and
quality are presented in Annex 5.



- 11 -
Status of Engineering
4.12      Exploratory drilling and foundation investigations have shown
that the existing sites for the proposed dams are adequate from an
engineering and geologic viewpoint. However, further geological investi-
gations are being carried out for an alternate site on the Diayo that
could be several hundred meters downstream, and which may prove to be more
economical through a reduction in the amount of grouting and foundation
consolidation required. Sufficient investigations have been carried out
to ensure the availability of suitable materials for construction of the
dams. Studies of the irrigation and drainage systems and other works
for both the rehabilitated and new areas were carried out by NIA. Surveys
were made for the principal canals and structures from which embankment
and quantity estimates have been completed. Minor distributories, drain-
age and road networks were estimated on a unit basis per hectare from
NIA experience on the ongoing UPRP. The procedures followed are satis-
factory.
4.13      The proposed construction schedule is described in Annex 7
and Chart No. 8152. The dams would be built in two years. Three years
have been allowed for completion of the irrigation system. The Central
Luzon study would be carried out in 3-1/2 years, and all project works
are expected to be completed by June 1978.
4.14      Consultants would be engaged to complete investigations and
designs for the Aurora diversion dams and canals, prepare tender documents,
supervise construction and certify payment documents for all civil works,
including the irrigation systems. Although the consultants would have final
responsibility for all these aspects, most of the design and field work would
be carried out by NIA's engineers and technicians. NIA lhas engaged a consult-
ing engineering firm which is satisfactory to the Bank for the work outlined
above and under terms of reference approved by the Bank.
Central Luzon Irrigation Development Study
4.15      Agricultural production in the dry season in the Central Luzon
basin requires irrigation, as 90% of the annual rainfall occurs between
June and November. Some 820,000 ha of land in the basin are classified
as suitable for irrigated agriculture, of which about 190,000 ha are
presently served by national gravity irrigation systems in the wet
season. In the dry season the area irrigated is reduced by 60 to 70%.
The average annual runoff in the basin is over 21,000 NO of which the
Pampanga and Agno river watersheds contribute 45Z and 50Z respectively.
4.16      In 1966, US Bureau of Reclamation experts prepared a report on
the basin, which identified potential water storage projects and outlined
the possible functions of each scheme. The UPRP was one of the projects
so identified. Further investigations and studies have been or are being
carried out which provide a valuable data basis, but are inadequate to
formulate a long range irrigation development plan aimed at optimizing
utilization of the region's land and water resources. The proposed study



- 12 -
would meet this requirement by undertaking an inventory of the basin's land
and water resources and reviewing the status of their development, after which
it would formulate an irrigation plan for the region, giving due consideration
to other potential beneficial uses of the water resources. Specific potential
irrigation projects would be identified and a plan prepared for their in-
tegrated development in a logical sequence. Further data are provided in
Annex 6.
Cost Estimates
4.17      Total project costs are estimated at US$40.0 million, of which
US$4.37 million would be for the Central Luzon study. Foreign exchange
requirements are based on NIA's recent experience with the UPRP and are
estimated at US$17.0 million for 45% of the total project cost. Project
costs are based upon quantity estimates from feasibility designs and unit
prices quoted in UPRP bids for comparable work items during the second half
of 1973. All unit prices have been adjusted to mid-1974 levels and reflect
the fuel price increases of December 1973. For civil works to be constructed
by force account the cost of construction equipment to be procured under the
project is included in the civil works item. Unit prices for equipment,
materials and supplies are based upon current quotations received by NIA.
NIA's costs for design and construction supervision are included under
engineering, while the consultants' fees are shown under consulting services.
Physical contingency factors of 20% and 15% have been applied to the Aurora
diversion and the irrigation systems respectively. A total price contingency
of 31% is included for expected price inflation on both local and foreign cost
items including physical contingencies, the annual rate of inflation during
the life of the project ranges between 5% and 12% (Annex 8).
4.18      Details of the project cost are presented in Annex 8 and are
summarized below:
Foreign
Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total  Exchange
---Pesos Million---   --- US$ Million      … ------
Aurora Diversion          41.5   33.7   75.2       6.2      5.0  11.2       45
Penaranda Service Area   40.6   24.5   65.1        6.0      3.6   9.6       38
Operation & Maintenance
Equipment                0.2    2.8    3.0        -      0.4   0.4        93
Consulting Services        1.0    4.4    5.4       0.1     0.7   0.8       87
Central Luzon Study       12.8   12.8   25.6       1.9      1.9   3.8      50
Sub-Total           96.1   78.2  174.3    14.2    11.6  25.8         45
Contingencies
Physical                  15.2   12.3   27.5       2.3      1.9   4.2       45
Price                     30.1   23.7   53.8       4.5      3.5   8.0       44
Sub-total.           45.3   36.0   81.3       6.8     5.4  12.2       44
Total Project Cost       141.4  114.2  255.6    21.0    17.0  38.0          45



- 13 -
Financing
4.19      Bank Group assistance consist:;ng-of a US$9.5 million IDA Credit
and a US$9.5 million Bank Loan is proposed. This represents about 48% of the
total cost of the project. The combined Credit/Loan would cover the foreign
exchange component of US$17.0 million. Also included under the Loan portion
is US$2.0 million for interest during construction. The local currency require-
ments for the project estimated at f 141 million (US$21.0 million) would be
provided to the NIA by the Government out of annual budgetary appropriations.
Fcreign exchange expenditure on consulting services of up to US$50,000 which
would be incurred after March 1, 1974 but before signature, would be eligible
for reimbursement under the proposed Credit/Loan.
4.20      To ensure the continuous and timely flow of funds, assurances were
obtained that a special fund would be set up for the project into which the
Government would deposit every month the local currency requirements for the
next three months' period. The fund would help ensure rapid payment of civil
works contractors, which would help attract small contractors (para 4.22).
Budget requirements for local currency would rise to a peak of V 64 million
in FY 77. Establishment of the revolving fund would be a condition of effect-
iveness of the Loan/Credit.
Procurement
4.21      Equipment and vehicles for construction, operation, maintenance
and the irrigation study, costing about US$2.3 million, would be procured
after international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group
Guidelines. A preference limited to 15% of the cif price of imported goods
would be extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. Pro-
curement of off-the-shelf items costing less than US$10,000 each would be
exempted from international competitive bidding and would be purchased through
normal government procurement procedures which are satisfactory. The aggre-
gate of all such items would not exceed US$100,000. A detailed list of
equipment requirements is given in Annex 9.
4.22      The Aurora diversion works (US$11.2 million) would be let as
one contract, subject to international competitive bidding. Works on the
Penaranda service area (US$9.6 million) consist of 12 different work items,
scattered over a large area and include a large proportion of rehabil'ta-
tion works. The latter would need to be planned and executed at shor. notice
to avoid the growing season and adverse weather conditions and would have to
be phased with irrigation releases. When similar works were advertised under
UPRP the NIA failed to attract even local contractors. It is unrealistic,
however, for NIA to expect to undertake the full volume of its planned
construction program in UPRP and in the proposed project by force account.
Assurances were obtained that NIA, with assistance from the consultants,
would investigate ways of expanding the execution of civil works in the service
area by contract, so that the amount of work done by force account would not
exceed 20% of the total cost of the work. The balance would be tendered
after advertising according to contracting procedures satisfactory to the
Bank.



- 14 -
Disbursements
4.23      Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% against the cif
cost of directly imported equipment or at the rate of 65% for imported equipment
procured locally.  For services of foreign consultants and for overseas
training, disbursement would cover the actual foreign exchange cost.  Disburse-
ments for civil works would be at the rate of 27% of certified monthly progress
payments or expenditures. For civil works contractors' mobilization and
equipment disbursement would be at 100% of foreign exchange cost. It is
expected that disbursments would be completed by June 30, 1979, approximately
one year after the end of construction. An estimated schedule of expenditures
on the project and a semi-annual disbursement schedule are given in Annex 10.
Accounts and Audit
4.24      The NIA is a Government agency and its accounts are audited
anhually by the Government's Corporate Auditor's Office. Assurances
were obtained that NIA would maintain separate accounts for the project.
After audit by the Corporate Auditor's Office the project accounts, together
with the auditor's comments, would be sent to the Bank within four months of
the close of each financial year.
Environmental Effects
4.25      The transbasin diversion from the 64 km  of the Canili-Diayo
watershed proposed under the project would have no significant effect on
any existing or proposed water resources development in the 840 km2
Aurora basin. The agricultural lands in the basin get an annual precipi-
tation of 3,200 mm, more or less evenly distributed throughout the year.
There are about 12,000 ha of land considered suitable for irrigation
development in the basin, of which more than 50% have already been
provided with irrigation facilities. The available water resource in the
basin is much in excess of present and anticipated future requirements.
4.26      There is no schistosomiasis in the project area or in the island
of Luzon generally. Malaria is almost non-existent in the Penaranda service
area, but some cases are reported from the Pantabangan dam site, not far from
the proposed Aurora diversion works. The NIA provides anti-malarial services
and operates a hospital at Pantabangan which would be available to the project.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Management
5.01      The National Irrigation Administration (NIA) was created in
1964 and given responsibility for developing, operating and maintaining
all national irrigation systems in the Philippines. NIA is also authorized
by Government to levy and collect water rates from beneficiaries of the
national irrigation systems to defray operation and maintenance costs. The
Government finances the NIA through the sale of bonds or from appropriations.
A Board of Directors is responsible for the Agency, and the Administrator,



- 15 -
who is appointed by the Board with the approval of the President of the
Philippines, handles management.
5.02      A special project office under the direction of a Project
Manager was established to carry out the UPRP. The organization set up
for both construction, and operation and maintenance has proved effective.
The proposed project, which is basically an extension of the Pampanga
project, would be constructed and operated by the UPRP organization.
The Dam Division now building the Pantabangan dam would be responsible
for the Canili and Diayo dams and the transbasin diversion channel.
The Penaranda service area construction would be carried out by a newly
constituted Division, wholly similar to the three Divisions presently
engaged in the same kind of work in the UPRP service area.
5.03      The UPRP organization was made formally responsible for carrying
out the proposed Central Luzon study by Presidential Decree No. 35 of
November 2, 1972. A Project Development Division has been set up to ex-
ecute the task. Some 30 professionals would be assigned to the Division
and consultants would be engaged by NIA under terms of reference already
approved by the Bank to provide guidance, special technical services and
assistance in training staff engaged on the study. NIA has engaged a
consulting engineering firm satisfactory to the Bank to assist with the
study.
5.04      Coordination with other Government agencies interested in land
and water development in Central Luzon would be provided by the Steering
Committee established under Memorandum Order No. 408 of February 20, 1974.
The Committee is chaired by a senior representative of the NIA and draws
its membership from the Bureau of Public Works, the National Power Corporation,
the Local Water Utilities Administration, Metropolitan Water Works and
Sewerage System, the Department of Agrarian Reform and the Department of
Agriculture and Natural Resources. The Committee would provide coordination
with other agencies to insure due consideration of all aspects of the
basin's land and water development. However, NIA would be the final
authority on the scope and content of the irrigation development plan
report to be submitted to the Government. The report would be largely
technical and any conflict of interest problems would have to be resolved
through normal Government processes.
5.05      The Dam and Reservoir Division of UPRP would assume responsa)ility
for the operation and maintenance of the Aurora element of the proposed
project. A fourth Irrigation District would be set up to operate and maintain
the Penaranda service area. The latter would be divided into 50 ha irrigation
units. Two such units (100 ha) would be supervised by a ditchtender, five
ditchtenders (500 ha) would be controlled by a graduate Water Management
Technologist. A Supervisor would be responsible for a water management
division including five Water Management Technologist (2,500 ha). Three to
four divisions would constitute a zone under a Superintendent. The proposed
Penaranda Irrigation District would consist of three zones. The water manage-
ment staff would be trained in the UPRP's on-going training program. Details
of the organization are given in Annex 11 and Charts No. 8211 and No. 8212.



- 16 -
Sutpporting Agricultural Services
5.06      An Agricultural Development Coordinating Council (ADCC) has been set
up in the UPRP to coordinate the work of the various agencies providing serv-
ices to the farmers. The arrangement is still new, but it appears to be
working well. The proposed Penaranda project would be managed as an integral
part of the UPRP and should be brought under the ADCC. However) there are
some difficulties in attaining this objective. The existing UPRP falls with-
in a single province, while the Penaranda project area lies in three provinces.
As it would be impractical to have three ADCCs for the project and the three
provinces in question fall within the same administrative region, it should
be possible to organize the existing ADCC on a regional basis to cover both
the UPRP and the project areas (Annex 12). The expanded ADCC would prepare
an overall plan for supporting agricultural services for review by the Bank
within one year of loan signature. Assurances on restructuring of the ADCC
and preparation of the plan were obtained.
5.07      Extension services are provided by a number of Government
agencies, the main one being the Bureau of Agricultural Extension Services
(BAFS). The principal extension workers are farm management technicians,
home management technicians and rural youth officers. There are now about
25 extension workers in the area, with a ratio of farm management technicians
to farmers of 1:600 compared to the proposed ratio for the UPPR of 1:200.
To deal with the requirements of the land reform program and double cropping
in the project area, the extension staff would be increased so that, by 1980,
there would be about 100 extension workers in the area. Out of this total
about 50 would be farm management technicians, each dealing with some 200
farmers on about 500 ha. In addition, there would be one supervisor for every
10 farm management technicians. Assurances were obtained that the necessary
agricultural extension personnel would be provided to the project.
5.08      The Maligaya Rice Research and Training Center (MRRTC) is situated
close to the project within the UPRP boundaries.   The Center is engaged
mainly on rice research in the fields of breeding and selection, fertilizer
requirements, weed and pest control, water management, and storage and pro-
cessing. It also works on seed production, certification and testing for rice
and other crops. The Center has training facilities that are already used
for training UPRP and extension staff. Both the MRRTC and the T1PRP work
closely with the International Rice Research Institute and the Agricultural
College of the University of the Philippines. The proposed project would be
able to draw on all these sources for research back-up.
5.09      Present fertilizer consumption in the project area is less than
4,000 tons per annum, with urea accounting for a little less than half of the
total. At full development the project area would require sorme 12,000 tons
of fertilizer, on the basis of 60 kg/ha of nitrogen and 30 kg/ha of phosphate
per crop season which the existing supply channels could meet. In view of
possible world shortages of nitrogenous fertilizers, the effects of a 25%
reduction in the projected urea requirement at full development have been
considered in the economic analysis of the project (Para 7.02). The certified
rice seed requirement at full development would amount to 500 tons per year,
and no difficulties are envisaged in obtaining this amount.



- 17 -
5.10      The higher cropping intensity resulting from the project would
require a large increase in credit. As part of the accelerated land reform
program, the Government has strengthened the credit institutions and eased
credit to small farmers, previously dependent on the landlords for their
requirements. A system of "supervised credit" is used, which includes the
provision of technical services to the borrower to ensure that recommended
practices, such as variety, fertilizer and agrochemical inputs, are adopted.
Under the system no collateral is required. The Rural Banks in the project
area granted loans totalling V 8.6 million (US$1.3 million) in 1972. The
Philippine National Bank has also become active in providing production
credit. Upon completion of the project, production credit requirements for
two crops of paddy are expected to amount to about V 40.2 million (US$6.0
million) annually. The existing credit institutions would be able to meet
the requirement.
5.11      The UPRP's Agricultural Development Division would be responsible 1)
for monitoring such aspects of the project's progress as: deployment of ||
extension and water-management personnel, pace of land reform, cropping
patterns, use of inputs and credit, incidence of pests and diseases, etc.
The Division is already carrying out this work on UPRP.
Recovery of Cost
5.12      Republic Act No. 3601 establishing NIA gave it the authority to
"collect from the users of each irrigation system constructed by it such
fees as may be necessary to finance the continuous operation of the system
and reimburse within a period of not less than twenty-five years the cost
of construction thereof." The NIA's record of irrigation fee collection has
shown a steady improvement over the last five years. The total collection
has risen from V 4.8 million in FY69 to Y 7.9 million in FY73. Over the same
period the collection rate as a percentage of fees charged has increased from
53% to 65%. The better recovery is attributed to improved and more timely
billing, the use of more collectors, rehabilitation of some of the irrigation
systems, withholding of water to delinquents and incentive collection bonuses.
5.13      Irrigation fees on the national irrigation schemes are now levied
at the rate of t 25/ha for wet season rice and P 35/ha for dry season rice.
The NIA Board approved an increase in fees equivalent to two cavans of paddy
per ha in the wet season and three cavans in the dry season. At the existing
Government support price for paddy the new fees would be equal to V 70 and
V 105 per ha, respectively. Assuming the fee increase is approved by the
President, they would be applied to all national irrigation systems in the
Philippines and would not differentiate between the level of facilities avail-
able to the farmer on a project like the UPRP and the level found on a tra-
ditional NIA gravity system. The existing irrigation fees account for about
3% of the current net income of a PENRIS farmer, while the new rates would be
equal to about 9% of the farmers' current income and about 6% of the estimated
net farm income at full development. The operation and maintenance (O&M) cost
of the project (Annex 11), based on the costs of the entire UPRP including
Penaranda, are estimated at V 125/ha/annum (US$18.6). The rates proposed
by the NIA would cover O&M costs, but would contribute little toward capital
recovery.



- 18 -
5.14      A more reasonable recovery rate, which would be within the farmers'
repayment capacity and yet permit NIA to recover a substantial part of the
investment in the project, would be equivalent to 9 cavans of paddy per ha/
year (approximately F 300 at present prices). At a discount rate of 10%, the
present worth of such a charge would be about r 47 million. The present worth
of the project cost 1/ plust O&M costs, at the same interest rate, is about
t 159 million, indicating a recovery ratio of about 30%. Considering the
small average farm size in the area, the tenurial status of most farmers and
the fact that per capita income at full development would be below the average
national income, the proposed recovery level, which represents about 10% of
net farm income, would be reasonable. The above analysis excludes the cost
of Pantabangan dam apportionable to the project, as no final cost allocation
of the dam between power, flood control and irrigation has been made yet, and
the total area to be irrigated from the reservoir has not yet been finalized.
Once such an analysis is completed the project water charges policy would be
reviewed.
5.15      To ensure sound operation and maintenance practices and an equita-
ble contribution by the beneficiaries toward recovery of the capital cost of
the project, the Government has agreed that:
(a)  the NIA would make adequate annual budgetary provisions
to supply the funds necessary for operation and maintenance
of the project. Total annual expenditure for operation and
maintenance in 1974 constant prices is estimated at r 2.0
million beginning in 1977, rising to j 3.2 million (US$0.4
-   million) thereafter;
(b)  the NIA would treat the UPRP and the proposed Penaranda
project as a single entity in all matters relating to
irrigation fees;
(c)  irrigation fees would be levied to provide NIA with sufficient
funds to maintain and operate the project and to allow for the
recovery of investment cost within not more than 50 years,
taking into account farmers' incentives and capacity to pay.
A gradual increase in irrigation fees over a period of five
years from completion of construction to a level equivalent to
about 9 cavans of paddy per ha/year was considered reasonable;
and
(d) the NIA would take all necessary actions to ensure full
and prompt collection of the irrigation fees.
1/   Total project cost of r 255.6 million, less price contingencies,
equipment salvage value and the Central Luzon Study. In this analysis
both costs and revenues are evaluated at constant prices.



- 19 -
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES AND FARM INCOMES
Production
6.01      Upon completion of the project the area cropped would rise from
about 36,000 ha per annum at present to 50,600 ha, corresponding to an
increase in cropping intensity from 143% to 200%. An assured water supply,
improved extension services and expanded credit facilites, would encourage
increased planting of high yielding rice varieties, heavier fertilizer
applications and greater use of crop protection chemicals. The use of
machinery for land preparation and threshing would increase to meet more
exacting crop calendars. It is expected that at full agricultural development
in 1983 most threshing would be mechanical and practically all farmers would
use a combination of machinery and animal-drawn implements for land preparation.
6.02      At full development, paddy yields from the wet and dry season
crops are expected to average 3.8 and 4.2 ton/ha respectively. It is
estimated that in the PENRIS area these yield levels would be achieved
five years after the introduction of water control, while in the existing
rainfed areas the projected yield levels would be reached six years after
the provision of water. Total paddy production from the project area
would be about 202,000 tons at full development, compared with 82,000
tons at present and an estimated 107,000 tons in future without the project.
Details of present and future yields and production are given in Annex 13.
Market Prospects                                                  r   ^ f ;
6.03      The Agricultural Sector Survey concluded that even wifh a rapid,
recovery from the recent floods, the Philippines would have difficulty in
regaining the momentum in rice output of the latter 1960s, when production
rose some 5.5% a year, reflecting yield increases averaging about 6% along with
some decline in the area planted to upland rice. Based on population forecasts
of 50 million in 1980 and assuming that present annual per capita absorption
of milled rice of about 100 kg would remain the same, total demand for rice
in the Philippines in 1980 would be around 5.0 'million tons equivalent to 7.6
million tons of paddy. To meet the higher demand, local production would
have to increase by about 5.2% per year between 1972 and 1980. While the
Government's recent campaign to increase rice production has met with
considerable success, the prospects of fertilizer shortages on the world
market raise some doubts about the Philippines' ability to attain self-
sufficiency by 1980. In any event the additional production from the project
area should be readily marketable.
Prices
6.04      Two alternative estimates of the future farm-gate price for
paddy expressed in 1974 constant prices have been used in the report.
The first, which was used in the economic analysis, was derived from the
Bank's world market price projections for milled rice in 1980. For the
30% broken quality Thai rice normally imported by the Philippines, the
price would be US$150 per ton of milled rice cif Manila. This price



- 20 -
corresponds to a farm-gate price of ' 31 cavan (1 710/ton of paddy).  The
second, which was used in the farm budget analysis, was derived from
recent market prices in the Philippines and the level of the Government
support price. It amounts to f 35.0 per cavan (r 800/ton of paddy) and
corresponds to an import price of $170 per ton of rice cif Manila (Annex 14).
Farm Income
6.05      Farm models have been prepared for the PENRIS and the rainfed
lands, covering typical farm sizes of 1.5, 2.5 and 4.0 ha, as well as four
types of tenure, i.e. sharecropping tenancy, leaseholding tenancy, amortiz-
ing ownership and freehold tenure (Annex 15). Leaseholding is the most
common form of land tenure in the project area, but under the provisions of
the land reform program amortizing ownership would be the prevailing form
in the future. The estiw.ated present incomes and those projected at full
development for six different farm models under these particular forms of
tenure are summarized below. The present incomes under sharecropping are
shown for comparative purposes.
Farm Size            Tenure                         Farm Income
(ha)                                         Present      Future
Rainfed PENRIS
--------    ( -)…___- ----
1.5            Sharecropper                 960   1,860
Leaseholder               1,160   2,240    4,225
Amortizing owner            -        -      5,195
2.5            Sharecropper               1,600   3,070
Leaseholder               1,835   3,585    6,865
Amortizing owner            -        -      8,480
4              Sharecropper               2,560   4,930
Leaseholder               2,690   5,250   10,125
Amortizing owner            -        -     12,710
6.06      Taking the 2.5 ha farm size as the average for the project area,
present net farm incomes of between V 1,835 and Y 3,585 (US$270 to $530),
depending on whether the land is rainfed or irrigated, would rise at full
project development to V 6,865 (US$1,020) for a leasehold tenant whose
status did not change. Should the same farmer acquire his land under the
provisions of the land reform program and become an amortizing owner, his
income would rise to Y 8,480 (US$1,260). The present per capita incomes
in the project area, based on a family size of six, leasehold tenure and
the standard 2.5 ha farm, vary from I 305 (US$45) to r 595 (US$89), or
between about 20 and 40% of current national per capita income of ' 1,429
(US$212). At full development in 1983 per capita income on the same size
of farm in the project area would rise to f 1,145 (US$170) if the farmer
remains a leaseholder and t 1,415 (US$210) should he become the owner. These
levels of income would still be low in comparison with the national average
which is projected to rise to r 2,220 (US$330) by 1983. However, they
would be equivalent to between 50 and 65% of the national per capita income
and would indicate a narrowing of the gap between conditions in the project
area and the rest of the country.



- 21 -
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The proposed project would increase cropping intensities and
yields on about 25,300 ha presently dependent upon run-of-river irrigation
and rainfed cultivation by providing an assured water supply, better water
control, improved drainage and the necessary agricultural supporting services.
Rice would continue to be the only crop grown in the area. Assuming a 50-year
project life, a rice price equivalent to US$150 per ton cif Manila (para 6.04),
a world market price of US$200 per ton of urea and a shadow wage rate for
unskilled farm labor equivalent to about 50% of the present peak market wage
rate, the economic rate of return on the project would be about 17%. If farm
labor is priced at the current peak market rate, the rate of return would be
about 16% (Annex 17).
7.02      A further analysis was carried out to examine the economic rate
of return under adverse conditions. These conditions, of which the first
two were experienced during construction of the UPRP, are as follows: a
three-year delay in project benefits as a result of failure to complete
construction on time; a 30% increase in construction costs as a result of
greater quantities of work being required to complete the project; an
anticipated shortage of nitrogenous fertilizers leading to a 25% reduction
in fertilizer application rates and resulting in a reduction of yields to
3.6 and 3.9 ton/ha during the wet and dry season crops respectively
(para 5.09); a possible 25% shortfall in water flow from the Aurbra basin
giving rise to a reduction in the dry season cropped area to 21,500 ha
(para 4.09), and a combination of fertilizer and water shortages. In each
case the rate of return did not fall below 11%. Benefits from the project
were also evaluated by using a rice price equivalent to the Government
support price. In this case the rate of return would be 20%.
7.03      Investments associated with construction of the UPRP dam and
other facilities, which would contribute to the realization of benefits
from the project, have been excluded from the economic analysis described
above. When the updated benefits and costs streams associated with the
UPRP are added to those of the Aurora Project, the economic rate of return
on the combined project would be 14%, which is somewhat higher than the
rate of return from UPRP alone. The above analysis also disregards the
likely benefits and costs associated with a more intensive level of on-.arm
works. Both the desirable level and construction procedures for such works
in the area are yet to be determined. However, when implemented they
should lead to substantially improved benefits for the combined UPRP/Aurora-
Penaranda project.
7.04      Double cropping throughout the project area would introduce a more
taxing cropping calendar and the use of farm machinery for land cultivation
and threshing would have to be increased considerably in order to meet the
new requirements. Nevertheless demand for farm labor in the area would
increase from 15,000 man-years at present to 21,000 man-years at full devel-
opment. Practically all the additional demand would occur in the dry
season, a period of few employment opportunities.



- 22 -
7.05      At full agricultural development rice import savings due to the
project would amount to US$9.4 million per year at the projected world
market price. After deducting the incremental cost of imported fertilizers
and chemicals, the net foreign exchange savings as a result of the project
would amount to about US$7.1 million per year.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations, agreement with the Government was reached
on the following principal points:
(a)  the necessary water rights wculd be transferred to the NIA,
and no private rights which could adversely affect the
project's water supply would be granted (para 4.11);
(b)  NIA would make adequate annual budgetary provisions to supply
the funds necessary for proper operation and maintenance of
the project (para 5.15);
(c)  NIA woulc' treat the UPRP and the proposed project as a single
entity in all matters relating to irrigation fees (para 5.15); and
(d)  irrigation fees would be levied to provide NIA with sufficient
funds to maintain and operate the project and to allow for the
recovery of investment cost within not more than 50 years,
taking into account farmers' incentives and capacity to pay.
A gradual increase in irrigation fees over a period of five
years from completion of construction to a level equivalent
to about 9 cavans of paddy per ha/year was considered reasonable
(para 5.15).
8.02      A condition of effectiveness af the Loan/Credit would be the
establishment of a special fund for the project, into which the Government
would dteposit every month the local currency requirements for the next
three months' period (para 4.20).
8.03      The proposed project would be suitable for an IDA credit of
US$9.5 million on the usual terms and a Bank loan of $9.5 million, with a
25 year maturity and a grace period of seven years. The borrower would be
the Republic of the Philippines.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
AURORA-PENERANDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Climatologial Data
1.        The project area is a homogeneous climatological unit with warm
temperatures throughout the year. The climate is tropical and although two
seasons may be recognized, they are not especially pronounced. There is a
relatively dry period from the later part of November into April when the
northeast winds generally prevail. The lowest precipitation usually extends
over a period of two to five months each year. Heavy rains prevail through-
out the balance of the year when the southwest monsoon dominates the weather.
The project area is only partly protected from the northern and trade winds
but is open to the southwest monsoons in which frequent and severe cyclonic
storms occur. Rainfall becomes more intense in May and June reaching a
peak in August and falls off in October and November. Between 85 and 90%
of the total annual precipitation of about 1,850 mm falls in the wet season
between May and November and is generally sufficient to produce a crop of
rice. There is not enough rainfall to produce a rice crop during the dry
season.
2.        Temperature differentials are not great throughout the year and
for Cabanatuan City, which is approximately 25 km. north of the project area,
the mean monthly temperature varies frem a low of 26°C in January to a high
of 30 C° in May.
3.        Relative humidity is high all year, with a monthly mean varying
from 70% to 80% during the rainy season and from 63% to 74% during the dry
season. The mean monthly evaporation varies from a low of approximately
110 mm in September to a high of approximately 245 mm in April with a mean
annual total of 1,975 mm.



PHILIPPINES
AURORA - PENARANDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Climatic Conditions at Cabanatuan Cityl/
January   February    March         April       May         June       July      August   September   October   Noverber   December    Total
Number of rainy days 2/                            2.0         2.0        3.0         4.0        12.0        18.0       20.0      24.0        22.0         12.0         10.0         6.0      135.0
Average kainfall (mm)                              4.4         6.1       27.7        41.4       149.7       256.8      301.2    385.3        314.9        173.7        138.7        52.0   1,852.5
Maximum rainfall (mm)                             23.1        49.5      265.1       261.4        586.8      590.8      608.1    647.5        628.7        403.1        575.0       212.9   2,534.9
Minimum rainfall (mm)                              0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        16.6        64.3      142.5    176.1         179.3        11.4         13.5          0.0   1,306.1
PRelative humidity '%)                              71          68         65           63         70         80          83        85           85          81           78           74        75
Minimum  temperatuire (OC)                      20.1        20.0       21.4        22.9        23.8        23.7       23.5      23.6         23.4        22.8         21.9        20.9
Mean     temperature (0c)                       25.9        26.3       27.8        29.3        29.7        28.6       28.1      27.5         27.6        27.6         26.8        26.2        27.62
Maximum  temperature '°C)                       31.6        32.6       34.1        35.5        35.5        33.3       32.4      31.5         31.7        32.5         31.6        31.5
Prevailing wind direction                          NF          NE         SE          SE         SE           SE         SE        S           S            NE           NE          NE
Wind velocity (m/sec)  3/                          2.2         2.6        2.2         1.9         1.7         1.7        1.8       1.8         1.5          1.6          2.2         2.7
_/ Average values for the period 1946-1971 unless otherwise stated.                                                                                                                                   f':
2/ Average values for the period 1951-1970
3/ Average values for the period 1949-1971                                                                                                                                                             H



ANNEX 2
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
AURORA-PENARANDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Land Tenure and Reform
Background
1.        At the end of the last century land tenure in the Philippines
was feudal in character, as large tracts of land were held by a small
number of owners, while the cultivators worked as sharecropping tenants.
Under the sharecropping system the tenant had no security of tenure and
usually paid an inordinately high proportion of his crop to the landlord
as rent. Since the beginning of this century various legislative measures
have been introduced aimed at regulating and improving the conditions of
tenant farmers by defining sharing arrangements, formalizing share-tenancy
contracts, limiting the landlords' right of eviction, providing for
compulsory arbitration of agrarian conflicts, recognizing cash tenancy
or "leaseholding" as an alternative to sharecropping and providing a degree
of security of tenure. While these measures improved tenancy relations,
they allowed for the continuance of sharecropping as the principal form
of land tenure. The resulting inequities in the distribution of income
from land continued to threaten the stability of the agricultural sector.
2.        In 1963 the Agricultural Reform Code (RA. 3844) was promulgated.
The long term aim of the code was to transfer ownership of rice and corn
land to the cultivators through the eventual abolition of tenant farming.
The ultimate goal was to be achieved in stages. The first step in the
transition would be the abolition of sharecropping and its replacement by
a system of cash tenancy or leaseholding. The second step would consist of
the purchase by Government of the private land farmed by the leaseholders
for resale to them, thus transforming them into amortizing owner-cultivators.
After full payment for the land they would become owner-cultivators or
freeholders. The code also fixed cash rents for leaseholders equivalent to
25% of the average harvest during the last three crop seasons prior to
introduction of land reform in the area, less the cost of seed, harvesting,
threshing, hauling and processing.
3.        By 1971, little more than 50,000 sharecroppers, about 5% of the
total, had been converted to leaseholders with secure tenure on the land
they cultivated and with more favorable land rent payments. The second
stage of full-ownership had only been attained by 3,400 farm families.
Following the declaration of martial law in 1972, Presidential Decree No. 27



ANNEX 2
Page 2
was issued with the objective of acceleratin- the transfer of land
ownership to tenant farmers on rice and corn lands. The main provisions
of the decree are that:
(a) tenant farmers, whether sharecroppers or leaseholders,
shall be deemed owners of a family size farm, consisting
of 5 ha on rainfed land and 3 ha on irrigated land;
(b)  the landowner shall retain not more than 7 ha providing
he agrees to cultivate it himself;
(c) for purposes of determining the cost of the land to be
transferred to the tenant farmer, the land is valued at
two to two and one half times the average harvest of the
three normal crop years preceding the promulgation of the
decree; and
(d) tenants will pay for the land in 15 equal annual instalments
at an interest rate of 6% per annum.
4.        Accurate data on the numbers of tenants and landlords, and the
size, distribution and location of their holdings are still being collected.
Estimates put the-number of tenants on rice and corn lands at about 1
million on approximately 1.8 million ha held by some 350,000 landlords.
It is believed that 80% of the latter have holdings of less than 7 ha.
In addition the total number of rice and corn farmers probably exceeds
2 million while the total area of rice and corn lands is not much more
than 4 million ha, of which considerably less than/1 million ha are
irrigated. There is therefore little prospect of the obiective of 5 ha
rainfed or 3 ha irrigated family size farms being attained. In the first
year of the accelerated land reform program the Government has applied
the provisions of the legislation to tenanted estates over 100 ha. About
107,000 land transfer certificates have been issued to some 78,000 tenants
farming 130,000 ha of land.  This is more than was achieved in the previous
ten years. For smaller sized holding,s the Government is proceeding
cautiously, while searching for means of satisfying the aspirations of the
tenants without alienating the large class of small landlords.
Situation in the Project Area
i
5.        Surveys carried out by the Department of Agrarian Reform (DAR)
-show that 27,000 ha in the project area, including some 2,000 ha that are
out of command, are owned bv 4,700 people. Some 44% of the owners have
properties of less than 3 ha, and 82% have holdings below the 7 ha limit
-for possible landlord retention. This group of owners accounts for 42%
of the area. The land ownership pattern by size of holding is as follows:



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Size of }o ldin_,                    Owners                     Area Owned
(ha)                    No.              %           (ha)
Less than   3               2,075             44           3,739            14
3  -  7              1,798             38           7,701             28
7  - 12                431               9          3,772             14
12  - 24                260               6          4,229             16
24  - 5n                117               2          3,924             14
50  -100                 43               1          3,804             14
Total                 4,724             100          27,169           100
The average farm unit in the area is 2.7 ha, with about 62% of the 10,000
farms, covering 529 of the area, falling between 1 and 3 ha. The farm size
distribution is as followqs:
Farm Size                       Hnldings              Cultivated Area
(ha)                          -              %--------------------
Less than  1                          9                        3
1    2                         27                       17
2-  3                          35                       35
3-  4                          19                       24
4 -5                            6                       10
More than  5                          4                       11
Total                          100                      100
6.        The tenure picture within the Project area in June 1973 was as
followx:
Tenure                          Farmers                    Area
No.                            ha          71
Owmer-Operator        1,300               13         3,618        13
Leaseholder           5,Q61t              5°       16,066         59
Sharecropper          2,772               28        7,485         28
Total           10,034             100        27,1F9       100
Roughlv lhalf of the owner-operators  rere amortizing owners, i.e. ex-tenant
farmers in the process of purchasinp their farms.  A survey carried out by
DlAP in the eight municipalities cove-ing the project area showed that,
prior to the nromulc,ation of the AM,r;cultural Reform Code in 1963, share-
cronpers constituted 507 of the total farmers. While there has been
little or no chang,e in the relative nroportion of owner-operators to
tenant farmers, there has been a sub;tantial change-over from sharecropping
to the more equitable leaseholding.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
7.        The PAR plans to carry out the land transfer Program involving
1.8 million ha and approximately 1 million tenant families by 1977.
Should this ambitious target be achieved, all farms in the project area
would be owner-operated before the comnletion of construction in the
service area. Until the ambiguities of the existing legislation with
regard to the small landlords are clai^fied, it is not possible to
determine what pronortion of the existing tenant farmers could expect to
become owner--operators. However, evern under the most conservative assump-
tions it is safe to predict that sharecropping as a form of land tenure
will have disappeared from the project area by full development in 1983,
and that the number of amortizing owners will have increased substantially.
However, there is no reason to believe that there would be any substantial
chan-e in the existing farm size distribution.



ANTE-X 3
Page 1
PIILIPPINES
AURORA-PENARANDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
The Upper Pampanga River Project
1.        A feasibility report prepared by the US Bureau of Reclamation
(USBR) in 1966 contained the first documented estimates of the irrigable
land in the Upper Pampanga river basin. The report proposed an Upper
Pampanga River Project (UPRP), based on construction of storage dams on
the Pampanga and Maringalo rivers to provide wet season irrigation to
81,000 ha and dry season irrigation to 75,000 ha. Some 45,700 ha of
the 81,000 ha were already included in NIA operated run of river gravity
systems served by the following diversion dams: the Talavera River
Irrigation System (TRIS); the Lower Talavera River Irrigation System
(LTRIS); the Paapanga River Irrigation System (PRIS) and the Pampanga
Bongabon River Irrigation System (PBRIS). The remaining 35,000 ha were
to be developed by bringing in lands to the west and south of the NIA
systems.
2.        The USBR study was revised in early 1968 by the UPRP Coordinating
Committee (UPRPCC). The irrigable area was reduced from 81,000 ha to
65,500 ha with the Pampanga reservoir alone, 71,500 ha with the addition of
the Maringalo reservoir and power releases and 74,500 ha without power
releases. Of the 65,500 ha to be served by the Pampanga reservoir,
rehabilitation would be required on 39,700 ha of existing systems and
new construction would be carried out on 25,800 ha.
3.        After appraisal by the Bank in late 1968 the UPRP was reformulated
under Loan No. 637 PH. Only the Pantabangan dam on the Pampanga river
would be built to serve a total of about 77,000 ha in the wet season and
about 72,000 ha in the dry season. Rehabilitation of existing systems
would account for 45,700 ha in Areas I, II and IV, while new systems
would be built on 31,300 ha in Areas III and V. The Bank version of
the project provided for about a 10% increase in the service area
proposed under the UPRPCC project formulation. This was due to a
more detailed review of available water resources in the basin at
the time of appraisal. The areas to be covered under the project
were as follows:



ANNEX 3
Page 2
(ha) -
Area I                                                             24,200
Pampanga River Irrigation System (PRIS)       13,000
'4urcon Creek Irrigation System (MCIS)         6,000
Lower Talavera River Irrigation
System (LTRIS)                            3,200
Vaca Creek Irrigation System (VCIS)             2,000
Area II                                                            11,500
Pampanga Bongabon River Irrigation
System (PBRIS)                           10,050
Pamaldan Cinco Cinco Irrigation
System (PCCIS)                            1,450
Area III  .                                                        12,000
Pampai'xga Bongabon River Irrigation
System Extension (PBRISE)                12,000
Area IV                                                             5,200
Talavera River Irrigation
System-Lower (TRIS-L)                     5,200
Area V                                                             24,400
Sto. Domingo Area (SDA)                       16,100
Munic Area                                       500
Aliaga Area                                    3,000
Talavera River Irrigation System-
Upper (TRIS-U)                            4,800
Wet Season Total                                         77,300
Less TRIS-U                                               4,800
Dry Season Total                                         72,500



ANNEX 3
Page 3
4.        The land classification revort prenared in 1971 by the NIA with
USBR assistance defined a project boundary and a gross area of 128,490 ha,
of which 103,830 ha were determined to be arable and 101,060 ha were
classified as irrigable. Recent studies of available water in the basin,
which also evaluated previously unconsidered sources, concluded that up
to 92,700 ha of land, an increase of some 20,000 ha, could be brought
under double-cropping of rice with an improvement of farm irrigation
efficiency. Under the project a concerted effort is being made to train
the farmers to accept new technology and to provide them with the necessary
inputs to achieve efficient double-cropping. As part of this intensified
extension effort and through the implementation of rotational irrigation,
NIA expects substantial improvements in the currently low farm irrigation
efficiencies. On this assumption preDarations are being made to expand the
existing scope of the UPRP, referred to as Stage I, bv about 10,000 ha to
give a total Stage II area of 82,410 ha in the dry season and 87,210 ha
in the wet season. At present work is limited to oversizing the necessary
canals and structures in Stage I to deal with the larger area.   Construction
of the terminal facilities for Stage II is being delayed pending completion
of Stage I and improvement in farm irrigation efficiencies. In Stage II
there would be a reduction in the irrigated area originally planned in
Sto. Domingo together with increases in the PBRISE. PBRIS, Aliaga, Munoz and
Rizal--Munic areas (Table 1).
5.        At the current low level of farm irrigation efficiency of about
28% the water available in the project area would be sufficient for a
little less than 60,000 ha of double-cropDed rice. It is anticipated
that the intensified extension effort being mounted by the Government as
part of the rice self-sufficiency campaign, together with the substantial
1build-un of NIA water management staff, would result in an initial improve-
ment in efficiency to about 36% by the time construction of Stage I is
comnleted in 1976, and shortly thereafter a further rise to 43%, which
would permit year round irrigation of Stage II.
6.        In Stage III the UPPP wnuld total slightlv less than 89,000 ha
in the drv season and about 98,nn0 hn in the wet season. A farm efficiency
of 48v' would he required. No date c.in be set for this development.






ANNEX 3
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
AURORA - PENARA1RDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
UPRP Development Stages
5ervice Area                                   Stage I        Stase II       State III
!dzal-Munic                                           500           2,600          2,600
xtensc.n (EXTN)                                                       - -          3,780
Lower Talavera River Irrigation System (LTRIS)      3,200           3,210          2,880
Vaca Creek Irrigation System (VCIS)                 2,000           2,050          2,050
Murcon Creek Irrigation System (MCIS)                6,0oo          5,040
Pampanga River Irrigation System (PRIS)            13,000          15,210         14,550
Platero                                                -            1,000           1,000
Aliaga                                              3,000           5,670           5,670
Pamaldan Cinco Cinco Irrigation System (PCC1S)       1,450          1,260           1,260
Pampanga Bongabon River Irrigation System (PBRIS) 10o050           16,150         16,150
Pampanga Bongabon River Irrigation System
Extension (PBRISE)                             12,000          12,300         12,300
San Agustin Extension Area (SAEA                       -              -            1,000
Talavera River Irrigation System-Upper (TRIS-U)    4,800            4,800          4,000
Talavera River Irrigation System-Lower (TRIS-L)    5,200            5,400           9,400
Munoz                                                  -            3,540           3,540
Sto-Domingo Area (SDA)                             16,100           8,950         12,480
Total Wet Season                              77,300          87,210         97,700
Tot,;L Dry Season                             72,500          82,410          88,920
1/ 1968-IBRD Formulation.






ANNEX 4
Page 1
PHILIPP NES
AURORA-PENARANDA I.RIGATION PROJECI
Project Works
1.        The Aurora-Penaranda IrrigTtion Project is an extension of the
Upper Pampanga River Project (UPRP). It would consist of two main features,
an irrigated area of 25,300 ha and a transbasin diversion scheme 75 km
northwest of the irrigated area, which would divert water from the small
Aurora watershed into a headwater tributary of the Pampanga River. The
additional water would au,ment the Ppntabangan releases and would permit
additional dry season irrigation in the Penaranda project area. Rainfall
and wet season flows in the Penarand. River and adjacent streams, after
improvement of the canals and distritution system, would be sufficient
to produce a crop of rice on the 25,27n0 ha of the project area in the rainy
season. The diverted water, which mculd be stored in the Pantabangan
reservoir of the UPRP and released in the dry season, would nrovide
sufficient additional water to permit cultivation of a dry season crop
in the full project area. The principal features of the project are as
follows,
(a) The Aurora diversion would consists of a dam on the Canili
river, a dam on the Diayo river, and two diversion channels,
one connecting the two res4rvoirs and another through a
saddle in the ridge dividi'tg the Aurora basin and the
Pampanga river basin. The diverted water would be discharged
through these channels int' the Digoliat river, a tributary
of the Pampanga river;
(b)  The raising and improvement of the Pampanga-Bongabon diversion
darm and an extension of th- Pampanga-Bongabon main canal to
the headworks of the existing Penaranda diversion dam. Here,
a nine crossing though the Penaranda diversion dam reservoir
would pass the flow of the Pamnanga-Bongabon main canal
directly into the Penarandr main canal to avoid any losses
in the reservoir:
(c) The rehabilitation ancl enlargement of the existinq irrigation
and drainage system servinr' about 16,700 ha of the Penaranda
project area.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
(4) A new irrigation and drainage system to serve an 8,600 ha
extension of the Penaranda area which is not irrigated at
present;
(e) Improvement of existing drainage channels and construction of
cross drainage and diversion structures for local flows;
(f) Upgrading of existing roads and construction of additional
roads in the project area; and
(g) Construction of an electric power transmission line from
the Pantabangan dam to the Canili and Diayo damsites.
2.        Canili and Diayo Dams.  The Canili and Diayo dams would be located
in steep canyons of the Canili and Diayo rivers approximately 30 km north-
west of the town of Rizal and 20 km east of the Pantabangan dam. The cor-
fluence of the two rivers is about 800 m downstream of the damsites. Each
proposed dam would be an earth and rockfi 1 structure with an impervious
earth core, sand and gravel filters downstream of the core, and a pervious
outer shell of alluvial materials. The Canili dam would rise about 75 m
above the stream bed with a crest length of approximately 700 m and a
base width of 300 m. The embankment volume would be approximately 1,700,000
m3. The Diayo dam would rise some 47 m above the stream bed with a crest
length of 200 m and a base width of 20C m. The embankment volume would be
approximately 400,000 m3.  The impervicus materials for the dams would
come principally from the two diversion channels, the alluvial and filter
materials from river deposits 2 to 10 km from the damsite and partially
from decomposed rock materials closer to the damsites. Suitable rock for
rip rap exists within 2 km of the damsites.
3.        Appurtenant Dam Works.  All river flows, including the flood flows,
would he passed by the diversion channels from the reservoir into the
adjacent Digoliat river, a tributary of the Pampanga river basin. The
dams and reservoirs would provide the elevation to divert water, but would
not allow storage. Spillways would not be provided for either dam as all
flood flows would pass immediately into the Digoliat river, whose channel
has adequate carrying capacity. A conduit would be constructed through
the foundation of each dam to permit diversion of the river during construc-
tion of the embankment. Upon completion of the dam embankment, the conduits
would be closed with a concrete plug to hold the waters in the reservoir.
The diversion conduit for the Canili dam would be designed to pass a 25-year
flood as construction of the dam is expected to require eight months and
should any delay occur, the wet season flows could be passed with a conduit
of this capacity. The Diayo dam is expected to be completed in one dry
season of six months without difficulty and the conduit would be designed
to carry the maximum dry season flows. The reservoir capacities are given
in Table I.



AN1EX 4
Page 3
4.        Diversion Channels
(a) Transhasin Diversion Channel. The transbasin diversion
channel would be constructed in a saddle on the ridge
dividing the Pampanga and Aurora basins. The channel,
with a length of about 1,200 m, would connect the Canili
reservoir with the Digoliat river. The channel would be
unlined and apDroximately 90 m wide with a maximum depth
of 13 m and would be designed to pass the flood flows. An
unlined pilot canal would be constructed below the bottom
grade of the larger channel to carry the normal flows.
The smaller canal would extend anproximately 5 m below
the bottom of the larger chiannel, would be trapezoidal
in section, 5 m wide at the bottom and be provided with a
concrete control structure and road bridge near the lower
discharge end. More than 90% of the volume of water diverted
would be confined to the pilot canal. During the wet season,
flood flows are expected to inundate the pilot canal at
which time the larger transbasin channel would be utilized.
The diversion ch nnel *^ould be able to pass safely flows
of up to 2,400 m Isec, which are far in excess of the 100
year flood. The channel would be excavated predominantly
in overburden, with possibly some weathered rock in the
bottom. The excavated material would be utilized in the
construction of the dam embanlkments.
(b) Diayo Channel. The Diayo rhannel would be an unlined canal
about 200 m long which wou]d connect the Diayo and Canili
reservoirs. It would have a bottom width of 10 m with
2:1 side slones and a maximum depth of 22 m. The channel
is designed to carry the probable maximum flood of the Diayo
river. It would be excavated mainly in overburden, and the
material would be used in the dam embankments.
5.        Access Roads.  Access roads to the damsites have been completed.
Anv additional extensions and improvements to the existing roads would
be carried out by the contractor for the dams.
6.        Power Line.  A 69 kv woodpole nower line would be extended
from the Pantabangan damsite to the diversion dams. The line would provide
power for construction and for a new resettlement area downstream from the
Canili dam for families who are to be relocated because of the construction
of the Pantabangan dam.
7.        Penaranda _Service Area.  Water for the Penaranda service area
would come from two principal sources:
(a) from the Aurora basin diversion via the Pantabangan reservoir
and the Pampanga river- and



ANNEX 4
Page 4
(b) from streams including the Penaranda, Bulu, San Miguel and
Garlang rivers in the service area.
8.        To deliver the additional dry season water to the project area
it would be necessary to slightly increase the height of the Pampanga-
Bongabon diversion dam, to enlarge the main canal of the Pampanga-Bongabon
River Irrigation System (PBRIS) from approximately Station 9 to Station 21,
and to provide a new canal connection to the Penaranda system by enlarging
and extending Lateral G-2 of the PBRIS to the Penaranda system diversion dam,
where a condiut would be constructed along the face of the dam to deliver
the water into the headworks of the existing Penaranda main canal.
9.        The existing Penaranda irrigation system (PENRIS) built between
1925 and 1933 and now delivering water to about 16,700 ha, would be rehabi-
litated and upgraded by repairing canals and structures, constructing
additional sub-laterals, farm, ditches, turnouts, drainage canals and
associated works. New irrigation workr would be constructed in the Penaranda
extension area of approximately 8,600 la (PENRISE). This would require
the rehabilitation and enlargement of Lateral C of the PENRIS, and the
construction of diversion dams and cro s drainage structures on the Bulu,
San Miguel and Garlang rivers to divert the inflows. In general, the canal
systems would have additional structures such as checks, control structures
and turnouts to more effectively contrcl the water deliveries and more
efficiently provide water as needed to each field. The new systems would
have a turnout for each 10 ha unit fron which farm ditches, constructed
as a project cost, would provide direct delivery to most ownerships.
However, a few owners would still receive deliveries through their
neighbours' fields. Canals would not be lined. A small building to
be used as a working station for the Water Management Technologist (WMT)
would be provided for approximately each 500 ha of irrigated land.
10.       Roads.  Roads would be constructed on the rehabilitated and newly
built canal banks. In addition, the existing roads in the irrigated area
would be improved by widening, surfacing and rehabilitating structures;
additional new roads would be provided where such facilities do not exist
but are needed.
11.       On-Farm Development.  The proposed level of on-farm development is
similar to what is being implemented on the UPRP and would be a substantial
improvement over the existing system which makes no provision for access
or for distribution beyond the sub-lateral. The NIA is now building a 1,000
ha pilot scheme on the UPRP to test the feasibility, costs and local accept-
ability of full on-farm development, in-luding land consolidation, land
leveling and individual farm access to irrigation and drainage. The effects
of the development on yields, ease of c3erations and efficiency of water
use would be applicable to the proposed project.



ANNEX 4
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
AURORA-PENARANDA IRRIDATION PROJECT
Statistical Data on Dams and Reservoirs
Canili            Dio
Reservoir
Inactive storage                       24 Mm3           1.25 Mm3
Maximlm storage                        42 Mm3           2.60 Mm3
Area - at top of inactive storage     120 ha            7.0 ha
- at top of 'naximum storage     250 ha           17.0 ha
Damn
Zoned            Zoned
Type                                 Earthfi ll        Earthfill
Height above streambed                  75 m              47 m
Crest length                           700 m             200 m
Crest elevation                        305 m             305 m
Maxium water surface elevatiun         304.7 m           304.7 m
Volume of embanlanent                  1.7 Mm3             0.4 2m3



.ANNX 4
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
rABA'ENh    1Av IRRaUAiN PgECST
Suznmwyof  r*ion KFaciitiee to be ded
.2/
1/is  PNRSE: 2/         Tbtal
G*nals and Laterals                284 km         1 34 km          418 ckm
Main Tarm Ditches                  272 km 1h8 km                   400 Aom
Supplementary Farm Ditches         7114a1n k336 km               1,050 km
Drainage Ditches                  ¶87 km           88 km           275 km
Turnouts             ~425 units                   200 units       .625 units
WMT-WorkinStg ations                32 units       16, km          .:48 units
Upgrading of existiRg: roads        25-km          15 km            40 km
Cmwtruction of new'ioads            10n             5kkmm           .15 km
1/  Excisting PenaTanda River .r   ation yte o f 16,700 ha.
2/ Proposed.' PenaraRiverIrr4gatili 8y9s tem .EZrteusion of. 8 600 ha.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
AURORA-PENARANDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Water Supply, Demand and Quality
1.        Water Supply - The project would obtain its gain water supply
from the Penaranda river and three minor rivers flowing through the
project area the Bulu, San Miguel and Garlang rivers. 4Flows in the rainy
season are sufficient to irrigate the proposed project;, but during the dry
season, there is not enough water to grow a rice crop on the full project
area. Supplemental dry season water would be provided by diversion of
waters from the Aurora basin into the Pampanga basin.
2.        Records of discharge on the Penaranda river at the diversion
point are unreliable and flows of the river have been correlated from
records of gauging stations on two tributaries. The gauging stations have
acceptable continuous records from mid-1960 and measure the flows of 85%
of the Penaranda basin. The total flows at the diversion point were
correlated on an area basis. On the San Miguel and Gatlang rivers,
flow records are available for only two years (1960 through 1962). These
records were correlated on an area basis to obtain the combined flow of
all the tributaries and prorated with the Penaranda flows to obtain
correlated monthly flows.
3.        In the Aurora basin, flows at the diversion point with a drainage
area of 63.5 km2 have been recorded only since May 1972. An estimate of
the flows has had to be synthesized by correlation with river runoff
records on the Cabatangan river, at a point approximately 10 km below
the diversion damsite near Diammon with a drainage area of 177 km2, as
well as with rainfall records at Baler and Conversion. River runoff
records extend back to 1955 and the rainfall records extend back to
1946. Because of severe orographic effects, the rainfall records had to
be adjusted to correct for wide variations in precipitation between
stations. River records were principally adjusted on an area basis,
but took into consideration the short term records at the proposed
transbasin diversion point. An average annual diversion of 164 Mm3 is
expected. Because of the limited hydrologic data correlations with more
distant rainfall stations in the general area were carried out. From
these studies it is estimated that the annual amount available for
diversion could range from a minimum of 137 Mm3 to a maximum of 204 Mm3.
The monthly flows would vary from 7.9 Mm3 in April to 17.4 Mm3 in November.
The diverted water would be stored in the Pantabangan reservoir which has
a capacity of 3,435 Mm3. Operation studies of the reservoir indicate that



ANNEX 5
Page 2
by reasons of its large capacity, only minor adjustments In reservoir
operation would be necessary to store the additional water, or to take
care of any flood flows. As about two-thirds of the project's total
dry season irrigation water requirement would be stored in the Pantabangan
Reservoir, farmers would be advised on November 1 of each year of the
probable dry season water supply. This would be before planting time and,
should the supply be less than normal, the farmers would be able to
adjust their planting accordingly.
4.        Water Requirements - It is assumed that two crops of rice would
be grown each year using 120-day non-photoperiodic rice varieties. The
planting and harvesting dates would generally be aligned With the wet
and dry seasons. Accordingly, planting periods would be June 15 to
August 15 for the wet season crop, and November 15 to December 21 for
the dry season crop. Land preparation would be performed prior to these
dates. Irrigation periods were assumed to be 105 days in the wet season
and 100 days in the dry season for transplanted rice. Under this
schedule, irrigation demand during March and April would be minimal
allowing maintenance of the irrigation system to be carried out under
dry conditions.
5.        A computer analysis of the irrigation water requirements of the
entire Panpamga basin, including the Penaranda area, and of the ability of
the available supplies to meet the requirements was undertaken. Estimated
monthly river flow records, estimated consumptive use and an average annual
water deficiency of 7% were used. The study updates the previous studies
made in 1968 when the Bank appraised the Upper Pampanga River project.
The study takes into consideration additional data collected since that
time, and the flows from small side streams, internal project flows and
return flows, which provide additional and heretofore unconsidered water
supplies to the basin. The study shows that up to 20,000 ha more land
than the 72,500 ha in Stage I of the UPRP could be developed if irrigation
efficiencies on the farm are raised to 48%. Work has already begun to
develop the UPRP to Stage II, totaling 82,400 ha, on the assumption that
farm efficiencies will be raised by intensified extension and improved NIA
staffing to 43% within a reasonably short time. In view of the large
size of the UPRP, increases in efficiency beyond this level are expected
to come more slowly.
6.        For the Penaranda project an annual water requirement for two
crops of rice has been estimated at 22,000 m /ha with a farm efficiency
of 58%. The higher efficiency has been assumed as the project would be
smaller and more compact than the UPRP and would also benefit from the
experience gained operating the latter. The study showed that even if
a farm efficiency of 80% was attained, the water available in Pantabangan
reservoir and the local rivers would not allow more than 10,000 ha of
land to be irrigated in the Penaranda area in the dry season. The Aurora
transbasin diversion is therefore required to provide the additional water
needed for dry season cropping on the full project area.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
7.        Project water requirements have been estimated as follows:
Wet Season     Dry Season
A. Land Preparation (20 days)
Saturation                        140             105
Submergence                        25              25
Evaporation                        62              57
Percolation                        33              33
Sub-Total                    260             220
Annually
Total                               480
B.  Field Crop                            (105 days)      (100 days)
Evapotranspiration                470             525
Percolation                       175             165
Sub-Total                    645             690
Total                                1,335
Total crop water requirement                             1,315
Less effective rainfall                                     965
Farm water requirement                                     850
Plus farm irrigation losses                                 625
Farm irrigation requirement                              1,475
Plus canal losses                                          495
Plus system administrative losses                           230
Total Diversion Requirement                    2,200



ANNEX 5
Page 4
8.        Quality of Water - Tests of water samples on the Canili and Diayo
rivers indicate good quality of water with total discolved solids under
250 ppm.  The tests of water in the Pamnanga river basin show equally good
quality of water with total dissolved solids under 300 ppm. The waters of
the Penaranda river have been utilized in the project area since 1930
without evidence of any harmful effects. Recent water samples collected
from the Penaranda, San Miguel, and Bulu rivers indicate the water to be
of good quality with total dissolved solids slightly exceeding 200 ppm,
with low salinity and ion concentration levels. The quality of water
available from all sources is suitable for irrigation and no harmful effects
are foreseen.
9.        Floods - In the absence of concurrent rainfall and runoff records
at or near the Canili and Diayo diversion dams, the inflow design flood
was estimated by deriving a probable maximum precipitation for the watershed
and applying this to a derived synthetic unit hydrograph. The probable
maximum precipitation was derived from a depth-duration envelope curve of
observed maximum point rainfall of various durations in the Philippines.
The data used in the same as that used by the Bureau of Public Works to
derive inflow design floods for dam and reservoirs in Central Luzon. A
representative unit hydrograph for the Aurora watershed was derived
synthetically by the US Bureau of Reclamation recommended practice for
ungaged areas. From this procedure, a one-day stojm duration is considered
the most critical with a peak discharge of 1,975 m Is. This flood was
adopted as the design flood and the discharge capacity of the Aurora diver-
sion channel slightly exceeds this figure.
10.       Sediment - Sediment sampling has only recently been started and
the data obtained have been collected during times of low river discharges.
These samples indicate a low sediment accumulation although they cannot be
considered as an accurate analysis of the effect of sedimentation.
Further sampling and analysis wqould continue and more accurate conclusions
would be reached in a few months when high stream flows are analyzed and
before final desi-ns are prepared for the dams. In any event, sedimentation
rates would not be a serious matter as almost the entire proportions of the
Canili and Diayo reservoirs would he available for sediment storage. There
would be no interference with reservoir operations as the dams would be
used primarily as diversion structures.



ANNEX 6
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
AURORA-PENARANDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Central Luzon Irrigation Development Study
General
1.        The Central Luzon basin covers approximately 1,800,000 ha of
land in eleven provinces (Bulacan, Nueva Ecija, Pampanga, Pangasinan,
Tarlac, La Union, Nueva Vizcaya, Quezon, Zambales, Rizal and Mountain
Provinces) of which about 87% or 1,570,000 ha lie in the five provinces of
Bulacan, Nueva Ecija, Pampanga, Pangasinan and Tarlac. Within these some
820,000 ha are found to be potentially suitable for irrigated agriculture.
2.        Land is one of the most important basic resources in the Central
Luzon basin and, agriculture and agriculturally based activities constitute
the major segment of the region's economy. The foremost problem facing
agriculture is the lack of dependable supplies of water for irrigation
throughout the year. Rainfall, though generally sufficient to support
crops during the wet season, is erratic as to time and place of occurrence
and is unquestionably deficient during the dry season. As a result, agri-
cultural production in rainfed areas is limited to the wet season, and
lands are left uncropped in the dry months. Of approximately 190,000 ha
of land served by national gravity irrigation systems in the five provinces
during the wet season, only about 30 to 40% are irrigated during the dry
season.
3.        Average rainfall in the basin varies from approximately 1,600 mm
to 3,000 mm per annum. About 90% occurs during June through November.
The estimated average annual runoff in the basin is over 21,000 Mm3, about
45% originating in the Pampanga river watershed, 50% in the Agno river
basin and the remaining 5% from smaller coastal drainage areas.
4.        In 1966, a water resources survey team from the U.S. Bureau of
Reclamation prepared and submitted to the Philippine Government a Central
Luzon basin report. This report identified potential storage projects
within the region, outlining the possible functions of each scheme. One
of the projects which was so identified and which has since then been
implemented is the Upper Pampanga River Project (UPRP). Groundwater in-
vestigations are being conducted in the Guimba area with assistance from
the United Nations Development Program (UNDP). Further investigations
and studies have been or are being carried out, which provide basic data
and information that would be helpful in identifying other projects in the
basin.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
5.        The earlier investigations in the basin have provided a valuable
data basis, however, such data are inadequate to formulate a long-range
irrigation development plan with the end in view of achieving optimum
utilization of the region's land and water resources. The proposed
Central Luzon Irrigation Development Study would meet this requirement.
Objectives
6.        The objectives of the study would be to:
(a) Undertake a comprehensive inventory of the basin's land
and water resources;
(b) Review the present status of water resources development
in the basin and determine present and future development
needs in the light of current government plans and policies
on irrigation, power, flood control, municipal and indus-
trial water supply, and other uses of water;
(c) Formulate a plan of irrigation development for the region
giving thorough consideration to the other potential
beneficial uses of the water resources;
(d) Identify specific potential projects which would meet
immediate and future water requirements in the basin area;
and
(e) Provide special training for NIA staff in regional and
comprehensive basin planning through on-the-job and consultant
assisted training programs in the Philippines and elsewhere.
7.        The plan to be developed by the study would provide guidelines
for the integrated implementation of irrigation projects in a logical
sequence within the region.
Implementation
8.        The Central Luzon study would be undertaken by NIA's office of
the UPRP. It would be assisted by a firm of consultants who would be
employed to provide general guidance in the study and expertise in technical
fields as needed to reinforce the UPRP staff. Within the UPRP a Project
Development Division (PDD) would be assigned the primary responsibility of
carrying out the study, and would obtain assistance from other units
in UPRP as needed. The Division has five sections, Investigations,
Economics and Land Resources, Hydrology, Plan Formulation and Social and
Environmental Aspects. The staff would consist of approximately 30
professionals, and 80 subprofessionals for field work, drafting, transporta-
tion and administrative support. With the assistance of consultants the
PDD staff would be fully competent to satisfactorily carry out the study.
9.        Surveys and mapping would be undertaken, including aerial
photography, to assist in the preliminary planning and to subsequently



ANNEX 6
Page 3
aid in the preliminary design of irrigation facilities and flood control
works. Extensive ground control would be required for interpretation
of the aerial photographs and the preparation of contour maps for project
layouts.
10.       Hydrologic studies would be carried out to assess the water
availability in the basin. Additional rainfall and river gaging stations
would be installed or existing stations improved to provide data for
future use. The required hydrologic information would be derived from the
existing rainfall and streamflow data and where necessary by hydrologic
analysis through correlation with relevant data. Sedimentation and evaporation
studies would also be carried out as needed.
11.       Information on ground water in the basin is limited.  The geo-
physical conditions of the Central Luzon plains have not yet been
assessed and the results of some previously drilled test wells are in-
conclusive and not generally applicable throughout the basin. Under the
study, an electrical resistivity survey would be carried out over a period
of two years to ascertain whether there is any ground water potential
in the basin and if possible to indicate the location of areas with the
greatest promise.
12.       At sites wiere potential structures are proposed geological
explorations would be initiated. Core drilling, test pits and other
foundation exploration activities would be undertaken where structures
are planned. Similar activities would be carried out for construction
material exploration.
13.       For the purpose of the study a soil survey based on visual
inspection with a limited amount of laboratory back-up would be provided.
NIA would rely primarily on the Bureau of Soils for this work. Inasmuch as
rice would undoubtecly be the principal crop, this type of survey would be
adequate for preliminary plans. A reconnaissance land classification would
be required for the preparation of subsequent feasibility studies.
14.       The current agricultural activities in the basin would be
analyzed and potentials, constraints and limitations identified. Future
agricultural possibilities under the proposed study would be reviewed
and programs identified which would beneficially assist in establishing
greater and more profitable agricultural output. Associated with this
would be a review of the land ownership pattern, the need for adjustment
in ownership, and the advisability of undertaking a land consolidation
program for more efficient project formulation and agricultural development.
The review would be based on the data being collected by the Department of
Agrarian Reform under the Government's land reform program.
15.       A training program for technical personnel of NIA would be
undertaken under the study. It would provide promising technicians the
opportunity to gain broader knowledge in comprehensive land and water
resource development planning. The training program would cover all
aspects of such work and would include on-the-job training as well as
academic courses. The training work would be carried out with the help of



ANNEX 6
Page 4
the consultimg firm employed by the NIA for the study and would include
overseas training as well as training within the Philippines.
Consultants
16.       NIA would employ under terms of reference already approved by
the Bank Group a firm of consultants to assist with the study. It is
expected that NIA would be able to carry out many of the data collection
functions and that the role of the consultants would be to provide guidance,
review and special technical services as needed. The consultants' work
would include advice and review of work on aerial surveys and mapping,
hydrometry, geologic and construction material investigations, groundwater
exploration and well testing and land classification and land resources
surveys. The consultants would carry out overall hydrologic studies,
designs and cost estimates for major structures; they would review and
evaluate the adequacy of all data, the benefit and economic analyses and
the preparation of the irrigation development plan for the basin. They
would also prepare a report giving the findings of the study, along with
supporting background information. In addition the consultants would
assist with the training program for NIA staff, and in the coordination
of activities with the Steering Committee.
Steering Comnittee
17.       In view of the broad scope of the study coordination with other
Government agencies would be essential and would be provided through a
Steering Committee, which would include representatives of the primary
Government agencies that are engaged in land and water development. The
Committee would draw its members from the National Irrigation Administration,
Bureau of Public Works, National Power Corporation, Local Water Utilities
Administration, Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System, as well as
other affected government agencies. The Committee, which would be chaired
by a senior staff member of NIA, would provide coordination with other
agencies on the study to insure consideration of all development aspects
of the basin's land and water. As the purpose of the study is to prepare
an irrigation development plan for consideration by Government, the
final authority on the scope and content of the report would rest with NIA.
Through participation in the Steering Committee other agencies would be
given an opportunity to express views which may affect or be in conflict
with the irrigation development plan. The agencies would also become
aware of the proposals contemplated by NIA. The report would deal largely
with the technical aspects of development and could not be expected to
resolve all the conflict of interest problems which may exist in a large
basin development. These would have to be resolved through the normal
Government processes for authorization of projects which would take into
consideration country-wide interests and the proposals of other agencies or
groups.



ANNEX 6
Page 5
Report
18.       Upon completion of the study a report would be prepared which
would include an evaluation of the irrigation possibilities in the basin
including transbasin diversions, storage facilities and a reconnaissance
of groundwater potentials. Where proposed irrigation projects have multi-
purpose features, such as power, flood control and navigation, these would
be evaluated with the project after discussion with the agencies primarily
responsible for such activities. Land use and agricultural aspects would be
examined in sufficient detail to show the prospects and limitations. A
review and analysis of land ownership, land reform and land consolidation
would be made. Social and environmental conditions of proposed developments
would be reviewed. Project layouts would be in sufficient detail to permit
at least reconnaissance level cost estimates for projects proposed for
development in the succeeding 25 years. More accurate estimates would be
prepared for projects proposed for earlier development. An evaluation of
economic benefits to establish a priority of development and the formulation
of an overall irrigation development plan would be included. The report
would be issued in final form after review by the NIA and the Steering
Committee.
19.       It is expected that the investigations would be completed in
about three years and a report setting forth the development plan would
be submitted six months later.
Costs
20.       The study is estimated to cost a total of US$4.37 million including
a foreign exchange component of US$2.2 million for the purchase of equipment,
vehicles, materials and supplies, consultant and other contractual services
and for costs associated with the training of NIA personnel. Details of
the cost estimate are given in Annex 8 and a list and cost of the proposed
equipment to be purchased is shown in Annex 9.






ANNEX 7
PHILIPPINES
AURORA - PENARANDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Construction Schedule
1.        The proposed construction schedule for the project is shown on
Chart No. 8152. Construction is estimated to take five years. The first
year (1974) would largely be devoted to mobilization, planning and design.
Physical work would commence in the second year, reach a peak in the third
year (1976) and gradually taper off in the fifth year (1978).
2.        The diversion works and the rehabilitation of the 16,700 ha
Penaranda system would be completed by the end of May of 1977, thus allow-
ing the June-November Aurora basin flows to be stored in Pantabangan reser-
voir for utilization in the 1978 dry-season crop. Construction of the
8,600 ha extension to the Penaranda system would not begin until 1976. The
area is situated at the southern limit of the existing canal system and
would have to await the enlargement and rehabilitation of the latter before
it could be developed. The first fully irrigated rice crop on the new area
would be taken in the 1978 wet season.
3.        As a major proportion of benefits from the project would be
derived from the increased cropping intensity in the dry season, timely
completion of the Aurora diversion works would be of critical importance.






ANNEX 8
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
AURORA - PENARANDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Cost Estimate
Foreign
Exchange
Local      Foreign       Total           Local       Foreign       Total           %
--------(Pesos '000) ---------           ---------(US$ '000)_________
1. AURORA DIVERSION UNIT
Mobilization and Roads                                  2,020      2,400         4,420             300         355           655          54
Relocations                                              470         -             470             70         -               70           -
Canili Dam                                            20,795      18,370        39,165           3,090       2,730         5,820          47
Canili Dam Diversion Conduit                           2,660       1,040         3,700             395         155           550          28
Diayo Dam                                              5,650       4,925        10,575             840         730         1,570          46
Diayo Dam Diversion Conduit                              235         100           335              35          15            50          30
Diayo Channel                                            670         705         1,375             100         105           205          51
Transbasin Diversion Channel                           5,860       5,270        11,130             870         785         1,655          47
Transmission Lines                                        670      ,l010         1,680             100         150           250          60
Sub-Total                                        39,030      33,820        72,850          5,800       5,025         10,825          46
Contingencies 20b                                      7,805       6,750        14,555           1,160       1,005         2,165          46
Engineering Supervision & Administration 32            2,425         -           2,425             360        _              360          -
Sub-Total                                        49,260      40,570        89,830          7,320       6,030         13,350          45
2. PENARANDA SERVICE AREA
Raising PBRIS Diversion Dam                               240          65           305             35          10            45          22
Enlarging PBRIS Main Canal                             4,710       3,610         8,320             700         535         1,235          43
Construction Lateral G-2                               2,185       1,405         3,590             325         210           535          39
Conduit at face of Penaranda Diversion Dam              1,040        400         1,440             155          60           215          28
Rehabilitation of existing Penaranda
Service Canals                                       9,755       7,380        17,135           1,450       1,100         2,550          43
Construction of irrigation facilities in
Penaranda Extension Area                             7,940       5,170        13,110           1,180         765         1,945          39
Construction of cross drainage/diversion
structures for local flows                           5,420       2,545         7,965             805         380         1,185          32
Enlarging Lateral C                                     1,415        680         2,095             210         100           310          32
Improvement of existing drainage channels              2,150       1,855         4,005             320         275           595           46
Improvement of project roads                              975        925         1,900             145         135           280          48
Construction of new project roads                         505        470            975             75          70            145         48
Sub-Total                                        36,335      24,505        60,840          5,400       3,640          9,040          40
Contingencies 15%                                      5,485       3,675         9,160             815         545         1,360          40
Engineering Supervision & Administration 6%            4,205          _          4.205             625         -             625            -
Sub-Total                                        46,025      28,180        74,205          6,840       4,185         11,025          38
Sub-Total I + 2                                  95,285      68,750       164,035         14,160      10,215         24,375          42
3.  CONSULTING SERVICES                                       1,005       4,375         5,380            150         650            800          81
4.  OPERATION & MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT                           170       2,860         3,030              25         425           450          94
5. CENTRAL LUZON STUDY
Project personnel                                       5,785         875         6,660            860         130           990           13
Contractual Services                                    5,920      4,915         10,835            880         730         1,610          45
Equipment                                               1,150      6,970          8,120            170       1,035         1,205           86
Contingencies                                           1,930       1,915         3.845            285         285           570           50
Sub-Total                                        14,785      14,675        29,460           2,195       2,180         4,375          50
SUB-TOTAL PROJECT COST                          111,245      90,660       201,905         16,530      13,470         30,000          45
Price Contingencies 1/                                30,075      23,755        53,830           4,470       3,530         8,000          44
Interest during construction                              -       13,455        13,455            _          2,000         2,000         100
TOTAL PROJECT COST                              141,320    127,870        269,190         21.000      19,000         40,000          48
1/ Based on Annex 8, Table 3



ANNEX 8
Table 2
PHnIPPINE
AURORA - PENARWN&D IRIGAiTION PROJECT
CENTRAL LUZON IRRIGATION DEVELOBMENT STUDY
Cost Estimate
Local      Foreign       Total
…- - -- -(us$   O o)-   - - -  -
1.   Project personnel                       840         -             84o
2.   Training project personnel               20        130            150
Sub-Total                      860        130            990
3.   Contractual Services
a) Survey P Mapping                    500         -             500
b) Groundwater investigation           100         70            170
c) Geologic exploration                100         40            140
d) Consultants                         180        620            800
Sub-Total                      880        730          1,610
4.   Equipment, Supplies & Materials
a) Office supplies, materials
s, furniture                        30         -             30
b) Field supplies, materials
& furniture                         25         -              25
c) Imported equipment                   -         850            850
d) Equipment rental                     80         -              80
e) Fuel, oil & spares                             185            185
f) Sundries                             35         -              35
Sub-Total                      170      1,035          1,205
Sub-Total Items 1-4          1,910      1,895          3,805
Contingencies 15A                       285        285            570
Total                        2,195      2,180          4,375



ANNEX 8
PHILIPPINES                          Table 3
AURORA-PENARANDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Price Contingencies
Calendar Year:      19743/  1975    1976       1977    1978    1979    Total
1.  Civil Works Us$ 'ooo1/                    595   2,650    8,660   7,910   2,785   775        23,375
Armual Inflation Rate  %                12       10        8       8        8       8
Price Contingencies US$ '000               35     425    2,100   2,550   1,200   370         6,680
2.  Equipment    US$ '000 2/                  100     700       790      h65     190    55       2,300
Annual Inflation Rate  %                 8        7        5       5        5       5
Price Contingencies US$ '000                5      75       125     100       50    20         375
3.  Other         US$ '000-/                  730   1,270   1,405        700     205    15       4,325
Annual Inflation Rate  %                 9        9        8       7.5      7.5     7.5
Price Contingencies US$ '000               35     170      305      205       75    10         800
Total         US$ '000                 1,425   4,620  10,855    9,075   3,180   845         30,000
Price Contingencies (Rounded)US$ '000  100        700   2,600    2,900   1,300   400         8,000
1/ Based on Annex 8, Table 1
2/ Based on Annex 9, Tables 1, 2 and 3.
3/ As estimated costs based on mid-1974 prices, half yearly rate used.






ANNEX 9
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
AURORA - PENARANDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Equipment, Materials and Supplies for Force Account Work
Total Cost
Item                             Quantity    Unit Cost        C.I.F.
(U $    '000)-------
Crane--Truck lOT w/i yd. clawdrag        1              20            20
Crane, Crawler 20T w/l yd. clawdrag      1              35            35
Tractor crawler, D-6 equivalent          4              50           200
Loaders, wheeled 1-3/4 yd.               1              25            25
Pneumatic Tired Rollers, 22T             2              30            60
Vibrating Drum Rollers, 15T w/ind.
tractor 50 hp                        4              30           120
Sheepsfoot Rollers                       4              12            48
Ditchers, 1:1 slope w/farm tractor,
75 hp                                2             40             80
Graders, 125 hp                          2              35            70
Truck, dump, 4 x 2                       8              15           120
Truck, stake, 4 x 2                      3              12            36
Truck, pick-up, 4 x 4                    6               8            48
Jeeps, 4 x 4                            12               6            72
Radio Transceiver (Single side band)    4              2.5            10
Sub-Total                                                      944
Spare Parts                                                           56
Total                                                        1,000



ANNEX 9
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
AURORA - PENARANDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Equipment, Materials and Supplies for Operation and Maintenance
Total Cost
Item                          Quantity     Unit Cost        C.I.F.
-------(s,  0o) -------
Crane-Truck lOT wA/  yd. clawdrag          1              20            20
Crane, Crawler 20T w/1 yd. clawdrag        1              40            40
Tractor Crawler, D-4 equivalent            6              25            150
Loaders, wheeled 1-3/4 yd.                 1              25             25
Graders, 125 hp                            2              35             70
Truck,dump, 4 x 2                          4              15            60
Truck)stake, 4 x 2                         1              12             12
Truck, pick-up 4 x 4                       2               8             16
Jeeps, 4 x 4                               4               6             24
Radio Transceiver(single-side band)        4             2.5             10
Sub-Total                                                      427
Spare Parts                                                              23
Total                                                                   450



ANNEX 9
Table 3
PHILIPPIiNES
AURORA - PENARAD  IRRI WTION PROJECT
OENTRAL LUZON IRRIGATION DEVELOHNT STUDY
List o' F,uioment and Vehicles
Item                                   Estimated Cost
A, SURVEy: N  AID MAPPING 
Distomat DI - 10, 4 units                           60,000
Theodolite, $ units                                 25,000
Precision levels, 6 units                            7,,00
Transits, 8 units                                   14,000
Engineers level, 8 units                            12,000
Philadelphia Rods, 28 units                          4,000
Steel tapes, 14 units                                2,500
Electronic calculators, 8 units                      8,000
Mirror Stereoscope, 10 units                         6,000
'Pocket Stereoscope, 10 units                         1,500
Stereoplotter, 1 unit                              110,000
Sub-Total:         250,000
B. HYDROMITRY
Automatic Stage Recorder, 24 units                  13,50o
Automatic Rain Gage, 18 units                       10
Current Meter, 4 units                               9,000
Aluminum or Fiberglass boat, 2 units                 5,000
Outboard motors, 2 units                             6,500
Calculators, electronlc, 4 units                     4,000
Engineers level, 3 units                             44,500
Rods, 3 units                                          5°°
Sediment sa¶plers, 8 units assorted
weights including accessories                     1,500
Sub-Total:          59,000
C. GROUW!D:ATER VXPL0RATION
Terrameter, direct current earth resistivity
meter, complete with accessories and
spare parts, 3 units                             451,000
Water level indicators, portable ph meters,
conductivity meters, water samplers and
other instriuments, lump suin                     5,000
Sub-Total:          50,000



ANNEX 9
Table 3
Page 2
Estimated Cost
D. IAND CLASSIFICATION AND SOILS L.ABORATORY
Laboratory equipment to complement existing laboratory
facilities consisting of various types and quantities
including c6m-bination digestion and distillation
apparatus; electric furnace; centrLf.oge;,
burners; shakers; ph meter; ccnductivity
bridge; conductivity cells, demineralizer;
flame photometer; spectro-photometer;
balances; sieves; sieve shaker hot plates;
trunnion carrier; semi-permanent scientific
glasswvare;  and other apparatus and chemicals;
lump sum                                                       1 5, C00
Field land-classification and.materials-testing
instruments and tools including sieves; hand
augers: and field scales; lump sum                             __5,_0_o
Sub-Total:                       20,030
E. GEOLOGIC E,T2LOIRATIOH
Drilling rigs, complete with accessories and
spare parts, diamond bits, core barrels
casings, etc.; 2 units                                        1 50,coo
2 units
F. VEHICIES
Surveying and lHapping:
.    - Jeeps, 4 x 4                                            43,200
2 - Pick-ups; one-ton                                          12,000
liydrometry:
4 - Jeeps, 4 x 4                                               21,600
2 - Pick- ups; one-ton                                         12,C03
Groundw-ater Investigation:
3 - Jeeps, a x 4                                               16,2C3
3 - Pick-upS, one ton                                         1i,2Oo
Geologic Exploration:
2 - Jeeps, 4 x 4                                               10,830
2 - Pick-ups,one ton                                           12,OO
Land Classification:
o - Jeeps, 4 x 4                                               43,200
2 - Pick-up5, one ton                                          1 2,000
Project Staff includn-g agro-economic survey
teams, social and environmenual survei crews:
1 - Wagon, 4xh
4 - Jeeps, It x 4                                              21,600



ANNEX 9
Table 3
Page 3
Estimated Cost
Consultant's Staff:
1 - Wagon, 4 x 4                                         5,6o0
3 - Jeeps, 4 x 4                                        11,200
Sub-Total:             250,000
G. MISUCELXI'MEOUS EOJIPUIMIT
Lump sum provision for unlisted items of
equipment, apparatus and instruments                    75,000
Total:             850,0ooo






PHILIPPINE
AURORA - PENARANDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Expenditures
Total
Item                            Cost        FY 74 V   FY 75     FY 76      FY 77     FY 78     FY 79
- -_                        (US$ '000)-----------------------------
Aurora Diversion Unit              13,350        -        590       3,030     8,190     1,540        -
Penaranda Service Area             11,025        -        650       2,550     3,765     2,390      1,670
Consulting Services                   800        -        170        250        250        95         35
0 & M Equipment                       450        -         -           -        105       235        110
Central Luzon Study                 4,375       255     1,380      1,720        880       1-40    _
Sub-Total                      30,000        255     2;?90      7,550   2i3,;90       4,4C     i,815
Price Contingencies                 8,000        -        800       2,000     3,5oo     ly       _  500
Sub-Total                      38,000        255     3,590      9,550    16,690      5,600     2,315
Interest During Construction       2,000                                        300       750       950
Total Project Cost             40,000        255     3,590      9,550    16,990      6,350     3,265
1/IT 9RD fiscal years.
HI-O



ANNEX 10
Tablet
PHIIUPPIES
AURORA - PENARANDA IR2IGATION PBROJEC
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements V
IBRD Fiscal Year                             Accuaulated Disbursements
and Semester                                  US$ '000 Eqivalent
Fiscal Year 1975
ist                                                 500
2nd                                               2,400
Fiscal Year 1976
1st                                               5,500
2nd                                               6,700
Fiscal Year 1977
1st                                              10,500
2nd                                              14,900
Fiscal Year 1978
lst                                              15,700
2nd                                              17,300
Fiscal Year 1979
lst                                              18,000
2nd                                              19,000
1/ The IDA Credit of US$ 9.5 million would be disbursed ahead ol" the Loan of
uS$ 9.5 million.



ANNEX 10
PHILIPPINES                            Table 3
AURORA-PENARANDA IRRIGATICN PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of Proceeds of Loan/Credit
Costs                    Proposed
Total    *   Foreign           Loan/Credit
........... ........ (US$ M illo 00000**600. *0*.o OS
Category
I. Civil Works:
Aurora Diversion                    10.8            5.0               10.7 *
Penaranda Service Are 1/             8.0            2.6
Central Luzon Study d/               1.2            0.2
Price Contingencies 37               7.1            2.9
Sub Total                 27.1            10.7
* Of which:(a) US$3.5 million for mobilization and contractors' equipment and (b)
US$7.2 million for other civil works. Disbursement for (a) will be 100% of
foreign exchange and for (b) 27% of total cost.
II.  Equipment                            2.3            2.3                2,3
Disbursement will be 100% of foreign exchange
III. Consultants and Training:
Aurora-Penaranda                     0.8            0.7
Central bIuzn Study                 1.6            0.7
Training                             0.1            0.1
Sub-Total                 -77                                 1.5
Disbursement will be 100% of foreign exchange
IV.  Interest During Construction         200            2.0                2.0
Disbursement will be 100% of total
V. Unallocated:
Physical Contingencies 5/            4.2            1.8
Price Contingencies 6/               0.9            0.7
Sub-Total                 T57i T77                            2.5
(Admin. and Engineering)            (1.0)
Total                     10iO            19.0               19.0
1/ Force account equipment, US$1.0 million (Annex 9, Table 1) excluded and transferred
to Cat. II.
2/ Excludes cost of consultants (US$1.6 million), training (US$0.1 million) and
equipment (US$0.8 million) (Annex 9, Table 3).
3/ Includes US$6.7 million for civil works and US$0.4 million for Central Luzon Study
(Annex 8, Table 3).
4/ Includes equipment for force account (US$1.0 million), O&M (US$0.45 million) and
Central Lazon Study (US$0.85 million) (Annex 9, Tables 1,2, and 3).
5/ Includes physical contingencies on civil works (US$3.6 million) and Central Luzon
Study (US$0.6 million) (Annex 8, Table 1).
6/ Includes price cotingencies on euipmetit (US$0.5 million) and consultants
(US$0.4 million) (Annex 8, Table  .






ANNEX 11
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
AURORA-PENARANDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Organization and Management
1.        Since 1964 the overall responsibility for the national irrigation
systems in the Philippines has been vested in the National Irrigation
Administration (NIA). The NIA was set up under Republic Act No. 3601 to
investigate, study, improve, construct and administer all national irriga-
tion systems. It was given the powcr to carry out investigations into
all available water resources in the country in order to utilize them for
irrigation and to collect water rates from the beneficiaries of the
national irrigation systems. The NIA is financed by the Government
through the sale of bonds or from appropriations.
2.        The governing body of the NIA is the Board of Directors, composed
of a Chairman and six members. Its management is vested in an Administra-
tor appointed by the Board, with the approval of the President of the
Philippines. The NIA is organized into five departments at headquarters,
ten regional offices managing the field services and a number of special
projects offices. Consultants were employed under the provisions of the
Bank-assisted (Loan 637-PH) Upper Pampanga River Project (UPRP) to make
recommendations for a program for the improvement of NIA's operations,
organizational structure and financial management. Most of the recommenda-
tions have already been implemented or are in the course of being put into
effect.
3.        A special project office under the direction of a Project Manager
was established to carry out the UPRP. The organization evolved both for
construction and for maintenance has worked well. The UPRP now employs
nearly 7,000 people of whom over 2,000 are engineers, agriculturists,
economists and other professionals. During the construction phase
(Chart No. 8211) the Dam and Town Facilities Division of the UPRP would
be responsible for the Aurora transbasin component of the project. This
Division is currently responsible for construction of the Pantabangan dam.
The latter is expected to be nearing completion at the time that work on
Aurora would begin. A new Division would be created to assume responsi-
bility for the construction of the service area in Penaranda; it would
be completely similar to the existing three Divisions presently engaged
in constructing the UPRP service area.
4.        Presidential Decree No. 35 of November 2, 1972 charged the UPRP
with the responsibility for carrying out the proposed Central Luzon
Irrigation Development Study. The Project Development Division would
handle the study and would assign approximately 30 professionals to the
task (Annex 6).



ANNEX 11
Page 2
5.        The proposed organization for operation and maintenance (O&M)
is shown in Chart No. 8212. The existing Dam and Reservoir Division
would assume responsibility for 0 & M of the Canili and Diayo dams and
of the diversion works. The 0 & M of the Penaranda service area would
be catered for by creation of a fourtli Irrigation District. The smallest
physical sub-division in the system would be a 50 ha irrigation unit.
Two such units would be the basic organizational entity and would be
supervised by a ditchtender. Five of the latter, or 500 ha, would form
a water management section under a Water Management Technologist, who
would be an agricultural engineering graduate. Five sections, or
2,500 ha, would make up a water management division under a Supervisor.
Three to four divisions, 7,500 to 10,000 ha, would constitute a zone,
under a Superintendent. The proposed Penaranda Irrigation District would
be divided into three zones. Water Management Technologists for the
project as well as the ditchtenders would be trained in the UPRP's ongoing
training program.



ANNEX 11
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
AURORA-PENARANDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Cost of Operation and Maintenance 
Annual Cost
?/ha
Salaries and Wages                      85.00
Equipment Costs                         16.25
Office Expenses                          2.50
Supplies and Materials                   4.75
Mfaintenance of Irrigation Works         7.50
Maintenance of Roads                     9.00
TOTAL                       125.00
/1   Based on costs of entire UPRP, including
Penaranda, for a total of 102,000 ha.






ANNEX 12
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
AURORA-PENARANDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Supporting Agricultural Services
Extension
1.        A number of Government organizations currently has dealings
with the farmers. The principal agencies are:
(a) The Bureau of Agricultural Extension Services (BAES);
(b) The Bureau of Plant Industry (BPI);
(c) The Department of Agrarian Reform (DAR);
(d) The Agricultural Credit Administration (ACA);
(e) The Department of Local Government and Community
Development (DLG-CD); and
(f) The National Irrigation Administration (NIA).
In addition there are the non-Government Rural Banks (RB).
2.        In the Upper Pampanga River Project (UPRP) the need for
coordinating the various agencies providing services to the farmers was
clearly felt. In September 1972, the respective heads of the NIA, the
ACA, the DAR, the Central Bank of the Philippines, the National Food
and Agricultural Council on behalf of the BAES and BPI and the Federation
of Nueva Ecija Rural Bankers signed a memorandum of agreement. The
latter set forth in detail the responsibilities of the various agencies
within the UPRP and provided for coordinating machinery. Day-to-day
control is exercised by the Agricultural Development Coordinating
Council (ADCC) consisting of the Provincial Heads of the participating
agencies. While the arrangement is still quite new, it seems to be
working well. As the proposed Penaranda project would be operated as
part of the UPEP, similar coordinating arrangements would be made. The
existing ADCC is organized on a provincial basis as the UPRP falls
entirely within Nueva Ecija province while the proposed Penaranda project
is located in three provinces, Nueva Ecija, Bulacan and Pampanga. How-
ever, the three provinces are within the same administrative region and
it should be possible to expand the existing ADCC to give it a regional
basis and to provide coverage for both UPRP and the Penaranda service



ANNEX 12
Page 2
area. The main requirements are that the members of the ADCC have the
authority to speak on behalf of their agencies and be close enough to
the operational level to understand the problems.
3.        The BAES is mainly responsible for agricultural extension, with
technical back-up being provided by the BPI. The present extension staff
in the project area totals 25 and consists of 2 Extension Supervisors,
1 Rice Specialist, 17 Farm Management Technicians (FMT), 2 Home Management
Technicians and 3 Rural Youth Officers. This works out at a ratio of
one extension worker to 400 farmers. A more realistic picture is obtained
if only the FMTs are considered, the ratio then becomes 1:600. In UPRP
it is proposed to bring the ratio to 1:200. Under the proposed project
the extension cadre by 1980 would total 98, consisting of:
Extension Supervisors                5
Rice Specialist                      1
Farm Management Technicians         50
Home Management Technicians         30
Rural Youth Officers                12
4.        The project would be organized on the basis of irrigation
units of 50 ha in the same manner as the UPRP. The 20 odd farmers in
such a unit would be given every incentive to work together as a group.
The NIA would schedule irrigation on a rotational basis thus promoting
a uniformity of operations within each unit at any given time. The
rotational area would also be the basic unit for the provision of credit
and the building block for the eventual organization of irrigation
associations and cooperatives. In UPRP the NIA is assigning a Water
Management Technologist, who is an agricultural graduate, to every
10 units. The same staffing pattern would be applied to the Penaranda
service area (see Annex 11).
5.        New extension work items to be emphasized would include improved
irrigation and drainage practices; the use of good quality seed and even
planting; proper fertilizer application; weed and pest control; and the
use of tillage and threshing machinery. The restructured ADCC would be
responsible for drawing up within one year of loan signature a comprehensive
five-year program for the agricultural supporting services for both the
proposed project and the UPRP.
Research
6.        The Maligaya Rice Research and Training Center is situated
some 60 km northwest of the project area and is within the UPRP boundaries.
The Center is operated by the BPI and is engaged in selection and breeding,
fertilizer application, weed control, crop protection, water management
and storage and processing investigations on rice. It also works on
possible rotation crops to rice, as well as being responsible for seed
production, certification and testing for rice and other crops. The
Center has training facilities and is being used by UPRP for training of



ANNEX 12
Page 3
staff. The Central Luzon State University, located some 65 km northwest
of the project area, already works with UPRP on water management investi-
gations. The UPRP also has good working relations with the International
Rice Research Institute and the Agricultural College of the University
of the Philippines. The project would be able through UPRP to draw on
research back-up from all these sources.
Fertilizers
7.        Present fertilizer consumption in the project area reaches an
annual total of just under 4,000 tons. Urea accounts for a little less
than half of the total. Application rates for all fertilizers in the
wet season run at a level of about 90 kg/ha. In the irrigated dry season
crop the rate of application averages 140 kg/ha of which just under
50 kg/ha are nitrogen. At full development the project area would require
some 12,000 tons of fertilizer, of which one-third would be urea and the
balance Ammophos. The average rate of application per crop season would
be of 60 kg/ha nitrogen and 30 kg/ha phosphate. Fertilizers are presently
supplied in the project area by private dealers. These supply channels
are adequate to handle the estimated increase in demand.
Seed
8.        Some 2,000 tons of rice seed per annum are presently used in the
project area. Seeding rates tend to be unnecessarily heavy as an insurance
against the risk of seedling losses. Seed is obtained by retention from
the farmers' commercial production and from seed-growing cooperatives.
The Maligaya Center produces foundation and registered seed for bulking
by selected seed-producing cooperatives. At full development the project
would use approximately 2,500 tons of rice seed per annum. The modest
increase over present consumption, despite the substantial increase in
area cropped, would be achieved by a reduction in the seed rate to 50 kg/ha.
On the assumption that rice seed would be renewed every five years, the
estimated annual requirement of quality seed for the project area at full
development would amount to 500 tons. No difficulties are envisaged in
supplying this amount.
Farmers' Organizations
9.        As part of the Land Reform program the Government through the
DLG-CD is promoting the formation of pre-cooperative farmers' organizations,
based on the barrio or hamlet. The organizations would serve as a channel
for the inflow of technical services, credit and inputs and as an assembly
point for produce intended foa market. It is hoped that at a future date
the organizations would grow into full fledged, formally constituted
cooperatives. This approach to cooperative organization fits in well
with the 50 ha irrigation unit approach adopted by NIA in the existing
UPRP. The organizations are very new and still unproven but they appear
to hold out considerable promise and would be extended from the UPRP to
include the project area.



ANNEX 12
Page 4
10.       The NIA is committed to the creation of irrigation associations
amongst the farmers which would eventually assume a large part of the
responsibillty for the operation and maintenance of the national irrigation
systems. W.thout losing sight of the ultimate objective, the main thrust
of NIA's efforts in UPRP has been to organize the farmers within the 50 ha
units primarily for production and water management. The immediate aim
is to demonstrate to the farmers that working together and using water
efficiently is possible and profitable. Once this has been established
a realistic framework for setting up irrigation associations would exist.
The project area would be expected to follow on the example and gain
from the experience of the UPRP.
Credit
11.       Some 10-20% of the farmers in the project area finance their
requirement of farm inputs and hired labor from their own resources.
The remainder use some form of credit. The principal sources are:
(a) banks, notably the Rural Banks (RB), the Philippine
National Bank (PNB), the Development Bank of the
Philippines (DBP) and private banks;
(b) the Agricultural Credit Administration (ACA);
(c) input dealers, marketing organizations and millers; and
(d) money lenders.
Seven of the eight municipalities in the project area are served by branches
of the RBs. The PNB has one branch in the project area, and 10 branches
in the three provinces in which the project is located.
12.       To ensure the success of the accelerated Land Reform program set
in motion by Presidential Decree No. 27 of October 1972, the Government
has proceeded to strengthen the credit institutions and to facilitate
the granting of production credit to small farmers who previously depended
on the landlords for their requirements. RBs have been authorized re-
discounting privileges of 100%, Government guarantees of up to 85% of
the loans made and low-cost money from the Central Bank.  The easier
credit thus made available is employed under a system of "supervised
credit', which includes the provision of technical services to the bor-
rower to ensure that recommended practices, including variety, fertilizer
and agrochemical inputs, are adopted. All loans granted under supervised
credit are not secured by collateral, but are covered by a Government
guarantee; the interest is at 12% per annum and the loan is for a period
of 5 to 6 months.
13.       The total agricultural loans made by the RBs in the project
area rose from t 4.5 million (US$0.7 million) in 1970 to t 8.6 million
(US$1.3 million) in 1972. The increase in lending by the PNB was even



ANNEX 12
Page 5
more marked. In 1972 the PNB granted loans totalling * 56 million (US$8.3
million) to farmers cultivating about 160,000 ha of rice in the three
provinces of the project area. By August of 1973 the PNB had already
issued loans to a total of 1 85 million (US$12.6 million).
14.       At present production credit is given at the rate of t 700/ha,
made up of t 380 for inputs and p320 for services. The latter include an
element of subsistence. In view of the steep rise in cash inputs esti-
mated to take place at full development some increase in the rate of
production credit would have to be considered. If the element of sub-
sistence could be reduced as a result of improvement of the farmers'
income at full project development, a rate of about t 950/ha would seem
to be reasonable. It would cover 90% of total cash inputs, excluding
water rates and paid labor.
15.       Assuming that at full development about 10% of the farmers in
the project area would finance their requirements of inputs and hired
labor from their own resources, some 9,000 farmers would need credit
from institutional sources. Should a loan level of r 950/ha be used,
the total annual credit requirement at full development would amount
to f 40.2 million (US$6.0 million) or 90, of all cash inputs.  The
existing credit institutions are expected to be able to meet the
requirement.






ANNEX 13
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
AURORA-PENARANDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Present and Projected Cropping Patterns and Production
Present Cropping Pattern
1.        At present some 16,700 ha included in the existing Penaranda
river Irrigation System (PENRIS) are cultivated to rice in the wet season.
During the dry season, flows in the Penaranda river are only sufficient
to permit rice cultivation on 10,000 ha, giving an overall cropping
intensity in the PENRIS of about 165%. In the rainfed area south of the
PENRIS, that would be developed under the project, only a wet season rice
crop is grown on 8,600 ha. The present overall cropping intensity in
the project area is about 143%. Rice is the only crop of any significance
in the area. Paddy production is estimated at 81,500 tons per annum.
The present cropping pattern and production estimates and projected
future conditions without the project are given in Table 1.
2.        Wet season rice is grown between May and December.  Transplant-
ing is spread over a 10-week period between the middle of June and the
end of August and harvesting takes place over an eight-week period
between the beginning of November and the end of December. The dry
season crop is grown between December and May, both planting and harvest-
ing are spread over eight-week periods in December-February and April-May
respectively. All rice is transplanted from field nurseries on to
previously puddled land. The extended period of transplanting is mainly
due to the difficulties experienced in obtaining adequate and timely
irrigation and consequent heavy reliance on rainfall.
3.        Most of the farmers in the PENRIS grow short-strawed high
yielding varieties, while in the rainfed areas only about one-third of
the farmers use the high yielding varieties, the majority relies on the
lower yielding, but hardier traditional varieties. The average paddy
yield in the rainfed areas is about 2 ton/ha, on the irrigated areas the
average wet and dry season yields are 2.3 and 2.4 ton/ha respectively.
The low yield levels are partly due to unsatisfactory water management
and partly to poor farming practices. The latter are exemplified by
random transplanting, high weed infestations, and insufficient use of
fertilizers and agrochemicals.
Future Cropping Pattern
4.        In the absence of the project the rate of increase in yield in
the rainfed areas is estimated at 1.5% per annum and would most probably
be due to a slow enlargement of the area under high yielding varieties.



ANNEX 13
Page 2
In the existing PENRIS area the yields in both the wet and dry season
crops are estimated to increase by some 3.5% per annum as a result of
better cultivation, more weeding and improved plant protection. The
use of inputs would be expected to increase with the availability of
greater supplies of credit, and more extension effort as part of the
Government's campaign for national self-sufficiency in rice. There would
be no change in the existing cropping intensity due to shortage of
water in the dry season.
5.        The expected changes in the cropping pattern and in crop
production under the project are shown in Table 2. The project would
provide wet season irrigation to the 8,600 ha of rice presently dependent
on rainfall and would also supply sufficient additional water from the
Aurora basin to allow for an irrigated rice crop on the entire 25,300 ha
in the dry season. Cropping intensity in the project area would be
raised from the existing level of about 143% to about 200%. The proposed
cropping pattern based solely on rice is consistent with the heavy,
flat soils of the project area.
Future Yields
6.        With good water control, adequate supplies of credit and
inputs and a strengthened extension service, future paddy yields are
expected to be 3.8 ton/ha and 4.2 ton/ha for the wet and dry season
crops respectively (Table 2). In the PENRIS area these yields
would be achieved five years after the introduction of water control,
while in the existing rainfed areas it is estimated that the projected
yields would be reached six years after the provision of water, or
ten years after the inception of construction.
7.        The improved yields would be obtained from the introduction of
high yielding varieties throughout the project area, better land prepara-
tion through greater use of machinery, certified seed, row planting,
heavier fertilizer input and greater expenditure on crop protection and
weed control. The improved road network envisaged under the project
would allow better access to the farms, thus facilitating the inflow
of inputs and outflow of produce. The projected yields are already
being exceeded by enterprising farmers in nearby areas who are using
good farming practices, adequate input levels and assured water supplies
by pumping.
Development Constraints
8.        The project would bring about a change in the cropping
calendars, a moderate increase in labor requirement, a greater degree
of mechanization in land preparation and threshing, and a demand
for additional drying and storage facilities. The more important
issues are examined briefly.



ANNEX 13
Page 3
9.        Cropping Calendars.  To ensure efficient utilization of re-
sources and the avoidance of technical and organizational bottlenecks,
cropping calendars must be prepared as a basis for extension and water
management activities. The experience of local farmers growing dry
season crops and the results obtained at the research station at
Maligaya provide a useful basis on which to construct such a calendar.
The attached Chart No. 8214 shows a provisional calendar. The principal
differences between the proposed and existing practices are to be found
in the shortening and bringing forward of the transplanting period of
the wet season crop, which is reflected in an earlier harvest. In the
dry season crop the period of transplanting would be substantially
reduced from the current eight weeks in December-February to six weeks
in November-December. This would bring the harvest forward by over
five weeks and allow the crop to be reaped between the middle of
February and the middle of April, at the height of- the dry season.
This calendar would tend to even out the demand for labor, would
ensure that harvesting coincides with dry weather and would allow a
period of sixty days in March-April during which the irrigation system
would be shut off for maintenance.
10.       Labor Availability.  The supply and demand for labor with and
without the project are examined in detail in Annex 16.
11.       Mechanization.  At present a surprisingly high proportion of
the farmers use for land preparation a combination of animal drawn and
mechanical equipment. The latter takes the form of small power tillers.
This is particularly true for land preparation for the dry season crop.
With the improvement of water management and the increased cropping intensity
under the project it is estimated that the use of machines would spread to
the point that some 65% of land preparation in the wet season crop would
be mechanical and 85% in the dry season crop. It is anticipated that the
machinery would be operated mainly by contractors, as is the case at
present.
12.       Harvesting.  The rice is harvested by sickle and the bundles may
be left for a few days in the field to dry, depending on weather. Thresh-
ing is either carried out manually by beating the panicles on a slatted
table or by mechanical threshers. The latter are large machines and need
firm conditions underfoot. At present approximately half the crop is
threshed manually and half mechanically. There is a tendency for greater
use of machinery in the dry season crop. Under project conditions the
greatly improved field access and the need to speed up operations would
lead to a greater demand for mechanical threshing. This should not pose
any difficulty as the existing enterprising contractors can be expected
to meet the requirement.
13.       Drying and Storage.  At the present time the bulk of the threshed
paddy is sun-dried on whatever suitable surfaces are available. A few of
the rice mills own small artificial driers, but they are seldom used



ANNEX 13
Page 4
because of the high operating cost relative to sun-drying. All mills
have sun-drying capacity. The arrangements appear to be adequate for
the present paddy crop of 81,000 tons.  At full development the annual
paddy production from the project would total 202,000 tons. Production
of the wet season crop would increase by 70%, while the increase in the
dry season crop would be over 300%. The harvest of the latter should
present no problems as it would take place mainly in February-March,
two of the driest months in the year. Some expansion of drying facilities,
both solar and mechanical, would be required to deal with the increased
output for the wet season crop harvest in the wetter September-November
period. No difficulties are anticipated in providing the additional
facilities as the milling industry is enterprising and is aware of the need
for drying. Storage capacity within the project area is more than adequate
for present production, but would need to be expanded to meet-the increased
crop yields. In addition to on-farm storage, there are public and private
sector storage facilities. The latter are expected to increase storage
space to meet rising paddy production from the project area.
Processing
14.       Paddy from the project area is milled in 123 privately owned rice
mills and hullers in and around the project area. On the basis of a
12-hour milling day the mills have annual capacities of 500-600 tons. The
existing milling capacity is adequate to handle the present paddy produc-
tion of 80,000 tons. An increase in milling capacity would be required
starting in 1978 to deal with what would grow to an additional annual
paddy production of about 120,000 tons by 1983. No difficulty is foreseen
in expanding processing capacity to handle additional production from
the project, as the private sector is enterprising and has access to
sources of capital.
Marketing
15.       The farmer has a choice of selling the paddy surplus to his
requirements to a middleman, storing it in a private or Government owned
warehouse in the hope of obtaining a better price, having it milled and
selling the rice to a trader or selling the paddy to the National Grains
Authority at the Government support price. He may use all of the above
metlhods of disposing of his crop. While Government is involved in the
marketing sector, there is no authority with specific responsibility
for marketing. The part played by Government agencies and farmers
marketing cooperatives is remarkably small. With the emphasis presently
being placed on development of the cooperatives, as an essential support
to the land reform program, it is likely that at the time of full project
development farmers' cooperatives would play a much larger role in
marketing of the paddy.



PHILIPPINES
AURORA - PENARANDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
1/
Production from the Project Area at Present
Gross Value                   Net Value    Net Returns
Paddy    Farm Gate        of         Productl7n       of             from
Area      Yield        Price      Production      Costs-      Production31 Project Area
(ha)     (ton/ha)    (P/ton)   --                 P/ha-----------------       (P Million)
Wet Season
Irrigated Rice            16,700       2.3         800          1,840         530         1,310              21.9
(3.1)                    (2,480)       (735)       (1,745)            (29.1)
Rainfed Rice               8,600       2.0         800          1,600         485         1,1v1 5             9.6
(2.3)                    (1,840)       (615)       (1,225)            (10.5)
Dry Season
Irrigated Rice            10,800       2.4         800          1,920         535          1,3R9             14.9
(3.3)                    (2,640)       (785)        (1,855)           (20.0)
Total:                36,100                                                                              46.4
(59.6)
4/
Cropping Intensity  = 143%
1/ Projected future conditions without the project, wherever different from the present, are shown in parentheses.
2/ Based on Annex 14  Table I .  Excludes the cost of labor.
3/ Without accounting for labor.
4/ Based on a net irrigable area of 25,300 ha.



PHILIPPINES
AURORA - PENARANDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Production from the Project Area at Full Development
Gross Value                 Net Value    Net Returns
Paddy    Farm Gate        of         Production       of            from
Area      Yield       Price     Production       Costsl/    ProductionY/ Project Area
(ha)    (ton/ha)    (P/ton)                      P/ha----- ---------    (P Million)
Wet Season
Irrigated Rice           25,300       3.8        800         3,040           940           2,100          53.1
Dry Season
Irrigated Rice           25,300      4.2         800         3,360         1,000           2,360          59.7
Total:                50,600                                                                          112.8
3/
Cropping Intensity    200%
1/ Based on Annex 15 Table 1. Excludes the cost of labor.
2/  Without accounting for labor.
3/ Based on a net irrigable area of 25,300 ha.
IpC



ANNEX 1 3
Table 3
PHILIPPINES
AURORA - PENARANDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Summary of Cropping Pattern and Production
Paddy
Cropped Area             Production
Present    Future       Present   Future
(ha)----- ---('000 tons)---
Wet Season
Irrigated Rice               16,700    25,300         38.4       96.1
Rainfed Rice                   8,600      -           17.2         -
Sub-Total                 25,300    25,300         55.6       96.1
Dry Season
Irrigated Rice                10O800    25,300        25.9      106.3
Sub-Total                 10,800    25,300         25.9      106.3
Total                     3610       50,600        81.5      202.4
Cropping Intensity               143%       200%






ANNEX 14
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
AURORA-PENARANDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Market Prospects and Prices
Market Prospects
1.        At present, the main emphasis of Government policy is on the
attainment of self-sufficiency in basic foods especially rice and corn.
The deficit in rice, the main staple food crop, has been a persistent
problem for the Philippines. Offic-.al figures show that for 1963-67
the Philippines imported an average of about 300,000 tons of rice
annually. Although imports of rice stopped from 1968/69 to 1970/71,
there were declines in stocks of rice in these years. Rice imports
resumed and rose to 635,000 tons in 1971/72 and were again high in
1972/73.
2.        According to the Agricultural Sector Survey, even if there
should be a rapid recovery from the recent floods, the Philippines
would not find it easy to regain the momentum in rice output achieved
in the latter 1960's. In this period, production rose some 5.5% a year,
reflecting yield increases averaging, about 6% along with some decline
in area planted to upland rice.
3.        Official figures for 1972 give rice output for the Philippines
at about 3.1 million tons. However, an estimated 10% of the crop is
not milled, consisting of allowance.; for seed and wastage (including
rice which is fed to livestock).  W:Lt1- population at about 39.0 million
and rice imports of 635,000 tons the per capita absorption of milled
rice in the Philippines was about 100 kg in 1972. Based on present
population forecasts of 50 million in 1980 and assuming that annual
per capita absorption of milled rice would remain at 100 kg, total
demand for rice in the Philippines in 1980 would be around 5.0 million
tons (equivalent to 7.6 million tons of paddy). To meet the higher
demand paddy production would have to increase by about 5.2% per year
between 1972 and 1980. While the Government's current Masagana campaign
to increase rice production has met with considerable success, the
prospects of a shortage of fertilizers on the world market raises some
uncertainties about the ability to maintain the present rate of progress.
In any case no difficulties in marketing the additional production from
the project area are foreseen.
Prices
4.        Since 1957 the Government has established annually a farm gate
paddy support price to encourage production through a guaranteed minimum



ANNEX 14
Page 2
price to farmers and to allow some purchases of paddy by Government to
build stabilization stocks. Responsibility for operating the system
rested with an independent body, the Rice and Corn Administration (RCA),
which operated unsatisfactorily. Effective September 28, 1972, the
responsibility for price stabilization of rice and corn was transferred
to a National Grains Authority (NGA) under the Secretary of Agriculture.
5.        During the 1950's and early 1960's the support price remained
virtually unchanged and was 1 9.5 per cavan (Y 216/ton) in 1961. There-
after, it was gradually increased and by 1971 it reached ? 20.0 per
cavan (1 454/ton). Although no precise figures are available for a
comparison of the annual average paddy farm and support prices before
1965 in the Philippines, the Sector Survey shows the farm price about
11% higher in 1965, but for 1966-70 it shows the support price exceeding
the farm price by about 11%. For 1971 official paddy prices are
available only for Central Luzon, which accounts for about 20% of the
area and about 30% of the paddy grown annually in the Philippines. For
this region the farm price was higher than the support price.
6.        The behavior of market prices in relation to the support
prices in the period considered appears to be in harmony with the
record of domestic paddy output during the past decade in the
Philippines. In the early 1960s domestic production was unable to
satisfy the growing demand for rice and this tended to raise market
prices above the support price the Government was able to offer. After
the mid-sixties, increased production as a result of the spread of
high-yielding varieties improved the balance between domestic production
and consumption and tended to depress market prices. During the last
two to three years the trend appears to have reversed itself as a result
of the slowing down of production and the support price became in-
creasingly less operative. As a result of larger price increases of
local and imported goods, including farm production inputs, in 1972
and 1973 and to encourage farmers to increase paddy production, the
Government has again raised sharply its official price for paddy which
in the second half of 1973 was established at t 35.0 per cavan (? 800/ton).
7.        Although there are apparent increases in the paddy support and
farm prices in terms of current Pesos, these prices have remained constant
in real terms between 1965 and 1972. This can clearly be seen from the
fact that the support price index, 1965 = 100, rose to 172 in 1972 while
in the same period the national consumer index for the Philippines and
the Manila wholesale price index for domestic products, also with
1965 = 100, were 173 and 177 respectively. Equally important is the
fact that the support price for rice has kept pace with changes in the
world market price for rice. Since the devaluation of the Peso in 1971,
the support price was raised by about 75% to take account of the new
exchange rate and maintain price equality between imported and domestic
rice. In view of the existing strong domestic and world market demand
for rice and the likelihood of little change in the future, together



ANNEX 14
Page 3
with the increasing costs of fertilizers and insecticides, the Government
is expected to maintain for the early 1980's its present support price
of V 35.0 per cavan.
8.        Two alternative estimates of the future farm gate price for
paddy expressed in 1974 prices have been used in the economic analysis:
(a) the Bank's projected price for milled rice in 1980. For the 30%
broken quality Thai rice normally imported by the Philippines, this
price would be $150 per ton of mnilled rice cif Manila. This corresponds
to a farmgate price of V 31 per cavan (V 710/ton of paddy); and
(b) the present Government farm gate support price for paddy of V 35.0
per cavan (V 800/ton). This price corresponds to an import price of
$170 per ton of rice cif Manila. This price was also used in the farm
income analysis. The farm gate prices as derived from both the Bank's
projected price and from the Government support price are shown below:
1980 Price Structure for Rice
Projected World       Government
Market Price        Support Price
--------…      (Y/ton)…------------
Export Price, fob Bangkok                     875 ($130)        1,011 ($150)
Ocean Freight                                  134 ($ 20)         134 ($ 20)
Manila port handling charges
and transport to Cabiao                      87                  87
Wholesale price of rice Cabiao              1,096               1,232
Paddy equivalent price Cabiaoi                723                 813
Milling costs (equivalent to
value of by-products)                       -                   -
Handling and transport costs
from farm to mill                            13                  13
Farm gate price of paddy                       710                800
/1   Average price in 1973 currency values for 30% broken Thai rice.
/2   One ton paddy = 0.66 ton rice.






ANNEX 15
Page 1
!!ILIPPINES
AURORA-1EN6ANDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Cr2p gan FarM Budgets
1.        The existing and propo6et cropping patterns are given in
Annex 13. This annex shows the following:
(a)  Production costs for  rirgated and rainfed rice under
present and future "with" and "without" project
conditions (Table 1). Present costs are based on
the results of a survey carried out by NIA and
interviews in the area during appraisal. In the
absence of the project Little change in the level
of inputs is expected in the rainfed areas. In
the irrigated areas some lppovement in husbandry
is assumed. The input levels for future "with
project" cond4ttioa wr based on recommendations by
the Bureau of SoAl and the Aureau of Plan Industry
and the assumption of Increased mechanization of land
preparation and th?shizng.
(b)  Monthly labor requirement  for the dry and wet season
rice crops based on present and proposed cropping
calendars (Table 2). It is assumed that under
project conditions the labor requirement for land
preparation and harvesting would be reduced by the
use of machinery whtle there would be an increase in
the labor requirement for crop management, covering
such activities as weeding, fertilizer and pesticide
application and irrigation.
(c) Crop budgets under present and future conditions "with"
and "without" the project (Table 3).
(d)  Farm budgets for typical family farms of 1.5 ha, 2.5 ha
and 4.0 ha (Table 4). The budgets are calculated on a
cash flow basis and only hired labor has been costed.
The monthly requirement for hired labor was calculated
by comparing the lab)or requirement with the availability
per farm of a maximm of 50 man-days/month and a total
of 600 man-days/year of family labor. Future water
charges are based on the proposal by NIA to levy charges
at the rate of 2 cavans of paddy/ha in the wet season
and 3 cavans in the dry season. This would adequately



ANNEX 15
Page 2
cover the cost of operation and maintenance of the
;:rrigation project, but contribute little to capital
recovery.
(e)  The effects on farm income of various forms of land
tenure (Table 5). Rentals for sharecropping are
calculated over a range of sharing agreements between
tenant and landlord by which the tenant's net income
varies between 20% and 40% of the gross value of
production. The most prevalent pattern is 50-50
sharecropping^which results in the tenant receiving
about 40% of the gross value of production. Rental
for leaseholders is calculated according to the
provisions of Republic Act No. 3844, while the annual
payment for amortizing owners is in accordance with
Presidential Decree No. 27 (Annex 2).



PHILIPPINES
AURORA_PENARANDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Rice Crop Production Costs
Present                            Future Without Project                    Ftiture With Project 1,
Wet Season           Dry Season              Wet Season            Dry Season         W4fet Teason    Dry Season
Cash Inputs (P/ha)           Rainfed    Irrigated    Irrigated            Rainfed    Irrigated        Irrigated          irrigated       irrigated
Cultivation                     50           60            80                80          105             110                110            115
Seed                           85            85            85                85           65             65                 65              65
Fertilizer                     75            75            90               160          180             200                285            310
Agro-Chemicals                  95          100           105               100          140             180                230            240
Harvesting                    160           185           150               160          210             190                190            200
Other                           20           25            25                30           35              40                 60             7
Total Cash Inputs           485           530           535               615          735             785                940 21       l,000?
Labor Inputs 3/
(man-days/ha)
Land Preparation               29            29            27                22           22              20                 19             18
Planting                       32            32            32                32           32              32                 32             32
Crop Management                 14           19            20                16           21              24                 30             32
Harvesting                      25           25            21                25           20              19                 19             18
Total Labor Inputs          100          105            100                95           95              95               100             100
1/ Based on the following assumptions at full development
(a)  Cultivation - Wet season - Mechanical  65% @ P 120/ha
Animal       35% @ P  90/ha
Dry season - Mechanical  807. @ P 120/ha
Animal       20% @ P  90/ha
(b) Seed rate 1.1 Cavan/ha @ P 60/cavaLu.
(c) Fertilizer - Wet season - Urea 72 kg/ha, Ammonium phosphate 150 kg/ha.
Dry season - Urea 90 kg/ha, Ammonium phosphate 150 kg/ha.
Urea @ P 1.34/kg; Ammonium phosphate P 1.25/kg.
(d) Agrochemical - Lump sum.
(e) Harvesting - Mechanical threshing @ 6% of yield value.
2/  Includes interest ?i 12% per year on production credit equivalent to 90% of cash inputs.
Excluding labor handling farm machinery, the cost of which is included under cash inputs.
U'



PHILIPPINES
ATJROP.A - PENARANDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
ionthly Labor Requirements for Various Iice Crops (man_-days/ha)1/ 2/
Jan    Feb    Mar    Apr    May    Jun    Jul    Aug    Sep    Oct    Nov    Dec             Total
Wet Season
Irrigated id.ce   P    -       -       -      -       5      23     23      11      10      8      13      12         105
W            -      -       -      5      24      19       8     11       8      10     10          95
w    -       -      -       -      5      19      27     16      20      11       2      -         100
Rainfed Rice      P    5       -       -      -       -      10     26      25       7      7      10      10         100
W    5       _      _       _             12      26     16       8       8     10      10          95
Dry Season
Irrigated Rice   P   20       13      12     10      10       6                                    10      19         100
W   20      14     14      11      10      4       -       _      _       -       8     14          95
W   12      19     10       2       -      -       _      -       -      10     25      22         100
1/ P = Present                                 2/ Excluding labor handling farm machinery.
W = Future Without Project
W = Future With Project
or
~rt



PHILIPPINES
AURORA-PENARANDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Rice Crop Budgets
Present                            Future Without Project                    Future With Project
Wet Season           Dry Season              Wet Season            Dry Season         Wet Season    Dry Season
Rainfed    Irrigated    Irrigated            Rainfed    Irrigated       Irrigated          Irrigated       Irrigated
Yield (ton/ha)                  2.0          2.3           2.4               2.3          3.1             3.3                3.8            4.2
Farm-Gate Price (Plton)         800          80°           800               800          800             800                800            800
Gross Value of
Production (P/ha)          1,600        1,840          1,920            1,840         2,480          2,640              3,040           3,360
Production Costs,
Excluding Labor (P/ha)        485           530           535               615          735             785                940          1,000
Net Value of Production
Excluding Labor (P/ha)    1,115           1,310         1,385             1,225        1,745           1,855             2,100           2,360
(man-days/ha)                 100           105           100                95           95             95                100             100
(man-days/ha)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



PHILIPPINES
AURORA-PENARANDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farm Budgets
--      - 1.5 ha farm--               --- 2.5 ha farm--------  --h-.-- - 4.0 ha farm-------
Future                          Future                          Future
Present           with         Present             with        Present            with
f E2Lect               ~~~Project                        Project
Rainfted  Irrigated  IrIgdated  Rainfed  Irrigated  Irrigated  Rainfed  Irrigated  Irrigated
Transplanted Rice            (ha)   1.5       2.5         3.0       2.5        4.1        5.0        4.o       6.6         8.0
Total Cropped Area           (ha)   1.5       2.5         3.0       2.5        4.1        5.0        4.0       6.6         8.0
Cropping Intensity           (%)    100       165         200       100        165        200        100       165         200
Total Paddy Productions      (ton)  3.0       5.8        12.0       5.0        9.6       20.0        8.o      15.4        32.0
Gross Value of Production   (P)  2,400      4,640       9,600     4,000      7,680     16,000      6,400    12,320      25,600
Production Costs (Exc'-uding
Labor) 1/   o      x         (P)    730     1,330      2,910      1,210      2,180      4,850      1,940     3,510       7,760
Cost of hired Farm Labor    (P)      -        -           -         110        140        170        415       710       1,135
Net Value of Production
(Before Water Charges)       (P)  1,670     3,310      6,690      2,680     5,360      10,980     4,045      8,100     16,705
Water Charges                (P)     -          70        260        -         120        440        -          190        700
Net Crop Income              (P)  1,670     3,240       6,430     2,680      5,240     10,540      4,045     7,910      16,005
Farm Labor Requiremernt (man-days)  150       257         300       250        423        500        400       680         800
1/  Based on Annex 13, Table I & 3
2/  Based on maximum of 50 man-days/month and a total of 600 man-days/year of family labor.
3/  Based on present charges of P25/ha in the wet season and P35/ha in the dry season and proposed future charges of
P70/ha and P105/ha for wet and dry seasons respectively.                                                                  C



PHILIPPINES
AURORA-PENARANDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farm Budgets: Effects of Tenure System
------------- 1.5 ha Farm ---------    ---------------2.5 ha Farm-----------   --------------- 4 ha Farm-----------
Future                                     Future                                      Future
Present                with                Present                 with                Present                 with
Project                                    Project                                     Project
Rainfed      Irrigated      Irrigated      Rainfed      Irrigated      Irrigated       Rainfed      Irrigated      Irrigated
1/
Gross Value of Production           (P)     2,400            4,640          9,600         4,000          7,680        16,000         6,400        12,320          25,600
1/
Net Crop Income                     (P)      1,670           3,240          6,430         2,680          5,240        10,540         4,045         7,910          16,005
Annual Payment for Land:
2/
Sharecropper                      (P) 1,190-710    2,310-1,380   4,510-2,590  1,880-1,080  3,705-2,170  7,345-4,145  2,765-1,485  5,445-2,980  10,885-5,765
Leaseholder                       (P)        510           1,000           2,205           845         1,655         3,G75         1,355         2,660           5,880
Amortizing owner                   (P)       620             710          1,235          1,030         1,185         2,060         1,650          1,895          3,295.
Net Crop Income after Land Payment:
2/
Sharecropper                      (P)   480-960        930-1,860   1,920-3,840    800-1,600  1,535-3,070  3,195-6,395  1,280-2,560  2,465-4,930   5,120-10,240
Leaseholder                       (P)      1,160           2,240          4,225          1,835         3,585         6,865         2,690         5,250           10,125
Amortizing owner                   (P)     1,050           2,530          5,195          1,650         4,055         8,480         2,395          6,015          12,710
Freeholder                        (P)      1,670           3,240          6,430         2,680          5,240        10,540         4,045          7,910          16,005
1/  Based on Annex 15, Table 4
2   Based on a range of sharing agreements between landlord and tenant.
4D>






ANNEX 16
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
AURORA - PENARANDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farm Labor Analysis
Labor Supply
1.        Based on surveys conducted by NIA, the Department of Agrarian
Reform and from the population census, it is estimated that at present
about 10,000 farm families live in the project area. The average family
consists of 6.0 persons, 3.5 of whom are of working age (15 to 65 years).
From this potential labor force, one person is usually assigned to
domestic housework and is not available for farm work. Therefore, the
present available labor supply is estimated to be about 25,000 farm
workers. Assuming 240 working days per worker, the annual labor supply
would be 6.00 million man-days or an average of 0.50 million man-days
per month. Assuming a farm labor growth rate of 2.5% per annum (compared
to an expected population growth rate of 3.0% per annum), the labor force
available for farm work would increase to about 32,000 workers at full
development in 1983. The annual labor supply would thus be 7.68 million
man-days or an average of 0.64 million man-days per month.
Labor Demand
2.        The estimated future annual labor requirement per ha for the various
farm operations under "with" and "without" project conditions are given in
Annex 15, Table 2, while total monthly labor requirements are shown in Table 1
of this annex. Under the "without" project conditions, annual labor
requirement per cropped hectare would be 95 man-days for the project area,
with peak monthly demand of about 0.55 million man-days occuring in June and
July. Because of the expected additional use of mechanization mainly in
land preparation and threshing, the available farm labor in the area would
be sufficient to meet demand even during these peak months.
3.        At full development under the "with" project conditions, annutI
labor requirement per cropped hectare would increase to 100 man-days.
The annual labor demand for the entire area would thus reach about 5.0
million man-days. Because of the anticipated shifts in the cropping calendars
(Annex 13), future peak labor requirements of about 0.68 million man-days
per month would occur during July and November. Available labor in the
project area would fall short of meeting the peak monthly requirement by
about 40,000 man-days. This shortfall of some 2,000 laborers per month
would be easily met from labor available in the adjacent areas.



ANNEX 16
Page 2
Existing Wage Rates
4.        At present, most of the farm labor requirement in the area is
provided by family labor. Need for hired labor arises only in the peak
months of June and July. According to surveys by various Government
agencies and the mission's own interviews in the area, the average wage
rate during the peak months is P 4.0 per man-day. During the slack period
when available labor supply exceeds demand, opportunities for off--farm
work are limited. However, as no data are available on the market value
of farm labor during the slack period, the lower limit of the economic
wage rate has been based on the cost of subsistence estimated at P 1.60
per man-day.
Pricing of Labor
5.        The proper assessment of a shadow wage rate for farm labor is
a complicated issue involving a number of value judgments as well as
extensive empirical data on off-farm employment opportunities. In the
absence of reliable data, analysis in this annex disregards:
(a) the value of leisure;
(b)  problems of income distribution between the various segments
of the population; and
(c)  the importance of saving in relation to consumption.
Thus, the analysis given here deals only with the opportunity cost of
output foregone in non-farm employment.
6.        The estimated curve for the shadow wage rate under "with" and
"without" project conditions for the project area is shown in Figure 1.
The curve incorporates the assumptions made earlier in this annex
regarding the supply and demand for farm labor. Also incorporated in the
curve is the assumption that the marginal shadow wage rate of farm labor
is positive at all levels of demand and increases as more and more labor
is drawn into farm work. The rise in the shadow wage rate is slow initially,
reflecting the scarcity of productive alternative employment, but increases
more rapidly as the full labor supply is utilized. Furthermore, it is
assumed that at the employment level corresponding to full employment in
the project area, the shadow wage rate is equal to the market wage rate.
Since under "without" project conditions the available labor force in the
area would be sufficient to meet all labor needs, it is assumed that at
full employment the shadow wage rate would be equal to the present market
wage rate of P 4.0. Under the "with" project conditions additional labor
would be required in the two peak months, but could be easily supplied
from available farm labor in the neighboring areas although it would
receive a slight premium estimated at 10% of the market wage rate under
"without" project conditions.



ANNEX 16
Page 3
7.        On the basis of the above assumptions, the monthly marginal and
average shadow wage rates, under "with" and "without" project conditions
are shown in Table 2. The marginal shadow wage rate varies from P 1.7
per man-day in April and May to P 4.2 per man-day in July anl November
under "with project" conditions and from P 1.7 in April to P 3.4 per
man-day in June and July under "without project" conditions. The monthly
average shadow wage rate varies from P 1.6 per man-day in April and May to
P 2.5 in July and November under "with project" conditions and from P 1.6
per man-day in April to P 2.2 per man-day in June and July under "without
projectt" conditions. T'he average shadow wage rates for the year are P 2.1
and P 1.9 per man-day under "with" and "without" project conditions,
respectively.
8.        By aggregating the monthly wage bills, the annual economic cost
of labor at full development is P 10.77 million "with the project" and P 6.47
million "without the project." The incremental economic cost of labor,
amounting to P 4.30 million, accounts for about 10% of the incremental
net benefit to the project area at full development (without accounting
for labor costs) of P 44.5 million (Annex 17, Table 1). Even if we
cost all farm labor at P 4.4 per man-day, the incremental labor cost
would amount to P 7.7 million or about 17% of the incremental net benefit.






PHILIPPINES
AUltOIlA-PENIAHANDA 11Uri.TGATION PROJECT
Total Monthly Labor Requirements ('000 man-days)2/
Area
(ha)     Jan    Feb    Mar    Apr    May    Jun    Jul    Aug    Sep    Oct    Nov    Dec    Total
Wet Season
Irrigated Rice   P  16,700      -      -      -       -      83    384    384    184    167    134    217    200    1,753
W  16.700    -       -      -      -      83    401    317    134    184    134    167    167    1,587
W  25,300     -      -       -      -     126    481    683    405    506    278        51     -     2,530
Fainfed Rice     p   8,600      43     -      -       -      -      86    224    215       60     60     86      86      860
w1f:  8,600   43     -       -      -      -      103    224    138      69     69      86     86       818
W
Dry Season
Irrigated Rice   P  10,800    216    140    130    108    108       65      -      _       _      _     108    205    1,080
W  10,800    216    151    151    119    108       43     -       _      _      _       86    151    1,025
W  25,300    304    481    253      51      -      -      -       -      -     253    632    557    2,531
Total       P  36,100    259    140    130    108    191   535        608    399    227    194    411    491    3,693
X  36,100    259    151    151    119    191    547    541    272    253    203    339    404    3,430
w  50,600    304    481    253      51    126    481    683    405    506    531    683    557    5,061 i
1/ P = Present                                                                                                                 CD
J  = Future Without Project
W = Future With Project



PHILIPPINES
AURORA-PENARANDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Pricing of Farm Labor
Without (W) or                 Jam2ary      February        March        April           -ay         June          July
with (W) Project                      W      W      W      W     W      W      W                          w      W      w
Labor Requirement              .26   .30    015   .48    .15   .25    .12   oO5    o19   o13    .55  .48    .54   .68
(Million man-days)
Marginal shadow wage rate    1.9   2.0    1 .8   3.0    1.8   1.9    1.7   1.7    1.8   1.7    3.4   3.0    3.4   4.2
(P/day)
Average shadow wage rate      1.7   1.8    1.7   2.0    1.7   1.7    1.6   1.6    1.7   1.6    2.2   2.0    2.2   2.5
(P/day)
Total Imputed Cost             .44   .54    .26   .96    .26   .43    .19   .08    .32   .21   1.21   .96   1.19  1.70
(P million)
Without (W) or                  August      September    October       November      December                 Total
with (W) Project                W        w          w      W     w      W      w            w        W                w
Labor Requirement              .27   .41    .25   .51    .20  .53    .34   .68   .40   .56                 3°43    5.06
(Million man-days)
Marginal shadow wage rate    109   2.6    1 .    3.2    1 8   303    291   4,2    2.5   3.5
(P/day)
Average shadow wage rate      107   1.9    1.7   2.1    1.7   2.1    1.8   2.5    1.9   2.2                1.9      2.1
(P/day)
Total Imputed Cost             .46   .78    .43  1.07    .34  1.11    .61  1.70    .76  1o23               6.47   10.77
(P million)
1ol



411LIPPINES
AURORA-PENERANDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Estimated Shadow Wage Curve for Farm Labor
5.0                                                                                                            J.
4.0                                                                                                             4.0
z30
....
w
2.0
2.0
0
10
1.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
0.1         0.2         0.3         0.4         0.5         0.6          0.7                       0
F-ARMI ABOR DEMtAND (MILLION MAN-DAYS!MONTHI
Wo:a Bai   n435






ANNEX 17
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
AURORA - PENARANDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis
1.        The following assumptions were made in evaluating the project's
rate of return:
(a) Benefits. The expected paddy yields, prices, gross returns,
production costs, net returns (without accounting for labor
costs) and labor requirements per ha, are shown in Annexes
13 and 15. The farm-gate price of P 710 per ton of paddy used
in the economic analysis was derived from the Bank's world
market price projections for milled rice in 1980 and is
equivalent to US$150 per ton of rice (Thai 30% broken) cif
Manila. Table 1 shows the expected project benefits at full
agricultural development.
(b) Investment Costs. All investment costs except price
contingencies (P 53.8 million), the cost of the Irrigation
Study (P 29.5 million) and interest during construction
(P 13.5 million) have been included in the economic
analysis. The incremental cost of the Water Management
Technologists is included under the annual 0 & M costs.
(c) Development Period. It has been assumed that water for full
double-cropping would become available to the rehabilitated
PENRIS area in mid 1977 as a result of closure of the Canili
diversion dam. Water for double-cropping the newly constructed
areas would be available by mid-1978, after completion of the
cross drainage/diversion on the San Miguel, Garlang and Bulu
rivers. It has been assumed that projected yield levels on
the rehabilitated area would be achieved over a period of five
years in equal instalments from 1977 inclusive, while in th
newly constructed area projected yields would be attained over
a six year period in equal instalments from 1978 inclusive.
Full project benefits would be achieved in 1983.
(d) Pricing of Labor. Farm labor was evaluated at a shadow wage
rate equal to its opportunity cost, which varies seasonally
and averages P 2.1 per man-day over the year under "with"
project conditions at full development. A detailed analysis
is presented in Annex 16. The use of unskilled labor in
construction and development works is limited and all labor
employed in such works was valued at the market wage rate.



ANNEX 17
Page  2
2.        Using the foregoing assumption and discounting project benefits
and costs over a 50 year project life, the economic rate of return is
estimated to be 17% (Table 2). Benefits from the project were also
evaluated by using the Government support price for paddy of El 800/ton,
equivalent to US$170 per ton of rice cif Manila. In this case the rate
of return would be 20%.
3.        The above analysis does not include investments associated with
the UPRP dam and other facilities which would contribute to the realization
of benefits from the project. UPRP costs have been updated and benefits
have been recalculated on the basis of the yield levels and net values of
production used for Penaranda. When the revised costs and benefits
streams associated with the UPRP are added to those of the Aurora-Penaranda
project, the economic rate of return of the combined project would be
14%, which is only fractionally higher than the rate of return for UPRP
alone (Table 3).
Analysis of Uncertainty
4.        Several of the basic assumptions made in the economic analysis
have been varied in order to examine their impact on the rate of return. These
factors, which are partially based on cost over-runs and delays experienced
in the development of the UPRP, are as follows:
(a)  a three years delay in project benefits as a result of failure
to complete construction on time;
(b)  a 30% increase in construction costs as a result of higher
quantities of work being required to complete the project;
(c)  anticipated shortage of nitrogenous fertilizers on the world
market leading to a 25% reduction in fertilizer application
rates and resulting in a decrease in yields to 3.6 ton/ha
during the wet season and 3.9 ton/ha during the dry season;
(d)  possible shortfall in water flow from the Aurora basin
giving rise to a reduction in the dry season cropped area to
21,500 ha; and
(e)  a combination of a 25% reduction in nitrogenous fertilizer
together with a 25% reduction of Aurora water.
The effects of the various assumptions on the rate of returns are as
follows:



ANNEX 17
Page 3
Alternative                                               Rate of Return
(a)  Benefits delayed three years                              12
(b)  Construction costs increased 30%                          13
(c) Use of Nitrogen fertilizer reduced by
25% over the life of the project                        14
(d)  Reduction of Aurora water by 25%                          14
(e)  Combination of (c) and (d)                                11






PHILIPPINES
AURORA - PENARA MN  IRRIG&TION PROJECT
Economic Analysis - Net Value of Prodaction
Gross Value                Net Value     Net Returns
Paddy     Farm Gate         of       Producti p       Of            from
Area    Yield        ' Price     Production      Costs _     Production    project Area
ThT   (ton/ha)      (P/t-nT       --------------(P7Sa)---------------    (P Million)
Wet Season
Irrigated Rice        W   16,700    3.1           710          2,200         735          1.,465          24.5
W   25,300     3.8         710           2,700         940          1,760           44.5
Rainfed Rice          W    8,600    2.3           710          1,635         615          1,020            8.8
W      -        -
Dry Season
Irrigated Rice        W   10,800    3.3           710          2,345         785          1,560           16.8
W   25,300    4.2           710          2,980       1,000          1,980           50.1
Total:              W   36,100
W   _.
~~W
________________________________                                                               --(P   Million)--
Total Net Value of Production
W - with project - W without project.                      Before Costing Labor                   50.1        94.6
1/ From Annex 13, Tables 1 and 2                         Less Imputed Cost of Labor 3/            6.5         10.8
7/ From Annex 15, Table 1
3/ From Annex 16, Table 2                                Total Net Value of Production            43.6        83.8
Net Incremental Value of Production
at Fhll Project Development                       40.2
a5 
F-i 9



ANNEX 17
Table2
:PHILPIN&.S
ATRORA - PEUARANDA IIRRIGTICH PROJECT
Economic Costa & Benefits
(US$ 10)
Incremental
World Market           Government support
Price Of Rice          Pre-or Rice
Yekr            Cost                                        v60on)
1               640                     -
2            3,230
3             9,500                     -
4             8,720                   1,530                   1,870
5             3,370                   1,940                   2,360
6             1,310                   3,920                   4,760
7               470                  4,730                    5,680
8              470                   5,510                    6,700
9              470                    5,750                   6,990
10-50             470                   5,970                   7,260
Economic Rate of Return                16.7%                   19.9%



ANNEX 17
Ta Ee 3
HILIPPI:
AURORA-PEIARA  IRRICATION PROJECT
Economic Oosts. -& Benefits
(US- $ Mi 1 1ion)
UPRP                          UPRP+APIP/
Year         Costs          Benefits          Costs         Benefits
1           10.0                            10.0
2             No                            .9.0
3           11.0                            11.0
4           30.0                            30*0
5           10.2              0.5           1o.8             o.5
6           1 o.4             2.3           13.6             2.3
7           12.7              5.9           22.2             5.9
8            1.4             12.2           10.1            13.7
9            1.4             17.6            4.8            19.5
10           1.4             18.5            2.7            22.14
11           1.4             19.4            1.9            24.1
12           1.4             19.8            1 .9           25.3
13           1.4             20.7            1 .9           26.5
14           1.4             21.2            1.9            27.2
15           1.4             22.1             1.9           28.1
16-50        1.4             22.5            1.9            28.5
Economic Rate of Return       13.9%                          14.2%
1/ Aurora Penaranda Irrigation Project






PHILIPPINES
AURORA-PENARANDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
1974                      1975         1            1976                       1977                      1978
AURORA DIVERSION'
Mobilization and move in
Strip Canii! damsite
Grout Canili dam
Canili diversion conduit excavation
Caiayo diversion conduit ecavation
Diano diversion conduit installation
Caiolr diversion conduit   PEc NRic  itaation
GotDiayo dan  m3    2
Diayo channel excavation
NOT ES
1. SHADING INDICATES WSET SEASON MONTHS'.   2. NUMBERS ABOV/E THE CANILI AND DIAYo DAM VWORl( iTEMS
ARE ESTIMATED PLACEMENT OF DAM\ MATERIAL, IN THOUSAND
CUBIC METEH S
World Bank-8n152






PHI L7PMINES
AURORA - PENARANDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION FOR PROJECT CONSTRUCTION
NIA ADMINISTRATOR
UPRP
PROJECT AUDITOR                                            PROJECTMANAGER                                                  CONSULTANTS
ADMINISTRATIVE            ENGINEERING              AGRICULTURAL                       PROJECT DEVELOP.                EOUIPMENT
DIVISION                 DIVISION             DEVELOP. DIVISION                       DIVISION*                     DIVISION
ASSISTANT                                                                                 ASSISTANT
PROJECT MANAGER                                                                           PROJECT MANAGER
DIVISION 1                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FIELD PROCuREMEN   DAM 01VIS10N                               RSROI  N
OFFICEREETEETDVSO
DIVISION 2
ADMIN. SERVICES                            ADMIN. SERVICES
OFFICE ENGINEERING|                        OFFICE ENGINEERING
FIELD ENGINEERING                          FIELD ENGINEERING
ADMIN.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                         ....RVICESG
OFFICE ENGINEERING|
FIFLD ENGINEERING              .-Roponsible for preparation of Central Luzon Study.
FIELD ENGINEERING                                 O **Responsible for Aurora trant-bsin co-nponent of proiect.
***R.sponsible for PFnaranda irrigation conponent of project.
OPE RATWON                                                                                                        W |
MANTE~NANCE    l
World Bank-8211






PHI LIPPINES
AURORA PENARANDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION FOR OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
NIA ADMINISTRATOR
UPRP
PROJECT MANAGE
EQUIPMENT                AGRIC. DEVELOPMENT               DAM-RESERVOIR                  ADMINISTRATIVE
DIVISION                      DIVISION                      DIVISION                        DIVISION
DISTRICT 1                    DISTRICT 2                     DISTRICT 3                      DISTRICT 4
SAN JOSE                      TALAVERA                       STA ROSA                      PENARANDA
ZONE
SUPERINTENDENT 1
(3)
DIVISION
SUPERVISOR
(10)
WATER              1Personnel requirements shown in parentheses.
MANAGEMENT       .-
TECHNOLOGIST          Proposed addition to UPRP organizational chart for operation & maintenance.
(0J  {253W
World Bank-8212






PHILIPPINES
AURORA - PENARANDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
PROPOSED CROPPING CALENDARS
Crop                    J        F        M        A        M        J        J        A        S        0        N        D
I            I~~~~Cl
Wet Season                                 l      ~               
ii c
l           l                                                   I~~~~
Wet Season                                                            T     9                   
(25,300 ha)                         M                        I
System
_______________________________M aintenance                1
I                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~N
Dry Season                                                                                         3
RiceIT
(25,300 ha)                                 i   m
I                                           ~~M=
H
Notation:30
C  :Cultivation                               Rainfall mm
N  :Nursery25
T  . Transplanting
M  :Management
H  : Harvest                                                                                                     174
41                                                                     52
4       6        2
J       F        M        A        M        J        J        A         S       0        N        D
World Bank-8214






120030'                                                    1210W
5   t  =, / ( =                     PHILIPPINES
/OF  a             AURORA - PENARANDA
IRRIGATION  PROJECT
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ETA LUZON BASIN
roA                                                     PROJECT AREA
t  YtA  t C                           1       1                                            r  _      ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ UPPER PAMPANGA RIVER PROJECT
VI                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AREA
POTENTIAL DAMS AND RESERVOIRS
-/1111720< /     EXISTING OAMS AND RESERVOIRS
gr C LA   U NIN                                      I                                           NATIONAL HIGHWAYS
-16-                 C'V__0___                                                                  RIVERS163'
DDVKLAO 0M0                                             - '    SWAMPS
IOOONAo                                                                                                           RIVER BARIN  UNDAR ES
- - - -        t f ,.PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
____ ___ ___ _,'____ ___ _-_  _', k                                       EN GUET T'IIF A K  /                            _  _  _  _  __  _  _  _  _
Zt/   {   TAYUMy DAM                                        0,    0    1E 0   15   20   2S   30
1 (    <-   E t  = s ff   9  ;'\-, J/,  2)                   KILOMETERS
a t}NGAYFNGlif.S ----j *_1 e A~~~~DAMAtl6
4            ,4 Wj            t    DAM   <      .DAM       \1      X     0    X     _          /<?:,{t4 PAM SIT
A  -,KP'  ,NA M  IT    I
N        UJNVAOENOV                            -                               VS NTO ROSAL(
kIO O   '\                                                                        1 r .           z  \        .                                                           6 D
\8w)                                                         ':  iV'½ 
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UA DA    DA SITE                                                      MPLODA 
(   \ <                  ~~~~~~~~PA N GCA S I N A N  4                                          Re,                                 ,ARR    IE  AI
__   \   \   >>_   <   /  )  t  ,  ,  / X f J | -. PANTA,E.N, _ >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANAN,!'',
, \  T ,,.    v   %itT-   //   1              a                             X~~~~~~~ R PRNDERWNTRT        I) lyJ
.                                K,                        t OONEo ;  / AACIJA/E,IJA
15-30'                                TARLAC                  JP           R      aTOS
B; ALOG - BALOG DAM,8FX                     l,                 y  zi         /     sl   : O                                           /;
NN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
<, ,/ ~~~. j    0  A TEX0 
EP   <    i DAMS   g              \   A       ,,, ~~~~~~~~~DISVER3 DIER  DAM                             AUROR  RIE ROSIN 
t- A/IDALES    t;             <     - a                                     _                             ;                
47             AMuelfflCIA  SITE
<')       PAD                                                       V      EWSAP~0           
15eD                                                      /      S   tk   F      A      t     NGAT                     2_.           ; I                       59AT
ZAMALES                                                         MT                                                PI
UATAAN  1\So,~Roo N                                        T N         MI
12073kT                                         wMANILAI                                                    12102oSCA DABA- 
PAVOANGATbE  0QELT-
/ of                                                        NUEVA    £011 A ~~~~~~~~~  SIVERSIORSIOSDA
4    ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ Uaoa                   AVGAN D    
lS'30      /   ~ ~ B TAA LCN
EALOV-EOLOGDAM,3t1       20930                                                  1 2100,30' o






1_____ ____________                                                                                   I BRD  1O921
FEBRUARY 1974
AFA . A N 1                                                                   AX
SA SEA                                                                        -fA :S AG",
RUE5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~X
X SIONREAPNA NDI V            RRS  GT DO    PROJECTAM
W<' X   f J''./  g      W                           F~~~~~~v1
n/~~~~N "         v AM")>;f :
f_; _< @X2e <t~~~~~~~~~~
_                                        p                 e   20ee  4000  Et00  Ee,E0el






PHF IL RPP IN ES
AURORA - PENARANDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
/      Ul NAA4ANAIn>L -U 
,       PNDISCT AFEA                                                                  |     QAot
-  MANINIPS. C DANDALS S                                                  '      SAN  LEONARDO
IAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
Al AMEND RN ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~PhRAD
SA      LANTON A CAAL                                                                ,'    /_ 
._      RIVCR5                                                                         |
SAl   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J ~ ~ ~
CA,~~~~~~~~BA
AA
SAN     T                                                                                                                          -ONIO  , S A
fANDABA-:                                   =+  ,' A          SAN      L
D     AN TA  A N A        /((        g                                         ;        /                                  
SAN-LU   -_5                                                                V
SANTA ANA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8AL    






I BR D  10981
COStAR  K  14 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~>                                                                                      -                0 ~~~~~~~~~~~FEBRUARY  1974
DIGOCIAT        COTROL                                 I                              
IVER          STR~~~UCTUR'E)               T /
. .....             ~ ~~~-LIMIT OF
RESER   I                                                                        I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ORMAL RESERVOIR
CREST EL 305PHLIPINE
CE.FTER'                                   DIAIO OA~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~AROA- ENRAD  IRIATO  POJC
-DIVERSIOURORNDIVESIONWORK
_0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
(~~~~~~~~,
EXISTING ACCESTTSEN    RE                                                                                                                            ___________________________ROA_________



