CONFORMED COP
CREDIT NUMBER 472 PH
Development Credit
Agreement
(Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 14, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 472 PH
Development Credit
Agreement
(Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 14, 1974


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 14, 1974, between REPUBLIC OF THE
PHILIPPINES (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Borrower has also requested the Bank to provide additional
assistance towards the financing of the Project and by an agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Bank (hereinafter called the Loan
Agreement) the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to nine million five hundred thousand dollars ($9,500,000)
(hereinafter called the Loan);
(C)   The Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable,
that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this Agreement be disbursed on
account of expenditures on the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of
the Loan provided for in the Loan Agreement are made;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).


﻿4                                          0
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Agricultural Development Coordinating Council" means the council
established by agreement among NIA and other agencies of the Borrower, dated
September 15, 1972, for the purpose of coordinating agricultural supporting
services in the area served by the Upper Pampanga River Project;
(b)   "Central Luzon Irrigation Development Study" means the study
described in Part B of Schedule 2 hereto;
(c)   "Guidelines" means the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank
Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in April 1972 and revised in October
1972;
(d)   "Loan" means the loan provided for in the Loan Agreement;
(e)   "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith
between the Borrower and the Bank for the purpose of the Project, as such
agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term includes the General
Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated
January 31, 1969, as made applicable to such agreement, all agreements
supplemental to the Loan Agreement and all schedules to the Loan Agreement;
(f)   "NIA" means the National Irrigation Administration, an agency
established by Republic Act No. 3601 of the Borrower;
(g)   "PENRIS" means the Penaranda River Irrigation System, an existing
irrigation system of about 16,700 hectares in the northern portion of the Project
Area;
(h)   "pesos" and the sign -i means pesos in the currency of the Republic
of the Philippines;
(i)   "Project Area" means an area of about 25,300 hectares in the Provinces
of Nueva Ecija, Bulacan and Pampanga bounded on the north by the Penaranda
River, on the east by PENRIS lateral C canal (as proposed to be extended to
the Maasim River), on the south by the Maasim River, and on the west by the
Candaba Swamp and the Pampanga River;


﻿5
(j) "Special Fund" means the fund established pursuant to Section
3.0 1(b); and
(k)   "Upper Pampanga River Project" means the project described in
Schedule 3 to the Loan Agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, dated
August 18, 1969 (loan number 637 PH).
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to nine million five hundred thousand
dollars ($9,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines and in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1979 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the kssociation.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 15 and
October 15 in each year.


﻿6
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15 commencing
October 15, 1984, and ending April 15, 2024, each installment to and including
the installment payable on April 15, 1994 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.0 1. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with sound financial, administrative, engineering
and agricultural practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Without limitation to its obligations under paragraph (a) of this
Section, the Borrower undertakes to establish and maintain, under arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank, a Special Fund from which NIA may draw without
restriction to meet expenditures in respect of the Project. The Borrower shall adjust
and replenish the amount in the Special Fund at monthly intervals to a level at
least equivalent to the estimated amount of payments to be made for goods and
services required for the Project, less the estimated amount of payments to be
made directly by the Association or the Bank to suppliers, consultants or
contractors for such goods and services, during the next three months' period.
(c)   The Borrower shall take all such action as may be required to ensure
that: (i) NIA shall carry out the construction and implementation of the Project,
operate and administer all facilities therein and determine the priorities in the use
of waters allocated to the Project within the Project Area, provided that the
Borrower may transfer functions outside the normal scope of NIA's activities with
respect to the Project to other appropriate agencies of the Borrower; and (ii) all
other agencies of the Borrower whose assistance is necessary for executing the
Project shall take such action as shall be required to assist NIA in executing the
Project and shall not take any action which would interfere with such execution.
(d)   For the purpose of coordinating agricultural supporting services in the
Project Area and in the area served by the Upper Pampanga River Project, the
Borrower shall reconstitute the Agricultural Development Coordinating Council to


﻿7
enable it to serve both such areas and shall cause it to ensure such coordination
and the implementation of the plan referred to in Section 3.03(b).
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in:
(a)   increasing the portion of Project civil works done under contract;
(b)   completing investigations and designs for the dams and canals in Part
A(i) of the Project;
(c)   preparing or reviewing tender documents, supervising construction and
certifying payment documents for all Project civil works; and
(d)   implementing the Central Luzon Irrigation Development Study;
the Borrower shall cause NIA to employ engineering consultants acceptable to the
Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association within three
months of the date of this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall: (a) ensure that adequate agricultural supporting services are made available
to farmers in the Project Area including, without limitation, increasing the
agricultural extension staff assigned to the Project Area to not less than about
100 extension workers (of which not less than about 50 will be farm management
technicians) by 1980 and maintaining such staff at not less than that level thereafter.
(b)(i) cause the Agricultural Development Coordinating Council to submit
to the Association not later than one year after the date of this Agreement a
plan for providing adequate supporting agricultural services in the Project Area,
(ii) exchange views with the Association in respect thereof, and (iii) implement
such a plan promptly thereafter.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall grant all water rights required to enable
NIA to carry out and operate the Project and shall take such action as is required
to ensure that no private rights are granted which could adversely affect the water
supply for the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action as shall
be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in respect
of land as shall be required for carrying out the Project.


﻿8
Section 3.05. In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall
employ, or cause NIA to employ, contractors acceptable to the Association upon
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.07. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, construction
shall not commence on any portion of Part A(i) of the Project until the Association
has received final plans satisfactory to the Association in respect of such portion.
(b)   The Borrower shall furnish, or cause NIA to furnish, to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract
documents and work and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(c)   The Borrower shall, or shall cause NIA:
(i)          to maintain records adequate to record the progress of the
Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and
to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii)         to enable the Association's accredited representatives to examine
the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and any relevant records and documents; and
(iii)        to furnish  to the Association all such     information   as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿9
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause NIA to maintain separate records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices its operations in respect of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause NIA to: (i) have accounts and financial
statements in respect of the Project (statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of NIA and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause the works and facilities included
in the Project to be operated and maintained in accordance with sound agricultural,
engineering and financial policies and practices, and shall make available sufficient
funds to NIA for such purposes.
(b)   Without limitation   to its obligations under paragraph (a) of this
Section, the Borrower undertakes to do, or, to the extent required, to cause NIA
to do, the following:
(i)          to make adequate budgetary provision to operate and maintain
the Project;
(ii)         to treat the Project and the Upper Pampanga River Project as
a single economic and administrative unit for all purposes relating
to setting and collecting irrigation fees; and
(iii)        except as the Association shall otherwise agree, to take all
necessary action to ensure that charges for the use of irrigation
water are levied and collected from the users of the Project and
that such charges will provide NIA with revenues sufficient to
cover all operating and maintenance costs of the Project, and,
in addition, to provide for the recovery, within a period not


﻿10
less than 25 nor more than 50 years, on reasonable terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, of the monies invested
in the Project, without impairing the users' incentives and
capacity to pay.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party hereto:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to (i) the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement and the Loan Agreement, (ii) the administration, operations, financial
condition, resources and expenditures of NIA and, in respect of the Project, of
other departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any
part of the Project, and (iii) other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit;
and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations, and financial condition, resources and
expenditures of NIA and, in respect of the Project, of other departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement.


﻿11
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon, and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified: A default shall occur in the performance
of any obligation on the part of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement, and
such default shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.


﻿12
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   that the Borrower shall have established the Special Fund and shall
have deposited therein not less than three million pesos (P 3,000,000); and
(b)   that all conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement have
been fulfilled.
Section 8.02. The date August 15, 1974 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.01(c),
3.0 1(d), 3.03(a), 3.04(a), 4.01 and 4.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine
on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on
a date twenty-five years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Secretary of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary of Finance
Department of Finance
Manila, Philippines
Cable address:
SECFINANCE
Manila


﻿13
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By /s / Eduardo Z. Romualdez
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ M. L. Weiner
Acting Regional Vice President
Asia


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Credit and of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the allocation of amounts of such
proceeds to each Category and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be
financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit and of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
I.    Civil works
(a)   mobilization             3,500,000          100% of foreign
and construc-                               expenditures
tion equipment
for civil works
contractors
(up to 50% of
the value of each
contract)
(b)   other civil              7,200,000          27% of total
works                                       expenditures
II.   Equipment                      2,300,000
a.   directly                                     100% of foreign
imported                                    expenditures
equipment
b.    imported                                    65% of total
equipment                                   expenditures
procured
locally
III.  Consulting services            1,500,000          100% of foreign
and overseas training                             expenditures or
600 of total
expenditures
IV.   Interest and other             2,000,000          100% of total
charges on the Loan                               expenditures
accrued on or before
April 14, 1979
V.    Unallocated                    2,500,000
TOTAL         19,000,000


﻿15
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of:
(i)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals may be made in respect of Category III on account of expenditures
incurred after March 1, 1974 in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $50,000; and
(ii)  payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit or of
the Loan will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
(b)   In addition, except as the Borrower, the Association and the Bank
shall otherwise agree, and until all amounts of the Credit shall have been withdrawn
or committed, no withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account (as such
term is defined in the Loan Agreement) other than under Category IV except
under commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the proceeds of the Credit
and of the Loan set forth in the second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan then allocated to such
Category and no longer required therefor will be reallocated by the Association


﻿16
and by the Bank or, after full withdrawal of all amounts of the Credit, by the
Bank, by increasing correspondingly the unallocated amount of the proceeds of
the Credit and of the Loan;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association and by the Bank
or, after full withdrawal of all amounts of the Credit, by the Bank, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the proceeds
of the Credit and of the Loan, subject, however, to the requirements for
contingencies, as determined by the Association and by the Bank or, after full
withdrawal of all amounts of the Credit, by the Bank, in respect of any other
expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association and the Bank shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for
such item  shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or, after full
withdrawal of all amounts of the Credit, of the proceeds of the Loan and the
Association and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting any
other right, power or remedy of the Association and the Bank under the
Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit or of the Loan or both as in the
Association's and the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit or, after full withdrawal of all amounts of the Credit, of
the proceeds of the Loan.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
set out in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures tinder Category
I(b), 11(b) or III shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan
are available for reallocation to such Category, the Association and the Bank or,
after full withdrawal of all amounts of the Credit, the Bank, may, by notice to
the Borrower, adjust the percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under any such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purposes of the Project are to provide irrigation and drainage facilities
allowing year round cultivation in the Project Area through more effective control
of water and a transbasin diversion to bring in supplemental water for the dry
season, and to complete a study for future water and land development. It will
comprise the following Parts:
Part A:     Expansion of Irrigation and Drainage Facilities
(i)         Construction of two earth and rockfill diversion dams on the
Canili and Diayo rivers in the Aurora basin and of diversion
channels to divert the water from these rivers into the
Pantabangan Reservoir of the Pampanga River;
(ii)       raising and improvement of the Pampanga-Bongabon diversion
dam;
(iii)       enlarging and extending the main canal and the lateral G-2 canal
of the Pampanga-Bongabon River Irrigation System to provide
a canal connection between the Pampanga-Bongabon dam and
the Penaranda diversion dam;
(iv)        rehabilitation and upgrading of the PENRIS including repair of
existing canals and structures and provision of additional control
structures and turnouts;
(v)         construction of a new irrigation and drainage system to serve
an area of about 8,600 hectares south of the PENRIS in the
Project Area, including enlarging the lateral C canal of the
PENRIS and constructing diversion structures on local rivers,
control structures and turnouts;
(vi)       improvement of existing drainage channels and construction of
cross-drainage and diversion structures in the Project Area to
collect local flows;
(vii)       upgrading of existing and construction of additional roads in
the Project Area including roads for operation and maintenance
along main canals; and


﻿18
(viii)     construction of small buildings for use by water management
technologists approximately in the ratio of one for each
500 hectares of irrigated land in the Project Area.
Part B:     Central Luzon Irrigation Development Study
(i)        Execution of a study culminating in a report to be submitted
to the Borrower including an inventory of land and water
resources of the Central Luzon basin, a review of the status of
their development, identification of specific potential irrigation
projects, and an irrigation plan for the basin setting out a
sequence for integrated water development through such
projects; and
(ii)       conducting a training program for technical personnel of NIA
in comprehensive land and water resource development planning
including on-the-job training, academic courses and overseas
training.
Part C.    Procurement of Vehicles and Equipment in Connection with Parts A
and B of the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1978.


﻿*                                    19
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    Contracts Governed by Guidelines
1.    With respect to any contract for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent
of $100,000 or more or equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000
or more:
(a)   If bidders are required to prequalify, the Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be
followed and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Association
shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement
of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification, shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association for its
comments before the applicants are notified and the Borrower shall make such
additions to or deletions from the said list as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   Promptly after bids have been opened, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association a report of the names of each bidder and the amounts of each
bid.
(d)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants
referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendations for award of the said
consultants, and the reasons for the intended award. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿20
(e)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(f)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.
2.    With respect to any other contract for civil works or equipment, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the
delivery to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of any such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such
other information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall,
if it determines that the award of the contract is not consistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
B.    Procurement Exempt from International Competitive Bidding
I.   Any contract for the procurement of imported equipment, materials and
supplies not exceeding the equivalent of $10,000 may be let on a competitive
basis consistent with the Borrower's normal procurement practices without
international competitive bidding, provided that the aggregate expenditure for items
procured under this paragraph B.1 shall not exceed the equivalent of $100,000.
2.    Contracts for civil works included in Part A(ii) through (viii) inclusive of
the Project shall be let under procedures consistent with the Guidelines but shall
be exempt from the requirement of international competitive bidding.
3.    Civil works included in Part A(ii) through (viii) inclusive of the Project may
be carried out by NIA on force account, provided that, except with the prior
consent of the Association and the Bank, the aggregate cost thereof shall not exceed
the equivalent of $2.2 million.
C.    Supplemental Rules on Bid Evaluation and Comparison
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods for the Project, the following supplemental rules shall apply:
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids, customs duties and
other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on locally


﻿21
supplied goods, shall be excluded. Bidders shall be required to state in their bid
the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for
locally manufactured goods. The cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their use or
installation shall be taken into account in the evaluation of bids in accordance
with paragraph 4.7 of the Guidelines.
2.    The Borrower may grant a margin of preference to goods manufactured in
the Republic of the Philippines in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the Philippines,
if the bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the
Borrower, the Association and the Bank that the manufacturing
cost of such goods includes a value added in the Republic of
the Philippines equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price
of such goods.
(2)   Group B:   bids offering goods manufactured in the Philippines
other than bids classified in Group A.
(3)   Group C:   bids offering any other goods.
(b)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest
evaluated bids of each group shall then be compared with each other and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from Group A or Group B is the lowest, it
shall be selected for purposes of award.
(c)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (b) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from Group C, all Group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest bid from Group A, as determined under paragraph (b) above, after adding
to the c.i.f. bid price of goods to be imported offered in each Group C bid, for
the purpose of this further comparison only, an amount equal to 15% of the c.i.f.
bid price of such goods. If the Group A bid in such further comparison is the
lowest, it shall be selected for purposes of award; if not, the lowest bid from
Group C, as determined under paragraph (b) above, shall be selected for purposes
of award.


﻿22
3.    The bidding documents shall clearly indicate any preference which will be
granted, the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the methods and stages that will be followed in the evaluation
and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.


