Docunent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report NoP-6621-RU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED SECOND REHABILITATION LOAN
IN AN ANOUNT EQUIVALENT TO
US$600 MILLION
TO THE
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
NAY 15, 1995
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Ruble (Rb)
EXCHANGE RATE (MICEX): RUBLES PER US$
Year            Period Average    End of Period
1989              8.92                 8.92
1990             19.34               22.88
1991            61.95                169.2
1992           227.9                414.5
1993            1,018               1,247
1994            2.212               3,550
1995            4,495               5,130
a/ As of May 1, 1995
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
CAS   -       Country Assistance Strategy
CBR   -       Central Bank of Russia
CIS    -      Commonwealth of Independent States
CMEA -       Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
EU    -       European Union
GKAP -        State Committee for Anti-Monopoly Policy and the Promotion of New
Economic Structures
GKI   -       State Committee for the Management of State Property
ICB    -      International Competitive Bidding
IDF   -       Institutional Development Fund
PIU    -      Project Implementation Unit
SOE   -       Statement of Expenditures
SBA   -       Stand-by Arrangement
VAT   -       Value Added Tax
WTO  -       World Trade Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
SECOND REHABILITATION LOAN
Table of Contents
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Page No.
I.    Background   .................................   1
A.    Recent Economic Performance  .........               ..................... 1
Economic Performance During 1994 and Early 1995 ....               ........... 1
Prospects for Macroeconomic Stabilization  ..................... 3
B.  External Environment ..................................... 4
Balance of Payments Prospects for 1995 ....................... 4
Prospects for the Medium Term  ........             .................... 4
C.    Experience of the First Rehabilitation Loan  ...................... 6
II.   The Structural Economic Reform Program   ..........                 ............... 9
A. Trade Policies . ................................. 9
B.    Oil Export Procedures .................................   12
C.   Pricing and Business Entry ................................  14
D.    Other Policy Actions  .................................   15
III.  The Proposed Loan  ..... .  .................... ..........  17
A.    Program to be Supported .................  17
B.    Procurement   .........................................   18
C.    Disbursements     .......................................   18
D.    Implementation Arrangements .....................  19
E.    Accounting and Auditing  ................................. 19
F. Environment ........                                                                 19
G. Risks ........ 19
IV.   Recommendation   .............................  20
Text Tables
1.    Key Economic Indicators .          ............................. 2
2.    External Financing, 1992 - 1995 ............................. 5
Box
Summary of Structural Reforms  ............................   10
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Annexes
1.    "On Some Guidelines for Economic Policies in 1994-95", Government
Resolution N1401-p of August 30, 1994  .................... 21
2.    Second Rehabilitation Loan: Status of Policy Agreements as of
May 10, 1995 ..................................... 32
3.    First Rehabilitation Loan: Status of Policy Agreements as of
May 1, 1995 ...................................... 36
4.    Poverty and Social Development Indicators  .......            .............. 41
5.    Key Economic Indicators ................................  43
6.    Key Exposure Indicators  ................................  44
7.    Status of Bank Group Operations in Russia ............  .           ..  ..  ..  .    .  45
8.    Timetable of Key Processing Events ..................  ...  ...                   .  47
MAP IBRD No. 25968



RUSSIAN FEDERATION
SECOND REHABILITATION LOAN
Loan and Program Summary
Borrower:           Russian Federation (Ministry of Finance).
Amount:             US$ 600 million equivalent.
Terms:              Repayment in 17 years, including 5 years grace, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
Program Objectives:  (i)    Support the Government's program for macroeconomic stabilization
during 1995; and
(ii)   Support an agreed program of structural reforms including trade policies,
oil export procedures, pricing and pro-competition measures, and other
actions.
The Government's Policy Memorandum entitled "On Some Guidelines for
Economic Policies in 1994-95" signed by Chairman V. Chernomyrdin on August
30, 1994 is attached as Annex 1.
Loan Description:    The proceeds of the loan would be used to finance imports at the market
exchange rate by public sector and private enterprises. The Central Bank would
transfer local counterpart funds in an amount equivalent to the loan to the
Ministry of Finance to be used as non-inflationary budgetary finance.
Relation to CAS:    The Second Rehabilitation Loan is fully consistent with the Country Assistance
Strategy for FY96 and beyond.  The Bank has worked closely with the
Government and the IMF in developing a program of key structural reforms
needed to facilitate Russia's movement to a market-oriented economy based on
private sector initiatives.  With the completion of the prior policy actions
supported by the Second Rehabilitation Loan, the Government will have largely
met the broad macroeconomic conditions needed to justify Bank lending in the
range of $2-3 billion annually (i.e., an Intermediate to High Case lending
scenario). The Bank is committed to working closely with the Government to
expand and intensify the reform agenda in key sectors needed to sustain the
stabilization process, especially the social sectors and agriculture, and to develop
a sound program of investment projects to support the restructuring of the
economy over the medium term.



Risks:                 The ability of the Government to maintain the stabilization process is subject to
substantial risks. Primary among these is the possibility of continuing fiscal
stress from low revenue collections, as well as the likelihood of strong political
pressures to increase expenditures for agriculture and the Northern Territories
toward the middle of 1995. In addition, Russia's ability to increase exports will
be critically dependent on further reductions in domestic energy consumption,
while export earnings will be vulnerable to fluctuations in world oil prices.
Uncertainties about the Government's commitment to the stabilization program
could result in a continuation of large scale capital flight, as well as difficulties
in mobilizing substantial increases in new money disbursements, which would
undermine the external financing framework. Finally, there are substantial risks
regarding the political sustainability of the reform process, reflecting continuing
concerns within the population about the direction of reforms and anxiety about
the decline of production and social services.
Schedule of
Disbursements:       FY96 - US$ 600 million.
Poverty Category:      Not applicable.
Map:                   IBRD No. 25968.
Project Identification
Number:              RU-PA-8838.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED SECOND REHABILITATION LOAN
TO THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommnendation on a proposed Second
Rehabilitation Loan to the Russian Federation in the amount of US$ 600 million in support of the
Government's program for macroeconomic stabilization and structural reforms. The loan would be at
the Bank's standard variable interest rate with a maturity of 17 years, including 5 years of grace.
2.     An economic report entitled Russia: Joining the World Economy (Report No. 12108-RU) was
distributed to the Board on October 15, 1993. A country economic memorandum is currently under
preparation and is expected to be distributed to the Board before the end of 1995.
1. BACKGROUND
A. Recent Macroeconomic Performance
3.    Background.  Russia has undergone a major transformation since 1991.  Much has been
accomplished--the largest privatization program in history has been undertaken; prices, foreign exchange,
and most import and export controls have been substantially liberalized; and significant progress has been
made toward financial stabilization. Progress has also been achieved in establishing the basic institutions
of a democratic society. Nevertheless, Russia faces important challenges during the year ahead. The
resumption of the financial stabilization program involves difficult political decisions regarding revenues
and expenditures, as well as key structural reforms which will severely test the ability of the Government
to continue to implement its policies. The country is also facing elections for the State Duma in
December 1995, to be followed by Presidential elections six months later.
Economic Performance During 1994 and Early 1995
4.     GDP declined on an official basis by 15 percent in 1994 as compared to 1993, representing an
overall decline in GDP by 40 percent since 1991. This trend continued into 1995, with approximately
a 5 percent decline in GDP during the first quarter of the year (as compared to the first quarter of 1994).
Despite these changes, there are grounds for optimism that the contraction of the economy has bottomed
out and that economic growth will resume on a sustained basis during the second half of 1995. Industrial
output has been essentially stable on a monthly basis (adjusting for seasonal factors) since May 1994.
Moreover, a number of surveys confirm that informal sector activities have been expanding rapidly. As
a result of under-reporting, the actual decline in output is estimated to have been only about one-half of
the amount implied by measured GDP. Thus, if the Government is able to implement a credible
stabilization program which results in a sustained drop in inflationary expectations, it is reasonable to
expect that real economic growth will begin to recover quite rapidly in the near future. (Note: See Table
1 -- Russia: Key Economic Indicators.)



-2 -
Table 1. Key Economic Indicators
Ist Q
1991     1992      1993       1994    o/w 1Q         2 Q       3 Q        4 Q     1995
Real GDP growth'                  -12.8    -18.5      -12.0      -15.0     -17.0       -17.0     -14.0      -14.0    -5.0
End-of-period prices'
Consumer prices                    138    2,323        844       203        606         414       220        203     207
Producer prices in Industry        236    3.275        895       235        696         486       262        235     250
Fiscal accounts'i (Percent in GDP)
Government revenues                        46.2       39.4       36.1      30.5        37.6       34.4      38.5
Govemment expenditures'                    69.1       50.4       45.0      38.0        41.9       46.7      48.2
Fiscal balance'                           -22.9     -11.0       -8.9       -7.5       -4.3      -12.3       -9.7
Money and credite
Broad money                      1,207   11,011    46,657    135,400    61.176       81.360   106,116   135,400
Domestic credit                    794    5,967    27,600    97,500    36,100        51,700    76,500    97,500
External trades (Billions of US $)
Exports                           53.0     41.6       44.5       49.4       9.6        12.4       13.1      14.3   11.5
Imports                           44.4      37.2      34.9       39.6       9.3         9.8        9.3      11.2   10.4
Trade balance                      8.6      4.4        9.6       9.8        0.3        2.6        3.8        3.1    1.1
Notes:
a. Percentage change over the corresponding period previous year.
b. Excludes inter-governmental transfers.
c. Includes federal and local governments as well as extrabudgetary funds.
d. Includes assumptions on extrabudgetary funds in the 3rd and 4th quarters in 1994.
e. Includes unbudgeted import subsidies and interest payments due. Excludes repayments of principals due on extemal debt and
transfers to forner Soviet republics.
f. Billions of rubles at the end of period.
g. Excludes trade with former Soviet republics.
Source: Goskomstat, Central Bank of Russia, Ministry of Finance and IMF.
5.       Although most sectors of the economy have been affected by the decline in production over the
past four years, there have also been shifts in the economic structure that will pave the way for later
improvements in efficiency and growth. Changes in relative prices in favor of fuel, energy and raw
materials have increased the share of these sectors in output to around 19 percent in 1994. Likewise,
services increased their share of GDP from 30 to 50 percent between 1992 and 1994. Conversely,
traditional manufacturing industries and agriculture have experienced a declining output share.
Particularly hard hit have been light industry, metallurgy, chemicals and petro-chemicals. The decline
in agricultural output has been especially pronounced for livestock production, where import competition
has been particularly intense. These changes have begun to correct the lop-sided industrial structure
inherited from the planned economy.
6.       The drop in output has resulted in a decline in average living standards, although not in direct
proportion because of an increase in consumption at the expense of investment. Private consumption as
a share of GDP increased from 46 percent in 1993 to 50 percent in 1994. At the same time, gross
domestic investment declined from 35 percent of GDP in 1992 to 27 percent in 1994, a level which is
still high in comparison with OECD countries. Income distribution worsened significantly between 1991
and 1994, with the share of income accruing to the richest fifth of the population nearly doubling in
proportion to the share of the poorest fifth.



7.     Fiscal policy has been dominated by a significant decline in budgetary revenues due to a shift in
the economy towards activities which have been able to largely escape taxation (e.g., private sector
enterprises and non-wage compensation). Fiscal revenues at the federal level declined from about 17
percent of GDP in 1992 to 11 percent in 1994. The authorities have grappled with ways to cut
expenditures, but with only partial success. Initial cuts in import subsidies and transfers to CIS countries
during 1992 and 1993 were relatively easy to achieve. More recently the task has become much harder,
with the Ministry of Finance often resorting to sequestration of the available funds in order to limit
current payments. However, a continuation of such policies would be unlikely to lead to a sustainable
low rate of inflation or a pattern of public spending that would support long term growth.
8.     While the record on inflation is mixed, there have been some gains. The average monthly rate
of inflation during 1994 was around 10 percent, or half the rate recorded in 1993. A relaxation of
monetary policies in the second quarter of 1994 rekindled inflation during the latter part of 1994,
increasing to 18 percent on a monthly basis in January 1995, as well as unstable real exchange and
interest rates. Tighter monetary policies during the second half of 1994 resulted in a subsequent fall in
monthly inflation to around 8 percent in April 1995. Given the "stop-go" nature of monetary policy over
the past three years, a sustained period of tight monetary and fiscal policies will be required to dampen
inflationary expectations sufficiently to permit the resumption of economic growth.
Prospects for Macroeconomic Stabilization
9.    IMF Stabilization Program. The Government recently reached agreement with the IMF on a
Stand-by Arrangement (SBA) for 100 percent of quota over a 12 month period, which was approved by
the IMF Board on April 11. The key objective of the macroeconomic program is to bring inflation down
very quickly to an average monthly rate of around 1 percent in the second half of the year through a
significant tightening of monetary policy and a substantial cut in the fiscal deficit. The program includes
strict ceilings on the growth in money supply and the cessation of direct credits from the Central Bank
to finance the federal budget deficit. The most critical part of the stabilization effort is a near-halving
of the federal budget deficit (from 11 percent of GDP in 1994 to 6 percent in 1995), with estimated
expenditures of 19.6 percent of GDP and revenues of 13.5 percent. Foreign financing sources are
expected to cover around 45 percent of the deficit, with the bulk of the remaining financing coming from
the sale of domestic securities.
10.   Medium-term Outlook. The economy appears to have reached a turning point, and there is a
good chance that economic growth will begin to recover in the latter part of 1995, increasing to the range
of 5 percent in real terms over the next few years. Services, including banking and insurance, are
expected to provide the largest share of growth, while traditional industries, including light industry,
metallurgy and chemicals, could continue to contract further.  However, achieving an economic
turnaround will require a sustained stabilization effort, including a further reduction of the federal budget
deficit to around 2 percent of GDP over the next couple of years. There may be scope to increase
revenue collections from the energy sector as energy prices move to world levels. However, given the
difficulty in reversing the downward trend in tax revenue in the near term, most of the burden of fiscal
adjustment will have to be placed on further expenditure cuts. The budget still provides substantial
financial support to enterprises, on the order of 6 percent of GDP in 1994, much of which would be
better off financed through commercial sources. Over 60 percent of the transfers consisted of subsidies
and investment grants to agriculture and coal mining, while the remainder included transfers to machine-
building and transport enterprises and the military-industrial complex. At the same time, the Government
needs to take a more prominent role in providing support for vulnerable groups. As enterprise
restructuring takes off and energy prices move toward world market levels, an increasing share of the



population could move temporarily into poverty. Appropriate provision for a social safety net will be
essential to maintain the momentum of economic reforms.
B. External Environment
Balance of Payments Prospects for 1995
11.    Current debt service obligations on medium and long term debt will be roughly the same as in
the previous two years, around $20.3 billion in 1995. However, Russia also needs to resolve its large
stock of outstanding payment arrears, mostly owed to commercial creditors, on the order of 13.9 billion
in 1995. Together with a necessary build-up in foreign reserves on the order of $4.5 billion, as well as
some continued short-term capital outflow (mostly trade-related), Russia's external financing requirements
will increase to around $44 billion in 1995.  (Note.  See Table 2--Russia: External Financing
Requirements; 1992-1995.)
12.   To help meet these financing requirements, Russia is expected to run a surplus on its non-interest
current account with non-CIS countries, increasing from $3.5 billion in 1994 to around $5.3 billion in
1995. Exports to non-CIS countries are expected to increase to about $55 billion in 1995, including a
rapid growth in non-energy commodities, although imports are also expected to increase as a result of
the resumption of growth in GDP in the latter part of 1995. Foreign direct investment could cover an
increasing, although still fairly modest, contribution to the overall financing picture in 1995. However,
the major share of Russia's external financing requirements during 1995 will have to be met through
continued debt rescheduling, including an agreement with the Paris Club on similar terms as in 1994, as
well as an agreement with commercial creditors on debt rescheduling, including outstanding arrears, on
terms similar to those provided by official creditors. In addition, disbursements of new money financing
on a medium to long term basis (i.e., in excess of one year) will need to increase from $4.5 billion in
1994 to around $10-11 billion in 1995, roughly similar to the amount provided in 1992. Of this, the IMF
SBA is expected to account for about half of the needed external financing, while other creditors,
including export credit agencies, will have to expand lending as well. The Second Rehabilitation Loan
would represent the major share of the Bank's contribution to this overall financing program.
Prospects for the Medium Term
13.    Over the medium to long term, Russia's prospects for achieving a viable external financing
position will require actions in a number of areas, most importantly: (i) continued expansion of export
earnings; (ii) regularizing the external debt situation; and (iii) establishing a more attractive environment
for foreign private investment.
14.   Foreign Trade. The sharp drop in foreign trade that accompanied the break-up of the former
Soviet Union and the CMEA trading system has been reversed. Exports to all countries (both CIS and
non-CIS) grew by 13 percent in 1994 to reach $66 billion. Export earnings continue to be concentrated
on a narrow number of raw materials, especially natural gas, oil and oil products. Exports of non-
traditional goods, especially iron and steel and other metals, also increased rapidly in 1994, although from
a very low base. There has been a substantial realignment in Russia's trading patterns, with over three-
quarters of total trade in value terms now taking place with non-CIS countries, particularly Western
Europe. For example, the share of crude oil exports going to non-CIS countries increased from 47
percent in 1992 to 74 percent in the first half of 1994, with similar shifts occurring in manufactured
products such as processed timber and pulp and paper.



-5-
Table 2. External Financing, 1992-1995
(USs billion)
1992          1993           1994          1995
Requirements
Debt service due                                 15.0           20.5          21.5           20.3
Principal'                                       9.5          15.4           15.7          13.2
Interest                                         5.5           5.1            5.8           7.1
Arrears reduction                                   -              -             -           13.9
Increase in gross reserves                        1.8            4.9             -            4.5
Short-term outflowh                              14.6            6.0           8.8            5.3
Total                                     31.4          31.4           30.3          44.0
Sources
Non-interest current account surplus              -0.2           4.3           3.5            5.3
Grants                                            3.0            2.8           2.4            0.9
Disbursementsa                                   13.8            6.8           4.5           10.4
IMF                                              1.0           1.5            1.5           5.0
Others                                          12.8           5.3            3.0           5.4
Other long-term flows, net'                       0.7            0.4           1.0            2.5
Decrease in gross reserves                          -              -           2.6              -
Arrears accumulation                              6.9            0.3           3.8              -
Rescheduling of official debt'                    7.2           16.8          12.5            5.6
Other debt relief                                   -              -             -           19.3
Total                                     31.4          31.4           30.3          44.0
Notes:
a.  Long- and medium-term loans only.
b.  Identified net outflow as well as errors and omissions.
c.  Includes direct foreign investment.
d.  Includes the deferral of pre-cut-off principals.
Source: IMF.
15.    External Debt. Debt service due in 1994 totalled $21.5 billion, excluding clearance of arrears.
In June 1994, the Paris Club of official creditors agreed to reschedule debt falling due during 1994 on
terms broadly comparable to those provided in 1993. Debt service paid in 1994 amounted to only about
$4 billion, primarily to official creditors. Russia has announced an agreement in principle with the
London Club of commercial creditors (which has not yet been finalized), and the Government made an
initial payment on interest arrears to commercial creditors at the end of February 1995. The recent IMF
SBA provides a sound basis for a renewed agreement with the Paris Club on debt rescheduling, as well
as conclusion of an agreement with Russia's commercial creditors. However, even under optimistic
scenarios, servicing of external debt will continue to be a constraint on growth unless substantial debt
restructuring is provided during the coming years.
16.    Foreign Direct Investment. Positive real interest rates and stabilization of the exchange rate led
to a decline in capital outflows during the first half of 1994. However, growing macroeconomic
instability and a trend towards negative interest rates heightened inflationary expectations and led to



- 6 -
increased capital outflows toward the end of 1994. Speculative pressures also resulted in a massive
temporary depreciation in the nominal exchange rate during the early part of October, as well as a severe
depletion of the reserves of the Central Bank in an effort to stabilize the exchange rate. Since then, the
real exchange rate has strengthened slightly due to a tighter monetary stance and an increase in interest
rates.
17.    Russia's long-term financing requirements needed to restructure its economy are massive, going
well beyond anything that is likely to be available from domestic resources and official international
financial institutions. It is therefore urgent for the Government to adopt an aggressive approach to
mobilizing foreign direct investment. The Bank has supported this effort by providing a partial waiver
of its negative pledge policy for a period of two years, allowing Russia to provide additional security for
investors in activities which generate foreign exchange. So far, however, direct foreign investment
inflows have been disappointing in relation to the size and potential of the Russian economy, on the order
of $1.2 billion on a cash basis in 1994, with the bulk of investment concentrated in the energy sector.
Portfolio investment rose from negligible amounts to reach about $500 million per month in the middle
of 1994, but it declined sharply at the end of 1994 due to concerns about financial and political stability,
the associated fall in stock prices, and the future direction of the privatization program. The Government
has attempted to restore investor confidence by replacing the head of the privatization agency and offering
various tax incentives. However, the restoration of political and economic stability will matter much
more in the medium term as a means of attracting foreign capital.
C. Experience of the First Rehabilitation Loan
18.    The First Rehabilitation Loan for Russia was approved by the Board on August 6, 1992,
following approval of a First Credit Tranche arrangement by the IMF Board on the previous day. The
loan was intended to support a transitional program of macroeconomic stabilization and structural reforms
leading to agreement on an upper level credit tranche arrangement with the IMF. In addition, it was
designed to introduce the Government to Bank lending operations and develop familiarity with project
implementation procedures such as procurement and disbursements, thereby facilitating agreement on
ftuture adjustment and investment loans. A review of experience with the First Rehabilitation Loan and
lessons learned for the present operation is therefore important.
19.    Macroeconomic Performance. The macroeconomic program for 1992 and early-1993 that was
supported by the First Rehabilitation Loan was not consistently implemented. Planned increases in
revenues were rejected by the (then) Supreme Soviet, and there was a sharp increase in budgetary
expenditures during the third quarter of 1992, such that the domestic financing requirements for the
budget increased to some 14 percent of GDP, as compared to 6.5 percent under the IMF program.
Credit through the Central Bank expanded rapidly starting in August 1992, and planned increases in
interest rates did not take place. As a result, inflation, which had declined to single-digit levels on a
monthly basis in July 1992, accelerated to the range of 25-30 percent during the final quarter of 1992.
This contributed to a rapid depreciation of the exchange rate in both real and nominal terms. A
subsequent tightening of monetary and fiscal policies kept the economy from slipping into hyperinflation,
although inflation remained in the range of 20-25 percent per month throughout much of the first half of
1993.
20.    Progress on Structural Reforms. The First Rehabilitation Loan supported structural reforms in
the following five areas: (i) enterprise reform, including privatization; (ii) anti-monopoly and pro-
competition policies; (iii) foreign direct investment; (iv) financial sector reforms; and (v) the social safety



net. Annex 3 summarizes the current status of the specific policy measures supported by the loan. The
Government has succeeded in achieving most of its structural objectives under the First Rehabilitation
Loan, especially as regards the privatization program, although often with considerable delays particularly
when policy measures required agreement with the (then) Supreme Soviet.
21.    Enterprise Reform. The major structural reforms included privatization of small, medium and
large scale enterprises, improvement of corporate governance, and improvement of the legal framework
needed for a market economy. Privatization has been the centerpiece of the Government's efforts to
restructure the economy. The State Property Committee (GKI) estimates that by the end of the first phase
of the privatization program in June 1994, 20,000 of 28,000 large and medium-sized enterprises
earmarked for privatization had been corporatized, and 12.000 enterprises had auctioned a majority share
interest for vouchers and had state shares of less than 25 percent. As a result, over 80 percent of workers
in medium to large scale industrial enterprises now work in the private sector. Small-scale privatization
has kept pace, although with significant regional variations; GKI estimates that 90,000 small-scale
enterprises (constituting 80 percent of enterprises with fewer than 200 employees) had been privatized
as of end-June, 1994. The first phase of the privatization program has generally been successful in
separating ownership responsibilities from state control, although certain sectors of the economy, such
as agriculture, coal, and defense production, continue under substantial state direction because of their
dependence on budgetary financing. While many privatized enterprises continue to operate under their
previous managers with only modest efforts at restructuring, outside owners are beginning to assert
themselves in shareholder meetings and gaining representation at enterprise boards. A draft law on
securities markets, which is expected to provide the major impetus for improving corporate governance
in privatized enterprises, recently passed the second reading of the State Duma.
22.    The second (post-voucher) phase of the privatization program  based on cash auctions and
investment tenders began in July 1994, including regulations which clarify land transfer procedures for
privatized enterprises and limit the distribution of shares on a concessional basis to employees. Other
recent legislation has strengthened the role of the Bankruptcy Agency in handling insolvent enterprises,
which is an essential step in improving corporate governance. The first part of the Civil Code was
approved by the State Duma during 1994, although the second part of the Civil Code, which is expected
to include provisions relating to commercial transactions such as insurance, carriage, leasing, and
trusteeship, as well as guarantees for protection of intellectual property rights, is still outstanding.
23.    Pro-competition and Anti-monopoly Policies. Pro-competition activities have generally focussed
on the elimination of price controls and measures to increase market entry, as well as the elimination of
subsidies that sustained the former distribution monopolies (particularly in rural areas). These measures
have been generally effective in establishing the basic framework of a market economy, although some
controls on prices and market access still exist at the local level (this is being addressed as part of the
Second Rehabilitation Loan). As regards anti-monopoly activities, the Government's initial efforts
focused largely on administrative controls (especially regulation of profit margins and prices) for
enterprises listed on the Register of Dominant Firms. This approach was not particularly effective,
however, and the Register was allowed to expire at the beginning of 1994. More recently, a draft law
on natural and state monopolies was submitted to the State Duma (where it is waiting for the second
reading), which defines a limited number of sub-sectors that will be subject to regulation as natural
monopolies. Outside these areas, the Government will rely primarily on further liberalization and market
forces to promote competitive behavior.



- 8 -
24.   Foreign Direct Investment. The Government has undertaken many of the basic macroeconomic
reforms needed to provide a more attractive environment for foreign direct investment, including foreign
exchange convertability, trade liberalization, positive real interest rates, and financial sector reform. The
Privatization Program for 1994 allows foreign investors to participate in investment tenders on a non-
discriminatory basis. However, foreign direct investment continues to be constrained by political and
economic uncertainties, as well as a lack of a stable and transparent legal and taxation framework. The
Government has repeatedly stated its intention to modify the 1991 Law on Foreign Investment to facilitate
foreign investment, but very little progress has been achieved in this regard. Greater attention has now
been given to legal changes needed to facilitate foreign investment in particular sectors (especially the oil
extraction industry targeted by the Law on Production Sharing Agreements currently before the Duma)
where it appears that progress will be possible.
25.   Financial Sector Reform. There are currently up to 2500 independent commercial banks in
Russia, almost all of which have been created within the last few years. Among the vast number of new
banks, there may be up to 100 banks that are evolving into sound financial institutions. These banks are
growing at a rapid pace and are becoming involved in profitable and genuine banking activities. In
addition, a number of non-bank financial intermediaries (such as investment funds) have been established
which are playing a growing role in the development of domestic capital markets. The Central Bank has
recently begun to improve its banking supervision activities and establish tighter reserve requirements and
higher capital adequacy ratios, which could result in the closure of a number of illiquid banks.
26.    Social Safety Net. Unemployment has not increased as rapidly as originally expected. At the end
of 1994, the number of officially registered unemployed workers amounted to only 2.2 percent of the
labor force, while a broader definition of open unemployment based on ILO methodology indicated that
7 percent of the labor force was unemployed at the end of 1994. While the Employment Fund has been
able to maintain a net financial surplus, individual Regional Employment Funds in areas hard hit by
localized unemployment have experienced financial deficits, which have been met by transfers from the
Federal Employment Fund. Broad-based social protection programs protect only a minority of the
population from poverty due to inadequate targeting and indexation. The Government introduced
temporary flat rate indexation of pensions in 1993 to reduce the financial strain on the Pension Fund and
ensure that minimum pensions are at least adequate to meet the minimum poverty level. Child allowances
were linked to the minimum wage at the end of 1993; however, as they are provided to all families,
regardless of need, this has contributed to pressures to maintain the minimum wage at an artificially low
level for fiscal reasons. The Government has been reluctant to introduce more fundamental changes of
social benefit programs because of the political sensitivity of the required reforms.
27.   Project Implementation. The First Rehabilitation Loan was declared effective on December 29,
1992 following a delay of five months due to the Government's request for clarification of the Bank's
negative pledge condition. Disbursements started on December 30, 1992, and the market-based imports
component of the Loan ($250 million) was fully disbursed on May 12, 1993. The pre-identified imports
component of the Loan ($350 million, including $5 million for the services of local procurement agents)
faced problems in getting under way due to the need to introduce international competitive procurement
procedures into a new environment, as well as procedural difficulties which resulted in an eight month
delay in the establishment of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU). The PIU subsequently played a
highly effective role in resolving problems experienced during the implementation period for the loan,
and the procurement advisers financed by the U.K. Know-How Fund provided valuable technical support
to the local procurement agents and ministries involved in the project. The loan closed on September 30,
1994, reflecting a delay of nine months as compared to the original closing date of December 31, 1993,
and the remaining balance of the loan was fully disbursed in January 1995.



28.   The experience under the First Rehabilitation Loan demonstrated a number of problems in public
procurement procedures in Russia, including deficiencies in the legal framework (which is oriented
toward procurement in a command economy), lack of effective competition in the selection of suppliers,
lack of transparency in bidding procedures with excessive emphasis placed on direct negotiations between
the suppliers and the procurement agents, and institutional arrangements that do not promote efficiency
and service quality. The First Rehabilitation Loan provided a concrete demonstration of the substantial
cost savings that can be achieved by introducing competitive procurement procedures; in cases where ICB
procedures were followed, cost savings of 25-30 percent (up to 75 percent in some instances) were
realized as compared to the prices previously paid by Russian foreign trade organizations. Based on the
experience gained under the First Rehabilitation Loan, the Government has indicated its interest in
undertaking reforms in the legal and institutional framework to manage public procurement, and the Bank
is preparing an IDF grant application to provide support in this effort. In addition, the U.K. Know-How
Fund has financed a continuation of its training program in public procurement aimed at establishing a
core of Russian entities familiar with international competitive procurement procedures that can provide
support for future investment projects, including those financed by the Bank.
II. THE STRUCTURAL REFORM PROGRAM
29.   The Second Rehabilitation Loan would support the implementation of key structural reforms
specified in the Government's Policy Memorandum entitled "On Some Guidelines for Economic Policies
in 1994-95" (Government Resolution N 1401-p), which was signed by Chairman Chernomyrdin on
August 30, 1994. (Note: See Annex 1.) Many of the reforms, especially those pertaining to foreign
trade policies, oil export procedures, and pricing and pro-competition measures, have been implemented
as prior actions for Board Presentation of the Second Rehabilitation Loan. Box 1 summarizes the reform
measures supported by the Second Rehabilitation Loan, while Annex 2 provides a more detailed
description of the current status of each of the specific actions.
30.    Discussions of the structural reform agenda supported by the Second Rehabilitation Loan were
coordinated closely with the Government and the IMF, and a similar program of reforms is being
supported by the IMF's SBA. The Bank has agreed to cooperate with the IMF in monitoring the
implementation of the structural reform program (especially in the critical area of oil export procedures),
which will take place during the IMF's next scheduled review of the structural reform program in August
1995.
A. Trade Policies
31.   At any particular time during the past three years, the Government's trade policy stance appeared
to be in a state of considerable flux, which has created uncertainty among many observers as to its overall
direction. In retrospect, however, it is clear that Russia has made considerable progress in introducing
most of the elements of a liberal trade regime. This is a major accomplishment, as Russia inherited a
highly distorted trade regime that was designed to isolate the domestic economy from world markets.
As a result, the structure of prices and production in Russia had become increasingly out of line with its
comparative advantage. In this context, the Government has been able to achieve a number of important
changes in its trade policy orientation. Average tariffs are currently around 12 percent, despite enormous
pressure for protection from industrial lobbies. Import subsidies have been cut from nearly 25 percent
of GDP in 1992 to virtually zero in early 1994, and trading monopolies have been abolished. The
exchange rate is freely determined by the market, and the ruble is convertible for most current account
transactions. Export quotas have been gradually reduced and recently eliminated, resulting in movement
of relative prices for tradable goods towards world levels. On the administrative side, a customs law
modeled on that of the European Union (EU) has been adopted.



- 10 -
Box 1. Second Rehabilitation Loan: Summary of Structural Reforms *
A. TRADE POLICIES
1. Export quotas and duties. Abolish export quotas and licensing; eliminate list of strategic exporters; reduce
export duties in stages and eliminate by end of 1995; abolisih export duty exemptions.
2. Import tariffs and subsidies. Reduce maximum import tariff rate to 30 percent; rationalize tariff structure;
abolish import tariff exemptions; harmonize excise taxes for imported and domestic products; publishl timetable
for future reductions in tariffs.
3. Trade :with CIS countries. Discontinue obligatory list trade and exports of commoditiesfor state needs.
B. OIL EXPORT PROCEDURES
1. Oil pipeline access. Introduce non-discriminatory framework for allocating access rights to oil pipeline
capacities in conjunction with the elimination of export quotas on oil and oil products.
C. PRICING AND PRO-COMPETITION MEASURES
I. Pricins. Eliminate controls on prices and profitability and trading margins; submit draft legislation on natural
and state monopolies to State Duma.
2. Licensing and business entry. Introduce transparentframeworkfor business licensing; submit draft legislaion
on joint stock companies to State Duma.
D. OTHER ACTIONS
1. Access to commercial real estate. Abolish restrictions on sales of land earmarkedfor commercialpurposes and
leased commercial buildings to privatized enterprises; complete processing of applications for purchases of
commercial real estate; facilitate process of land privatization in rural areas; prepare legal framework for land
title registration and mortgages.
2. Enterprise and.financial sector reform. Restrict use of Federal Employment Fundfor transfers to enterprises;
analyze and publish effective rates of state support to various industries; mandatory sales of insolvent enterprises;
prepare restructuring program for the coal sector; truth in advertising for financial institutions; improve financial
reporting and banking supervision for commercial banks; introduce regionally differentiated pricing for natural
gas.
* Denotes piorpolicy actionsfor the Second Rehabilitation Loan.
32.    The Government has established clear and realistic objectives for its trade policy reforms. Russia
intends to join the world trade system  based on a policy regime that is broadly comparable to that of
many OECD countries. In order to facilitate access to export markets, Russia intends to accede to the
WTO at an early date (it has already started the accession process), as well as entering into bilateral and
multilateral agreements with major trade partners (such as the Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation
signed with the EU on June 24, 1994). WTO membership is expected to provide many benefits for



- 11 -
Russia; it will provide exporters non-discriminatory treatment and access to WTO's dispute settlement
rules, and it will also help the Government to resist pressures for protection by making it more costly to
pursue certain types of restrictive trade policies.
33.    The following principles have been established as part of Russia's overall trade policy reforms
(Presidential Decree No. 245 of March 6, 1995): (i) the Government will not introduce quantitative
restrictions on exports and imports, except in connection with international obligations of the Russian
Federation; (ii) other non-tariff restrictions on exports and imports may be used only for the purposes
of law enforcement, maintaining defense capabilities and international security, health, environment, and
the historic, archeological and cultural heritage of the Russian Federation; and (iii) restrictions on exports
and imports will not be used to establish mandatory supplies to the domestic market. While these are
important objectives, the Government recognizes that the continued implementation of trade reforms will
be politically and administratively difficult. Domestic industries have come under increased competitive
pressure from imports over the past year, resulting in a sharp escalation in demands for protection, which
are likely to intensify if the stabilization program results in a significant appreciation of the real exchange
rate. In order to limit the scope for political pressure by special interest groups, the Government has
recently undertaken the following steps regarding trade policy reforms which would be supported by the
Second Rehabilitation Loan.
34.   Export Quotas and Duties.  Prior actions supported under the Second Rehabilitation Loan
include: (i) the elimination of export quotas and licensing for all products (including oil and oil products);
(ii) elimination of the system of special exporters (which restricted the number of organizations eligible
to participate directly in export trade, especially for oil); (iii) a phased reduction in export duties
throughout 1994 and 1995; and (iv) the elimination of almost all export and import duty exemptions.
Presidential Decree N 1007 of May 23, 1994 eliminated export quotas and licensing for products other
than for oil and oil products as of July 1, 1994, with the exception of products subject to restrictions in
connection with international commitments. Export quotas and licensing for oil and oil products were
eliminated as of January 1, 1995 under Government Decree N 1446 of December 31, 1994. Presidential
Decree N 245 of March 6, 1995 abolished the system of special exporters. Average export duties were
lowered by approximately 28 percent (based on an export-weighted average) as of July 29, 1994.
Subsequent reductions in export duties up through April 1995, especially for oil and oil products, have
lowered average export duties by around 40 percent as compared to the beginning of 1994. Further
planned reductions are expected to result in a 60 percent reduction in average export duties by the middle
of 1995, with the objective of eliminating all export duties by the beginning of 1996.  Finally,
Presidential Decree N 244 of March 6, 1995 and Federal Law N 3 1-FZ of March 13, 1995 abolished all
export and import duty exemptions not provided for in federal legislation.
35.   Import Tariffs and Subsidies. Government Decree N 190 of February 28, 1995 established a
30 percent ceiling for import duties with the exception of luxury goods, tobacco, alcohol and armaments,
which became effective on May 10, 1995 through a new import duty schedule issued as Government
Decree N 454 of May 6, 1995. In addition, Decree N 190 included several principles to rationalize the
structure of tariff rates, including the introduction of a minimum tariff rate of 5 percent for all dutiable
goods and a reduction in the share of non-dutiable goods by 40-50 percent by the end of 1995. As
mentioned above, Presidential Decree N 244 of March 6, 1995 and Federal Law N 31-FZ of March 13,
1995 abolished all export and import duty exemptions not provided for in federal legislation. The
Government has agreed to complete the harmonization of excise taxes for domestically-produced and
imported products by June 30, 1995. Finally, Government Decree N 190 of February 28, 1995 also
established the following targets for future changes in the tariff regime: (i) a reduction in the maximum



- 12 -
rate of import tariffs to 20 percent by January 1 1998 and to 15 percent by January 1 2000; and (ii) a
reduction in the average weighted rate of import tariffs to 80 percent of the 1995 level in 1998 and 70
percent of the 1995 level in 2000. The Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations published an indicative
timetable on April 10 1995 for achieving these reductions over the next five years, with intermediate
targets for the coming three-year period.
36.   Inter-governmental Trade. Liberalization of the trade regime has significantly reduced domestic
price distortions that provided the main impetus for inter-governmental trade agreements up to now. As
a result, there has already been a major shift in trading patterns away from inter-governmental agreements
toward enterprise-to-enterprise agreements. For example, in 1992, some 300 products were subject to
trade by obligatory (mandatory) lists, while in 1994 the number of affected products was down. to around
30, mostly energy, some chemicals and non-ferrous metals, and certain food items. Moreover, as export
quotas have been eliminated, it has become increasingly difficult for the authorities to enforce mandatory
trade agreements, and it is estimated that inter-governmental trade accounted for only about 10 percent
of total CIS trade in 1994. For 1995, the mandatory elements of inter-governmental trade agreements
with CIS countries have been effectively eliminated. Presidential Decree N 245 of March 6, 1995 states
that exports by the federal government will be undertaken only for the purpose of meeting international
obligations of the Russian Federation, while a recent Law on Procurement for Federal and State Needs
(N 60-FZ of December 13, 1994) has established that all such shipments will be conducted on a market-
based system of procurement with no mandatory elements. As a result, only three inter-governmental
trade agreements containing indicative (non-binding) lists have been signed with CIS countries (one more
is in the pipeline), as compared to eleven such agreements in 1994.
B. Oil Export Procedures
37.   The Bank has been engaged in an intensive dialogue with the Government over the past three
years on oil sector policy reforms, largely in the context of the Bank's petroleum sector lending program.
Progress achieved over this period, while still falling short of the desired objectives, has been
considerable. By the middle of 1994 (when the Bank presented its Second Oil Rehabilitation Loan to the
Board):
e     Domestic oil prices had increased from about 2 percent of world levels to close to 60
percent. Price controls and limits on profitability had been abandoned, and mandatory allocations for
domestic sales had been abolished.  Access to the export market therefore became the key factor
influencing domestic price levels.
*     The oil export regime had been significantly liberalized. The volume of exports to non-
CIS markets had increased substantially and the Government was committed to ending oil export quotas
and the restrictive licensing of oil exporters, as well as centralized exports of oil for state needs, all of
which restrained oil exports and domestic prices. The Government was also committed to a rapid phase
out of the oil export duty.
*     Oil tax rates had been reduced to levels which, in conjunction with anticipated increases
in domestic prices and greater access to export opportunities, at least partially restored incentives to
develop and produce new oil reserves. Major new legislation addressing production-sharing agreements
had been prepared which provided for fully acceptably profit-based taxation.



- 13 -
*      Other significant policy advances were occurred with respect to petroleum legislation,
enterprise and institutional reform and foreign direct investment.
38.    Full implementation of promised reforms in the oil export area is critical for completing the
transformation of the oil sector along market lines. Alignment of domestic and international prices as
a result of unconstrained access to the oil export market would encourage conservation, have a beneficial
environmental impact, improve production incentives (provided the tax regime remains accommodating),
increase fiscal revenues (thereby contributing to deficit reduction) and remove a major incentive to
corruption. However, implementing the final stage of oil export reform raised a number of issues,
including:
*      Domestic impact on prices and volumes. Critics of the reform process argued that the
abolition of oil export quotas would lead to a dramatic increase in export volumes and an unacceptable
run-up in domestic prices. In fact, immediate increases in oil exports would be limited by physical and
market constraints. Bank estimates suggest that non-CIS exports might increase on the order of 10 to 15
million tons in 1995 to a level of 105 to 115 million tons, which would result in a desirable but
manageable increase in the domestic price of crude oil.
*      Constrained export capacity. In the near term, those parts of the oil pipeline system
which provided relatively direct access to western markets, especially through the Black Sea and Baltic
ports, were already operating at or near to their physical capacity constraints. Relatively unconstrained
sections of the oil export system, notably the Druzhba oil pipeline into eastern Europe, did not offer
direct access into western markets, and the scope for generating increased demand for oil exports in the
markets served by the Druzhba line were constrained by market factors in those countries. Thus, until
such time as physical capacity constraints could be overcome, there was a need to establish transparent
systems for allocating access rights to constrained oil pipeline capacities, the demand for which would
become more even urgent as exports were further liberalized.
*      Investment incentives.  Duty-free, unconstrained access to export markets had been
granted to a number of international joint ventures and domestic oil producers as an incentive to new
investments. In order to preserve the credibility of the Government in terms of future foreign investment,
alternative arrangements were needed to preserve or grandfather these export access rights or provide
equivalent incentives.
39.    Although the Government originally intended to eliminate export quotas for oil and oil products
as of July 1, 1994 (simultaneous with the elimination of export quotas for all other products), this
decision was postponed at the last moment in order to allow additional time to develop procedures for
allocating access rights to constrained oil capacities. The Bank participated closely with the Government
in this exercise, and an Oil Transport Protocol was signed by the Bank and the Government in September
1994 (subsequently endorsed by the Government as Decree N 1562-r of September 30, 1994) which
called for: (a) an end to oil export quotas as of January 1, 1995; (b) open access to unconstrained oil
export capacities, especially the Druzhba pipeline to Eastern and Central European markets; (c)
transparent, non-discriminatory rules of access to constrained export capacities; (d) the ability to trade
access rights for constrained capacities in a market-oriented fashion; (e) pre-allocation of access rights
to those who had invested on the basis of assured export rights; and (f) significant reductions in the export
duty for oil during 1995, with elimination of the export duty by January 1, 1996. Additional elements
in the reform agenda included an end to exports for state needs and the requirement to limit export rights
to registered or specialized exporters.



- 14 -
40.    Oil Export Procedures. The framework outlined above for allocating access rights to constrained
export capacities is contained in Government Decrees N 1446 of December 31, 1994 and N 94 of January
30, 1995, subsequently amended by Decree N 209 of February 28, 1995 to eliminate provisions that
would have provided preferential allocations of oil for domestic consumption.  A review of the
implementation of the program in early-April determined that the initial allocation of access rights to
constrained export capacities was generally satisfactory, although the Bank will continue to monitor the
program closely to determine whether the system remains on track. Future reviews will take into
consideration a few summary indicators of the impact of liberalized access procedures, such as: (i) the
convergence of domestic and world prices (the difference between the two prices should move
increasingly toward the amount of the export duty); (ii) export volumes (non-CIS annualized volumes
should be in the 100 to 105 million tons range); and (iii) export access (shipments through unconstrained
capacity should approximately match shipper nominations for use of that capacity). In the context of the
Second Rehabilitation Loan, it was agreed that the disbursement of the second half of the loan (i.e., $300
million) would be based on a satisfactory review of progress regarding the allocation of access rights to
oil export pipelines.  This review would take place around mid-August in cooperation with the
Government and the IMF (see para. 56).
C. Pricing and Business Entry
41.    The liberalization of the foreign trade regime has gone a long way toward reducing price
distortions that previously characterized the economy and introducing competition into the evolving
market system. In order to complement these efforts, it is essential to eliminate domestic controls on
prices and business entry as well. The Government has made substantial progress in this regard over the
past several years, and the majority of prices have been effectively liberalized. Moreover, privatization
has introduced substantial scope for market competition, except in a limited number of sub-sectors where
monopoly structures retain significant market power (this includes both natural monopolies and instances
such as the coal sub-sector which has retained substantial elements of centralized control through the
distribution of government subsidies).
42.    Despite this progress, there continue to be substantial pressures to limit competition and control
prices, especially at the local and regional level. As much of the legal framework surrounding pricing
and business entry has been implemented in a piecemeal fashion through various decrees, regional and
local authorities have been able to exploit inconsistencies and loopholes in the legal framework in order
to protect special interest groups. The ability of the federal government to intervene in these cases is
often uncertain, given the volatile nature of central-local relationships, and in practice it will take a
number of years before these matters are fully clarified. Nevertheless, a useful starting point is to
establish a clearer framework regarding the ability of government officials at both the federal and local
levels to intervene in matters of pricing and business entry. The Second Rehabilitation Loan would
support several important steps in this direction, which have already had an important impact by helping
to fend off proposals for increased controls that were previously under consideration.
43.    Pricing. Presidential Decree N 221 of February 28, 1995 and Government Decree N 239 of
March 7, 1995 establish a more systematic legal framework to streamline the process of price regulation
in the future. The main provisions of these two decrees include:
*     All forms of price regulation, including the establishment of fixed prices, maximum
prices, mark-ups, maximum price changes, maximum profitability levels, and declared price increases
are prohibited except for those cases explicitly permitted by the terms of these decrees.



- 15 -
*      Price regulation is limited to the following three lists of products. which are defined in
attachments to Government Decree N 239: (i) those products for which prices are to be regulated by
federal authorities (mainly natural and state monopolies), (ii) those products for which prices are to be
regulated by regional authorities (this list includes consumer fuel prices such as natural gas, public
transportation, rent and municipal service payments, water and sewerage fees, mail and
telecommunications services, and funeral services); and (iii) those products for which prices may be
regulated by regional governments (this list includes allows price regulation in the Far Northern areas,
price controls for school meals and baby food, and regulation rail, air, bus, and inland water passenger
transportation tariffs). In the context of the latter two lists of the products, regional authorities are
required to seek permission from the federal government in order to impose price regulations if the
regional government receives subsidies from the federal budget, which applies to almost all regional-level
governments.
*      Subsidies related to the imposition of price controls at the federal level will be included
in the federal budget; regional authorities are expected to do likewise for prices regulated under their
authority.
44.    The Government has recently submitted draft legislation on natural and state monopolies to the
State Duma, where it is currently being reviewed prior to its second reading. The purpose of the
legislation is to define a limited number of activities subject to regulation as natural or state monopolies
(including natural gas, electrical energy and heat, oil pipeline transportation, air navigation, water and
sewerage, postal and telecommunications services, and a variety of freight and passenger transportation
services) and provide a legal framework for the establishment of regulatory bodies for this purpose.
While this law is under consideration, Presidential Decree N 220 of February 28, 1995 provides an
interim framework for establishing regulatory bodies for these activities.
45.    Licensing and Business Entry. Business licensing has been used as a tool at the local level to
restrict entry and as a source of rent-seeking behavior. In order to limit abuses of licensing, Government
Decree N 1418 of December 24, 1994 limits the types of activities that can be made subject to licensing
(with the exception of activities already covered by law or Presidential decrees), defines the bodies
responsible for issuing licenses, and regulates the maximum fees to be charged for issuing licenses. In
addition, the Government recently submitted a draft Law on Joint Stock Companies to the State Duma,
where it is currently being reviewed by committees, which would clarify the legal basis for this type of
enterprise, which is the dominant form of organization for enterprises subject to privatization.
D. Other Policy Actions
46.    During the policy discussions for the Second Rehabilitation Loan, a number of additional policy
actions were reviewed with the Government and further steps identified. The majority of these actions
are not considered to be prior policy actions, although they will be monitored regularly by the
Government and the Bank during the implementation of the Second Rehabilitation Loan.
47.    Access to Commercial Real Estate. The lack of a commercial real estate market is one of the
most important constraints on the formation of new private enterprises and the ability of existing
enterprises to expand their activities. Local authorities have often restricted transfers of land dedicated
to commercial purposes to private ownership, which instead is held by lease or on a right-to-use basis.
The post-voucher privatization program (issued as Presidential Decree N 1535 on July 22, 1994) includes
provisions to abolish existing restrictions by regional and local authorities on sales of leased commercial



- 16 -
buildings and land earmarked for commercial activities to privatized enterprises (at least 80 percent
privately owned) and sets transparent procedures for determining prices for the land and commercial
premises.  Implementation of this process was delayed by recent changes in the State Property
Committee, however, and GKI is currently in the process of preparing new regulations, which are
expected to be issued by the middle of 1995, to accelerate the implementation of the program, with the
goal of ensuring that all outstanding applications by privatized enterprises for purchases of leased
commercial premises and occupied land will be processed by end-1995.
48.    Although the constitution guarantees the right of private ownership of land, a number of steps
need to be taken to make this provision meaningful and establish widespread property ownership. The
Government has announced its intention to implement a program of land privatization for rural land (as
specified in Presidential Decree N 1767 of October 27, 1993) which includes: (i) issuing all land owners
with land ownership certificates; and (ii) ensuring that land auctions take place. This procedure builds
on the IFC-supported pilot project in farm privatization near Nizhny Novgorod, which has attracted
widespread attention in Russia. As of February 1, 1995, nearly 7 million out of a total of 11.2 million
eligible farm workers had received land share certificates. However, the number of land auctions has
so far been limited to a few pilot programs, and a recent Government Decree of February 1, 1995 places
further restrictions on the privatization process. Further progress in this area will be monitored closely
under the Land Reform Implementation Support Project, as well as IFC's ongoing assistance to the
Government in this area.
49.    Enterprise and Financial Sector Reforms. The Second Rehabilitation Loan would support a
variety of activities in this area. Although the Government has been fairly successful in reducing or
eliminating budgetary transfers and directed credits to state enterprises, a number of mechanisms still
exist to channel resources to enterprises in a non-transparent fashion. The Federal Employment Service
issued regulations in mid-1994 to reduce significantly the volume of resources that can be used for direct
employment support, with priority being given to employment programs for the handicapped, youth, and
the long-term unemployed. The Government has recently agreed that these changes will be included in
draft legislation to be presented to the State Duma by July 1, 1995, which would also provide for
increases in the level of unemployment benefits. In order to get a better handle on resource flows to
enterprises, the Government has agreed to establish institutional arrangements to analyze the effective rate
of state support provided to specific industries, very large enterprises, and insolvent enterprises (including
tax credits, subsidies, directed credits, customs duties, exemptions and other privileges), and to publicize
the results in the public media. The initial results of this study are expected to be available by the end
of 1995.
50.    Presidential Decree N 1114 of June 2, 1994 introduced changes to speed up the bankruptcy
process by allowing the Bankruptcy Agency to conduct mandatory sales of insolvent enterprises without
first passing through the usual privatization procedures. As of end-1994, 1358 enterprises had been
declared insolvent by the Bankruptcy Agency; bankruptcy proceedings had been initiated by the Agency
for 183 of these enterprises. One of the most difficult restructuring problems facing the Government
relates to the coal sub-sector, where a number of mines are no longer viable although they continue to
operate through a system of cross-subsidies that places a very heavy financial burden on the federal
budget. At the request of the Government, the Bank has developed options for the restructuring of the
coal industry ("Restructuring the Coal Sector--Putting People First," Report No. 13187-RU, December
12, 1994). The Government has formed an Inter-Agency Coal Commission to review the Bank's report
and prepare a restructuring program for the sector, and more detailed restructuring programs are



- 17 -
currently under preparation by the Ministry of Economy and by the regional governments covering two
of the largest coal basins.
51.    Presidential Decree N 1183 of June 10, 1994 established standards for truth in advertising by
financial institutions and made the State Anti-Monopoly Comm-littee (GKAP) responsible for the
enforcement of the Decree. Around 130 warnings have been sent by GKAP to financial institutions under
the provisions of this Decree, and cases were initiated in 20 instances. Most of the violations have since
stopped, although some of the cases are still proceeding. A new Law on Advertising is being prepared
for the second reading in the State Duma that would resolve some of the outstanding legal issues in this
decree. Presidential Decree N 1184 of June 10, 1994 instructs the Central Bank to strengthen supervision
of commercial banks, with comprehensive auditing of commercial banks to be carried out at least once
every two years. Finally, the Government has agreed to begin technical studies needed to introduce a
system of differentiated transportation tariffs and prices for natural gas by region, which are expected to
effective around the end of 1996. The Bank has agreed to support this effort as part of the Gas
Distribution Rehabilitation and Energy Efficiency Project.
III. THE PROPOSED LOAN
A. Program to be Supported
52.   The Second Rehabilitation Loan would provide $600 million equivalent in support of the
following objectives: (i) support the Government's program for macroeconomic stabilization during
1995; and (ii) support an agreed program of structural reforms including trade policies, oil export
procedures, pricing and pro-competition measures, and other actions. The entire proceeds of the loan
would be used to finance imports purchased at the market exchange rate by public sector and private
enterprises. In contrast, the First Rehabilitation Loan allocated $250 million for market-based imports,
$345 million for pre-identified imports, and $5 million for local implementation costs. In combination
with the First Rehabilitation Loan, the Bank would have provided Russia with a per-capita allocation of
$8.1 through this type of lending instrument, as compared to a per-capita allocation of rehabilitation loans
for Ukraine ($9.3), Kyrgyz Republic ($9.8), Kazakhstan ($10.6), Belarus ($11.6), Albania ($11.7),
Moldova ($13.6), and the Baltic countries (e.g. Estonia--$18.7).
53.    Relation to Country Assistance Strategy. The Second Rehabilitation Loan is fully consistent with
the Country Assistance Strategy for FY96 and beyond.  The Bank has worked closely with the
Government and the IMF in developing a program of key structural reforms needed to facilitate Russia's
movement to a market-oriented economy based on private sector initiatives, which is described in the
Government's Policy Memorandum for the Second Rehabilitation Loan as well as the Government's
Statement of Economic Policies for the IMF SBA. With the completion of the prior policy actions
supported by the Second Rehabilitation Loan, the Government will have largely met the broad
macroeconomic conditions needed to justify Bank lending in the range of $2-3 billion annually (i.e., an
Intermediate to High Case lending scenario). The Bank is committed to working closely with the
Government to expand and intensify the reform agenda in key sectors needed to sustain the stabilization
process, especially the social sectors and agriculture, and to develop a sound program of investment
projects to support the restructuring of the economy over the medium term.



- 18 -
B. Procurement
54.   The loan would finance 100 percent of the delivered cost of general imports (not including import
duties and taxes) except for goods specified in the Bank's standard negative list of imports which has been
agreed with the Government. Similar to the procedures used under the First Rehabilitation Loan for
imports with a value of less than $5 million per contract, public sector and private enterprises would
procure imports in accordance with established commercial practices applicable in Russia, which are
acceptable to the Bank and generally involve competitive quotations from different countries.
Procurement for imports with a value of $5 million or more per contract would be on the basis of ICB
or other methods of procurement acceptable to the Bank in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IBRD Credits. Commonly traded commodities could be procured
through organized international commodity markets or through other channels of competitive procurement
acceptable to the Bank. Based on the experience obtained under the First Rehabilitation Loan, the
Ministry of Finance would be responsible for the supervision and oversight of procurement activities
under the project for contracts in excess of $5 million.
C. Disbursements
55.   The Bank would finance 100 percent of expenditures for eligible imports. For contracts valued
at less than $5 million equivalent (subject to a minimum contract value of $50,000 equivalent), simplified
documentation procedures for adjustment operations which are described in Board report SecM92-767
of June 8, 1992 would be followed. The Bank would reimburse the Central Bank on the basis of
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) prepared from customs certificates showing that eligible goods at least
equal in value to the amount requested from the Bank were imported into the country during the period
under consideration. The customs certificates would be retained for review by Bank supervision missions
and for subsequent audit by the external auditors. For contracts valued at $5 million equivalent or more,
the Bank would reimburse the Central Bank against traditional documentation--contracts, suppliers
invoices, evidence of payment and evidence of shipment.
56.   Up to $300 million of the loan amount would be available to be disbursed following loan
effectiveness. The Government and the Bank will carry out a review on or about August 1, 1995 on the
allocation of access to oil export pipelines; this review would be carried out in coordination with an IMF
mission to review performance on structural policy measures under the SBA. The Government has
confirmed that the following monitoring indicators would be used in carrying out the review:
(i)   the average domestic wellhead price (Rb/ton). (Source: Ministry of Fuel and Power;
monthly);
(ii)   the average wellhead excise (Rb/ton). (Source: Ministry of Fuel and Power; monthly);
(iii)   average transport prices from wellhead to port (Rb/ton). (Source: Ministry of Fuel and
Power; monthly);
(iv)   nominations for export and actual exports through the Druzhba pipeline system (million
tons). (Source: Central Dispatch Department, Ministry of Fuel and Power; monthly);
and



- 19 -
(v)    export duty rates in oil and oil products (ECU/ton). (Sources: Ministry of Finance and
Ministry of Fuel and Power; monthly).
Provided that the Bank is satisfied that the Government is allocating access to oil export pipelines in
accordance with the objectives stated in the Government's Policy Memorandum for the Second
Rehabilitation Loan, the remaining portion of the loan amount ($300 million) would be made available
to be disbursed following the completion of this review.
57.    Similar to the procedures introduced under the First Rehabilitation Loan, Bank reimbursements
would be credited to a foreign correspondent account of the Central Bank and recorded on an account
of the Ministry of Finance. Based on a schedule to be agreed with the Ministry of Finance, the Central
Bank would sell the foreign exchange proceeds on the domestic foreign exchange market and credit the
ruble equivalent of the funds (at the market exchange rate on the date when the funds are sold) to an
account of the Ministry of Finance within two days of the date of sale. The Ministry of Finance would
use the local proceeds of the loan as a source of non-inflationary budgetary finance.
D. Implementation Arrangements
58.   The Minister of Finance or Deputy Minister of Finance would be the authorized representative
of the Borrower. The International Finance Department of the Central Bank would be responsible for
preparing the disbursement applications based on information to be provided by the State Customs
Service. The closing date for the loan would be June 30, 1996.
E. Accounting and Auditing
59.   Project accounts would be maintained by the Central Bank to enable accurate accounting for
receipts and payments. Financial reporting would comprise statements of the receipt of Bank funds and
of disbursements during the reporting period for eligible expenditures. The financial statements would
be audited by external auditors acceptable to the Bank and appointed by the Ministry of Finance. The
audit report would include a separate opinion regarding the use of SOEs. The audit report would be
submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of the Borrower's fiscal year.
F. Environment
60.   The project has been placed in Category C as regards environmental status; i.e., no appreciable
environmental impact.
G. Risks
61.    The ability of the Government to maintain the stabilization process is subject to substantial risks.
Primary among these is the possibility of continuing fiscal stress from low revenue collections, as well
as the likelihood of strong political pressures to increase expenditures for agriculture and the Northern
Territories toward the middle of 1995. In addition, Russia's ability to increase exports will be critically
dependent on further reductions in domestic energy consumption, while export earnings will be vulnerable
to fluctuations in world oil prices. Uncertainties about the Government's commitment to the stabilization
program could result in a continuation of large scale capital flight, as well as difficulties in mobilizing
substantial increases in new money disbursements, which would undermine the external financing
framework. Finally, there are substantial risks regarding the political sustainability of the reform process,
reflecting continuing concerns within the population about the direction of reforms and anxiety about the
decline of production and social services.



- 20 -
62.   Despite slippages in the macroeconomic program during the middle of 1994, the Government has
continued to demonstrate its commitment to confront the economic crisis facing the nation. The State
Duma has shown a similar willingness to address these problems in a realistic manner. While the reform
program has resulted in substantial economic uncertainty for many households, it has also raised
expectations among many Russians for a better standard of living in the future. The privatization
program has helped to distribute ownership rights more broadly throughout the economy, which has
established an important constituency in support of further economic reforms. In addition, many
households are likely to benefit from the reforms supported by the Second Rehabilitation Loan, especially
further liberalization of foreign trade and prices which will increase competition and help to improve
product quality and lower costs, as well as expanding opportunities for entrepreneurs to provide
employment in the growing private sector. The program of structural reforms supported by the Second
Rehabilitation Loan therefore represents important progress toward a sustainable market economy in
Russia.
IV. RECOMMENDATION
63.   I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank
and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Richard H. Frank
President ad initerim
Attachments
May 15, 1995
Washington, D.C.



- 21-                        Annex 1
Page 1 of 11
IHPABHTEJISCTBO
POCCHfICKOfl DE,A;EPALUIH
r. MOCKBA
IIpe3HaeHTy Me=yHapomioro 6aHKa
pCKOHCTIIZUHH H pa3BHTHR
r-Hy JiEOHCY ]IpecroHy
YBaicaexbamu roCnOMHH IIpecToH,
B COOT-eTcTBHH C pacropmimm rIpaBHTe&McTBa PoccHficioR (DegepauHH
OT 30 aarycra 1994r. X'21401-p, HMeio qecTh nepegaTB BaM MeMopaHaym o
HeXOTOPLIX HanpaB2IeHHAX 3KOHOMHqeCxog l0o3TjfH fIpaBHTeCJTCsTa PoccHZcxori
(DeaepanuHH B XOHue 1994 ro,za H 1995 rolry.
C HaHyI-lIIiHMH rioxcenaHHAMH,
3aMecrwTeJm IIpezcezaTaA 
rIpaBHTenTcTBa PoccHicxo1o
DPexepaumi                                                A.UIloxHH



-22-                           Annex 1
Page 2 of 11
This c.T'rvAe6Horo rnoJT3opaHHST
+  27
rIPABIJTETIBCTBO POCCHI/LCKOfl DEZEPAI1HH
PAClOPA)iCEHME
OT '30 aBrycra 1994 r. Ng 1401-p
r..MocXBa
1. IlpHHHMaaA BO BHHMaHHe zorOBopeHHOCTl C MeCXYHapomiLiM  6aHxoM
neXOHCTPY1L}IHH H pa3BHTH.4 (MEPP) o0  HHOpMHPOBaHHH  OTHOCT4Te.MHO
ruIaqHUpyeMIX rlpaBHTe.-hCTBOM POCCUHCXOU 0eaepaurml Ha XOHeU 1994 roaa H
1995 roa  MepOnpHATHI  riO  HexOTOpbiM   HaripaBJieHHAM   3KOHOmHUYeCXOH
1-o.miTHXH, npHHAHTh rrpe=O)heHme MHH3KOHONMXH PoccuH, cor.iaCOBaHHoe C
MHHcHHOM  PoccHH  H  MB3CoNM  PoccHH, o  npegcraBJreHul*   B  MEPP
McMopaH2yMya no yxa3aHHb!M Boripocam.
2. OzEo6pwTm  flpHiiaraeNMblH  TeXCT  MeMOpaHlIyMa,  YnOMSHyTOrO  B
nIyHxTe I HacroqLuero pacnopRDi)eHm. ui nopy%mHT  3aMecTHTez-o fpeaceaaTem
rlpaBHzTe.-McTBa FoccHHcxoK Celtepaumi LUIOXHHy A.H. fipeacTaBlTb ero B
yCTaHOBjIeHHOM rnopPAce B MeWZyHapO0Mb9I 6aHx peXOIHCTpyXUHH H pa.3BMTHA.
IlpezcezaTe.-m rIpaB r      A 
Pocczzcxou Deziepa                              B.T4epHoMblpM4H
KAC\DOCN,\RASP\1000l590.DOC



- 23-                            Annex 1
Page 3 of 11
O,ZOEPEH
pacnopAKeHMeCNI EIpaBrre.-mc-,Ba.
Poccmicxou oez:epaumH
oT 30 aBrycTa 1994 r. V 140 1 -p
MEMOPAHIYM
0 HeKOTOpbIX HanpaiLeHUX 3K0HOMH'CKOl nOJIHTHICH
llpaBHTeJnicTBa PoccmIficroi (DeaepaUHH B icOHLe
1994 roua H 1995 ronY
OCHOBHOU1 Ue.-TIo 3X0OMH%ieCXOH  rlOJfiTHXH  rlpaBHTeincTBa Poccmikcog
cDeaepauHm  B 1994-1995roza.K ABZAeTc CO3[6HH  6.rorrpHATHLIX yc3iOBH9  YZ
cTa6IMI3aUxH   3xoHoM4iziecxoi   cwTyauim    Ui nocJIe.yloIero   o32OPOBJIeHHA
HaUHOHw OHorO  XO3s11cTBa. OCHOBHbIe YCHU:    HanpasoTCS  Ha YzMILeHle
HHBeCrHLjHOHHOrO       KIcTiMaTa,    pa3BHTHe      XOHX}ypeHLIHH,     ycxopeHHe
HHCTHSTyHOHa'TMHbIX  H  CTpYKTYPHbIX  npeo6pa3oBaHm2, a -raxxce nIOBbLUUeHHe
creneCHH OTXPbITOCTH 3KOHOMHXH.
AIm  ZaOCTHICeHHR   nOCTaBLTeHHbIX  3azag1   rlpaBHTeC.CTBO   PoccHucxoui
cDezzepaLu  HamepeHo ocVuIecTBHTh c.IexlomuHi xoMrUiexc MeponpHATHr.
1. CTpyITrYpHaS nOAHTHKCa H HHCTHTYUH0HarlHbIHe npeo6pa3oBaHHn
1.1. OTMeHHTb XOHTpOJIh Haz LCHaMH H HOpMaTHBaMm peHTa6enTHOCTH, B TOM
ScnCe TOPrOBbIMH HaaOaBxaMH B OllTOBOU H pO3HHUHOH ToproBJIe, 3a HCXJnO4eHHeM
CynaeB, iPezYCMOTpeHHbIX B rIpaBHTCf-TCTBtCHHOM nPoeXTe 3axOHa o eCTerCBeHHM6X
H rocyapeHHbIX MOHOnO.IUnX.
1.2. 06ecne4liTb BblnOameHHe YKa3a r7penH.eHTa PocCHUicKoU (DezepauHH OT
2 oioHA 1994 r. >M4 1114 "O npoaamce rocyzapcTBeHHbIx npe=pH4TNA-EOJlKHlxxOB".
1.3. YnoPAZoM0HTb    .IHueH3HpOBaHHe    X03RACg eHHOR         aeXTe7THOCrH
npe=lpHATHU. fIpH 3TOM npe=o:iaraeTcx o0ripezJeiTb opraHMl, oTBCTcTBeHHbIe 3a
Bbiawy  Ji4ueH3uui,  a  TaX2fe  OrpaHHIHTb  riepe'CeHb  BHZOB  zeATeThHOCTK,
no,zewcauwegi -IMUeH3HpOBaHmo0, H  maXcmMaIbHbhi  pa3Mep  rulaTbi 3a BbuIa,y
miueH3HiH.
1.4. He npOZzICBaTb cpoKa zfericrBHA paHce yCraHOBnCHHb[X or-paHH,cHHR Ha
npOH3BO(cT3eHHbIU np ocHimb npHBaTH3HpoBaHHbiX npenRTpHATHr. OrpaHHMeHHA Ha



- 24-                           Annex 1
Page 4 of 11
npOH3BOZCTBCHHblA    npOUbH        BHOBb    rIpHBaTM3HpyeMbIX    npeZtpHATHi
ycraHaBJMBa- Ha CpOx He 6o.Iee ozHoro roza.
1.5. flpuHHiA  peCLweCiue o per.cTpaumii npaBoBoro T-HTyI-a Ha 3eMJlo U BHeCri B
rocy,aapcTBeHHyVo Zymy rrpoexcT 3axoHa o6 HnoTexe. 06ecriemTmL BbinofimOeHHe
Yxa3a Fpei3neHTa Poccxiicxou <QeaepauHH OT 27 oirm6ps 1993 r. NQ 1767 "0
peryJ3npOBaHHH 3eMe.-MHb[X OTHOLCHeHi  pa3BHTHH arpapHOri pe#OpMbi B PoccHH".
B  qacTHocTm, o6ecrieHHTI. BbIaamy BCe.M co6cTmeHHHxaM  3eMeiTHbIx yqacncoB
CBeICT,reCT   O npase  co6cmBeHHOCTm  Ha 3 MeO  H  rrpoBexeHHe  ayXUHOHOB
3CMeCn,HBIX y'acncOB.
1.6. B cooTBeTCTBHH C 3axoHoZEaTCMCT3oM ocyWueCTJrATb yTBepwzeHHyIa.
flpe3HzeHToM    PoccHicxout  Oeaepaufl  nporpaMMy,   rpezycmaTP;iBaioLuylo
rIpOBeZteHHe OTMeHbI CYLueCTBYiOLUiHx  orpaHHueHHR, yCTrHOBJieHHBIX  opraHamu
HCnO3iHHTeJmHOui BJisacTH cy6,eCCToB PoccHiicxou OeaepauHH u opraHaMH mecmioro
caMoylpaBjieHRA, Ha riponaay  flpHBaTH3HpoBaHHbiM  rip enpHATHAM  (c zojieu1
IacTHofi co6cTBeHHocTH B yCTaBHOM  xanwrTaTe cBEiale 80%) apeHayemyix zu
ripoH3BOZCTMeHHO  ZEeATeC',HOCTM  yMaCTXOB 3eCmJi, npoMBluieHHhIX 3iaHHfi H
coopy)reHHfi.
,0o  XOHUa   1994 ro,xa  o6ecne4HTb   YgOBneTBopeHHe  BCCeX  roaaHHBIX
rpHBaTH3HpOBaHHbIMH   npe=PHATHAMH   3aJBOX   Ha   BbDKYnI  apeHzyeMbix
Tp0H3BOaCTBeHHBMX nOMeLueHHU  H 3aHHMaeMbIX 3e.MejTHibX yqaCTKOB.
1.7. rIpOBeCTHx  HeO6XODiMym0 nO=OTOBHTe.MHy-0 pa6o-ry C TeM, YTO6BI C
Haamia 1996 rola yCTaHOBHTB TpaHCnopTHbie TapbtI H LieHbl Ha TpHpOzaibm  ra3,
)xHepeHuHpoBaHHbIe no peroHHam.
1.8.,o KOHua 1994 roLa BHeCT14 B Iocyz.apcTBeHHVIo JyMy 3axoHorrpoeiT o6
o0TMeHe B 1995 rozy Hamora Ha H3OblTOqHyIO 3aPpa6oTHv1 rL-Iary RiA fpeCtpHATHf C
HHocTpaHHbIMH HHBecTHLHARMi. IlpH nO=rOTOBXe npoeKTa Hanorosoro Kozexca B
nepBoM nonIyro;ui 1995 r. npe.aycmoTperb OTMeHy 3Toro Haniora 6e3 yMeHbLIeHHS
nIOCTynlTieHHA B :OXozjHiyo tLacTh #eepamHoro 6iomKeTa.
1.9. rIpHHATb Mepbl, Hcxmo'4amOLUHe HCI10.30BaHHe rlp e=pHATAmH cpeacrB
rocygapCTBeHHoro #0Haa 3aHATOCTM HaceneHHA Ha nocep>KaHHe npoH3BoacTBa:
3axymXy CblpbA, 060pyEoBaHHA, rionojiHeHHe 060pOTHbIX  CpeaCTE, nOraweHHe
3a=omnKeHHOcTH no 3apa6oTHofi nuiaaTe H apyrHe aHazorRqHble pacxoztbl.
1.10. o  KOHua  1994 roaa  riOlOTOBHiTb  riporpaMMy  pauHOHanM3auH;i
yrne,o6biBa1oieu npOMbILTIHHOCTh, BYMoamOylO:
rlo3TanHoe 3aKpblTie HaH6ojiee He3##XKTMBHblX waxT-
ycTraHoBieHHc JIHMHTa cy6cun:ii, a 3aTeCs u OTMeHy B TeCeHHe TpeX JIeT
cy6cuK=u, noKpblBa6 LU,HX TexyLume yoblTXH;



- 25-                         Annex 1
Page 5 of 11
y)Ke Ha paHHeM 3Tarne peopraHH3a LIHH yCpaHeHHe B3azMHOrO cy6cKMpOBaHHs
YrOJHblIX 6aCceiHOB;
pa3pa6o-rny  Mep  no  cm3rtieHHIO  rioc1ezc-BH   coCpaWueHHA  3aHATOcTH  B
oTpacJm.
1.11j. ,o  iOHia  l994roza  .a3pa6oTaTb  H  BHelEpHTh  MexaHH3M  aHami3a
peanmHoro   o6fema   rocyzapc-BeHHoH    rol=epiXm   xoHXiperTHbix   orpaciieii
rrpOMBlIeHHocTi,  xcpyriHeruiux  rnpempKLTHfi,  a  TaiXoe  HecoCTo0TeCMTHbIX
ripem-pHATH ,   ocywuecmBmem o       Lepe3   HajIoroBblu   xpeMT,   cy6cHmH,
UeHTPaJI3oBaHHBle  ]CpemaThI, 7oTaLUHH, TaMO>KeHHbie  H  ripo,4He  mrombi, C
riociieIzyOlwIeU ny6a{Xaumeg B OTrtpblTOU nveiaTH rloIyqeHHbIX pe3yMTTaTOB.
1.12. rlpemcTaBKTB rpe3HeHTV POCCUUiCKOU OezeepauiH  npoexT 3axoHa o6
aIKUHOHepHBIX o6wec7sax.
1.13. COBMeCTHO   c   LleHTpra.-THblM   6aHxoM    PoccHiiicxof   c)ezepaunm
pOpOao Th pa6ooy no CoBepLiCeHcOBaHHIo  HHaHiCOBOR OT'eTHOCTH, BHeCCpeHUO
meM=cyHapoEHbIX c-raHaapToB, a Taxwce rrpHoJr6 KeHRWo Hamopa 3a aeATeMIHOCTLIO
cOMMmeCpCecXx 6aHXOB X TpCoOBaHUAM, npHHSHTIM B Me)CXyHapO)IHOH rpaXmcTxe.
1.14. 06ecrie'4HTL BbiriOJnHEHe Yxa3a IIpe3liZeHTa PoccwUcicoi  cDezIepauiH  OT
10 m2oHA 1994 r. Ng 1183 "O 3aLUHTC noTpe6HTeriei OT Heao6pOCOBecTHoK peCiaMbi".
2. BHewHeToproBaA nojrHTHKa
2.1. OTMeHHTB  C  I qHBapR  1995 r. XBOTHpOBaHHe H  CBA3aHHOC  C HHM
JnmLCH3HpOBaHMe 3XcnOpTa He(TM H HeeTenpOXTOB.
2.2. ,go KOHLia 1994 roza O0MeHHTB CnEHCKHi TOBapoB, no=ie>Kaiinx 3xCriop-Iy
TOJTKO CfieLiHarHO 3aperHCrHpOBaHHbimH 3KCnOpTepaMH.
2.3. OTxa3aTbcR OT 3XCnOpTa TOBapOB zLIm rocyvapCTBeHHBIX Hyx=.
2.4. B paMxax sycTopoHHMX neperoBopoB co cTpaHaMH - yTacrHHxamH CHP
;xo6HBaTbcA oTXa3a Ha'{HHaA c 1995 roza OT yTBepw.eHMA 0o63aTeThHbIIx nepeqHeHi
TOBapOB B TOprOBJIc C 3THMU c7paHaM.i
2.5. Lo   xoHua   1994 roza   OTmseHHTb   3IccnopTHbie   rIOLWnHbl   Ha
CemTCXOX03AHCTBeHHyIO npo,IyxuIio, a CTaBKH  RA OCTajTbHblX TOBapOB, o6oiaraeMbix
3KCnIOpTHblMH rOULnHHaMm, CHM3UTB Ta.iUM 00pa3OM, 'YT06bi cpeieB3BeCeHHaA
cTaBca cocTaBHia He 6onee 50 npOUeHTOB OT ee YPOBHA Ha Hama=o 1994roaa. Ao
KOHUa 1995 roza OTMeHHTb Bce 3KcnopTHbie rlojlHHbi .
2.6. BHeCTM B FocyaapcTBeHHy]o  ;yMy 3axOHOnpoexT, npeaycmaTplHBazoLUfi
yHH4HIauU}O MCTOEOB pacqera axum3oB IRM OTCeecTBeHHbIX H HMriOpTHbIX TOBapOB.
rlocne ero oao6peHHA rocyaapcTrBeHHoR LYMOU YHHR4UHPOBaTb cTaBXH aXlUH3OB
=  OTe4ecTBeHHbIX H HMrlOpTHblX TOBapOB.



-26-                        Annex 1
Page 6 of 11
2.7. EIpHc-rynHT  x pauHoHani3aumi cTpyKrypbi HMnopTHoro rapHa C TeM.
'fTo6bi BCe CTaBKH MfmnOpTHOrO TapHba 6bLrJ XpaTHbIMH 5%. rpIH 3rTOM TOBapbI,
XOTOpbIX  C-aBKa KMnTOpTHOrO  TapDHDa COCTaUBaIeT B HacrORLuee BpCMS  1.20/
OCo6OMMTb OT MMriOpTHiiX riOW.IHH.
2.8. CHH3HiTm cyiuecTBviroIuHe CasBKH BBo3HBIX TaMolKe  Ix rIOULTH aO YpOBH3i
He npeBbiunamowiero 30%. IIPU 3TOM coxpaHI4  BO3MONK        peMeHo rnoBiular-
craBXH EO YPOBHA 6ouiee 30%, ecum raxoe nOBbsLleHHe H 6yeT ]pacrzpocrpaHRTmc.
6oJiee qeM Ha 5% o6beMa HlMnopTa.
2.9. B  oKTA6pe 1994 r.  pa3paooTaTm  Pr ony6nmxo3a  rpa4uHc CHH*KeCHH.
BBQ3HBIX TaMO*CHHBIX rIOUIJn!H B TeCeHme Tpex-nATH xzeJ. gaHHa  npOrpaMma 6yxe-
npeXlycMaTpHBaTb nepHozwHecxtie o6LIHe CHH*eHHA CBOX BBO3HbIX TaMO*eHHbl,
nOU=H HaqHHaA c I sHBapA 1995 r. 6e3 xaxoro-mi6o nIOBbileHHA CT33OK  =
OT=eMHILIX ToBapoB. fIo HCTC4eHIH -rpex nIeT CpezHeB3BCLLieHHaA CTBxa BB03Hbl7
TaMO*CeHHbIX nOLUJIHH 6yaeT cixieHa C HbIHeLLHero ypOBHH 15% ao YPOBHR He 6o0ee
10%, a B TeieHHe =yx  ieT C IMOMeHTa BCTyr=hCHHA POCCHH B rATT/BTO OH2
CHH3HTCA EO ypiOBH 5-7%.           -
2.10. Hamani nO3TanHb6Ii  nepexog x cHeTmme aocIyna K HeCTerpOBOmibiM
MOULHOCTSM Ha pbiHOiHOi OCHOBe. B Ya'4ecTBe nepBoro uiara H OHoBp eMeHHO C
OTmeHOIR  BCeX  3KCllOpTHblX  KBO-T ziya  HC4Th  t  pemcTpauiHH  3XCnOpTepOB
cTpaTerHiecxHX TOBapOB ycTaHOBHTb HezCHpHMHHauHOHHhlr nop=ox O Eocryria x
Tpy6OnpOBo,aM   .r   BCeX  flOTCHUmaZJTHbIX  3xcnOpTepOB,  BXTlOqaA  HOBblX
npOH3BOMfTeJIeg H IlOCpe.iHxOB. rlpH 3TOM npezycMoTpem BHeapeHHe pCbHOIH]61X
npIHHUMnIOB  ripezocTaBJIeHHA  H riepenaaiH  npasa zOxcTyna X Tpy6onpoBoHbLIM
MOUIHOCTSM.
2.11. O6ecne'nnb BbinomieHHe Yxa3a fIIe3HZEeHTa PoccHucxorl Denepauum OT
23 M a  1994 r. !Nq 1007  1VT-1eHe XBOTHPOBaHHA H U   hUeH3HpOBaHHA nOcTaBOK
TOBapOB U ycITyr Ha M'Opm- ac7H-oTMeHbl C I HIOnA1 1994 r. 3mrOT nd yruiaTe
3KCnOpTHblIX  H HMfnOp--HbIX  'IOLWIHH  3a RCKMCo4eHHeM  cTporo  OrpaHH'eHHbIX
cirymaeB, ofrlpeg-CTeHHbIX B-3TOWYKa3e.
lK\DOC-,\RASP\1000 1605.DOC



-27-                            Annex 1
Page 7 of 11
TEE GOVERNMET OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION, MOSCOW
Mr. Lewis T. Preston
President
The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
Dear Mr. Preston,
According to the Resolution of the Government of the Russian Federation of August 30,
1994 N 1401-p I have the honor to send you the Memorandum of the Russian Federation on
Some Guidelines For Economic Policies in 1994-95.
Best regards,
A. Shokhin
Deputy Chairmaa
The Government of the Russian Federation



-28 -                         Annex1
Page 8 of 11
GOVERNMENT OF THE RUSSLAN FEDERATION
DIRECTIVE
Dated August 30, 1994, No. 1401-p
Moscow
1.           In view of the agreement with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(IBRD) on provision of information regarding measures planned by the Government of the Russian
Federation in some areas of economnic policies at the end of 1994 and in 1995, to accept the proposal of
the Ministry of Economy of Russia coordinated with the Ministry of Finance of Russia and the Ministry
for External Economic Relations of Russia, to submit the Memorandum on the above issues to IMRD.
2.           To approve the attached body of the Memorandum stated in para 1 of this Directive and
authorize Deputy Chairman of the Government of the Russian Federation Shokhin, A.N.. to submit it
to the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development in manner established.
Chairman of the Government
of the Russian Federation                                                 V.Chernomyrdin



-29 -                       Annex 1
Page 9 of 11
MEMORANDUM OF = GOVERNMENT OF TlE RUSSLAN FeERATION
ON SOME GUDELNES FOR ECONOMIC POLICIES IN 1994-95
APPROVED
by the Decree of the Government of the
Russian Federation on August 30, 1994, N
1401-p
The main goal of the economic policies of the Government of the Russian Federation in
1994-95 is to create favorable conditions for stabilizing the economic sitation and subsequendy
revitalizing the national economy. The main effort wil be directed to improving the investment
climate, promoting competition, acceleranng institutional and structural transformations, and
makling the economy more open. To achieve these goals, the Government of the Russian
Federation intends to implement the following measures:
1.    Structural Policy and Institutional Changes:
1.1 To eliminate controls on prices and profitability and trading margins, including those
in wholesale and retail trade, except for cases specified in the draft of the govermnent law on
natural and state monopolies.
1.2 To ensure enforcement of the Presidential Decree of the Russian Federation on sale
of insolvent enterprises (No. 1114 of June 2, 1994).
1.3 To streamline licensing of business activities of enterprises. By this it is supposed
to define the bodies responsible for issuing licenses, and to reduce the range of activities which
are subject to licensing, and to limit the maximum fees to be charged for issuing licenses.
1.4 Not to renew the established profile restrictions on privatized enterprises will not
be renewed upon their expiry. Any profile restrictions on newly privatized enterprises will be
established for a period which does not exceed one year.
1.5 To take a decision on land title registration and to submit a draft legislation on
mortgages to the State Duma. To ensure enforcement of the Presidential Decree on Land Reform
(No. 1767 of October 27, 1993), ensuring in parmcular that all land owners will be issued with
land ownership certificates and that land auctions will begin to take place.
1.6 In conforraity with the legislation to carry out the program, approved by the
President, that provides for abolishing existing restrictions by executive bodies of the subjects
of Russian Federation and local authorities on sales of land earmarked for commercial activity
and leased commercial buildings to privatized enterprises (at least 80 percent privately owned).
To ensure processing of all outstanding applicadons by privatized enterprises for
purchases of leased commercial premises and occupied land by end-1994.
1.7 To carry-out necessary preparatory work leading to the introduction of a system of
differentiated transportation tariffs and prices for natural gas by region by the beginning of 1996.
1.8 By the end-1994 to submit to the State Duma a draft law on suspending the excess
wage tax for enterprises with foreign investrments in 1995. While preparing a draft of the tax



-30 -                        Annex 1
Page 10 of 11
code in the first half of 1995 to stipulate that the suspension of this tax will not decrease fedexal
budget revenue.
1.9 To take measures to exclude that transfers from the State Employment Fund are used
by enterprises for support of production: purchase of raw materias, equipment, replenishment
of worting assets, repayment of debt related to wages and other similar expenditres.
1.10  Before the end of 1994 to prepare a program to rationalize the coal sector
including: a phased closing of the most inefficient mines; initially capping subsidy flows and
then eliminating those covering operating losses over a three year period; elimination of cross
subsidies between coal basins early in the process of reorganization; and preparation of measures
to facilitate a reduction in employment in the sector.
1.11  By the end of 1994 to establish and implement arangements to analyze the
effective rate of state support provided to specific industries, very large enterprises, and
insolvent enterprises (including tax credit, subsidies, directed credits, customs duties, exemptions
and other privileges), with subsequently publishing the obtained results in public-press.
1.12 To submit a draft legislation on joint stock companies to the PresidenL
1.13 Together with the Central Bank to continue upgrading financial reporting based on
intemational standards and bringing the supervision of commercial banks closer to international
standards.
1.14 To ensure enforcement of the Presidential Decree (N 1183 of June 10, 1994)
requiring truth in the advertsing of financial institutions.
2.    Foreign Trade Policies:
2.1 To abolish export quotas and licensing of oil and oil products as of January 1,1995.
2.2 Before the end of 1994 to eliminate lists of commodities allowed for exports by
specially registered exporters only.
2.3 To give up exports of commodities for state needs.
2.4 To seek to discontinue obligatory lists of commodities in trade with CIS countries
beginning 1995 in the context of bilateral negodations.
2.5 To abolish by end-1994 export duties on agricultural products and to reduce the
export duty rate for other commodities so that the weighted average will be no more than 50
percent of the level in the beginning of 1994. To eliminate all export duties before the end of
1995.
2.6 To submit to the State Duma a draft law on harmonizing methods for calculating
excise tax for domestically-produced and imported products. Upon approving legislation by the
Duma to harmonize excise tax rates for domestically-produced and imported products.



-31 -                        Annex 1
Page 11 of 11
2.7 To initia  rationaii7.tion of import tariff strucmre so that all tariff bands will be
divisible by five. To exempt goods, for which present import tariff rate is 1-2%, from import
duty.
2.8 To reduce present import duties so that the rates do not exceed 30%. However, the
Government reserves the right to increase these rates above 30 percent temporarily. Yet they will
apply to no more than 5 percent of imports.
2.9 In October, 1994, to design and publish a timetable to reduce import dimes over the
next three to five years. The program will consist of periodic across-the-board cuts in triff rates
starting in January 1995, without exceptions for specific products. In three years average ar-iff
rate (weighted on the basis of imports) will be reduced from 15 percent to 10 percent, and in
two years upon Russia's accession to GATTIWTO it will be reduced to 5-7 percent.
2.10 To start in a phased mnner a move to a system based on market principles for
providing access to oil pipeline transport. As a first step, to intoduce, simnltaneously with the
elimination of all export quotas for oil and the abolition of the list of strategic exporters,
procedures for access to pipelines by all potential exporters, including new producers and
traders, in a non-discriminatory manner. This system should include market-based processes
discretion for transferring access rights to pipelines.
2.11 To ensure the enforcement of the Presidential Decree (N 1007 of May 23, 1994)
abolishing all export and import duty exemptions as of July 1, 1994, with the exception of a
limited number of cases specified in the Decree.






-32  -                                       ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 4
RUSSIA: SECOND REHABILITATION LOAN
STATUS OF POLICY AGREEMENTS AS OF MAY 10, 1995
Structural Policv and Institutional Changes:
1.1  To eliminate controls on prices and            Done. Government Decree N 229 of March 7, 1995.
profitability and trading margins, including
those in wholesale and retail trade, except for
cases specified in the draft of the government
law on natural and state monopolies.
1.2  To ensure enforcement of the Presidential      Ongoing. Presidential Decree N 1114 of June 2, 1994
Decree of the Russian Federation on sale of   applies to the mandatory sale of insolvent state-owned
insolvent enterprises (N 1114 of June 2,      enterprises (federal level only); other procedures such as
1994).                                        voluntary liquidation and the provision of state support are
specified in Government Decree N 498 of May 20, 1994.
As of end-1994, 1358 enterprises were classified as
insolvent by the Bankruptcy Agency; bankruptcy
procedures had been initiated by the Agency for 183 of
these enterprises.
1.3  To streamline licensing of business activities of  Done. Government Decree N 1418 of December 24,
enterprises. By this it is supposed to define  1994.
the bodies responsible for issuing licenses, and
to reduce the range of activities which are
subject to licensing, and to limit the maximum
fees to be charged for issuing licenses.
1.4  Not to renew the established profile          Ongoing. GKI confirms that this provision is being met in
restrictions on privatized enterprises upon their  practice.
expiry. Any profile restrictions on newly
privatized enterprises will be established for a
period which does not exceed on year.
1.5  (a) To take a decision on land title registration  (a) Partly done. The draft Law on Land Registration has
and to submit a draft legislation on mortgages   been presented to the Duma for the first reading. A Law
to the State Duma.                            on Mortgages is currently being drafted, based on
(b) To ensure enforcement of the Presidential   Presidential Decree N 1180 of June 10, 1994 which
Decree on Land Reform (N 1767 of October    outlined a framework for a system of housing finance,
27, 1993), ensuring in particular that all land    including mortgages.
owners will be issued with land ownership     (b) Onzoing. As of February 1, 1995 nearly 7 million out
certificates and that land auctions will begin to   of a total of 11.2 million eligible farm workers had
take place.                                   received land share certificates. However, the number of
land auctions has been limited to a few pilot programs so
far.
1.6    In conformity with the legislation, to carry  Done. Provisions are contained in the 1994 post-voucher
out the program, approved by the President,  Privatization Program, which was issued as Presidential
that provides for abo'ishing existing       Decree N 1535 on July 22, 1994. Special provisions were
restrictions by executive bodies of the     subsequently introduced to exempt Moscow from this
subjects of Russian Federation and local    process.
authorities on sales of land earmarked for
commercial activity and leased commercial
buildings to privatized enterprises (at least
80 percent privately owned).



_ 33 -                                       ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 4
1.7  To ensure processing of all outstanding        Delaved. GKI is in the process of preparing new
applications by privatized enterprises for   regulations for the sale of leased commercial premises and
purchases of leased commercial premises and    occupied land to privatized enterprises, which are expected
occupied land by end-1994.                   to be issued by the middle of 1995. The backlog of
outstanding applications is expected to be substantially
cleared by end-1995.
1.8  To carry-out necessary preparatory work       Delayed. The start-up of the preparatory study (which
leading to the introduction of a system of   will be financed under the Bank's Gas Distribution
differentiated transportation tariffs and prices    Rehabilitation and Energy Efficiency Project) has been
for natural gas by region by the beginning of    delayed to the latter part of 1995, with implementation of
1996.                                        the recommendations now expected by the end of 1996.
1.9  To take measures to exclude that transfers    Done. In July 1994, the Federal Employment Service
from the State Employment Fund are used by   issued regulations that substantially tighten access to funds
enterprises for support of production: purchase  for job creation activities, with priority being given to job
of raw materials, equipment, replenishment of   creation for the handicapped, youth programs, and the
working assets, repayment of debt related to    long-term unemployed. The Government has indicated
wages and other similar expendirures.        that it will submit legislation to the State Duma by July 1,
1995 which will, inter alia, extend these regulations.
1.10   Before the end of 1994 to prepare a program   Delaved. The Ministry of Economy is expected to submit
to rationalize the coal sector including: a  the draft program to the Government for approval by end-
phased closing of the most inefficient mines;    June, 1995.
initially capping subsidy flows and then
eliminating those covering operating losses
over a three year period; elimination of cross
subsidies between coal basins early in the
process of reorganization; and preparation of
measures to facilitate a reduction in
employment in the sector.
1.11   By the end of 1994 to establish and implement  Delayed. The Government has recently set up counterpart
arrangements to analyze the effective rate of    arrangements to work with the Bank on this study, and the
state support provided to specific industries,    initial results are expected to be available by the end of
very large enterprises, and insolvent        1995.
enterprises (including tax credits, subsidies,
directed credits, customs duties exemptions
and other privileges), with subsequently
publishing the obtained results in public press.
1.12   To submit draft legislation on joint stock   Done.  The draft law is currently being reviewed by
companies to the President.                  committees of the State Duma.
1.13   Together with the Central Bank to continue   Oneoing. Presidential Decree N 1184 of June 10, 1994
upgrading financial reporting based on       instructs the Central Bank to strengthen banking
international standards and bringing the     supervision, with comprehensive auditing of commercial
supervision of commercial banks closer to    banks to be carried out at least once every two years.
international standards.
1.14.  To ensure enforcement of the Presidential    Done. The State Anti-Monopoly Committee (GKAP) has
Decree (N 1183 of June 10, 1994) requiring   sent about 130 warnings to financial institutions under the
truth in the advertising of financial institutions.  provisions of this Decree, and cases were initiated in 20
instances. Most of the violations have since stopped,
although some of the cases are still proceeding. A new
Law on Advertising is being prepared for the second
reading in the State Duma to resolve some of the
outstanding legal questions in Decree N 1183.



_ 34  -                                  ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 4
H. Foreign Trade Policv:
2.1  To abolish export quotas and licensing of oil    Done. Government Decree N 1446 of December 31, 1994
and oil products as of January 1, 1995.      provides for exports of oil and oil products without quotas
and licensing beginning January 1, 1995. Presidential
Decree N 1007 of May 23, 1994 abolished export quotas
for all other goods, with the exception of trade in products
subject to restrictions in connection with international
commitments.
2.2  Before the end of 1994 to eliminate lists of  Done. Presidential Decree N 245 of March 6, 1995
commodities allowed for exports by specially    abolished the system of specially registered exporters.
registered exporters only.
2.3  To give up exports of commodities for state  Done. The Law on Procurement for Federal and State
needs.                                       Needs N 60-FZ of December 13, 1994 abolished the
system of mandatory exports for state needs and
established rules for a new market-based system of
procurement for shipments under international
commitments.
2.4  To seek to discontinue obligatory lists of   Done. The elimination of export quotas has prompted the
commodities in trade with CIS countries      removal of obligatory lists from intergovernmental
beginning 1995 in the context of bilateral   agreements with CIS countries. Only three agreements
negotiations.                                which include (non-binding) indicative lists have been
signed for 1995 (one more is in the pipeline), as compared
to eleven such agreements in 1994.
2.5  To abolish by end-1994 export duties on      Done. Government Decree N 862 of July 19, 1994
agricultural products and to reduce the export   lowered export duties by 28 percent based on an export
duty rate for other commodities so that the  weighted average, with effect from July 25. Government
weighted average will be no more than 50     Decree N 925 of August 12 reduced export duties for
percent of the level in the beginning of 1994.    several relatively minor export categories, with effect from
To eliminate all export duties before the end of  September 1. Subsequent reductions in export duties up
1995.                                        through April 1995, especially for oil and oil products,
have lowered average export duties by around 40 percent
as compared to the beginning of 1994. Further planned
reductions are expected to result in a 60 percent reduction
in average export duties by the middle of [995, with the
objective of eliminating all export duties by the beginning
of 1996.
2.6  To submit to the State Duma a draft law on   Delaved. The Government has committed itself to
harmonizing methods for calculating excise tax  completing the process of harmonizing excise tax rates for
for domestically-produced and imported       domestically produced and imported goods by June 30,
products. Upon approving legislation by the  1995.
Duma, ta harmonize excise tax rates for
domestically-produced and imported products.
2.7  To initiate rationalization of import tariff  Done. The new import duty schedule contains only duty
structure so that all tariff bands will be   bands divisable by five. In accordance with the recent
divisible by five. To exempt goods, for which   agreement with the EMF, all 1-2 percent bands have been
present import tariff rate is 1-2 percent, from  raised to 5 percent.
import duty.
2.8  To reduce present import duties so that rates    Done. Government Decrees N 190 of February 28, 1995
do not exceed 30 percent. However, the       and N 454 of May 6, 1995 established a 30 percent ceiling
Government reserves the right to increase    for import duties, with the exception of several categories
these rates above 30 percent temporarily. Yet   of luxury goods, tobacco, alcohol and armaments.
they will apply to no more than 5 percent of
imports.



ANNEX 2
35  -                                    Page4 of 4
2.9  In October, 1994, to design and publish a    Done. Government Decree N 190 of February 28, 1995
timetable to reduce import duties over the next  stipulated that the average weighted rate of import tariffs
three to five years. The program will consist   should be reduced to 80 percent of the 1995 level by 1998,
of periodic across-the-board cuts in tariff rates   and to 70 percent of the current level in 2000. In
starting in January 1995, without exceptions  addition, the maximum rate of import tariff should be
for specific products. In three years average    reduced to 20 percent by January 1, 1998 and 15 percent
tariff rate (weighted on the basis of imports)  by January 1, 2000. On April 10, 1995, the Ministry of
will be reduced from 15 percent to 10        Foreign Economic Relations published an indicative
percent,and in two years upon Russia's      timetable to implement these reductions in import duties
accession to GATTIWTO it will be reduced to   over the next five years (with intermediate targets for a
5-7 percent.                                 three year period).
2.10  To start in a phased manner a move to a      Done. Several Government Decrees (N 1446 of December
system based on market principles for       31, 1994, N 94 of January 30, 1995 and N 209 of
providing access to oil pipeline transport. As    February 28, 1995) implement the program of non-
a first step, to introduce, simultaneously with    discriminatory access to oil export pipelines, including
the elimination of all export quotas for oil and   market-based procedures for transferring access rights to
the abolition of the list of strategic exporters,    pipelines.
procedures for access to pipelines by all
potential exporters, including new producers
and traders, in a non-discriminatory manner.
This system should include market-based
processes for transferring access rights to
pipelines.
2.11  To ensure the enforcement of the Presidential   Done. Presidential Decree N 244 of March 6, 1995 and
Decree (N 1007 of May 23, 1994) abolishing    Federal Law "On Providing Exemptions in Foreign Trade"
all export and import duty exemptions as of  N 31-FZ of March 13, 1995 abolished all export and
July 1, 1994, with the exception of a limited    import duty exemptions not provided for in the federal
number of cases specified in the Decree.    legislation.



-36 -                                               A_ex 3
Page 1 of 5
RUSSIA: FIRST REHABILITATION LOAN
STATUS OF POLICY AGREEMEiNTS AS OF MAY 1. 1995
1. ENTERPRISE REFORM
A. Privatization of small-scale enterprises
i.      GKI will Prepare a sim2lified and flexible scheme   Done.  GIG reports that 90,000 small-scale enterprises
for small scale orivatization which is to be       (constituting 80 percent of enterprises with fewer than 200
introduced by end of August 1992.                  employees) had been sold as of end-June, 1994.
ii.     GKI will vrovide technical assistance on small      Done. There have been local variations in the pace of
scale orivatization to regional and municival      small-scale  privatization, essentially  related  to  the
governments: this assistance will be available     commitment of the local authorities responsible for
beginning in Seprember 1992.                       implementing the program.
B. Privatization of medium and large scale enterprises
i.      A detailed plan for mass privatization of medium    Done.   The privatization program  for 1992/93 was
and large scale state enterprises is now being     approved on June 11, 1992. By end-June 1994, 20,000 of
prepared and is to be completed during the third   the 28,000 large and medium-size state-owned enterprises
quarter of 1992.                                   earmarked for privatization under the program had been
corporatized, and 12,000 enterprises had auctioned a
majority interest for vouchers and had state shares of less
than 25 percent.
ii.     Implementation will begin with the distribution of  Done. Distribution of vouchers began in late-1992, and
vouchers in the fourth quarter: auctions of        148   million   vouchers  were  eventually  issued.
specific enterprises will start soon thereafter.   Approximately 145 million vouchers (98 percent of the
total) had been redeemed for shares by end-June 1994.
iii.     Private investment funds will be allowed to        Done. As of end-September 1994, 638 investment funds
organize: this will permit (i) individual investors  were registered with GKI.
to have diversified holdings and (ii) investment
funds to control blocks of shares large enough to
oversee performance of enterprise managers.
iv.     As a start in privatizing laree enterprises, a      Done. As of end-January 1994, 94 very large enterprises
demonstration group of 5 - 10 large enterprises    had been privatized by voucher auctions, although with
will be  identified  and  investment advisers      only limited participation by foreign investors.
appointed bv December 1992. Participation by
foreign investors will be encouraged. It is hoped
that some of these demonstration enterprises will
be privatized bv mid-1993.
C. Corporate governance
i.      A program  for corporate governance will be         In PrOzreSs.   Several Decrees on  the institutional
formulated by December 1992, including the         mechanisms for corporate governance of state-owned
drafting the necessary legislation.                enterprises were issued during the first half of 1994;
detailed regulations for their implementation are still in the
process of preparation.   The corporate governance
mechanism for joint stock companies is contained in the
draft law on joint stock companies.
ii.     Implementation of the program  will begin in        Delaved.
selected enterprises in Januarv 1993.



-  37 -                                               Annex 3
Page 2 of 5
D. Legal framework for a market economy
i.       The civil code, incorvorating modern princioles       Partiallv Done. The first part of the Civil Code has been
of concract law and defining vroverty rights. is     approved by the State Duma and became effective in
being drafted and should be introduced in the        November 1994. The second part of the Civil Code (which
Supreme Soviet before the end of 1992.               includes provisions relating to commercial transacrions) is
expected to be submitted to the State Duma in the summer
of 1995.
ii.      Laws on entermrises. ioint stock societies and        Done.  The draft law on joint stock companies was
partnerships are being revised and will be           submitted to the State Duma in October 1994 and is
submitted to the Supreme Soviet by the end of        currently being reviewed by committees.
1992.
iii.     A foreien investment law was adopted in 1991:        Not done. The 1991 Law on Foreign Direct Investment
a number of amendments to strengthen the law         remains in effect.  Subsequent decrees contradict certain
have been submitted to the Supreme Soviet.           provisions of the Law, creating grounds for confusion.
iv.      A Presidential Decree on bankruptcv was issued        Done. The Bankruptcy Law was adopted by the Supreme
in June 1992: this will remain in effect until the   Soviet in November, 1992 and became effective on March
Supreme Soviet has adopted a bankruptcy law.          1, 1993. Presidential Decree N 1114 of June 2, 1994
permits the sale of insolvent enterprises, while procedures
for voluntary liquidation and the provision of state support
to enterprises are contained in Government Decree N 498
of May 20, 1994. As of end-1994, 1358 enterprises were
classified as insolvent; bankruptcy procedures had been
initiated for 183 enterprises.
I. PRO-COMPETITION AND ANTI-MONOPOLY
POLICIES
A. Demonopolization of existing structures
i.       When larze enterprises are cororatized. this will    Partiallv done.  With very few exceptions, the smallest
be done at the level of the smallest legal entity.   legal entity was the basis for corporatization. However, in
some cases, all plants and factories in different parts of
Russia were considered as sub-divisions of a single legal
entity, rather than as separate entities.
ii.      Profile resrrictions, which  require  firms to       Done.   HistoricaLly, about 30 percent of small-scale
continue particular product lines, will be phased    enterprises were privatized with profile restrictions. GKI
out as rapidlv as conditions permit.                 recently confirmed that in practice, profile restrictions are
not being renewed upon their expiry.
iii.    The newly orzanized investment companies will         Done.  Licensed voucher funds were limited under the
be required to hold diversified portfolios rather    1992 Privatization Program to holding no more than 10
than holdings in a number of companies engaged       percent of the stock in any one enterprise, with no more
in the same economic activity.                       than 5 percent of their portfolio in any one enterprise. The
Government introduced the restrictions to limit the abiliEy
of investment funds to form cartels; however, it also
limited the ability of investment funds to oversee the
performance  of enterprise  managers.    The  1994
Privatization Program (Presidential Decree N 2284 of
December 24, 1993) allows investment funds to own up to
25 percent of the stock in any enterprise.



Arnniex 3
-  38  -                                           Page 3 of 5
iv.      During the third quarter of 1992. the Government       Partiallv Done. Concerns, which were generally organized
will issue an order calline for the reoreanization    by the former branch ministry, were required to reorganize
of 'concerns' and other entities that might           as joint stock companies or holding companies during
become the basis for cartelization of particular       1992. No special regulations were placed on joint stock
areas of industrial production.                       companies, but very restrictive rules were applied to
holding companies (Presidential Decree N 1392 of
November 16, 1992). In practice, no specific actions were
taken to prevent cartelization, and in some industries (e.g.,
coal), the former branch ministry has been a major factor
in promoting cartelization, generally through preferential
access to subsidies or other benefits. The 1994 Privatization
Program places restrictive rules on the participation of
enterprises with more than 25 percent state ownership in all
types of associations.
v.       BY  Auzust 1992, a temporary  inter-azency             Not Done. GKAP and GEI agreed on a set of rules to
working eroun will be established to further           work together, but GKAP has not developed an effective
develop mechanisms for demonopolization of            strategy in the area of anti-monopoly policy. Progress in
existing entermrises. Its recommendations should      this area has depended largely on the outlook of the local
be available bv December 31. 1992.                    anti-monopoly department and its cooperation with the local
GKI.
B. Encourazement of new enterprises
i.       By September 30. 1992. an inter-azencv working         Done. The Federal Program of State Support to Small
group will prepare recommendations on measures        Business for 1994-95 was approved by the Government in
to promote greater competition, output and            April 1994.  This includes a variety of provisions to
emplovment through the creation of new small          support new  private enterprises, as well as authorizing
enterprises.    Recommendations  will cover           funding for several pilot programs during the later part of
required legislation as well as access to finance      1994. The draft law on state support for small businesses
and specific Problems such as registration and        has passed the first reading in the State Duma. Presidential
access to necessarv real estate.                      Decree N  2270 of December 22, 1993 granted tax
priveleges to new private small enterprises in designated
priority sectors.
m. FOREIGN DIRECT LNVESTMENT
A. Foreign Direct Investment
i.       Government will encourage foreien investors to         Done.  The 1994 Privatization Program  allows foreign
participate in the privatization of medium  and       investors to take part in property auctions, bids, and
large enterprises.  Rules and conditions for          investment tenders on a non-discriminatory basis. Except
participation will be simplified and steps will be    for a limited number of sectors (defense enterprises, oil and
taken to see that information on investment           gas, precious  metals  and  gems, transportation  and
opportunities is available.                           communications, as well as specified enterprises at the
local level), prior approval is not required; foreign
investors need to notify the Ministry of Finance only after
the fact.
ii.      The Government will not discriminate against          Done. GKI Regulations (registered with the Ministry of
foreign  investors.   It will seek  to  reach         Justice in mid-March 1994) stipulate that the amount of
agreements on double taxation with as many            investment offered will be the sole criteria for choosing the
countries as possible.                                winner of investment tenders, with no differentiation
between domestic and foreign investors.



Annex 3
- 39 -                                           Page 4 of 5
IV. FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORM
A. Interagencv working group on financial.
sector reform issues
A new commercial banking law will be submitted     Done. The law on banks and banking acEivities was passed
to the Supreme Soviet before the end of October    by the State Duma at the first reading in July, 1994, and it
1992.                                              is expected to be considered for its third and final reading
by the end of June 1995.
ii.     Before the end of 1992, proposals will be           Not Done.  High inflation during 1992 reduced the
prepared on a olan to liquidate, restructure, or   immediate portfolio problems of the banks, but portfolio
recapitalize banks.                                problems could reemerge as the rate of inflation declines.
There is a need to restructure the large former state-owned
banks.
iii.    Before the end of 1992. the oroblems of high        Partially Done.   High interest rate spreads shrank
spreads will be srudied and provosals for reform   substantially during 1994 as a result of increases in deposit
will be made. This will be followed by drafting    rates and reductions in the lending rates.
new lezislation on taxarion of financial
intermediaries, which will then be submitted to
the Supreme Soviet.
iv.     Over the next 12 months, the authorities will       Done.  The Central Bank has introduced a System of
introduce international standards of accounting.   Broadly-Adapted Financial Statements, and audits of a
and they will conduct audits of at least 15 large  number of banks have been completed to intemational
banks.                                             standards.
v.      A comprehensive program for dealing with the        Delaved. High inflation has resulted in most banks being
issues of bad debt management and bank             under-capitalized.  The Central Bank recently issued
recapitalization will be completed by June 1993.   regulations to raise capital requirements for commercial
banks.
vi.     Draft leeislation of a securities act and collateral  Done. A law on collateral security was adopted on May
security will be submitted to the Supreme Soviet   29, 1992. The law on securities markets passed the second
before the end of 1992.                            reading in the State Duma on April 26, 1995.
vii.    A comprehensive review of the pavments svstem.      Done. Payments within Moscow can now be settled within
including inter-CIS pavments, will be completed    a day, although improvements in payments in other regions
bv March 1993; some of the recommendations         of Russia have lagged behind. In the meantime, a number
should be in place by June 1993.                   ofcommercial bankshave implemented high-value payment
systems based on correspondent accounts.  Payments
between CIS countries are no longer based on ruble
transactions, given the incroduction of separate national
currencies.
V. THE SOCIAL SAFETY NET
A. Definine the poverty line and adiusting benefits
i.      The minimum  benefit for the main programs          Partially done.  In November 1993, the Pension Fund
(pensions and unemplovment compensation) will      introduced flat rate indexation of pensions on a temporary
be set at or above the basic benefit.              basis in order to maintain the financial viability of the
Pension Fund and protect people who earn the minimum
pension. Unemployment benefits, although legally set at
75 percent of the pre-employment wage, rarely amount to
that, and the average unemployment benefit in 1993 was 11
percent of the average wage.  The Government has
indicated that legislation to increase unemployment benefits
will be submitted to the State Duma during 1995.



Annex 3
Page 5 of 5
- 40 -
ii.     For citizens whose eligibilirv for other benefits   Not done. Expected to be undertaken in 1995
has been exhausted. or whose entitlement is
inadequate, the Government will introduce a
means-tested system of social assistance as a
benefiE of last resort.
iii.    By September 30. 1992. the Government will          Not done. Expected to be undertaken in 1995.
have comrleted recommendations for the redesign
of the svstem of cash enitlements, including
social assistance. Implementation of the main
elements of the new svstem will begin bv the end
of 1992. will full implementation bv the end of
1993.
B. Meeting needs resultine from increased
unemvloyment
i.      The Government will provide supplementary           Not yet needed.  Registered unemployment has not
financine from the budget to cover the costs of    increased  as  rapidly  as  expected, although  open
unemplovment comvensation.                         unemployment (based on the ILO definition) accounted for
7 percent of the labor force at the end of 1994. While the
Federal Employment Fund continues to be in an overall
surplus position, several regional Funds are running large
deficits that are funded through the Federal Employment
Fund.
ii.     By September 30. 1992. the Government will          Delayed. Funding for the imnplementation of this program
complete the design of a proactive system of       is included in the Bank's Employment Services and Social
employment services. including  iob search.        Protection Project.
training and possible participation in labor-
intensive public works. Implementation of this
program will begin by December 31. 1992.






41                                          Annex 4
Page 1 of 2
Russian Federation
Mast So" rtponfinco-ar*            IV=
La        svtlc "w        nee        E    e      n;<w  A4j"o
Unki f oNf&   & Cauu                                              wdde-       incv=&
lxdk=or                                    ngearnm           1970-75     19504S        955-93        Asa      iiwma         grou
Priority Poverty Indicators
POVERTY
Uppr pov-Ty linc                            olur
Headcounz indez                            % of pop.                            -
Lower povery lic                            loQsr.        _ r.
Headcoutnt id                              % of pop.               _            _           _           _ 
GNP per cap                                   USS                               ..       2340        2.450       1.590       4350
SHORT TERM INCOME INDICATORS
UnsIlUed urban wap                         loca curr.               _            ..
Unskilled rua wag                                                   ..          ..                       _ '         ..          -
Rt-a t=n  of -d                           _
Consu   price inde                          1917-100                             ..     31378
Food
Urban
SOCAL INDICATORS
Public csmp rc on basic socal services      % of GDP                ..          ..         7.6
GuD casarltnen
p*zy                                    % school age pop.           -                       98                     104         105
Male
FMic
Mortale ty
L1fi mortaliry                         ps thou. live birdu       2S0         26.0        20.6        24.3        39.0         35.1
UnDer 5 morality                                                   . _                   31.0        36.4        61.5        42.6
trozmicanon
hi                                       % ay goup                     _                    -           ..       77.6         82.0
D7r                                           '                    _                                    ..       =2          74.2
Ci2d ma.lnuridon (und*r-5)                      '                   _            _                                   -           -
lift cxay
TOuW                                         ys                   61           68          67          69          67          69
Female advanp                                                    10.4        11.3        11.9         81          5.9          5.9
Total hrliry ram                         birdpsr rwo.              2.0         2.0          1.5        2.1         2.9          2.9
Manai mortaiy mae                     per 100.000 live binrts       _           68           _           -
Supplementary Poverty Indicators
EF     ru=s on socil     tyry           % of toal gov t csp.        ..          ..          ..
Social  ty  coveyg                      % rcn. acive pop.           _            _           ,.
Acss wt Lf w3:. 1W                          % of pop.                                                                          8 _  _  6.7
Urbxn                                        '                    _           _                                             93.9
Rral                                         '                                                                              66.7
Acss w     t hcatcat -re                    ____               ___         __
Population growth rate                  GNP per capita growth rate                     Development diamond
6  (mmuLi Awrge. pwcau)              AMU&IAverage. pecn)Life exetac
66  (aua  a                                    (manual I<ac  pc
4        ----                           50                                                    plUcc
,  -5I
1970-75     1910.15      19SS-93             1970-75    191B5        1988-93               Acoss to safe watcr
Ruan iFedeauon                                                                                   Russian Fcdcranon
-   Lower-middle-inamc                                                                       l- wer-nidlc.inconc



-42-                                        Annex 4
Page 2 of 2
Russian Federation
Most Same "iwgonfi con, grump       Na
Lad.aSszak ad,w          r~eat      Aurup.       lower,      higher
Unit of                                  unmate   & CaaU'u        middle-     income
In4airn                                     mwswea            1970-75     195045       1951-93        Asia    income         pump
Resource and Expenditure
HUMAN RESOURCES
Populadion (mre=199)                        thousands          134.233     142.317     143.673     494.619   1.096.665     5003507
Age dependecy rano                            rano                0.47           ...                  0.57        0.69         0.62.
Urban                                       % of pop.             66.4        71.9        75.2        64.8        54.7        71.2
PouliLaon growth r=t                        annual %               0.6         0.6         0.6         0.6         1.6          1.7
Urban                                                             1.8         1.1         1.1         1.5         2.9          1.8
Labor force (15-64)                        Ehousands                ..      74.937      72.610     237.897     459.196      190.136
Agneulem                                 % oflabor f~ce                         14          14
InduIsry                                                                        42          403'29
Female                                                               ...54                              47312
Females per 100 miles
UrbaLn                                      number...
Ruid
NATURAL RESOURCE
Area                                      thou. sq. km       17.075.4 i   17.075.41    17.075.41   24.320.56.  40.682.67   2i.8.48.14
Densiy                                   pop. per sq. km          7.86        3.33        8.66       20.20       26.-52       22.51
Agricutuoral Land                         % of lnd ame               ..                      ..                  39.61..      41.26
Change inagrclturallnd                      annual %                 ..       0.23        .1.26       .1.28       .-0.13       0.08
AgricuIIral land unde-r irrgapnsi              %                  1.67        2.66        2.81        7.15        12.66        8.34
Forests and woodland                       thou. sq. km...n.                                          0.80        5.95         8.04
Defonstatiaon.(net)                         anl%                     .           ..
INCOME
Household income
Sham of top 20% of householda             % ofinconme...                                   48
Share of boanom 40% of households                                   .                      14
Share of bottom 20% of households                                   .           .4
EXED ITU'RE
Food                                        % of GDP                 .           .         15.4
SapeROS                                                             ..                    2.4
Mmat fish, milk. chtese, egsp..                                                           6.0
Cereal tmports                          thou. rometi oromes          ...                 11.238     3.4.452     66.281       48.947
Food aid ins cez~s .a                                                            .        1.124      4,392       5.477         544
Food ptoduction per capita                 1987= 100                 .           ....101                                        102
Fertih=ercomnunpuon                           kgiba...                                    26.2        41.7        48.0         67.8
Sham of agiculmre in GDP                    % of GDP                 ..        11.9        9.1         13.5        15.7         8.0
Housizng                                    %ofGDP                   .           .3.1                   6.0
Average household size                 persons per hou-seold         .           .3.2
UrbaLn
Fizcdrinvcsntsnc housing                    % ofGDP                  .                     5.7          5.2
Fuel and power                              %ofGDP                   .           .0.7                   1.2
Energy consumoption per capita            kg of oil equiv.           .           .       4.411       2.959        1.595       1.632
Households with electricity
Urban                                   % of households             .           ..
Rural
Transport and communication                 % of(GDP                 .                      4.2
Fized invrsmnvnt oansport eqtuipnEt                                  .                     11.9
Total road length                           thou. km              633          783         934
11VE(    Mr~  lIN HUMAN CAPrrAL
Health
Populanon per physician                      person               286          220         22362                 3.27
Population per nurse                            -95                             82          90         249
PopulAtion per hospital bed                                        a81          73          78         136         604         395
Oral rrhydyrsion therapy (under-S)         % of cae                  ..                       ...51I
Education
Gross enrollnent maio
Secondary                              % of school-age pop.          .                        ..                    53          :53
Female
Pupil.teacher ratio: primoary           pupils per reacher.                      ..                       .                     25
Pupil-teacher rato: secondazry
Pupils meaching grade 4                    % of cohort               ..
Repeater raEce: pnriary                  % of total enroll           .           .
IllitLeracy                            % of pop. (age 15+)           ...2                                S           9           1 4
Female                                % of fern. (age 15+)          ...                      ..                      .17
NewsoaDer circularion                     ocr thou. Pooo.                        ...                                74          125
W,voric isank Incernanon.Al ecaonomis Lieparonent.. Apnid 199



- 43 -
Russia - Key Economic Indicators                  Annex  5
4----------Actuat --stittd --  Projectea
1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997
National accounts (X GDP at current market prices)
Gross domestic product (GDP)                                      100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
Agriculture a/                                                   15.5   12.3    9.1    8.6    6.3       -       .
Industry a/                                                     44.3   47.8   51.5   46.2   39.6        -
Services A/                                                     33.3   36.0   30.2   42.2   50.0        -              -
Tt u l consu tion                                                  69.6   60.6   64.1   67.8   71.4   71.3   74.6   76.6
Gross domestic investment                                          30.1   39.1   35.5   28.0   27.0   26.5   24.0   22.0
Goverrment Investment                                                           4.5    7.8    5.2    4.2    4.9    5.4
Private investment (incLudes chwn9e In stocks)                      .     ..   31.0   20.2   21.8   22.3   19.1   16.6
Exports of soods and nonfactor services                            18.2   13.3   57.0   38.6   26.7   27.2   24.9   24.8
laports of goods and nonfactor services                            18.0   13.0   56.6   34.4   25.1   25.0   23.5   23.4
Gross doIestic savings                                             30.4   39.4   35.9   32.2   28.6   28.7   25.4   23.4
Gross national savings b/                                          30.2   39.1  30.9   29.5   26.7   26.5   23.0   21.1
Mmeorandum items:
Gross domestic product (bitlion US$ at current prices)          1,100  747.2   92.2  169.1  276.9  291.6  337.7  371.4
Gross national product per capita (USS  Atlas sethod)          4,120  3,610  2,801  2,323  1,912  1,837  2,083  2,388
ReaL annual growth rates (Percentage rAa-ge)
Gross domestic product at market prices                        -3.6  -12.8  -18.5  -12.0  -15.0   -6.6    6.8    6.0
Gross domestic incom                                             ..  -24.6  -23.0  -13.4  -14.6   -5.3    7.0    6.5
Real annul per capita growth rates (Percentage change)
Gross domestic product at market prices                        -4.0  -13.0  -18.5  -11.9  -14.9   -6.5    7.0    6.2
Total consumption                                              4    -40.1  -17.8   -6.1   -9.3   -9.4    9.0    6.5
Private consumptlon                                              ..  -42.4  -14.8  -13.3   -8.4   -6.7    8.7    7.1
Belance of payments (billion USS) cl
. . . . .  .. .  .. .... ..    ...
Exzorts of goods and nonfactor services                            82.6   53.0   41.6   51.3   57.5   63.5   67.2   74.3
Merchandise exports f.o.b.                                       82.6   53.0   41.6   44 5   49.6   55.1   58.4   64.7
*mprts of goods and nonfactor services                             84.9   46.8   42.7   47.4   54.4   58.6   63.6   69.6
:rchandise 'iports f.o.b.                                       82.9   44.    37.2   34.9   39.6   42.5   4.0 50.2
Rtesource balance                                                  -2.3    6.2   -1.1    3.8    3.1    4.9    3.5    4.7
Current account balance (after official capital grants)            -4.5    5.6   -2.7    2.0    0.1   -0.9   -4.4   -4.0
Net private foreign direct Investment                              -0.4   -0.1    0.7    0.4    1.0    2.5    2.5    2.5
Lonl-term loans (net) k/                                            1.7    2.8    3.3  -10.1  -12.7   -7.8   -5.8   -3.1
Otficial
Private                                                            .       .      .       .     .
other capital flows (net, including *rrors and omissions) 1/   -6.0   -8.9   -0.5   11.1    7.5    5.7    9.0    8.1
Change in reserves d/                                               9.2    0.6   -0.8   -3.4    4.1    0.5   -1.3   -3.5
Nemoranduu items:
Resource balance (Percent of GOP at current market prices)         -0.2    0.8   -1.2    2.3    1.1    1.7    1.1    1.3
Real annual growth rates (Percentage change)
Merchandise exports f.o.b.                                         ..  -34.5  -14.8   19.0   11.9    5.6    3.0    5.9
Merchandise imports f.o.b.                                         ..  -48.2  -33.9   -8.0   11.6    4.3    6.3    6.4
Public finance (Z of GDP at current market prices) */
Current revenues                                                     ..      ..   46.2   39.4   36.1   35.9   38.0   39.4
Current expenditures                                                 ..          64.6   42.6   39.8   38.0   37.7   36.8
Current account deficit (1- or surplus  +)                           ..          -18.4   -3.3   -3.7   -2.1    0.3    2.7
Capital expenditure                                                  ..     ..    4.5    7.8    5.2    4.2    4.9    5.4
Foreign financing                                                    ..     ..   12.1    2.1    0.9    1.0    1.3    1.3
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP (at current market prices) f/                                 ..      ..   15.8    8.9    9.2      -       -
Growth of K2 (M) j/                                                  ..          779.5  339.5  190.2      -       -
Credit growth to non-government sector/total credit growth J/    ..               88.7   86.3   74.4      -       -      -
Price indices
Nechandise export price Index (1993=100) c/                       123.3  120.9  111.3  100.0   99.7       -       -      -
Mechandise import price Index (1993=100) c/                        74.8   77.4   80.8  100.0  101.7       -       -      -
Hechardise terms of trade index (1993.100) c/                     164.8  156.2  137.7  100.0   98.0       -       -      -
Real exchange rate Index (USS/ruble, 1990 . 100) g/               100.0   76.3   11.1   23.6   44.2       -       -      -
Real interest rate (End of year, percent/year) h/                    ..     ..  -85.5   59.8  -13.5       -       -      -
Consumer price index CZ growth rate)                                5.6   92.6  1 354  895.3  303.4       -       -
GDP deflator (% growth rate)                                       16.6  131.5  1,605  921.1 356.6        -
Notes:
a/ At factor cost.
b/ Includes net unrequited transfers excluding officlal capital grants.
c/ Excluding transactions with former Soviet republics.
d/ Includes use of IMF resources.
e/  Federal and local governments plus extra-budgetary funds  and unbudgeted ifport subsidies.
f/  Ratio of ruble broad money stock to annual level of Deceber's GDP.
g/ The hofficialu rate was adjusted by the GOP deflator and the GS MN. An increase in USS/Ruble denotes
appreciation.
h/ The Central Bank refinance- rate adjusted for changes in consiner prices.
i/ Includes the adjustment to scheduled debt service.
j/  Decomber to December change.
Excludes use of IMF resources.
Sources: RosKomStat, Goverreent and Central Bank of Russia, IMF, IBRD.
c:\jav\R\DB\db.f0dl                                    5 Kay 1995,  1:39 PM                                                  Russia



44 -                                     Annex  6
Russia   Key Exposure Indicators
+-----------Actuasl----------- Estctd ------ProJecte d------
1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997
Total debt outstanding ad disbursd (TDO) CUSSIn) /a /b    59.8   67.5   78.7   83.1  93.4   99.4  105.4  112.3
let disburse_ents CUSSIn) /a */                                 1.7    2.8    4.3   -8.6  -11.2   -2.8   -4.0   -2.1
Total debt service (TDS) (USSIn) /a /b f/                       7.8    7.7   15.0   20.5   21.5   20.3   19.7   17.3
Debt and debt service indicators (Percentages)
TDO/XGS /c                                                 71.8  126.2  185.2  160.5  161.4  155.5  154.5  149.2
TDO/GDP                                                     5.4    9.0   85.4   49.2  33.7   34.1   31.2   30.3
TDS/XGS /c                                                  9.4   14.4   35.3   39.6   37.1   31.8   28.9   23.0
IBRD exposure indicators (Percentages)
IBRD DS/public DS                                            -       -     0.0    0.3    0.1    0.2    0.7    1.3
Preferred creditor/public DS                                         -     0.0    2.7    1.5    3.0    8.1   10.7
IBRD DStXGS                                                  -       -     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.1    0.2    0.3
IBRD portfolio share d/                                      -       -     0.0    0.4    0.6    0.8    1.9    3.1
IFC (USSm)
Loans                                                         -      -      -    10.0   80.6
Equity and quasi-equity                                       -      -       -     1.5   10.1
NIGA
MIGA guarantees CUSS.)                                               _             9.9
Notes:
ExcLudes transaction. with the former Soviet repub(ics  nd mebers of ex-CMEA.
ExcLudes claims arising on clearing accounta, barter and land-Lease transactions.
a/  Includes public  nd publicLy guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed debt, use of IMF credit ard net short-term
capital.
b/ Includes USSR liabilities.
c/ MXGSN denotes exports of goods and services, incLuding worker's remittarnces.
d/  Including the present value of guarantee.
e/ Amortization on due basis.
f/ Debt service due.
c:XJav\R\DD\db.cdl                                   5 May 1995,  1:42 PH                                                  Russia



- 45 -
Annex 7
Page 1 of 2
Status of Bank Group Operations in Russia
(As of May 2, 1995)
Original amount                        Last ARPP
in US$ millions                  supervision rating bl
Loan No.   Fiscal    Borrower         Purpose                      IBRD Cancellations  Undisbursed   Develop.   Implemen.
Year                                            '                                        Obiectives  Status a/
L35130       93    Russian Federation  Rehabilitation               600.00                0.00            S      S
L35320       93    Russian Federation  Employment Services           70.00     10.00     58.53            S      U
L35460       93    Russian Federation  Privatization Impl. Asst.     90.00                87.32           S      U
L36230       93    Various            Oil Rehab. I                  610.00              518.21            S      U
L37060       94    Russian Federation  Highway Rehab & Maint        300.00              294.00                   S
L37340 *    94    Russian Federation  Financial Instit. Dev. Proj.  200.00              200.00                   S
L37560       94    Russian Federation  Land Reform Impl. Sup.        80.00               80.00                   U
127570       94    Russian Federation  Agric. Reform Impl. Sup.     240.00              240.00                   S
L37630 *    94    Russian Federation  Enterprise Support            200.00              200.00                   S
L37680 *    94    Various             Oil Rehab II                  500.00              500.00                   S
L38060 *    95    Russian Federation  Environment Mgmt.             110.00               110.00
L38240 *    95    Russian Federation  Management & Finan. Trng.      40.00               40.00
L38440 *    95    Russian Federation  Portfolio Dev. Loan            40.00               40.00
L38500 '    95    Russian Federation  Housing                       400.00              400.00
L38530 *    95    Russian Federation  Tax Admin. Modernization       16.80                16.80
L38720 *    95    Russian Federation  Emerg. Oil Spill & Mitigation  99.00               99.00
L38760 *    95    Russian Federation  Gas Dist. Rehab. & Energy Eff. 106.50              106.50
Total                                                             3,702.30     10.00  2,990.34
Total disbursed:                701.96
of which has been repaid        .00
Total now held by IBRD:         701.96
Amount sold                        .00
of which repaid                .00
Total undisbursed             2,990.34
* Nor yet effective
* Closed



- 46 -
Annex 7
Page 2 of 2
RUSSIA - Statement of IFC Investments
(as of March 31, 1995)
(in millions of US dollars)
FY      FY            Description        Sector          Loan   Equity   Total  Other Undisbursed
Appr.  Committed
A. Approved and Committed (Sizned) Proiects"
93     94   International Moscow Bank    Capital Markets 15.0    0.0     15.0    0.0    12.5
93     94   Polar Lights                 Energy         60.0    0.0     60.0    0.0      0.0
94     94   Framlington Russ. Invest. Fund Capital Markets  0.0    8.0   8.0    0.0      4.0
94     94   Tokobank                     Capital Markets  0.0    0.0     0.0    5.0 bl  0.0
94     95   Russian Telecom Dev. Corp.   Telecom         0.0    7.5      7.5    0.0      0.0
95     95   Russian Trade Enhance. Fac.   Capital Markets  0.0    0.0    0.0   10.0c   0.0
Total gross commitments                         75.0   15.5      90.5  (15.0)   16.5
Less cancellations, terminations, repayment & sales   -       -       -           -
Total commitments now held                      75.0   15.5      90.5  (15.0)   16.5
B. ADDroved Proiects Pending Commitment
93           Vasyugan Services           Energy         10.0    1.5      11.5    0.0    11.5
94           Savvinskaya- Seiyo Co.      Office Building  5.6    2.1     7.7    0.0      7.7
95           A.O. Volga                  Manufacturing  30.0   11.0    41.0    0.0    41.0
95           CTC Foods                   Agribusiness    0.0    7.0      7.0    0.0      7.0
95           Framlington Volga Fund      Capital Markets  0.0   20.0    20.0    0.0    20.0
95           Intersok Apple Juice Process.   Agribusiness    5.3    1.5  6.8    0.0      6.8
95           Russian Registry            Capital Markets  0.0    1.5      1.5    0.0     1.5 dI
95           Russian Technology Fund     Capital Markets  0.0    2.0     2.0    0.0      2.0
Total pending commitments                       60.9   46.6    107.5
Total commitments held and pending             135.9   77.1    213.5
Total undisbursed commitments held and pending  73.4   50.6    124.0
a/   In addition, the First NIS Fund, a regional private equity fund for the FSU, is expected to be directed
largely to projects in Russia. IFC approved and committed $15 million in equity for this project in
FY95, of which $12.5 maillion was undisbursed as of March 31, 1995.
b/   Loan equivalent value of risk management (hedging) facility.
c/   Guarantee.
d/   Committed in late April 1995.



- 47 -
ANNEX 8
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
SECOND REHABILITATION LOAN
Timetable of Key Processing Events
(a)    Time taken to prepare:             26 months'
(b)    Loan prepared by:                  Government, with IBRD assistance
(c)    First IMRD mission:                May-June 1993
(d)    Appraisal mission:                 July 1993
(e)    Negotiations:                      August 1993
(f)    Planned date of effectiveness:    July 1995
(g)    List of relevant PPARs:            Not applicable
.. . ...                                                                     .9a~~~.. ~
i.-o iov i::i ......................   ..............  .......  ......  ..  ..... --.:
x. ..d.......aya. Par                                          d Yang          e the  -an-ging
-:.Divisior :Chef iancLDepartuet Direcw  Tespectively, :for chitoperaion-;:  ;        i ii-i
The Second Rehabilitation Loan was initially prepared on an accelerated basis starting m April 1993 with
the first preparation mission in late May-early June, and negotiations in mid-August 1993. Subsequent
processing of the loan was suspended when it becamne evident that mnacroeconomic performance in late-1993
was substantially off-track. Discussi..ns were resumned between the Government and the Bank in April 1994
following agreement in principle on the second tranche STF arrangement, and Bank mnissions visited
Moscow in June and September 1994 to revise and update the policy matrix and the loan documentation
with the Governrnent.












lERD 25968
VNITED SKATES Of AMERICA
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
REPUBLICS, KRAIS, OBLASTS, OKRUGS
*NATIONAL CAPITAL
RIVERS
ECONOMIC REGION BOUNDARIES
- -- UNITED -~~~~~~~~ -  *.~~~~  IF  .~~~                               7  - ~~OBLAST, KEAI, OR REPUBUC BOUNDARIES
KITG~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M ~~~~~~AUTONOMOUS 0BLAST, OKRUG, OR REPURUC BOUNDARIES'
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                           F,,5b'c
'Inluding republi, o Adyjgoyo. Alto,, orbiCeAs. od Khoke.              Soc 
-   NORWAY
NETT*tcka  --   t-''          ~~~~~~SWEDEN                                                                                                                                                                                                             s N5~  o
A)                                                                                                    -                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~83
GERMANY                                                                                                                              S   , 
- A                ~~~FINLAND       f--- 
T   POLAND           7TUTA~i                                                               
is.  4                                                                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~87
jru'            ~~~~~~~~~BELARUS    'el  203
N                                                                                                                                                                                                       -~~~~~1
ROMANIA  ~ ~   ~     ~     ~    71         2286
2   UKRAINE    A~  17                 .  -      28            25       56
(   ~~~~~,l'                    '~~~~rt-        A2              -      #         I-4
6I,ru  -'-.       ''~~.r                                                              573   ' -                               4                                                                                              T-
-Al                                       -1                             5                                                                                                              K6  7
5                                    Eui\-.,. -                                                                                                                       / 53r
*  \sa ~~~~~~                                           1      N,                                                                                                                                                                          ix1  2 
N         -   "~~~~~1\5                             /                             O   SE3C   0    00c6 ,, 
KYRIAN    '.  PIT.  / AKIEEI500T       0    200   00   dOE   600 KTSOAEETKOK                'LA                                 MONOOL  IT                                                                   /   CT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'~
`\44\                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         KORE
T.Albnesii Uot16   oloobi  bol                                        3.  od,ioRpbi                      DUioosii  bol5.Ceioisoools                                              4  onkoools                     3   rsoosiKrl8   rruei io
2.NnesiloTTTTTosoru            5.Meookioolsl                   2.  ikl7Nogrdobol                  l loggrdkioolol5.  ogosoo  bosA53To.esoo  bosC4 Rpblco Koo Io8. ocNlnlil uAs
3.RpbiEfY   rei                     .MsoLitA9Rloosoi  bol                                            6.Rpulco   oeto                        A   rnugkiools                   6   bn59osiki7. onysi  Dlgo-eesii    8.Rpbi  fSocol'kTo
4 Reublc ofKuoi               17Orluskoo olosl                 30.KursbZIA Kbo                  43CHcle   eubi                         5 PrtskiTbos                           uootoAolrgoootuNurg88   oii7rd7iools
7. AT  etesbrg.ki                     20oo1. T.oerskoio ob6ost         23. Morodco,icRespiubbs           6.pblic AUc ofsoi odbleos            57. Srlosioloblost                68. Republic of  oryto          78. AKtursoionk obloslorki
2Neogrodskolo auob-os               21g  . MoIskol.oi.ob6osT         24. Aszlroiy osgoio  obbosl       47. N1oirtOdsetie Repulict            58. UKmrgt Repu blct             69. Tyitinsklio  obls             9Keulosoolost 74                     lEoi  f hks.  6 Sbkkodorlki coblors,tuooio
9. Nopugsli ofo Koelos                22. V-oditCirsoi                 29os  3  RpBlic ofk.i Koblmi     48. Rspubcskoio Dbgost.               59. Aloiskibro:a.  bl.            70. AKiosktl Buriikii           80. Ko.rsubii Doulonomous    tskrug  8711 Ropubi dof roT kly 00 hkpotio
10. Psoodk.io obloT                   23. loroslooskolo oblost         36. Pe.oeokoio Wobos             A9. Korsodolskcii kroi60 Reublio.o Alol. kogut.Oniious okrug                                           81. Reultooosii o ro TTu-l Sn   ico  u  Adrt
71. Sriooseoio bu osg                 34. Repubic ofbCluvos            37. Voorsr.koio oblost            A0.  oRepblchoifCAdyres Reubic        6. Ke-nrdloskoio obbost          71. lReulictki ofblos .          782. Je,sb ur, ri.onbou   bolo  ie-t1Ii   hon  eri.A
12LaIcrnook-i ublosl                  25. Kiroskoi ublosl              38. ASorokhnskoio o1bosl-         A7 51 orthp0lic o   Respurbolc        62. NUdositiRspk6io oboo97 Chst'.rdsk iiRrosli 3wag                            ki oblost 79Kc,nyo-nltT.  uduc......rcce-pmd--e-,
12. Kouhsoo 1bost                     26 Repulblic of Morii-El         39. Republic of Totorst-n                                               63 Oms,koio oblost                    out.o-oes okrug             84 ClmukoTskIi outono.ous oA krugTR   TT budr
JULLY 199A









IMAGING
Report No: P-   66S21 RU
Type: PR



