Report No. PIC976
Project Name                   Russia-Second Rehabilitation Loan
Region                         Eastern Countries
Sector                         Public Finance/Administration
Project ID                     RUPA8838
Financing Plan                 IBRD US$ 600 million
Negotiations                   August, 1993
Projected Board Date           February 1994
Background
1.    The Bank is developing an Accelerated Program of Financial
Assistance to Russia, which was announced at the meeting of the G-7
Foreign and Finance Ministers in Tokyo on April 14-15, 1993. The
Bank's first operation as part of this program, the Oil
Rehabilitation Loan (US$ 610 million), was approved by the Board on
June 17, 1993, at which time the Board reviewed and broadly endorsed
the Country Assistance Strategy for Russia. In order for the Bank
to realize this lending program, it is essential to reach agreement
with the Government on the overall framework for structural reforms,
within which subsequent operations can focus on specific aspects of
the reform program. The Second Rehabilitation Loan is intended to
provide this framework.
Objectives
2.    As emphasized in the Country Assistance Strategy, privatization
and enterprise reform are at the heart of Russia's transformation
into a market economy. This will require a range of reform measures
designed to create an environment within which enterprise reform can
proceed in an efficient manner. The Second Rehabilitation Loan will
support this process through reforms in the following areas: (i)
private sector development; (ii) price and subsidy policies; (iii)
trade policies; (iv) pro-competition and anti-monopoly policies; (v)
reform of state-owned enterprises; (vi) financial sector reforms;
and (vii) social protection. Significant actions have already been
taken by the Government in a number of important areas      including
: (i) increases in export quotas; (ii) reduction or elimination of
price controls and subsidies; (iii) elimination of restrictions on
surrender of export proceeds to the Central Bank; and (iv) reduction
of interest subsidies. The macroeconomic program for the period
covered by the Second Rehabilitation Loan would be supported by a
Systemic Transformation Facility from the IMF.
Description
3.    The proposed loan would be divided into three components: (i)
Market-Based Imports Component -- $500 million to finance imports
purchased by the growing commercial private sector; (ii) Pre-
Identified Imports Component -- $98.5 million to finance a priority
list of critical imports for the health and agriculture sectors; and



(iii) Local Implementation Costs -- $1.5 million to finance the
services of local procurement agents required for the implementation
of the Pre-Identified Imports Component, and travel and operating
costs of the Project Implementation Unit. Based on the experience
of the First Rehabilitation Loan, the loan is expected to be
disbursed in approximately one year following loan effectiveness,
and the Closing Date for the loan would be December 31, 1994.
Environmental Aspects
4.    Environment Assessment Category C.   All pre-identified imports
will be screened for environmental concerns and remedial actions, if
needed, will be identified prior to approving the final list of
imports.
Institutional Capacity
5.    The Loan will be implemented using the institutional
arrangements introduced under the First Rehabilitation Loan, which
have worked effectively. The Department for International Finance
and Investment will be responsible for monitoring progress on the
reform program in coordination with the Bank. The Central Bank of
Russia will be responsible for the Market-Based Imports Component.
The Project Implementation Unit in the Ministry of Finance will be
responsible for implementing the Pre-Identified Imports Component,
with the assistance of external advisers financed by the U.K. Know-
How Fund.
Benefits and Risks
6.    The Second Rehabilitation Loan provides an important
opportunity to establish a coordinated policy framework for
addressing the key problems of enterprise reform in Russia. The
problem of enterprise reform will be facing the Government for the
next decade at least, and it is important that the initial stages in
setting up this process should be done well. Given the broad
international interest in supporting Russia, the Bank can play a key
role in shaping a workable program of structural reforms that can be
sustained in the medium term.
7.    The reform program has been fully reviewed and discussed with
key Government officials, so that they feel comfortable with their
ownership of the reforms. However, they recognize that the program
will be economically and politically difficult, and many of the
targets should be viewed as desirable objectives rather than fully
feasible according to the indicated schedule. The most important
risk in terms of the implementation of the reform program is the
success of the macroeconomic stabilization program, as many of the
key structural reforms (especially the trade reforms) may not be
sustainable unless the economy makes substantial progress toward
financial stability. In this sense, financial stabilization and
structural reform should be viewed as mutually reinforcing
processes.
-2-



Contact Point -    Public Information Centre
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.:     (202)522-1500
Note:        This is information on an evolving project.    Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 3 -



