LOAN NUMBER 3898 RU
Loan Agreement
(Second Rehabilitation Loan)
between
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated    eY4    /   7           1995


﻿LOAN NUMBER 3898 RU
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    e-7w4 /i, 1995 between RUSSIAN
FEDERATION (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS: (A) the Bank has received a letter dated August 30,
1994 from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives
and policies designed to achieve economic stabilization and systemic
reforms in the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the Program),
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program,
and requesting assistance from the Bank in the financing of urgently
needed imports required during such execution; and
(B)   on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has
decided in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the
Borrower by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modificatiohs thereof set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)   Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:
"'Project' means the imports and other activities that
may be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan pursuant to
the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement."
(b)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(c)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (1) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
the Bank's Articles of Agreement."


﻿2-
(d)   Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified t& read:
"(c) Not later thaa six months after the Closing Date
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail
as th6 Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the
program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the
performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "SITC"   means  the   Standard   International   Trade
Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United
Nations in Statistical Papers, Series H, No. 343 (1986); and
(b)   "Central Bank" means the Central Bank of the Russian
Federation.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of six hundred million dollars ($600,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per


﻿-3-
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
(c)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
on the date immediately preceding each date
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
beginning with the Interest Period in which this
Agreement is signed.
(ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may
be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
interest rates determined otherwise than as
provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
(d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
thic Section shall be amended to read as follows:
"(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding


﻿-4-
from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1). On each of the dates specified in Section
2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
applicable during such Interest Period."
O(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each
Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
Quarter."
"(c) (iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month period
commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. (a) The Central Bank is designated as repre-
sentative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
(b)   Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the
Borrower hereby entrusts the Central Bank with responsibility for
the preparation of withdrawal applications and for the collection of
the documents and other evidence to be furnished to the Bank in
support of such applications, including the relevant customs
certificates for imports eligible for financing out of the proceeds
of the Loan.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program.


﻿-5-
(b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
(c)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower and the Bank shall, on or about August
1, 1995, carry out a review on the allocation of access to oil
export pipelines.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section audited for each
fiscal year, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)   furnish t4l the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after'the end
of each such year, a certified copy of the report
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and
(iii)   furnish  to  the Bank   such  other  information
concerning said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:


﻿-6-
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
has received the audit report for the fiscal year
in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents or
customs certificates, as appropriate) evidencing
such expenditures;
(iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
records; and
(iv)   ensure  that  such  records  and  accounts   are
included in the annual audits referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 (a) of this
Agreement, the Minister of Finance or Deputy Minister of Finance of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
103097, Moscow
Ilyinka Street 9
Russian Federation
Telex:
112008
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
By//44,          j~V)ASV
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By f/94        !     4E?
I4~ Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Loan may be vithdrawn from the Loan
Account for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agre,, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during the
execution of the Program and to be financed out of such proceeds.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b)   expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or subgroups, or any successor groups or subgroups under
future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to
the Borrower:
GroM2           Subgroup       Description of Items
112                --       - Alcoholic beverages
121                --          Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122                --          Tobacco, manufactured (whether
or not containing tobacco sub-
stitutes)
525                --          Radioactive    and    associated
materials
667                --          Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked
718             718.1          Nuclear   reactors,   and  parts
thereof,      fuel    elements
(cartridges), nonirradiated or
nuclear reactors
728             728.43         Tobacco processing machinery
897             897.3          Jewelry   of  gold,   silver  or
platinum group metals (except


﻿- 10 -
watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths'   or   silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
971                --          Gold, nonmonetary (excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
(c)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(d)   payments made for expenditures in respect of goods
imported prior to the date of this Agreement;
(e)   expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $50,000 equivalent;
(f)   expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency other
than the Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance; and
(g)   expenditures for goods intended for a military or
paramilitary purpose or for luxury consumption.
3.    No withdrawal shall be made and no comnitment shall be entered
into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan once the
aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan
Account and the total amount of such commitments shall have reached
the equivalent of $300,000,000 unless the Bank shall be satisfied,
after the completion of the review as described in Section 3.01 (c)
of this Agreement, that the Borrower has undertaken by such date the
actions and measures in respect of allocation of access to oil
export pipelines as agreed by the Borrower and the Bank.
4.    Withdrawals   for  expenditures  under   contracts  for  the
procurement of goods estimated to cost less than $5,000,000
equivalent may be permitted by the Bank upon the basis of statements
of expenditures under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall
specify.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 1 and November 1
beginning November 1, 2000
through November 1, 2011            25,000,000
And on May 1, 2012                        25,000,000
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.


﻿- 12 -
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment                        Premium
The interest rate (expressed
as a percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan on the
day of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                       0.18
before maturity
More than three years but                       0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                         0.65
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                      0.88
more than 15 years
before maturity
More than 15 years before                       1.00
maturity


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procutement
1.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $5,000,000 or more shall be awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and III of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:
(a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder's
invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid;
such advertisements should be placed in at least one newspaper
of general circulation in the Borrower's country and, in
addition, in at least one of the following forms:
(i)    a notice in the United Nations publication,
Development Business; or
(ii)    an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical   journal   of   wide   international
circulation; or
(iii)    a notice to local representatives of countries
and territories referred to in the Guidelines,
that are potential suppliers of the goods
required."
(b)   The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
used in international trade and specified in the bidding
documents."
(c)   Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.


﻿- 14 -
(d)   For  fixed-price  contracts, the   invitation  to  bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide
that, when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be
increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied
to all foreign currency componenta and the other to the local
currency component of the bid price. Such an increase shall
not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.
(e)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this
paragraph, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard
bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications
thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the
purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized
standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $5,000,000 shall be awarded in accordance
with established commercial practices followed by public sector and
private enterprises.
3.    Subject to the prior approval of the Bank, commonly traded
commodities may be procured through organized international
commodity markets or other channels of competitive procurement
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank.
4.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such contract, together with an analysis of the
respective bids and recommendations for award, a description of the
advertising and tendering procedures followed and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
5.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 2 and
3 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to
the submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect there of, such
documentation and information as the Bank may reasonably request to
support withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.


﻿- 15 -
6.    The provisions of the preceding paragraph 5 of this Schedule
shall not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from
the Loan Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditures.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank
for Reconsiruction and Development.
FOR SECRETARY


