Docmment of
The World Bank
FOR OFFClCAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13723
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOURTH STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SAL IV)
(CREDIT 2090-SE)
NOVEMBER 22, 1994
Africa Region
Sahelian Department
Country Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.0 (1988) = CFAF 298
US$1.0 (1989) = CFAF 319
US$1.0 (1990) = CFAF 272
US$1.0 (1991) = CFAF 303
US$1.0 (1992) = CFAF 265
US$1.0 (1993) = CFAF 287
FISCAL YEAR
July I - June 30 = Up to June 30, 1991
July I - December 31 (18 months) = For FY 1991/92
January 1- December 31 = Starting January 1, 1993
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB          :  African Development Bank
AGETIP       :  Agence d'execution des travaux d'interet public contre le sous-emploi
(Public Works and Employment Project I)
BCEAO        :  Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (Central Bank)
CFA          :  Communaut6 Financiere Africaine (African Financial Community)
CIF          :  cost insurance freight
CSS          :  Compagnie Sucriere Senegalaise (Sugar Company)
EFF          :  Extended Fund Facility
ESAF         :  Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
FSECAL       :  Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
NTBs         :  nontariff barriers
OED          :  Operations Evaluation Department
PAGD         :  Projet d'Appui a la Gestion du Developpement (Development Management
Project)
PE           :  public enterprise
SAF          :  Structural Adjustment Facility
SAL          :  Structural Adjustment Loan
SAR          :  Societe Africaine de Raffinerie (Oil Refinery)
SDR          :  Special Drawing Rights
SECAL        :  Sector Adjustment Loan
SMIG         :  Salaire Minimum Interprofessionnel Garanti (minimum wage)
SOCOCIM      :  Societe Commerciale des Ciments (Cement Company)
SONACOS    :  Societ6 Nationale de Commercialisation des Oleagineux (Groundnut Oil
Company)
SPA          :  Special Program for Africa
TSECAL       :  Transport Sector Adjustment Loan
USAID        :  U.S. Agency for International Development
ZFID         :  Zone Franche Industrielle de Dakar (Industrial Free Zone)



FOR OFFICLAL USE
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U. S. A.
Ofrice of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
November 22, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: SENEGAL - Structural Adjustment IV (Credit 2090-SE)
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on Senegal - Structural Adjustment IV (SAL
IV, Credit 2090-SE) prepared by the Africa Regional Office. This PCR does not contain Part ll.
Previous attempts at structural adjustment in Senegal, during the early 1980s, aimed to liberalize
trade, improve economic efficiency, and promote competitiveness. These early attempts failed in
achieving their principal objective which was to restore competitiveness and economic balance. SAL IV,
approved in 1990 was designed to contribute to reform in four areas: (a) improvement of production
incentives system; (b) reforms in public expenditure, including downsizing the civil service; (c) reduction
of subsidies to public enterprises, elimination of their cross-debts, and privatization; and (d) reduction
of the transitional costs of adjustment, especially of civil servants who lose their jobs during adjustment.
A major target of the program was to reduce aggregate demand by cutting public expenditures.
Despite the fact that most of the actions in the SAL were designed to be frontloaded, the Government
could not maintain the required fiscal austerity. Opposition from many sources made it difficult to
achieve progress in other areas of reform. In particular, the privatization program also failed to live up
to its plans. Eventually, the credit was closed before the release of the third tranche.
The adjustment operation failed to attain its main objectives, and its outcome therefore rated as
unsatisfactory. Sustainability is rated as unlikely. The institutional development is rated as modest.
Institutional development objectives were supported by a parallel technical assistance operation designed
for that purpose. The PCR quality is satisfactory.
An audit is planned.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOURTH STRUCTURAL ADJFUSTMENT CREDIT (SAL IV)
(CREDIT 2090-SE)
PROJ,ECT COMIPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
PREFACE  ........             .......................................  ii
EVALUATION SUMMARY  ....................................  iii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE   ... ..  1
A. Project Identity ................................. I
B. Introduction ...................................  I
C. Background  ................................... 2
Initial and Renewed Attempts at Reform: SALs I, II, and III  . . 2
Implementation of the SALs .......................
Accompanying Sectoral Adjustment Operations  ....              ....... 3
D. SAL IV: Identification, Objectives, and Design  .........4
E. Evaluation of SAL IV Achievements .................... 4
Macroeconomic Performance  ...................... 5
Production Incentives ........................... 5
Civil Service Reform   ........................... 6
Parapublic Sector Reform   ........................ 7
Social Dimensions of Adjustment .................... 8
F. SAL IV Second and Third Tranches .................... 9
G. Credit Monitoring and Supervision ....................  10
Management and Monitoring of the Program    ...             ........  10
Supervision by the Bank  ........................  10
Disbursements and Procurement  ...................  10
Auditing and Counterpart Funds  ..... .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  11
H. Lessons Learned ........  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .    .  11
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW
FROM  THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  ..... .                     .  .  .  .  .  .    .  13
PART III:  STATISTICAL ANNEX  ...... .                  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  14
ANNEX I: POLICY MATRIX   ....... .                  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  17
Key Economic Indicators ........  ..  .          .  .  ..  .  .  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .   .  27
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
|official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOURTH STRUCTURAL ADJ.USTMENT CREDIT (SAL IV)
(CREDIT 2090-SE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Fourth Structural Adjustment Loan
(SAL IV) to Senegal approved by the Board of Executive Directors on February 8, 1990 for an
initial amount of SDR 62.4 million (US$80 million equivalent) from IDA. This amount was
supplemented by an additional SDR 12.1 million from IDA reflows. The first two tranches of the
credit were fully disbursed, with the second tranche released in January 1992. The third tranche
was cancelled and the loan was closed in June 1993. The SAL IV Credit was supplemented by
US$58 million in co-financing funds from Switzerland, Belgium, France, Japan, and the USA,
mostly as part of SPA.
ii.    This Project Completion Report was prepared by the Country Operations Division of the
Sahel Department of the Africa Region. The Bank through its Resident Mission requested the
Borrower to complete Part II of the PCR; in spite of a favorable response, the Bank did not
receive Part II from the Borrower.
iii.    The PCR is based on the President's Report, aides-memoire, loan documents, a study of
project files, and discussions with Bank staff. In addition, this PCR draws on the report Senegal:
Stabilization. Partial Adjustment and Stagnation (Report No. 11506-SE).






- iii -
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOURTH STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SAL IV)
(CREDIT 2090-SE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
A. Background
i.    As has been the case in several primary commodities exporter developing countries,
Senegal failed to adjust quickly once the boom in its export commodities had subsided. This led
to substantial macroeconomic imbalances. In response, during the early 1980s, the authorities
formulated reform programs supported by the IMF and the Bank with SAL I. These initial
attempts were not very successful. However, the mid-1980s led to more satisfactory programs
and both SAL II and III were fully disbursed. Nevertheless, despite the important steps taken by
the authorities, the competitive position of the Senegalese economy worsened during this
adjustment period due to the deterioration of its terms of trade, the appreciation of the French
franc, and the competitive devaluations in the neighboring countries. Import liberalization, which
constituted part of a comprehensive reform program of the system of industrial incentives in
Senegal, could not be achieved while the real exchange rate was appreciating and, little by little,
some of the major reforms undertaken by the Government were reversed.
B. Objectives
ii.    To help restore Senegal's competitive position and achieve growth with macroeconomic
equilibrium, there were four areas targeted by SAL IV:
a) the tax system for the corporate sector, reducing production costs, and reducing labor
market rigidities;
b) rationalizing public current expenditure by means of downsizing the civil service,
increasing its productivity, and better investment planning;
c) rationalizing the public enterprise sector through drastically reducing all Government
subsidies (direct and indirect), eliminating cross-debts, and pursuing aggressive
privatization; and
d) minimizing the transitional costs for certain groups in society, in particular civil
servants who lost their jobs during the adjustment program.



- iv -
C. Implementation Experience
iii.    The design of SAL IV reflected several lessons learned from previous adjustment
programs in Senegal. There was greater reliance on up-front conditionalities with more than half
of the core conditions required before Board presentation. SAL IV focused on relatively fewer
areas than the previous SALs and supported a limited number of critical actions. Overall the
achievements of SAL IV fell short of the required objectives. Although some progress was made
in some areas (e.g., public enterprise reform, civil service management, and reductions in
production costs), much of it was subsequently eroded. Failure to implement the intended
reforms led to the third tranche being postponed and then cancelled. The principal problems were
unsustainable increases in the wage bill; inability to contain civil service recruitment; failure to
privatize SONACOS; and lack of progress toward adoption of the revised Labor Code.
iv.    The macroeconomic environment deteriorated significantly in 1992 and 1993.
Stabilization efforts in Senegal had relied on the compression of demand, primarily through
private consumption and public investment, and the gains remained fragile. Furthermore, the
majority of these gains had been achieved with last minute fixes and ad-hoc measures on the
budget. Thus, in spite of adjustment efforts which had been generously supported by the donor
community, the country found itself unable to guarantee employment to new entrants into the job
market, its fiscal situation was precarious as arrears had reached record levels, and production
costs were extremely high.
v.    In the area of production incentives, attempts to reduce non-labor costs were largely
unsuccessful and the revised Labor Code was never adopted by the Assembly. In an effort to
reduce the tax burden on the private sector, the tax structure was simplified with the introduction
of a single corporate tax at the rate of 35%. The overvaluation of the real exchange rate
continued to be a substantial obstacle and efforts at supporting the export sector were largely
unsuccessful as the Government was simply unable to pay the export subsidies which were
required to compensate for the overvaluation of the CFAF. As far as conventions speciales
(which grant specific tax advantages and protection to selected companies), although SOCOCIM
(cement company) was privatized, it retained its convention spe'ciale, but revisions of the
agreement with SAR (oil refinery) were for the most part not implemented and no progress was
made in renegotiating the agreement with CSS (sugar company).
vi.   It is in the area of civil service reform and wage bill restraint that the Government's
performance has been most disappointing. All gains were subsequently lost; hiring resulted in a
civil service size larger than at the beginning of the Voluntary Departure Program and the wage
bill exhibited a constant upward trend since the release of the second tranche.
vii.   The most successful component of SAL IV was in the area of parapublic sector reform.
The Government has reduced direct subsidies and eliminated overdraft facilities for PEs. Initial
progress was also made in the implementation of measures to prevent the recurrence of cross-
debts, but this was not sustained and cross-debts have again accumulated. SAL IV was also
initially successful in the area of divestiture but the privatization program lost steam as economic
conditions deteriorated.



v 
D. Lessons Learned
viii.   Senegal's performance under SAL IV was disappointing. Overall goals in restructuring
Government finance and resource mobilization and improving incentives in the economy were
largely unsuccessful. Senegal's competitive position worsened during the period.
ix.    The importance of dynamic leadership of policy reform should not be understated. SAL
IV attempted to use financial leverage to get the Government to do things it was not really
interested in doing. In the areas of the adjustment program where leadership was strong, such as
the initial PE divestiture program, significant progress was achieved despite some political
opposition. In the areas of the program where leadership was weak, such as in the areas of civil
service size and wages, reforms made little headway. Government support for a measure and
public understanding of its importance need to be in place if the measure is to be sustained.
x.    In Senegal, repeated effort at structural adjustment in the form of quick-disbursing
budgetary assistance has focused Government attention on the availability and release of these
funds at the expense of longer-term development goals. Thus, it remains crucial to design
conditionalities with care and to enforce them strictly. Nonetheless, the Government's failure to
implement third tranche conditions casts some doubts on the use of time-specific conditionalities.
The design of future programs should emphasize well-focused and measurable conditionalities
which should not be amenable to interpretation. The design should also focus on the process of
change itself by addressing directly issues of ownership and consensus building.
xi.    Within the context of simpler operations with greater up-front conditionality, the
following should guide future Bank support for adjustment in Senegal:
(i) Efforts at increasing the rate of departures from the civil service should
continue to support fiscal stabilization and efficiency in the civil service.
However, the Government should not rely exclusively on external resources and
should take more responsibility for the program;
(ii) Further progress should be sought in reducing the cost of PEs to the State and
to the productive economy, principally through privatizing their management and
opening them up to private capital, under conditions of competition whenever
possible. This now particularly concerns SONACOS and the utility companies.
(iii) In addition to labor policy issues, a number of other factors continue to
hamper private sector activity. Excessive regulation, shortcomings in the
administration of the law, and financial uncertainty continue to act as
disincentives.






REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOURTH STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SAL IV)
(CREDIT 2090-SE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW F'ROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity
Project Name: Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit (SAL IV)
Credit No.:   2090-SE
VP Unit:     Africa Region
Country:      Senegal
Sector:      Country Operations
B. Introduction
The Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit to Senegal (SAL IV) in the amount of US$80 million
(SDR 62.4 million) was approved by the Board of Executive Directors on February 8, 1990 and
became effective on February 22, 1990. The credit supported the Government of Senegal's Medium-
and Long-Term Adjustment Program (1984/85-1992/93) and consisted of three tranches, the first of
SDR 25 million and the second and third of SDR 18.7 million each. The first two tranches were
released and disbursed in full. The third tranche was cancelled before the credit was closed. Three
supplemental credits totaling SDR 12.1 million from the IDA Fifth Dimension were disbursed in
addition to the first two tranches.
The adjustment package supported under SAL IV consisted of a limited number of fundamental
policy reforms accompanied by technical and managerial steps to implement them. These were: 1)
the improvement in the production incentives system through a reduction in the taxation burden of the
corporate sector, the containment of costs of production, and the elimination of labor market rigidities;
2) the rationalization of public current expenditure by means of downsizing the civil service and
increasing its productivity; and (3) the rationalization of the public enterprise sector through a drastic
reduction of all Government subsidies (direct and indirect) and through aggressive privatization. In
addition, the program addressed the social impact of the adjustment program through accompanying
operations supporting job creation and shifts in public expenditures towards human resources.
SAL IV continued a succession of Bank-supported efforts at adjustment in Senegal, beginning
in 1980 with SAL I, and followed by SAL 11 (1986) and SAL III (1987). The Government's
adjustment program has received further support through a series of SECALs in the finance and
transport sectors. In addition, the IMF has supported Senegal's efforts, first through a series of stand-
bys and subsequently through the EFF, SAF, and the ESAF. SAL IV received bilateral support from
the Swiss (US$6.3 million released on effectiveness), the Belgian, French, Japanese, and American
Governments.



- 2 -
C. Background
Initial and Renewed Attempts at Reform: SALs I. II. and III
In response to substantial macroeconomic imbalances which were due to the Government
failing to adjust its expenditures once the boom in its export commodities had subsided, the Senegalese
authorities formulated a reform program covering the period 1980-84. This program was supported
by a three-year Extended Fund Facility and a Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL I) from the Bank.
However, due to incomplete implementation of the programs both loans were suspended shortly
thereafter. By 1984, the economic situation had deteriorated further, with GDP registering a 4.6%
decline and the current account deficit at 17.3% of GDP. In response to a request for financial
assistance and the Government's adoption of its Medium- and Long-Term Adjustment Program
(1984/85-1992/93), the Bank approved in January 1986 SAL II, whose principal objectives were to
support accelerated growth in production and employment through improving incentives in agriculture
and introducing industrial policy reform.
Following the Government's request, and in further support of the ongoing adjustment process
(the overall economic goals of the Government's development strategy were articulated in a Letter of
Development Policy issued in April 1987), the Bank approved SAL III in May 1987. In addition to
deepening the reforms initiated under SAL 11, SAL III included measures to improve financial
intermediation, the rehabilitation of three publicly-owned banks, the formulation of a population policy
and action program, and the alleviation of the adverse transitional impact on employment caused by
structural adjustment.
ImDlementation of the SALs
Difficulties with SAL I led to the postponement and ultimately the cancellation of the second
tranche. For both SALs II and III, required tranche release conditions were fulfilled and both credits
were released and disbursed in full. In general, despite some delays, a significant number of actions
were implemented, with 25 of 39 agreed-upon actions completed during SAL II and 71 of Ill actions
being accomplished during SAL III.
Under SAL II, a number of important steps were taken on trade reform, including the
preparation of a new Tariff Code, the elimination of quantitative restrictions on most goods, the
elimination of prior authorization for imports, and the adoption of a new duty drawback system. In
the agriculture sector, fertilizer subsidies were reduced and eventually eliminated and free distribution
of seed to groundnut farmers was discontinued. In the area of public finance, targets were respected
for the number of civil servants, the ratio of wages plus salaries to fiscal receipts, and the settlement
of all arrears on external debt. However, little progress was made in reducing the heavy burden of the
parapublic sector and in reducing the rigidities of the labor market.
The results of SAL III were mixed. Substantial progress was made in the parapublic sector
with the liquidation of 9 enterprises and the offering for sale of the Government's shares in 10 others,
and the reduction of subsidies to the remaining parapublic enterprises. Regarding public finance, the
Government submitted a new Customs Code. Civil service and personnel targets were achieved and
the first phase of a tax reform was implemented with the application of a new general tax code. In the
area of industrial incentives, a new Investment Code was submitted to the National Assembly,
quantitative restrictions were abolished, and a "One-Stop-Window" for prospective investors was



established. However, in addition to the delays experienced in the parapublic sector reform and the
disappointing results there, there was little progress on agriculture sector reforms, particularly
concerning the implementation of the SONACOS interim plan.
Despite the reform measures adopted during SAL II and III, Senegal's competitive position
weakened during this adjustment period due to the deterioration of its terms of trade and the
appreciation of the French Franc, which led to an appreciation of the CFA Franc against Senegal's
trading partners and competitors outside the Franc Zone. In the absence of a parity change, a
depreciation of the real exchange rate of a sufficiently large magnitude could not be achieved. In
theory, the real exchange rate depreciation could have been engineered by a combination of cost
cutting measures, appropriate import taxes, and export subsidies and deflationary fiscal and monetary
policies. In practice, the longer adjustment had been postponed, the harder it became to follow an
internal adjustment path, since the magnitude of the deflationary policies required increased with time.
Furthermore, improvements in the regulatory environment and investment incentives were additional
steps necessary to restore Senegal's competitiveness.
Until the mid-1980s Senegal's trade regime was overly protective, complex, and biased against
exports. The trade reform measures which started in 1984 were part of a comprehensive reform of the
system of industrial incentives in Senegal. The import liberalization program required the Government
to progressively eliminate the NTBs, abolish special tariff regimes, and rationalize the tariff structure.
Export promotion was to be achieved through direct export subsidies. The Government implemented
the trade reform only partially. Furthermore, the impossibility of undertaking trade liberalization
while the real exchange rate was appreciating led to the reversal of the trade reforms implemented by
Senegal. This led to a considerable increase in the level of protection and the trade regime remains
quite restrictive and heavily biased against exports.
Accompanying Sectoral Adiustment Operations
The complex nature of macroeconomic adjustment programs placed substantial burdens on
Senegal's administrative capacity, and consequently, there was a recognized need to shift from fewer
and more complex operations to a series of specific and well-focused operations. In support of this
need, the Bank approved the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSECAL) in December 1989 for
US$45 million to support bank restructuring/rehabilitation and liquidation, bank supervision and
control mechanisms, and credit policy reforms. The second and final tranche of this credit was
released in February 1992. By most measures, the FSECAL was a success, leading to a more active
role by BCEAO in bank supervision and monitoring, a substantial reform of credit policies, including
a reduction in abusive practices (e.g., forced crop credits, Government guarantees on parastatal
borrowing) and bank-by-bank credit ceilings, the liquidation of seven banks and the restructuring of
two other banks.
The Transport Sector Adjustment Loan (TSECAL) for US$65 million was approved by the
Bank in June 1991 and became effective in February 1992. This operation is on-going and has sought
improvements in resource allocation between infrastructure maintenance and investment, fostering
more efficient execution of works through private contractors, and restructuring sector parastatals,
putting them on a financially self-supporting basis. The TSECAL has encountered considerable
implementation problems because as a consequence of its fiscal difficulties, the Government has not
been meeting its local financing obligations. In addition, the Government has continued to undermine
the financial position and managerial autonomy of the restructured parastatals.



- 4 -
D. SAL IV: Identification. Objectives, and Design
Despite the progress made under SALs 11 and III, the adjustment process in Senegal was far
from complete. A number of obstacles to Senegal's competitiveness remained, including high
production costs due to labor market rigidities and high energy prices (which also contributed to high
transport costs), deficiencies in the regulatory environment, and high levels of taxation. Furthermore,
serious weaknesses persisted in the management of public resources, especially the allocation between
wage and non-wage expenditures and the performance of the parapublic sector. Unless these problems
were addressed, the likelihood of eliminating the budget deficit and restoring public savings would not
be very high.
The design of SAL IV reflected several lessons from previous adjustment programs in Senegal.
The studies undertaken in SALs II and III and the OED review of the relationship between Senegal
and the Bank made it possible to design the actions of SAL IV. There was a greater reliance on up-
front conditionality: more than half of the core conditions were conditions required before Board
presentation. In recognition of the need to not overburden the Government's capacity to implement
the necessary reforms, SAL IV focused on relatively fewer areas than the previous SALs and
supported a limited number of critical actions (highlighting the importance of the SECALs as part of
Senegal's adjustment strategy). To help restore Senegal's competitive position and achieve growth
with macroeconomic equilibrium, there were four areas targeted by SAL IV:
a) the improvement in the production incentives system through reducing the tax burden of the
corporate sector, containing costs of production, and reducing labor market rigidities;
b) the rationalization of public current expenditure by means of downsizing the civil service
and increasing its productivity;
c) the rationalization of the public enterprise sector through drastically reducing all
Government subsidies (direct and indirect), eliminating cross-debts, and pursuing aggressive
privatization; and
d) the minimization of the transitional costs for certain groups in society, in particular civil
servants who lost their jobs during the adjustment program.
E. Evaluation of SAL IV Achievements
Overall the achievements of SAL IV fell far short of the original objectives. Although some
progress was made in specific areas, much of it was subsequently eroded. Furthermore, the
macroeconomic environment deteriorated significantly towards the end of the period. Failure to
implement the intended reforms led to the third tranche being postponed and then cancelled. The
repeated slippage on tranche release conditions and the failure to tackle the more difficult reform
components of the program indicated the almost non-existent commitment of the Government to the
adjustment program. In addition, quick-disbursing budgetary assistance has become less effective in
Senegal as it has had the undesirable effect of focusing Government attention on the availability of
such funds to the detriment of longer-term development issues.



-5-
Macroeconomic Performance
Senegal's economy is in a state of acute crisis. The real economy has experienced a serious
decline in key sectors since 1990. In particular, in 1991, fish processing declined in volume terms by
66.4% while phosphates declined by 24.1 %. Agriculture production remains flat and traffic at Dakar
Port continues to decline. In general, growth performance has been disappointing with real GDP
growth registering a 1.2% increase in 1991 and an estimated figure of 2.4% in 1992 (against
population growth rates of 2.9%).
Stabilization efforts in Senegal have relied on the compression of demand, primarily through
private consumption and public investment, and any gains remain fragile. Investment levels remain
low at 13.7% of GDP in 1991. The Government lost gains made on the budget deficit which, on a
commitment basis and excluding grants, recorded a surplus of 0.2% of GDP in the 1990/91 fiscal
year: the surplus turned into a deficit (1% of GDP) in 1991/92 and deteriorated further during the
election year of 1993 and total accumulated internal and external arrears were projected to be CFAF
185 billion by the end of 1993. These gains had been achieved with last minute fixes and ad-hoc
measures (e.g., payments of tax arrears by certain enterprises in return for offsetting payments of
nonbudgeted export subsidies) and illustrate very well the fact that the Government of Senegal was
totally unwilling to tackle the adjustment program seriously. The current account has remained
relatively constant, moving from 7.5% of GDP in 1990 to 7.4% of GDP in 1992 against a program
target of 6.9% for the 1990/91 fiscal year. Inflation has remained consistently low since the mid-
1980s.
Thus, in spite of structural adjustment efforts which have been generously supported by the
donor community, Senegal finds itself in a precarious position characterized by:
1) the inability to guarantee employment to new entrants in the labor market;
2) the accumulation of Government arrears as a result of structural deficiencies which imply a
potentially explosive fiscal situation;
3) the high costs of production in spite of successful efforts to reduce inflation; and
4) the continued dependency on external financing for public investment and budget
support.
and the overall objective of stabilization with growth has not been achieved.
Production Incentives
Objectives: improve production incentives by:
a) supporting labor market flexibility with a view toward reducing costs;
b) reducing input and infrastructure costs to industry (energy, transport and
telecommunications);
c) improving the investment climate through simplified administrative regulations,
appropriate fiscal incentives, and elimination of distortions;



- 6 -
d) improving incentives for the export sector; and
e) not renewing conventions spgciales and revising certain existing
conventions.
Results: The Government took a number of important initial steps in increasing labor market
flexibility, including allowing firms to extend temporary contracts up to 5 years, exempting firms in
the industrial free zone (ZFID) from compulsory employer contributions for additional hiring,
exempting small and medium-scale enterprises from prior authorization for laying off workers, and
freezing the minimum wage (SMIG). The Government pursued a complete revision of the Labor Code
drawn up in consultation with employers groups and labor unions. The revised Labor Code was
publicly debated and then submitted to the National Assembly, but was never submitted to a vote. As
a consequence, despite the increased public awareness of the need for labor market reforms, serious
rigidities continue to exist and present an obstacle to the competitiveness of Senegalese firms.
Attempts to reduce non-labor input costs to industry met with limited success.
Telecommunication tariffs were reduced in June 1990. However, a new transparent pricing and
taxation system for petroleum products, allowing automatic quarterly price adjustments in line with
world prices was adopted but only used once (precisely at the time of the release of the second
tranche) and domestic prices of petroleum remain at more than twice world levels. There has been
modest progress in the area of the investment climate with the introduction of streamlined approval for
investment requests and an increase in the amounts (up to 40% of production) which firms in the
ZFID can sell in the domestic market.
In an effort to reduce the tax burden on the private sector, a new corporate tax at the single
rate of 35% has replaced all the different taxes to which companies were previously subjected. In
addition, a single personal income tax with a maximum marginal tax rate of 50% was introduced to
replace a variety of taxes. However, an ineffective tax administration limited the fiscal benefits of the
tax reform.
Efforts at supporting the export sector have not been successful and exports in volume terms
have declined since the late 1980s with substantial production problems in key sectors, notably the
fishing sector. The overvaluation of the real exchange rate continued to be a substantial obstacle to
improving Senegal's export position in addition to the high input costs mentioned above, and the real
exchange rate had appreciated by roughly 20% in foreign currency terms from 1985 to 1991. The
inability of the Government to pay export subsidies has also hampered export performance in key
sectors. Improved administration of the ZFID and the export subsidy schemes were conditions for
overall performance of SAL IV and were largely not met. The Government maintained its strategy of
letting conventions speiales expire. Five expired by 1991, five more should expire by 1995, and the
remainder will lapse by 2000. As an overall performance condition of SAL IV, the Government had
committed itself to a revision of agreements for SAR, CSS, and SOCOCIM. SOCOCIM was
privatized and cement prices were reduced by 10%, but revisions of the agreement with SAR were for
the most part not implemented and no progress was made in renegotiating its agreement with CSS.
Civil Service Reform
Objectives: To reduce the high cost and poor performance of the civil service, the
Government committed itself under SAL IV to adopt a program with the following components:



- 7 -
a) reduction in the number of civil servants through a program of administrative
restructuring and voluntary departures;
b) management of the wage bill within a tightly defined ceiling; and
c) further institutional reforms to increase civil service efficiency.
Results: It is in the area of civil service reform and wage bill restraint that the Government's
performance has been most disappointing. All gains from the program in these areas have been lost
and an upward trend continues in the size of the civil service and wage bill. These problems threaten
gains made in stabilizing the economy; the wage bill continues to crowd out development expenditures.
In addition, public sector wages keep formal sector wages at relatively high levels, inhibiting the
reduction in factor costs essential for improved competitiveness.
The focus of the Government's attempt to reduce the size of the civil service was a Voluntary
Departure Program. The program was introduced with initial success notwithstanding its high cost and
resulted in the departure of 3,745 staff from the payroll by the end of 1991. However, the
Government was unable to restrain new recruitment and by June 1992, civil service employment stood
at about 64,000 against a target of 61,743. Recent increases in recruitment have resulted in a civil
service size larger than before the program was begun. Subsequently, the Government has indicated
that a further 2,800 civil servants have been identified for the Voluntary Departure Program, if
financing can be found to cover the cost of their separation packages.
The Government had committed itself to limiting the wage bill to CFAF 126.8 billion in
1989/90 and to maintaining it at or below CFAF 125 billion in 1990/91 and 1991/92. Although the
Government achieved the 1989/90 target (through a reduction in the Government's contribution to the
civil service retirement fund and the implementation of the Voluntary Departure Program), the wage
bill has exhibited a consistent upward trend since then and was estimated at CFAF 132.9 billion for
1992 and at CFAF 132.3 billion for 1993. In addition, although a condition of overall performance
was the elimination of arrears on wage payments, arrears such as the ones for automatic promotion
have continued to accumulate.
The Government did manage to implement most of the institutional reforms related to the civil
service. By 1990, the number of ministries had been reduced to 15 from 26 in 1989 through the
elimination of some departments. Key departments, such as the Tax Department and the Customs
Department, were strengthened. However, the number of ministries has since been increased again to
a total of 27 in 1993.
Parapublic Sector Reform
Objectives: Reform of the parapublic sector followed efforts begun under SALs II and III to
support the withdrawal of the Government from enterprises which the private sector could manage
better and the improvement in the efficiency of those PEs that would remain under Government
control. Toward these ends, SAL IV focused on three inter-related policy areas:
a) elimination of direct operational subsidies to commercial PEs and reduction of
indirect subsidies to non-commercial PEs;



- 8 -
b) elimination of cross-debts, allowing for more a more healthy and transparent
financial picture to emerge; and
c) a reduction in the number of enterprises to remain under Government control.
Results: The Government has reduced direct subsidies and eliminated overdraft facilities for
PEs. Following settlements of cross-debts between PEs and the Government between 1990 and 1991,
debts from non-financial PEs to the Government dropped from CFAF 57.4 billion to CFAF 5.6 billion
and debts owed by the Government to PEs were reduced from CFAF 48.9 billion to CFAF 1.2
billion. Initial progress was also made in the implementation of measures to prevent the recurrence of
cross-debts, including automatic withholding of resources in the Treasury for enterprises with debt to
the Government, a monthly inter-departmental review of financial transactions between the enterprises
and the Government, and regularized billing and payment procedures. However, implementation of
these measures was not sustained and since 1991 cross-debts have again accumulated, which will
require a further settlement of these arrears.
In the area of divestiture, SAL IV was initially successful with the complete privatization of 10
companies out of 30 targeted in the program, the privatization of management of 5 enterprises, the
liquidation of six enterprises targeted for privatization, and the conversion from leasing to hire-
purchase arrangements for 3 other enterprises. In addition, the Government privatized 5 enterprises
not included in the program. However, the privatization efforts stalled on the six remaining
enterprises, foremost among these SONACOS. The level of success achieved by the privatization
program was largely due to its focus on profitable companies, the lack of budgetary support for PEs,
and a more transparent privatization process. Unfortunately, the Government insisted on certain
conditions in the divestiture efforts which hampered privatization performance, including higher prices
and no reduction in personnel.
Overall, despite the progress on the steps mentioned above, reform of the PE sector has been
slow and not sustained. Important structural issues, such as the regularization of PE-Government
financial relations, privatization of the remaining enterprises, and the elimination of interference of the
Government in PE operations remain unaddressed. Management of the PEs still in the Government
portfolio remains weak; in particular, those companies operating under "contrat-plans" have not
realized any significant improvement in performance.
Social Dimensions of Adjustment
Objectives: To minimize the adverse short-term impact of the structural adjustment process
on specific socio-economic groups (primarily through job losses to civil servants and employees of
public enterprises), the Government agreed to:
a) review the experience of the National Employment Fund and expand it if
necessary;
b) support efforts by the Bank and the donor community to design and implement
innovative job creation programs; and
c) monitor public expenditure programs in the education and health sectors to ensure
that adequate resources would be made available for primary health and primary
education.



- 9 -
Results: A number of measures in accompanying operations were taken in support of SAL IV
to address the social dimensions of adjustment. The Government undertook a comprehensive
household consumption survey for use by the Government and the donor community to target
assistance to vulnerable groups. Substantial employment and income generation was created through
the Bank-funded AGETIP project set up to rehabilitate urban infrastructure through sub-contracting out
work to small firms in the private sector. To support an increased public resource commitment to the
development of human resources, the Bank included target allocations of Government expenditures for
health and primary education sectors in the First Human Resources Development Project.
F. SAL IV Second and Third Tranches
Overall implementation of SAL IV had been very slow with disbursements lagging
considerably behind schedule. To allow the Government more time to implement the reforms, the
closing date of the credit was extended from April 30, 1992 to October 31, 1992. Explicit conditions
specified by the Development Credit Agreement for the release of the second and third tranches can be
found in Annex III of the President's Report.
Although some serious doubts already existed as to the sustainability of the macroeconomic
and fiscal performance, the Government was given the benefit of the doubt and it was agreed after a
supervision mission in October 1991 that the second tranche (SDR 18.7 million) should be released,
which amounted to a one year delay, the tranche being effectively released in January 1992. The
Bank was aware both of the need to launch the dialogue in a positive direction and that the Labor
Code issue could only be resolved if sufficient time was allocated for consensus building. At the
request of the Head of State who said he needed time to build the necessary consensus, the Bank
showed flexibility by having the credit amended so that the Labor Code conditionality could be moved
from the second to the third tranche. The Country Team felt that the Government had met all twelve
of the second tranche release conditions in letter if not in spirit. (For example, the Government opted
for small reductions in diesel and fuel prices for all consumers instead of more significant reductions
to industrial users.)
By the time the second tranche was released, there had been significant slippage in the areas of
the wage bill and the size of the civil service. There had also been further slippage on the trade front.
For example, reference prices had been reintroduced in 1990 to fight under-invoicing and dumping.
The manner in which the fiscal position was maintained pointed to future areas of difficulty. The tax
base continued to shrink, giving rise to increased reliance on taxation of the energy sector with adverse
consequences for the competitiveness of domestic industry; the Government was unable to extend the
tax base to the rapidly expanding informal sector. On the expenditure side, overruns on the wage bill
were compensated for by shortfalls in outlays on operations and maintenance.
Following the release of the second tranche, reform efforts continued to unravel in key areas
of the program and the third tranche was cancelled, since key conditionalities had not been met. The
principal problems were further increases in the civil service wage bill, the inability to contain civil
service recruitment, no subsequent progress made in the area of privatization including that of
SONACOS, and no further movement toward passage of the revised Labor Code. The fiscal balance
had turned into a deficit in 1991/92 with the wage bill rising to CFAF 132.9 billion for 1992. In
addition, the Government was accumulating arrears, which totaled roughly CFAF 80 billion by the end
of 1992. The Government increasingly relied on exceptional measures (e.g., the heavy taxation of



- 10 -
petroleum imports) and on ad hoc measures (e.g., payments of tax arrears by certain enterprises in
return for offsetting payments of nonbudgeted export subsidies) to raise revenue.
In light of the election cycle (Presidential elections in February 1993 followed by National
Assembly elections in May 1993) as well as the desirability of having quick-disbursing funds available
in the event of key macroeconomic reforms, the Bank allowed SAL IV's closing date to pass without
formally closing the credit. Subsequently, the third tranche was cancelled and on June 21, 1993, the
credit was closed.
G. Credit Monitoring and Supervision
Management and Monitoring of the Program
An inter-ministerial committee chaired by the President of the Republic and supported by a
technical body, "Le Comite de Suivi des Programmes de Politique Economique" had responsibility for
coordinating and monitoring the preparation and execution of the program. Following the first
supervision mission, quarterly status reports were changed to monthly reports. However, problems
with Government monitoring of the program arose in mid-1991 when the Ministry of Finance was
restructured in August 1991 and the structural adjustment monitoring committee was eventually
dissolved.
Supervision by the Bank
Substantial staff resources were devoted to supervision of SAL IV, both in the field and
headquarters. Four separate supervision missions visited Senegal during the life of the project. There
was continuity of staff in that the task manager responsible for the proposal to the Board led the four
supervision missions (although this task manager did not close the project). Co-financiers, in
particular the African Development Bank (ADB) and representatives from the Japanese and Swiss
Governments, participated in the supervisory aspect of the project through missions and discussions
with the Bank. All told, 100.5 staff weeks were spent on SAL IV from its preparation in November
1988 through its last supervision mission in October 1991, comprising 30.0 staff weeks spent on
preparation, 32.5 staff weeks spent on appraisal, and 38.0 staff weeks spent on supervision.
Disbursements and Procurement
The proceeds of the credit were used to reimburse 100% of the CIF costs of eligible general
imports, with procurement of petroleum and food imports limited to 20% each of the total credit
disbursements. Eligible imports by public agencies and the private sector exceeding US$2 million
were subject to international competitive bidding (ICB). Procurement by public agencies for items
costing below this threshold followed standard Government practices. Eligible imports below the
threshold by private entities were procured in accordance with normal commercial practices. A special
account was opened at the Central Bank, the BCEAO, to facilitate disbursements. Upon effectiveness,
an initial deposit of $10 million was made. This account was replenished upon the basis of fully
documented reimbursement applications in excess of US$500,000 or for smaller amounts on the basis
of a statement of expenditures. Retroactive disbursement was permitted for an amount not exceeding
20% of the total credit amount for eligible imports procured no earlier than four months prior to credit
signing.



- 11 -
Auditing and Countermart Funds
An accounting firm was used to audit the credit and the use of counterpart funds. Despite
substantial delays, audit reports have been received covering the period from effectiveness of the credit
to June 30, 1992. The reports found that the audited accounts were acceptable in form and in
substance.
H. Lessons Learned
Senegal's performance under SAL IV was disappointing. Overall goals in restructuring
Government finance and resource mobilization and improving incentives in the economy were largely
unsuccessful. Almost no progress was achieved in real exchange rate policy and Senegal's competitive
position in the world economy did not improve during the SAL IV period. However, the lack of
progress does provide lessons for the design of adjustment programs in Senegal and how the Bank can
best support these programs.
Diminishing Returns to Adjustment Lending: In Senegal, repeated support for structural
adjustment in the form of quick-disbursing budgetary assistance has focused Government attention on
the availability and release of these funds at the expense of longer term developmental goals. This
type of lending has encouraged the addiction of the national budget to such financing. This addiction
and a reluctance on the part of donors to enforce strict conditionality only slow real progress on
adjustment. This does not necessarily imply that quick-disbursing funds are always inadequate.
However, for this strategy to be effective, it must be accompanied by ownership promotion and
consensus-building efforts. Further adjustment support operations should include more up-front
conditionalities maintained during the duration of the program.
Dynamic Leadership and Ownership: The importance of dynamic leadership of policy
reform should not be understated. SAL IV attempted to use financial leverage to get the Government
to do things it was not really interested in doing. In some cases, key players did not know what had
been agreed upon until after signature (privatization, labor code); in other cases they consented in the
belief, born of past experience, that the Bank could be persuaded to soften its conditionality or accept
symbolic rather than real compliance. In areas of the adjustment program where leadership was
strong, such as the initial PE divestiture efforts, significant progress was achieved despite some
political opposition. In areas of the program where leadership was weak, such as in areas covering
civil service size and wages, reform efforts made little headway. One point not given enough attention
at the time the program was designed is that following the 1988 elections, the Government's
commitment to adjustment had diminished. Greater strides need to be made in ensuring Government
ownership of any future program and in developing stronger public consensus over the measures
included. The problems the Government had in maintaining progress on particularly difficult issues,
such as the civil service size and wage bill, indicates Government support for a measure and public
understanding of its importance need to be in place if the measure is to be sustained. Two cases in
point are the revision of the Labor Code, which involved extensive discussions between the
Government, the labor unions, and the employers union, and more recently the discussion of the
higher education sector.



- 12 -
Conditionality: In recognition of lessons learned from earlier adjustment programs, SAL IV
had a greater proportion of up-front conditions required for Board approval and a stronger focus on
concrete actions than previous adjustment credits to Senegal. Nonetheless, the slippage by the
Government on many (particularly second tranche) conditions and the failure by the Government to
fulfill third tranche conditions before project closure casts doubt on the strategy of setting time-specific
conditions. Dated covenants prevent greater flexibility for the Governrment in achieving its targets and
for the Bank in assessing the Government's compliance. However, the design of future programs
should emphasize very well-focused and measurable conditionalities which should not be amenable to
interpretation.
Social Impact of Adjustment Measures: The importance of considering the social impact of
the adjustment program was clearly evident during SAL IV. The AGETIP operation has been very
successful in generating employment, raising incomes, and addressing some of the concerns that the
adjustment program was not bringing any tangible benefits. Similarly, the impact of shifting the
balance of Government expenditures toward human resource development (pursued under the Human
Resource Development Projects I and II) was to provide much more tangible social benefits from the
program. However, more work should be done in this area. Results from the recent household
survey should provide more complete information that will allow targeted anti-poverty measures to be
built more directly into future adjustment work.
Donor Coordination: The Government often received what it interpreted to be conflicting
messages from various donors and was very good at playing the donors off against each other. For
example, the French Cooperation was sometimes at odds with the Caisse Francaise de Developpement
and the same was true for USAID and the US Treasury. There was throughout the duration of the
project close cooperation between the IMF and the Bank. However, the former insisted more on
reestablishing as quickly as possible a sustainable fiscal equilibrium while the latter was more
concerned with the long term and restoring competitiveness, and although both objectives were
sometimes incompatible, the two institutions implicitly adopted the view that these objectives could be
achieved jointly.
Specific Lessons: Within the context of simpler operations with greater up-front
conditionality, the following specific lessons should guide future Bank support for adjustment in
Senegal.
*      Voluntary Departure Program: Efforts at increasing the rate of departures from the
civil service should continue to support fiscal stabilization and efficiency in the civil
service. However, the Government should not rely exclusively on external resources
and should take more responsibility for the program. In addition, more rigid
constraints on civil service recruitment must also be in place to prevent the effects of
the Voluntary Departure Program being negated.
*     Privatization: Although the privatization effort eventually stalled, progress was made
in restructuring PEs and in reducing their financial dependence on the State. Further
progress should be made in this area, especially concerning the utility companies and
SONACOS, even if only the management and not the assets are privatized.
*     Private Sector Incentives: In addition to labor policy issues, a number of other factors
continue to hamper private sector activity. Excessive regulation, shortcomings in the
legal framework (e.g., an inefficient judiciary), and financial uncertainty continue to



- 13 -
act as disincentives. Nonetheless, further progress in this area will depend on a good
regulatory and incentives framework being in place.
Technical Assistance: There was no technical assistance component of SAL IV, although
technical assistance was provided under the Development Management Project (PAGD) and Industrial
Sector Restructuring Project to support institutions involved in the reform process.
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
The Bank's Resident Mission in Dakar contacted the Ministry of Economy, Finance and
Planning on July 8, 1993 to request that the Government of Senegal submit comments to this Project
Completion Report. No comments have been received.



- 14 -
PART III: STATISTICAL ANNEX
FOURTH STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN (2090-SEN)
TABLE 1: LOAN DATA
Amounts: SDR 62.4 million (US$80 million equivalent)
As of October 14, 1993
(in US$ million)
Original     Disbursed    Cancelled     Repaid       Outstanding
Cr. 2090-0    80.0         59.43        23.97        0.0           61.58
Cr. 2090-1    4.4           4.75         0.0         0.0            4.93
Cr. 2090-2    7.1           6.96         0.0         0.0            7.19
Cr. 2090-3    4.7           5.05         0.0          0.0           4.93
Cr. 2090-0  Cr. 2090-1  Cr. 2090-2   Cr. 2090-3
Initiating memorandum        06/20/89
Letter of Dev. Policy No. 3  12/29/89
Negotiations                 12/11/89    __
Board Approval               02/08/90    05/18/90    11/06/90     04/28/92
Credit Agreement             02/09/90    06/11/90    096/27/91    06/23/92
Effectiveness                02/22/90    07/05/90    09/23/91     09/23/92
Loan Closing                 10/31/92    04/30/92    04/30/92     06/23/93
Actual completion                      I           I             I _    _
CUMULATIVE LOAN DISBURSEMENT
(in US$ million)
FY90       FY91        FY92        FY93
(i) Planned           32.0        56.0        80.0        0
(ii) Actual            30.58       44.4        69.58      76.19
(iii) (ii) as % of (i)  96%         79%        87%         100%



- 15 -
LOANS RELATED TO THE SAL IV
1.    Transport Sector SECAL, Cr. 2266 in the amount of US$65 million
Board Date: 6/13/91, Effectiveness: 2/28/92, Closing Date: 12/31/97
2.    TA Development Management, Cr. 1910 in the amount of US$17 million
Board Date: 5/24/88, Effectiveness: 3/6/89, Closing Date: 6/30/94
3.    Industry Sector, Cr. 1868 in the amount of US$33 million
Board Date: 12/22/87, Effectiveness: 10/31/88, Closing Date: 6/30/98
4.    Financial Sector Adjustment, Cr. 2077 in the amount of US$45 million
Board Date: 12/18/89, Effectiveness: 12/21/89, Closing Date: 6/30/92
TABLE 2: MISSION DATA
Month/Year   Avg. No. of      No. of        Staff     Mission Date
Weeks        Persons       Weeks       of Report
Preparation          11/88          2.5                       30.0        11/24/88
Appraisal           07/89           2.5           13          32.5        07/21/89
Supervision I       05/90           2.0           6           12.0        05/22/90
Supervision II       12/90          2.0            4           87         12/18/90
Supervision III       /91           3.0            4          12.0        06/14/91
Supervision IV       10/91          2.0            36.0                   10/28/
Completion
TOTAL                                             42          100.5
STAFF INPUT (Missions & Headquarters)
(in staffweeks)
FY88     FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   TOTAL
LENA                                                                        1.2
LENN                             26.7                                      27
LENP        52.9       69211.2
SPN                              41.9   46.0    18.9    1.8               108.6
PCR                                                              3.5       T3.
TOTAL       53.5       64.9    162.6   46.0    18.9    1.8       3.5      351.2



- 16 -
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
AMOUNT
DATE                                 (US$ million)
|No.                        5
1.  03/05/90                                 10.374
2.                      03/29/90                                  1.749
3.                      03/29/90                                  1.283
03/29/90                                  1.720
03/29/90                                  5.763
6.                      05/31/90                                  5.768
06/01/90                                  3.920
07/17/90                                  3.957
9.                      08/14/90                                  3.726
10.                     08/14/90                                  (3.726)
11.                     07/17/90                                  (.942)
12.                     10/11/90                                  (.907)
13.                     01/10/92                                  7.771
14.                     01/10/92                                   .091
15.                     01/13/92                                  4.427
16-.                    01/13/92                                  12.892
1 7.-                   06/29/92                                 (11.412)
i8.                     06/29/92                                  11.412
1 g9.                   07/02/92                                  1.480
20.                     07/14/92                                  11.412
21.                     07/14/92                                 (11.412)
22.                     07/31/92                                   .082
TOTAL Cr.2090-0                                            59.434
23.                     08/14/90                                   3.726
24.                     07/17/90                                   .942
25.                     10/23/91                                   .084
TOTAL Cr.2090-1                                             4.752
26.                     10/03/91                                  6.405
27.                     10/25/91                                   .480
28.                     11/04/91                                   .070
TOTAL Cr.2090-2                                             6.956
29.                     07/24/92                                  4.797
08/06/92                                  .220
31.                     08/18/92                                   .031
TOTAL Cr.2090-3                                            5.048
MTAL: Crs. 2090-0 + 2090-1 + 2090-2 + 2090-3                76.19



SENEGAL: STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SAL IV) - POLICY MATRIX                                                                           Annex I
Pace I of 10
i.REFORKMAREAS A (1jECTfMES                STATUS9*7                                 - EETA~lNSAL IVMO    RGA                                               IIG(;NYINEA SAU.
1. MACROECONOMIC AND FISCAL MANAGEMENT
1 Financial Stabilization. Continue   - Notable progress has bocn maade in recent    1.  Redrcss the budgetary position (on a commitnent basis ad excluding
to improve the Govcrnmcnt's fiscal  years such that the budget deficit went from      exteral grants) from a dcficit of 4.0% of CDP in 1988/89 to:
and current account operations.     8.2% of GDP in 1982/83 to 2.8% of GDP in              -2.9% of GDP in 1989/90                                            6/90          Overall         -4.0%
1987/88 and the current account deficit from         -1.6% of GDP in 1990/91                                            6/91        Performance       -0.1%
17.4% to 10.2% over the same period. The          Reduce the current account deficit (excluding grants) firom 9.6% of
inflation ratc declined sharply.                  GDP to:
-.3% of GDP in 1989/90                                           6190          Ovcrall         -8.4%
-6.9% of GDP in 1990/91                                           5/91        Performance       -.9%
2. Current Expesditur. Rcduce the      - See civil service and PEa actions.              Sce civil service and PEs sections.
wage bill and improve allocationa
betwoen wage and non-wage expesditurea
so as to increas the productivity of
civil service. Reduce trnfers to
-a.
3. Revenue Mobilization. Improve       - A tariff reform was adopted in August 1986  2.  Remove the import duty exemption on inputs to textilca, battcrics,    7/91           Overall          Not
revenue performance and reduce       nd a tax reform was initiated under SAL m.        and mahes industries.                                                             Performance    implemented
reliance on exccptional rcources   Including the extension of the Value Added
(profits from import of ricc and    Tax (VAT) to new gubecaon raad the
petroleum) by shifting to a more stable  simplification of direct taxation for
revenue ba.                         individuals ad companies. Further to a sharp
decline in customs collections in the econd
half of FY89, on an ceptional and temporary
basis, tariffs have been raised by 5 percentage
points across the board in September 1989 for
a two-year period.
- A plan of action was developed on the basis  3   Implemcnt the domestic tax and administration scwtor program, in  Continuous       Ovcrall       Implemented
of a study of the domestic tax syetm and          particular extend VAT to services and commerce, and reduce the                    Performancc
administration in collaboration with the IMF      under-invoicing of imports by introducing a minimum duty on under-
and the World Bank. The tudy aimed at (i)         invoiced items.
reducing the dependence on taxation on energy
and (ii) identifying other sources of revenue  4.  Implementation of an action plan to improvc customs administration,  9/90          Overall         Partially
without overtaxing the modern sector (July 1989).  particularly the valuation sections and the computerization of                   Performance    implemented
customs clearance procedures to roduce fraud.
- Implementation of tax adminisrtiuon measures    5.  Take dock of arrears and reinforce the mechanism of their recovery  Continuous  Overall           Not
aimin at improving tax collection. These          through computerization of information.                                           Performance    implemented
mcsures, patticularly the in the ar  of
ceuoms, were identified umder SAL IIL



SENEGAL: STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SAL IV) - POLICY MATRIX                                                                            Annex I
Page 2 of 10
REFORM AREAS & O*JCT(E                    STATUS &    ciEt   ALVrhION  r                                                                                                                 _  W J
4. Public Investment Programmiag       - Basic principles of projects planang and     6.  Improve the preparation of the three-year rolling public investment   6190        Tranche II     Implemented
- Coauolidate the process of        preparation are well eatablished (3 PTIPs have     program by consolidating PTIP with recurrent budget and beaer
budgeting alrcady undcway to       brcn satisfactorily reviewed by the BasLk          defining sector stratcgies: and adopt for each year an investmcat
achicve greatcr efficiency of       includiag that for 1989/90-1991/92). Studies       program in consultation with IDA.
public investment.                  are under way to take into consideration the         1990/91-1992/93
recurret cost impact of the PTIP in four             1991/92-1993/94                                                     6/91        Tranche m      Implemented
sectora (Education, Health, Hydraulics, and
Transport). A guide for project analysis
(for productive projects) have been completed
and is being diaseninated.
5. Financial Sector. Improve the       The Govemnet is currently implementing a
financial intermediation procea.    financial sector reform program with the
support of IDA, France and USA.
0x



SENEGAL: STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SAL IV) - POLICY MATRIX                                                                         Annex I
Page 3 of 10
REF(IR   MU~A  & OUCflVES            6TATtJN  &   Wum:N AMrON.    ~            94L IV NCM.O  RGA                                                   IIG VN~lNFR 0AU
H. PRIVATE SECTOR INCENTIVES
1. Removel of labor market ngiditics  - Two aspects of labor code bave been changed  I  Expand significantly pouibility of using fixed-term contract by     10/89      Board Preseat.    Partially
and reduction in labor costs,      under SAL nI which allow employers to (i) hire    (a) passing applicatioa decree to the Labor Code to cover existing                              implemented
without using the 'Service de Is Main d'Oeuvre:  firms which are expanding: (b) modifying the Investment Code to
and to (ii) expand somewhat use of fixed-term    allow firms to use reewwable fixed-term contracts of up to 5 year
employment contracts,                            and exempt SHEa from prior authorization for laying off workes,
and (c) modifying the ZFID satute to enable enterprise to benefit
from most favorable conditions under the invetmeat code.
2.  Reduce labor cost by freezing the SMIG for 3 years and exempting    10/89      Board Present.  Implemented
ertain enterprises from both *eontuibution forfdtaire' and payment                                for the
of income tuxes on their employeea.                                                              ZFID only
3.  Review the country's wage  atting system with the view to move      9/90         Tranche H      Implemented
towards market determined wages. Participation of employers and
labor organizations will help solidify practice of realistic
negotiations and dialogue among social partners.
2. Reduction in production costs other  - A number of studies have been completed in  4.  Amend the special agreement with SAR on term and conditions       12/89      Board Present.   Implemented
than labor,                        the energy ector. They cover audit of SAR,        acceptsble to IDA and publish a decree to that effect reflecting a                               but pricing
the system of procurement, refining and          new transparent pricing and taxation system for petroleum products.                              system used
distribution of petroleum products, and the       Under the new system, ex-SAR prices will be se at import parity                                  only once
fil aspect of puroleum practice and taxes        and adjusted quarterly. In addition, SAR will be paid a handling
(IMF/Bank study).                                fee to be negotiated with the two parties concemed.
5.  Reduce, in consultation with the World Bank and IMF, energy priccs
- First phase                                                     7/90         Tranche 11
- Subsequent actions                                             1990/91        Oveal         Implemented
Pcrformance
- Off-peak telecommunications charges reduced  6.  Reduce further telecommunications prices for peak and semi-busy    6/90          Overall      Implemented
by 20 % from July 1, 1989.                       hour periods, and tariffs for the port of Dakar.                                 Perfornance
- A tudy is underway to formulate appropriate
tariffs for the port of Dakar.
3. Improvement in investment incentives   - Establishment of one-op services for    7.  Study and implement measures aimed at simplifying the administrative
and in the regulatory eavironment,  investors (Guichat Unique).                      regulations for doing busineu in Senegal and for the strengthening
of fiscl administration (D1ID).
- Prepare plan of action based on the findings of the study.      11/89      Board Preent.   Implemented
- Implement plan of action.                                     Continuous      Overall         Partially
Performance    implemented
- Resructure DGI) and improve operating procedure.                9/90         Tranche L      Implemented
S.  Prepare and implement an action plan for reducing the marginal      12/89      Board Present.   Implemented
effective tax rate, following the findings of the corporate taxa-
tion study and the implementation of the new direct tax tructure.



SENEGAL: STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SAL IV) - POLICY MATRIX                                                                           Annex I
Page 4 of 10
-i--  i*i! ! ~~~~~~~~~~~~~RCETA                                  -! - ------
- Implement plan of ction                                       Continuous       Overall       Implemetd
Performance
- Etablish single peronal income tax, sepaa  corporate tax          1/90        Tranche 1      Implemented
and eliminate PBE.
4. Promotion of export.               - Duty drawback scheme nd export subsidies     9.  Revise legislation of ZFID and improvc administration to eliminate
introduced undcr SAL I and rationalized undcr     contraints to its expanion.
SAL U.                                              - Implement ction plan                                              7/90          Overall       Implemented
Performance
10. Revie effectiveness of duty drawback scheme and administration       12/90          Overall      Implemented
and structure of export subsidy scheme. Implement findings of the                Performance
review.
5. Special Agreements.                                                               11. Implement a plan of action revising the SOCOCIM special agreement,    6/90          Overall           Not
in particular the pricing system.                                                Performance    implemented
CD



SENEGAL: STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SAL IV) - POLICY MATRIX                                                                              AeX I
Page 5 of 10
.:: .  AREAS & .................T.......   STATU7 &   ECLNT A=1ON                      SA4L; IV AMON PR-OORAM-ft,                                                                   FO
m. PARAPUBLIC SECTOR REFORM (PEr)
1. Subsidy Reductions. Improved        - A program of direct operating subsidy         1.  Elimination of direct operational subsidy to commercial PEs and
financial relations between the      reductions bha been agreed under SAL m              Reduction of direct operational subsidy to non-commercial PEs
State and the Parapublic Sector and   ad Implemcnted according to the following          (excluding CDUD). The budgeted and actual total amount should
reduction of the burden on public    schedule:                                           not exceed:
finances.                            1986/87 5% reduction vis-a-vis 1985/86 amounts         CFAF 9.9 billion for 89/90 for non-commercial PPs                   7/90         Trancbe nI     Implemented
1987/88 15% reduction vis-a-via 1985/86 amounts        CFAF 9.1 billion for 90/91 for non-commercial PEs                  7/91         Tranche Ill     Implemented
1988/89 30% reduction via-a-vis 1985/86 amounts        CFAF 7.4 billion for 91/92 for non-commercial PE.
1989/90 50% reduction via-a-vis 1985/86 amounts      . CFAF 0.6 billion for 89/90 for non-commercial PEs                  7/90         Tranche nI     Implemented
CPAF 0.3 billion for 90/91 for non-commercial PEs                  7/91        Tranche I       Implemented
CFAF 0.0 billion for 91/92 for non-commercial PE.
- Government has issued circulr discontinuing  2.  All future Capital Increases should be either in the form of        Continuous        Overall           Not
practice of equipment subsidice. As of July        long-term loam or equity injections as appropriate and should be                    Performance    implemented
1989, pnrctice of allowing PE. to have over-       subjected to the same criteria as the rest of the PTIP.
dafts has beca discontinued.
3.  Transform stock of overdrafts as of June 1989 into longer term         7/90          Overall           Not
loans and write off the pant that cannot be paid by non-commercial                 Performance    implenmcted
enterprises.
Cross-debts between the PEB and the State were  4.  Develop an ction program satisfactory to the Bank to sete all         12189          Bosd          Implemente
deteriorated up to the end of 1986. Timetable      crosebts as of December 1989. The progrm should include                             Presntation
has been established for their setclment.          mcasures to prevent the recurrence of cross-debts.
Governmcat eliminated indirect financial       5.  Cancel all undisputed cross-debts, ttdle all disputed cross-debts,     9/90         Tranche 11      Implemented
subsidies through (a) abolishing Govcrnment        write off all debts of non-commercial PEs to Government as of
guarantes on PE domestic borrowing and (b)         December 31, 1989; include in the 1990/91 budget at least one third
charging commercial interest rates on on-lent      of all debts owed by the Government to the PEr, nd assure sttle-
foreign debt.                                      ment of at lcat one third of all debtU owod by commercial PEB to
the'Government as of December 31, 1989.
6.  Include in the 1991/92 budget at leat one third of all debts owed      9/91         Tnache HI      Implemented
by the Govcrnment to the PEs and assure sttlement of at least one
third of all debUt owed by commercial PEB to the Goverarnment as of
December31, 1989.



SENEGAL: STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SAL IV) - POLICY MATRIX                                                                         AnseK I
Page 6 of 10
REFOIRM AREAS & oBjEcTIvEs              STnAT(*WW & RCEh  AiA=10-I                  SAL.:: IV. :AM W PrM0-GRAM                                        T     4     O       oNi FM    WTATUS h
2. Privriization. Withdrawal of the   - The liquidation of 7 SBis and 2 Etablisso-  7. Complction of all preparation and formal offer for sale in a manner
Statc from non-strategic PEa by    ments Publics was finalized in March 1989.         atisfactory to the Bank of:
mean of privatization and
liquidation.                       - 20 SBis were selected for privatization and       - SIDEC, VACAP, SAIH, SERAS, SNSS, SENPRIH (Project), SONED,   12/89             Board        Implemented
10 were nnounced for sale in October 1987.           SENHOTEL                                                                     Presentation
Shars in two of the companies on the list and
in one other company were sold and those of a      - SIPOA, SINAES, MAMO, DAKAR MARINE, IRANSEM, SODEME,    9/90                  Tranche nI        Largely
fourth company were offered for sle in the           Fruiticr Mboro, ONCAS, BICIS                                                                implementd
third quarter of 1989.
- SOTEXKA, SICAP, BMS, SODIDA, SODBZI, SODIMI, SODISA, SO    9/91             Trache m           Not
- Governmncat has cadorsed a srategy for             SONEPI, SIAS, SEPPA, SOMADIS, SONACOS                                                       impiemented
privstamtion aimed at vithdrawal from al
non-drategic PEs.                             S.  Liquidations
- Government has decided on five PEa for           - Liquidation decee signped, employoa laid off and all             6/90         Trache iL    Implemented
liquidation,                                         operations sopped for five enterp,rim to be liquidated.
- Signature of liquidation decreem for second group of at lstw    6/91        Tranche m       Implemented
5 PEs, employees laid off and all operations stopped.
9.  Undertake stdy and act on recommendation for the creation of        12/90         Overall          Not
scondary markct for sbame.                                                      Performance    implemented
3. Rehabilitation of PEs. Maintain    - Etablissements Publics (EPs) were converted  10. Rehabilitation program and contract plans                       Continuous       Overall       Implemented
efficiency and performance of those    to Socidtds Nationales (SNs) in 1987. Improving  - Include all subsidy reductions, cross-debts settlment and                   Performance
PEs to remain under Goverwnent     their management autonomy.                            other financial transations with Government in the CPs.
control by mean of rehabilitation                                                                                                                                                                     sJ
plan and the contract-plan (CP)    - Rehabilitation programs werc prepared for         - No CPs will be in force without identification of resources   Continuous
mechanism.                         SOTRAC, SONATEL, SONERS ad SENELEC.                   in the current and following year's national budget to finance
them If neccasary, CPs will be renegotiated annually, according
- CPs werc signed for SOIRAC, SONATEL, SONEES,      to the budgetary resources available.
SENELEC, and Lettres de Misions (LM) werm
signed for SODAGRI, SODEVA, SODEFITEX, SAED,   - Prepare program  and begin impleamtation for NIS, DRTS, 1ITA,        6/90          Overall        Patially
and SOMIVAC.                                         SICAP, OMLH, PAD, AND RCPS.                                                  Performance    implemented
- Sign CPs for OMLH PAD, RCFS, DPCE and SONATRA.                  6/90          Overall        Partially
Performace    implemented
- Submission of revised CPs consitent with regard measures to     7/90         Tranche 11    Implemented
reduce subsidies and scttle cross-debts.
- AH new CPs to include performance iaceatives bonuses for PE  Continuous       Overall        Partialy
manager.                                                                    Performance    implemented
- Honor all financial obligations of Government within the CPs.  Continuous
- The DRSP will advise on the necessary measures at enterprise  Continuous      Overall           Not
level program to ensre compliance with agreements.                          Performance    implemented



SENEGAL: STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SAL IV) - POLICY MATRIX                                                                         Annex I
Page 7 of 10
REFifSR4<BA-        &  -TAT    &                               AT                                                                                                             FO
4. Sector Management, Legal and       - Thc Contract-Plan Cell was upgraded in lunc  11  Strengthen institutional framework for Pe reform.
Institutional Rcform.               1987 to the Delegation of Parapublic Sector
Reform (DRSP) and hu recently been provided         - Maintan the tafring and financing of the delegation for PE   Continuous       Ovcrall
with new premkisA and additionl staff                reform (DRSP) to allow it to continue formulating, manging                   Performance    implemented
and monitoring the PE reform program and to maagc a
pcrformance incentive system for PE mag err.
- Retain spelist advice in the form of long-tern TA and
short-term conaultants to help with audit, evaluations,
negotiation nd sale of PEs to be privatized
Implemented
- Studies on the organization and functions  12. Strengthen parapublic cell in Ministry of Finance to enable it to    3/90          Overall        Reversed
of the upervisory agenciea were completed in      monitor all Government/PB financial transactiona. Crete an                      Performance       later
March 1988.                                       information system which will work alongside that of the DRSP and
be compatible with it. Deaign and implment sytem.
13. Amcad and publish parapublic sctor law (87.19) so as to:
- Eliminate special controla on mixed economy PEs (SEMI) in
which government is a minority patner and on private ector
companies receiving financial support from Government.
E Bliminate the right to vote on PE board decisions by linancial
Controller of the Preaidency (CFP).
- Limit the role of the Office of Organization and Methodsa
(BOH) in the PE sector to responding to specific requet a
from the Boards of Directors.
- Rcstrict the role of the Audit Commission (CVCCEP) to a
posteriori auditing of PB account.
- Transform all commercial public establishments (EP) into
socidtds nationales (SN), and turning all administrative
and non-conumercial EP to the central administration.
Closing down the center for public establishmcnts CEP)
which includes the ccntral accounting agency (ACC) and the
controller of financial operations (COP).
- Modify the composition of all PE boards of directors to
include in each cae at leas two persons nominated because
their capabilities ad qualifications and not bcause of
their positions in the adminisration or their representa-
tion of interest groups.
14. Pul impeimenation of cloure of ACC/CDF and changes to all PE        12/90         Overnll             Not
Board of Directors.                                                             Performance    iple-mentd



SENEGAL: STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SAL IV) - POLICY MATRIX                                                                         Annex I
Pace 8 of 10
IV. CIVIL SERVICE REFORM
1. Overall objective.                                                               1.  Prepre an action plan in consultation with IDA to reduce the wage   11/89       Negotiations    Implemcnted
bill and improve civil service management. The plan is to include
in particular the measres described below. In addition, the
Government is committed to maintain, beyond 1992, the number of
servants below 1991/92 levels, and the wage biU below 40% of
revenues.
2. Staff reduction.                   No new hiring, except for replacement and     2.  Reduce the number of civil ervants through a program of
reduction, in the number of intake from          administrativc restructuring and voluntay departure.
training chools. A number of studies have                                                                                                        Implemented
been completed by the Government, namely the         Implement the restructuring plan reducing the number of          3/90          Overall           later
July and November 1989 BOM reports which             miniatriea from 26 to 15.                                                    Performance       reversed
focus on the restmucturing of the current
administration.
Partially
- Reoduce the number of civil servants by about 4,300 through     6/91          Overall      implemented
voluntary departure, restructuring an early retirement by                   Performance   latcr reversed
June 1992.
- Privatize selected services thus reducing the civil sevice by   12/91         Overall         Partially
another 1,800 staff.                                                        Performance    implemented
- Eliminate from the payroll all irregular cases identified by    6/90          Overall      Implcmcnted
the second staff census.                                                    Performance
- Ensure that recruitment does not exceed the following:          6/90         Tranche 11    Implemented
- 435 schoolteachers, and 27% of program departures in the
non-education ectors for 1989/90. At a minimum, there
will be 584 net staff reductions by June 1990.
- 681 schooltechers, and 30% of program depature in the          6/91        Tranche M            Not
non-education sectors for 1990/91.                                                        implemented
- 797 schoolteachers, and 50% of program departures in the       6/92         Ovcrall             Not
non-education sectors for 1991/92.                                         Performance    implemented
3. Wage bill reduction.               Staff Census completed in 1987 and updated     3. Control the wage bill and improve its management.
in 1989. Audit of completion of wage bill
completed in September 1989.                       - Keep wage bill at or below following ceilings without
any areuar as of July 1, 1989:
- Realize CFAF 126.8 billion in 1989/90, and budget no more      6/90        Tranche 1      Implemented
than 125 billion for FY 1990/9 1.
- Realize CFAF 125 billion in 1991/92, and budget no morm        6/91        Tranche m            Not
than 125 billion for FY 1991/92.                                                          implemented



SENEGAL: STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SAL IV) - POLICY MATRIX                                                                              Annm I
Page 9 of 10
- Update the administrative status of all civil servants,            4/90          Overall       Implemented
determine the toul amount of back pay adjuument required,                      Performance
and set a timetable to clear them.
- Roduce Government's contribution to the Employee Pension           7/90          Overall       Implemented
Funds from 20% to 15 % of bawe slary.                                          Performnace
- No salary increnae until June 1992, with the exception of       Continuous       Overall       Implemnted
performance incentive bonus  to be determined independently                    Performance
from the bae salary index.
- Allocae all economice on the wage bill (definod as the          Continuous       Overall       Implemented
diffcrence between the above-mentioned ceilings and the                        Peformnace
actu  wage bil minus arrea  setlement, government
contnrbutions to the separation packages and incentive
bonuses) to the following, in that order. setle pay
arrears; contribute to separtion packages; and increae
bonues.
4. Improve civil service mn agement    Major groundwork has been completed under the    4.  Adopt and implement all institutional measures required to cArry
systems and monitor the reform       Developmeat Management Project. This includes       out the reform.
program.                             organizational study of Civil Service Directorate,
completion of a payroll processing systm (3/89),     - Adopt texts redefining the roles nd functions of the                4/90          Overall       Implemented
review of civil service policies and sectoral           ectoral personnel units (DACE and SACE).                                       Performance
personnel units (5/89). The status of the
Centrl Payroll Agency was raised to that of           - lmplement new regulations governing National Training Schools      9/90          Overall         Partially
Directonte in September 1989.                          (Ecoles Nationales de Formation), in particular those putting                   Performance    implemented       s
an end to automatic recruitnment in the civil sevice.                                                           L-n
- Harmonize special statutes with the general statute of the         7/90          Overall             Not
Civil Service, ad define the new indemnaity and bonus system                   Performance    implemented
(In consultation with the Bank on the principle of fixed
amounts independent of the base salry).
- Implement organizational chart and staffing for the Central        4/90          Overall         Partially
Payroll Directorate (DCS) and the Civil Service Directorate                    Performace    implemented
(DFP): and conputerize DCS operations.
Establishment of an Inter-agency Steering       5.  Manag the Civil Service Program.
Committee in Nov. 1987, and a task force on
Automatic Data Proccsing in Sept. 1988.              - Establish a Steering Committee (Comite de Pilotage) to             1/90          Overall       Impiemented
monitor the restructuring and voluntary departure program.                     Performance



SENEGAL: STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SAL IV) - POLICY MATRIX                                                                           Annex I
Page 10 of 10
REFO1 *MAN4,S &< k ECTI - 'N  STATUS &JIES4IG   CONDITN FORE: S TTWIWS
V. SOCIAL DIMENSIONS OF ADJUSTMENT
1. Job Creation and Poverty AllCviation.   - Creation of the 'Deegation a *Insertion  I.  Rcvicw experience with the FNE/DIRE program with a view of           12/89          Ovcrall      Implementod
a la Reinsertion et  I'Emploi- (DIRE)             expanding the program if doomed succeusful.                                       Performance
Esablishment of a Nationa Employment Fund
(FNE) and of a Special Employment Fund.             - Implement a public works and employmeat project in urban       Continuous     Employment    Implemented
areas with donor. support.                                                      Project
2.  Based on estimate of demand for health and primay oducation           8/90          Overall      Implemented
services by urban and rural poor, propose satisfactory reallocation  8/91        Performance
of public expenditures in thee subsecton to be incorporated in
1990/91 and 1991/92 budgets.
2. Population Policy and Human Resources - Statement of population policy was prepared      - Revise existing legal document related to family code            12/89          Overall             Not
under SAL H. An adjustment program for the            planning and economic rights of women.                                        Performance    implemented
human rcources sector is being formulated.
Prepare and implement actions contained in the HR SECAL        Continous      HR SECAL        Implemented
according to the timetable sA in the SECAL.
3. Monitoring the impact of structural   F inancing was arranged in order to cstablish      - Establish the survey unit at the Diroctorate of Statistics                      Overall       Implemented
adjustment.                         a permanent survey capacity and to catry out           to design the permanent household survey.                                     Performance
soeio-economic tudies Methodology of the survey
was agreed with Directorate of Statistics.          - Establish regional offices to carry out dat collections.                                      Implemented <
Sampling frames and classification of households                                                                                                                      C
into socio-economic groups was completed.             Set up a dta analysis unit to produce results on the                                          Impiemented
sandards of living of households.
Identify aocio-economic studies related to household behavior    12/89                        Implemented
AZ-SAL V.XLS



- 27 -
KZey EcTnc  Irdicators                                                            Page 1 of 2
ti3      Wg         t9C       1971      1992      1995
---------------------------------------------  ----      ----      ----      ----      ----       Est.
NATIPL AMNTS (as % of GP at oes3     t 1s  ' prices)
GDP                                           tCO.O      1wm.o     10.o     100.      l.o       lCO.O
PrinEry sw:tar                               22.6      2D3        21t2      203       202       19.5
Sndrysatr                                    1&4        183       1&5        88       19.2      19.1
Ta-tiary swtor                               59.0      61.4      60.3       60.9     60.6       61.4
Carpticn                                       94.0      54.9      S&4       Sk.4      95.0       S5.1
G-ms d3tesic irwestrnt 1/                      12.3      12Z5       120      12.2      12.3       12_S
kbJic fixed irwestus                          3.8       4.0       3.7       3.7        3.7       3.7
PirNete fixed irwm t                          8.4       8.5       83        8.5       L6         843
Resrce baLar                                   -6.3      -6.0      -5.5      -6.5      -7.1       -7.6
E4rrts (FS                                   23.8      25.5      Z.6       24.7       23.7      23.8
Its (NFS                                    -30.1      -31.5    -31.0    -31.2    -30.8        -31.4
Gss   etic sEwirgs                              6.0       5.1       6.6       5.6       5.0       4.9
Mm         Item:
GDP at nLp. (arrat LE ailLiaX                4979.2    4621.5    5701.8    563.5    6276.5    57E4.0
GDP pr cWita (aj,wt U)                        714.6     644.5     770.1    7D.6       8)1.3     707.7
AuW adwW  rate (CFAAMS)                       297.9     319.0     272.3       22        2E5      2es.s
PAIC FIWN   (as X of CDP at o.rrvt nat pices) 2V
CeiMut rue.e    (eIl. g7u   )                  18.6      17.2      19.2      18.9      17.7       t5.7
Total eqditre  ard ret tl.rg                   20.6      21.5       188      19.9      21.3       19.6
DA3aLl szphls (+) w cficit (-)                 -4.0      -4.4       0.3      -1.0      -3.7       -3.9
CQital eaditu-e                                 2.8       2.6       2.8       4b        5.0       4.0
WA AiNU4 GIlJTH RATES (SB' price) 0
G-;s cbTestic Frclrt                            5.1      -1.4       4.5       0.8       2.9   - -2.0
Grss drestic irm                                3.0       3.0       5.5       0.3       2.7
W L A4bPL PR CbPITA OIH RATES (158' pices) 00
a-Ms cJ;tic pcdrt                               2.1      -4.4       15       -2.1       0.0       -4.9
Totat crrsjptic                                 0.9      -3.4      -03       -12        0.8       -4.7
Private c Tption                                1.6      -4.2       0.3       Ob        1.6       -52
K3ETARY I0IDATCRS
Velocity (GAP/Pe)                               4.4       4.0       4.4       4.3       4.3       4.9
rate of QC )                                   03       10.3      -4.8       5.8       3.6      -12.6



- 28 -
Key EcaTfic Irdicatas (ctl'cD
1StB     S8        19Y0      1R        19;2      wB
94ANLE OF PAYMGS (cuarTt CFA BiLlias)
Epts GOFS                                    344.5    40.3   4M.9         391.0    3763       363.5
of which: Mudaise f.ob.                     m1    a42.0    a3uA        Z52.3    219.2      ZB.7
Irpts O  FS                                -440.8    -.5.1    -476.8   -477.5   -479.1    -474.0
of ihich: Nedwdise f..b.                    -2        -319   -317.0   -314.3   -317.7    -32.0
e=c blata                                    -963      -8Z.8    -75.9    -W.       -10.8    -110.5
Net fatr FaO-nts                             -72.0    -61.2    -64.0    -54.2    -53.0    -5.1
of Wchi  nes: 1 t  cLM    ca)               61.6      54.5     55.0      46.1      44.0      44.7
Net cLrrut trwfers (pHiete)                    1.8      2.0       8.0       8.0       9.7      11.4
Qrnwt Accourubt ., hfe off. tws             -166.5   -142.0   -131.9   -L2.7    -V46.1    -153.2
Net officiat tr-sfes                          81.2      8.9      72.2      74.8      74.1      6'.9
OxTeit Accxi tat., of   off. o    . ti-3               599.1    -59.7    -57.9    -72.0       -53
CAPITAL APcnw                                 12.3     33.6      35.3      134       37.5       6.5
P.b(ic Setor (tr                              34.5      40.8     11.8      164       37.2      25.3
Dnw*                                        95.0     1l2.9      80.4     69.8      7a9      6o.3
rrtizatian                                 -61.5    -Q.1    -66         -53b      -41.7    -41.0
Prhete Swtor (ret)                           -23.0     -4.7      -3.4      -1.1      -9.8     -15.3
Ernrs ard Qmssia-s                             0.8     -2.5      2.9       -1.9      10.1      -1.5
oeraLl baLrre                             -73.0    -25.5    -244       -44.5    -34.5      -7m8
FINANlCIM                                    73.0      25.5      24.4      44.5      34.5      78.8
Net ForeignAsw   B3O)                         39.1    -30.2    -17.9       -4.0      -5.4      31.7
qmraticu r.rt  ad oter aB.7    -31.8    -10.7                            -7.1       6.3      39.4
Not  e d Fu d resarc                         0.4       1.6     -7.2       3.1    -11.7       -7.7
PeAuis asws (r:iin -)                          0.0      11.4     -7.5       5.6      27.4      37.3
Ode reief/Lferrat                            33.9      44.3     49.8      42.9      12.5       9.9
Firmcirg  p                                   0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
N     Item:
br    nmes, Yea-r OM aitUcr                   10.7      17.9     10Q3      12.1      14.4       5.2
O-s rese-s as nmusd  of inprts                 0.1      0.2       0.1       0.1       0.1       0.1
E-ts GFSX of CP                               23.2    2Z.1       25.8  2b.6          22.6      22.2
Inpr  GNFS a X of QP                         -29.7    -32.7    -3Q7       -30.0    -25.8    -29.0
Rw          aLam    X of GP                   -6.5     -5.6      -4.9      -54       -62       -6.8
MAL  aJN PATES (curwt price) ao
Srdwdise eXrtS, fob.                           0.2      19.7      0.5      -44       -5.7      -7.1
ftSdwdse inprs, f..b.                         -0.9      11.9     -0.5      -0.9       1.1      -1.8
PRICE WLDCS (195=10)
Eprt price ir   (CFA frrc                   '102.5 13 .8        100.3      889      873         .0
1pxt price irP i K (CFA frwc  s              8.9       91.2    85 0        65.8     53.6      85.2
TenS of tOd                                  12.7      119.3    114.0    103.6    104.5    105.2
RL effstiw   dwge rate (1F cts)         S      33      93.8      93.3      5.3      87.1      B5.2
Cjur  p-ice irS  CX g-th  rate)               -1.8      0.4       0.3      -1.8       0.0     -0.7
IP cIEfIat Xr C gr te)                        2.1       0.9       0.6       1.6       1.5       0.4
1/ Fi;S dD ret refla:t d a    in sts.
2 Fig;9es fa- 1-191 are fa ew re      iw  fijal ys.
Scrce: IW,  Lr1d B&*



- 29 -
Key Ere  Irdicato                                                              p    1 of 1
1SU      SE9      1SS        1w1      19E         w
-------------~      -~~ --~ - ----------      ...        ....               -~     ~ ....  ~   ~~~ ~~~ ~~~~ ~  ~ ~  Est.
In LS inillim at acrr    ic pie:
Total db dis. & atstadrg (TDO) 1/           3E7.0    3.0       37141.0   3557.0    3607.0    3601.0
Net dis    n8ts  I/                          115.8    127.9      43.3      5.1      140.5      81.3
Totl dbt service d  ClMS) V                  3Z3.6       LO     30.1      256.3     2.5       2
Deb ad Debt aryioe SIdicetu  (0    / V
TDVP                                          X7B3     71.0       5.6      63.1      57.5      6.7
TDOE                                         354.1     257.7    250.4     22.5      19A       2E.6
TDSI                                          27.7     21.0       33       18.2     2.6        21.5
C    sianBL1O                                 52.6     53.4      53.2      55.2      57.4      d0.8
W    krk  DEVOR  Irdicatas (IIRDOMA) 0
Wrld B-C DVRblic DS                            8.8      a8       11.8      13.5      t5.0      12.9
PrewerrOditor WDRbic DS                       31.0      31.3     39.8      41.4      55.1      41.1
WrLd BarkDSf                                   2.1       1.9      1.7       2.1       1.5       2.1
1/ Ircils pb& ic wd pbi icLy g.wts diet, priwft rnwr-         d debt, u  of Of aKilts, rd sht-te
Sa     Df,  1a  Px-tirg Systu  M).



