Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Ct~. 2 090 -S C-
Report No. P-5185-SE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT OF SDR 62.4 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR A
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(SAL IV)
JANUARY 17, 1990
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit             -         CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1.00                   m         CFAF 316 (November 14, 1989)
CFAF 1 million            -         US$ 3167 (November 14, 1989)
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURE: METRIC
Metric                              U.S. Eauivalent
1 meter (m)               .         3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)          .         0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2) -          0.39 square mile (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)            .         2.47 acres (a)
1 metric ton (t)                    2,205 pounds (lb)
1 kilogram (kg)           -         2.2046 pounds (lb)
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACC        : Agent Comptable Central (Central Accounting Agency)
BCEAO     : Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (Central
Bank)
BCH       : Bureau d'Organisation et Methodes (Bureau of Organization and
Methods)
COUD      : Centre des Oeuvres Universitaires de Dakar (University
Services)
CP        : Contrat-Plan (Contract Plan)
CSP       : Cellule du Secteur Parapublic (Parapublic Sector Cell)
CSS       : Compagnie Sucriere Senegalaise (Sugar Factory)
DCS       : Direction Centrale de la Solde (Central Payroll Directorate)
DFP       : Direction de la Fonction Publique (Civil Service Directorate)
DGID      : Direction Generale des Imp8ts et des Domaines (Tax Department)
DIRE      : Delegation a l'Insertion, a la Reinsertion et a l'Emploi
DRSP      : Delegation a la Reforme du Secteur Parapublic
EP        : "Etablissement Public'
LDP       : Letter of Development Policy
PAGD      : Projet d'Appui a la Gestion du Developpement (Development
Management Project)
PE        : Public Enterprise
UMOA      : Union Monetaire de l'Ouest d'Afrique (West African Monetary
Union)
SAR       : Societe Africaine de Raffinerie (Oil Refinery)
SME       : Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprises
SOCOCIM   : Societe Commerciale des Ciments (Cement Company)
ZFID      : Zone Franche Industrielle de Dakar (Industrial-Free Zone)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOURTH STRJCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SAL IV)
Table of Contents
Credit and Program Summary  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   i
I.   THE  ECONOMY  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  1
Recent Developments  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1
Prospects and Financing Needs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
II.  THE GOVERNMENT'S STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM ANn BANK SUPPORT    6
The Government's Medium-Term Program . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   6
Bank Support to the Government's Adjustment Effort . . . . . . .   7
III. SAL IV PROGRAM 1989-92 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
A. Public Finances and Investment Programming  . . . . . . . . .   9
B. Incentives for Private Sector Development . . . . . . . . . . 12
C. Parapublic Sector Reform  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
D. Civil Service Reform  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
E. Social Dimension of Adjustment  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
IV.  THE PROPOSED OPERATION . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
iinancing and Management of the Program  . . . . . . . . . .   . 40
Benefits and Risks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
V.   BANK GROUP STRATEGY AND OPERATIONS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
VI.  COORDINATION WITH THE IMF  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
Text Tables
Table 1 : Main Economic Indicators . . . . . . .                            3
Table 2 : External Capital Requirements and Sources..                       5
Table 3 : Government Trrnsfers to Public Enterprises . . . . . . . . 22
Table 4 : Civil Service Wage Bill Indicators . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Table 5 : Civil Service Staff Reductions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
Table 6 : Financial Impact of the Civil Service Reduction Program. . 38
Annexes
Annex I   - Economic Indicators; Balance of Payments;
Status of Bank Group Operations . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1-5
Annex II  - Supplementary Project Data Sheet  . . . . . . . . . . . .   1
Annex III - Matrix of SAL IV Program  . . . . ... . . . . . . . . . . 1-8
Annex IV  - Government's Letter of Development Policy . . . . . . . 1-50
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i -
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOURTH STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SAL IV)
Credit and Program Summary
Borrower:       Republic of Senegal
Amounts:        IDA Credit: SDR 62.4 million (US$ 80 million equivalent)
Swiss Government: SwF 10 million (US$6.3 million
equivalent)
Cofinancing:   African Development Bank (AFDB): UA 30 million (US$35.3
million) Swiss Government: another SwF 10 million (US$6.3
million equivalent). Other donors, namely Belgium, France,
and Japan are expected to contribute about US$ 56 million
equivalent to the program as cofinancing.
Terms:          IDA Credit: Standard with 40-year maturity
Swiss: Non-reimbursable contribution credits and grants
Program
Description:   The proposed adjustment program extends the process of
structural reforms begun in 1985 and supported by two
previous Structural Adjustment Credits (SAL II and SAL
III), as well as by the IMF Enhanced Structural Adjustment
Facility (ESAF). The proposed credit would support the
Government's strategy, detailed in its medium-term
economic program (1985-92), to promote private investment
and exports, to improve the efficiency of public sectcr
resource mobilization and allocation, and to alleviate
poverty. The ultimate objective is sustained growth, with
equity, ver the medium term.
While significant progress has been made towards financial
stabilization, public rssource management improvement, and
economic liberalization, Senegal is still faced with
important structural issues that need to be resolved.
Resolution of such issues is a prerequisite for the needed
supply response. The proposed SAL IV key policy areas,
which represent a consolidation and a deepening of policies
initiated under the previous SALi, are: (i) private sector
incentives, i.e., reduction in the costs of production
(especially labor and energy) and further improvemernt of
the incentives system and the regulatory environment; (ii)
public sector resource management, i.e., reductions in both
current spending for civil service wages and transfers to
parastatals, improvements in investment programs and the
revenue base; and (iii) minimization of the social costs of
adjustment.



- ii -
The SAL IV program will be supported by the ongoing
technical assistance provided for civil service reform
(Development Management Project) and industrial
restructuring (Industrial Restructuring Project); and by
the proposed TA component of the public enterprises reform.
In addition, the Government is formulating, with IDA
support, a series of SECALs, notably in the banking,
agriculture and transport sectors. Because a sound
financial sector is important to the development process
and to macroeconomic performance, the SECAL banking reforms
will be implemented simultaneously with the SAL. The
Government is also undertaking an Employment Creation
Project with Bank support which is focused on reducing the
social costs of adjustment in the short term.
Estimated
Disbursements: It is expected that the total amount of US$184 million
equivralent would be disbursed within 24 months. The IDA
credit and the Swiss grant would be disbursed in three
tranches and would finance the CIF cost of eligible general
imports. The first tranche of SDR 25.0 million from the
IDA credit and the entire US$6.3 million equivalent from
the Swiss contribution, would be based on credit
effectiveness, expected January 1990.
Disbursement of the second and third tranches, each being
SDR 18.7 million of IDA credit, would be cortingent on
satisfactory progress in program implementation. It is
envisaged that release of the second and third tranche will
be effected by December 1990 and December 1991 after
applicable performance reviews.
Disbursement of the entire credit is expected to be
completed within 24 months of certifying credit
effectiveness.
!H: BIRD 18499R
There is no separate Staff Appraisal Report



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR A STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
…---------------------------------------------------------__ --------------
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit of SDR 62.4 million (US$ 80 million equivalent) on
standard ThA terms to the Republic of Senegal to help support the second
phase of the Governmentvs structural adjustment program (SAL IV).  In
addition, I recommend that IDA administer a proposed Special Joint
Financing non-reimbursable contribution of SwF 10 million (about US$6.3
million equivalent) by Switzerland.
I.   THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest Country Economic Memorandum entitled "Senegal: An
Economy Under Adjustment", No. 6454-SE, was distributed to the Executive
Directors on February 13, 1987. Basic country data are given in Annex I.
Recent Developments
3.        Adjustment of the Senegalese economy became unavoidable at the
end of the 1970s, during which a combination of poor financial and economic
policies plunged an already weak economy into a severe crisis. In 1980, a
first attempt to stabilize the financial situation and create the basis for
growth did not yield satisfactory results. Renewed efforts were launched
in 1984 with, as key objectives, the re-establishment of a viable balance
of payments and public finance positions, the promotion of private
investment and production in agriculture and industry, and greater
efficiency in the management of public sector resources.
4.        The policies pursued since then have contributed to a reduction
in the fiscal deficit, the strengthening of the external sector position,
the dampening of inflationary pressures, and an acceleration of income
growth. Thus, the overall fiscal deficit, on a commitment ba: .zs and
excluding grants, was reduced from 5.8 percent of GDP in 1983(84 to 2.6
percent in 1987/88.  A reversal of this trend, however,  zcurred during
1988/89 and a deficit resulted which reached 4.0 percent of GDP. Details
of factors which contributed to that development are provided hereafter.
The external currert account deficit, excluding official grants, decreased
sharply from 17.3 percent of GDP in 1983/84 to 9.6 percent in 1988/89.
Inflationary pressures were also considerably dampened by the decline in
the GDP deflator from an annual average of about 12 percent in 1983/84 to
around 2 peecent in 1988/89. A low inflation rate has enabled Senegal to



- 2 -
regain some competitiveness in fore gn markets; however, the country's
exports continue to be impaired by the high cost of production.
5.        Adjustaent efforts have also led to a revival of the economy.
Between 1984 and 1988, real GDP grew by 4.3 percent, on average, compared
to a long-term growth trend of less than 2.5 percent during the preceding
two decades. Growth has been drivent principally by a good performance of
the agricultural sector. This results from favorable price incentives,
particularly for groundnuts, which are the key cash crop, and several years
of good rainfalls. As a result, the production of groundnuts and ..ereals
has expanded at an annual rate of about 10 percent during the past four
years. The fishing sector has also experienced significant growth; fish
exports have become Senegal's largest export earner since 1985. There are,
however, signs of resource depletion, particularly for the high-value
pelagic fish species. While the recovery in groundnut production has
stimulated the oil-processing industry, o,her manufacturing industries have
remained depressed because of a combination of factors, such as the poor
investment climate, high cost of production factors (particullarly labor and
energy), a rigid labor market, and stiff competition from imports following
the trade liberalization measures introduced in steps since 1986. The
service sector, which accounts for over half of GDP, has performed well in
spite of the declining share of Government services.
6.        While the liberalization process has introduced some degree of
vitality in the more competitive manufacturing sub-sectors, the economy in
general is still adjusting to the opening up of its market to foreign
competition. One of the important short-term consequences of this
adjustment is the rapid expansion of the informal sector, particularly in
trade and commerce. Development of the informal sector has helped to
generate employment and income but has not yielded much additional public
revenue because activities in the sector generally escape taxation and most
Government regulations.
7.        With the population currently growing at 2.9 percent a year,
higher GDP growth in the past few years has helped reverse the gradual
decline in real per capita income which was experienced in the period 1960-
84. While there is no clear evidence of the impact of the adjustment
measures on overall income distribution, they have had a quantifiable
impact on specific groups. Reforms in agricultural incentives, most
particularly higher producer prices for major commodities such as
groundnut, have benefitted rural populations. The impact on groundnut
producers has been lessened somewhat since the recent reduction in the
producer price of this commodity following the reduction in world prices.
By contrast, reforms in the parapublic sector and the liberalization of the
economy have had an initial negative impact on urban employment and
incomes.
8.        Demand-management measures implemented since 1984 have succeeded
in reducing the gross domestic expenditure, especially total consumption,
which exceeded GDP during the first half of the eighties. As a result,
domestic savings, which were negative in earlier years, recovered to 7
percent of GDP in 1988. Prudent demand management, which is crucial for
avoiding real exchange rate appreciation where there is a fixed exchange



- 3 -
rate regime, and a succession of good harvests, have contributed to a
decreased inflation rate. Growth in the level of nominal wages has also
been moderate although by comparison with countries in the saue GDP bracket
as Senegal, the wage level is quite high.
Table 1: MAIN ECONOMIC INDICATORS, 1984-89
1984       1987       1988        1989
(eat1mat.)
National Income and Prices (X p.&.)
GDP at constent prices                    -4.6         4.0        6.1        -1.8
CDP doflator                              18.3         2.7        2.1         1.7
External Sector (X P.&.)
Export volume, fob                        -6.6        -0.8       14.7        9.8
Import volume, cif                         0.1        -6.1       -8.9        1.6
Terms of trade (USS terms)                14.7         8.1       -7.5        7.1
Other Koy Indicators (X of GDP) ^/
Budget balonce (commitment basis, excl. grants)-6.8   -2.6       -8.2        -8.5
Current accound doficit for fiscal year  -17.8       -11.8      -10.2        -9.6
Current account balance (oxcluding grants)   -17.1   -10.2       -9.4        -8.8
Budget doficit for fiscal year            -6.8        -2.8       -2.C        -4.0
Gross Investment (real term)              15.4        16.8       14.6        16.8
Daomstic savings (real term)               8.4         6.2        ?.1         9.1
Debt
7uliic MLT debt (8m)                     1629.1     8087.6      8288.2     8894.6
Debt sorvice/exports k                    12.8        80.7       24.2 cl    26.7 g/
_T Xovarnment finance date In Annex I were converted teo a calondar year basis by summing one-
half of the value" of two condscutive fiscal years.
b/ Refernce here In to exports of goods and all servico and workers' remittances; debt
service on all debt, Including public and private, IMF, and short-term debt. Rescheduling
Is taken Into account.
After debt reechedulinps In 1988 and 1989.
9.         In spite of these improvements, the Government's fiscal
situation remains fragile, as evidenced by the significant shortfall in
fiscal revenue in 1988/89. The combination of a weak economy and social
disturbances related to the border conflict with Mauritania caused tax
revenue to fall in absolute terms by 5 percent compared to the level in the
preceding year and 13 percent compared to the projected level. As a
result, tar. revenue represents only 13.4 percent, a modest proportion of
GDP by international standards. The shortfall in tax revenue has
necessitated the increase in certain tax rates. The Government budget also
relies heavily on the tax of petroleum products whose domestic prices have
been kept unchanged since world oil prices reached a peak in the early
1980s. Petroleum tax revenues accounted for about one-fourth of total
Government revenue in the last few years. Excessive reliance on petroleum
taxes introduces a high degree of uncertainty in the budgetary situation
and also imposes a heavy burden on the economy by maintaining high



- 4 -
petroleum product prices averaging 2.5 times world prices. Despite the
improvement in the overall budgetary situation, Senegal is still highly
dependent on direct budgetary assistance from abroad to cover current
expenses, including the servicing of foreign debt and the repayment of
arrears. This situation complicates the management of the Government's
financial operations and increases its vulnerability vis-a-vis external
developments. This has led to recurring crises in the country's servicing
of its foreign debt.
10.       The external current account deficit has been improving steadily
in the past five years, essentially on account of containment of imports
value which was made poss'ble by declining unit prices for key commodities.
As a share of GDP, total nominal imports of goods and services decreased
from 54 percent of GDP in 1982 to 35 percent in 1988. Growth in nominal
exports of goods and all services has lagged behind that of overall GDP,
causing its GDP share to fall to 26 percent in 1988, compared to 35 percent
in 1982. After a rapid increase in the early eighties, total long-term
public debt outstanding has been rising at a slower rate than nominal GDP,
reaching US$3.3 billion or 66 percent of GDP in 1988. Due mainly to eight
successive debt reschedulings by Paris Club members, the debt service ratio
has remained manageable at 24 percent in 1988. Without reschedulings, the
ratio would have exceeded 30 percent in that year.
11.       Overall, real GDP is expected to suffer a decline of 1.3 percent
in 1989 due primarily to a drop in agricultural production caused by an
uneven distribution of rainfall. The important shortfall of fiscal revenue
during 1988189 has added much strain to an already tight budgetary
situation. Spending for materials, maintenance, and investment has been
lowered while the Government has encountered delays in settling its arrears
with domestic suppliers, banks, foreign donors and firancial institutions.
Prospects and Financing Needs
12.       Assuming quick and full implementation of the policy reforms
under the proposed operation and those developed by the Government in its
fourth Policy Framework Paper 1989/90 to 1991/92 which was discussed by the
Committee of the Whole on December 1, 1989, the performance of the economy
achieved in the recent past would be sustained. Real GDP growth would,
after registering a decline in 1989, increase to an average of 3.8 percent
over the period 1990-97, representing an increase of nearly 1 percent per
capita. Gross domestic investment (in particular, private investment)
would increase gradually, from 14.5 percent of GDP in 1988 to almost 18 per
cent in 1997, primarily because of positive private sector response to
improvements in the policy environment. Investment w;Juld be financed
increasingly from domestic savings. The latter is projected to almost
double as a proportion of GDP during the same period, reaching 12 percent
in 1997. Finally, while private consumption would register a reasonable
increase on a per capita basis starting in 1990, public consumption would
grow only marginally, reflecting the deliberate deceleration in government
recurrent expenditure.
13.       Overall fiscal deficit (excluding grants) is projected to turn
into a surplus in 1992, and then remain positive thereafter. This is made



possible through better resource mobilization and prudent spending.
Senegal's domestic revenue effort (ratio of current revenue to GDP) is
expected to reach about 21 percent (with an elasticity of 1.1) without
imposing an excessive burden on the private sector.  This would be achieved
through better tax collection, further rationalization of the tax system,
and expansion of the tax base.  The low increase in total expenditure is
made possible by a combination of factors: improvement in investment
programming, which focuses on highly productive projects; reduction in
Government transfers to parastatals; and containment of the civil service
wage bill through several measures, including cutbacks in the number of
civil servants.
14.       The current account deficit, excluding official grants, is
projected to decrease by nearly half during the period as a result of
higher export growth (essentially in manufacturing, horticulture, and
services). Imports are projected to increase at the same pace as GDP,
reflecting the investment requirements; increase will occur faster during
the second half of the period than the first. Imports of intermediate and
capital goods, in particular, are projected to increase with the
improvement of the incentives system and the restructuring of the
industrial sector. Foreign exchange reserves are expected to accumulate to
safer levels, equivalent to 2-3 months of imports for the normal
fun' -ioning of the economy.
Table 2: EXTERNAL CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS AND SOURCES, 1989-97
(in US$ million)
Total   Annual
1989-97  Average
FJnancinR Requirnts                            7687    848
Current Account,dfict (excl. official grants)  460a    600
Public Debt Amortization                       2088    230
IMF Repurchases                                 846     88
Change In Reserves/Operations Account           873     76
Identifie Financ!na                            8467    719
Official Grants                                2244 e49
Public ULT Loan Disburgements                  3817    402
IMF Purchases                                   168     18
Debt RelIef pj                                 10      12
Other (not)                                     843     38
Financing Cap                                  1120    124
Source: Annex I
!/ Debt relief relates only to 1989.
15.       The external capital requirements necessitated by this scenario
are shown in Table 2. The cumulative financing requirements during the
period 1989-97 is projected at US$7.6 billion. This comprises US$4.5
billion of current account deficit (excluding transfers), US$2.4 billion of
debt amortization (including IMF repurchases) and US$0.7 billion of changes



- 6 -
in reserves. The latter reflects the need t.. rebuild the level of reserves
which plunged drastically in 1987-88. Over one-third of the identified
financing would be in .t.e form of official grants, consistent with the need
to reduce the debt service burden. The unfilled gap is projected to
average 15 percent of total financing requirements which is quite
manageable given the declining debt service.
II.   THE GOVERNMENT'S STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM AND BANK SUPPORT
The Government's Medium-Term Program
16.       In response to Senegal's prolonged and deteriorating economic
situation in the late 1970s and early 1980s, the Government formulated a
Medium-Term Economic and Financial Rehabilitation Program (PAML is its
French acronym) for the period 1985-1992, which was presented to the first
Consultative Group in December 1984. The main objectives of the program
weres to achieve an average 1 percent real GDP per capita growth per year;
to redress the financial imbalances; and to improve the institutional and
incentives environment in order to promote the development or the private
sector whereby less involvement of tile Government in the economy would be
needed. Specifically, the overall budget deficit was to be eliminated, the
external debt problem resolved, and the Government's ,.arge domestic arrears
paid off. A much moire efficient public investment program was to be
instituted which would concentrate on rehabilitating infrastructure and
expanding key public services. Furthermore, the private sector was to be
encouraged through the improvement of the regulatory environment, higher
producer prices and better export incentives. PAML established broad
economic policy objectives in each of these areas in the form of an overall
plan with sectoral strategies. A much more detailed agenda for the first
two-year phase was developed during 1985 and eventually formed the program
supported by the donor community, including the Bank and the IMF.  In
addition, the Government prepared the first Policy Framework Paper (PFP),
for the period 1987/88 to 1989/90, which has been updated annually and
discussed with the Bank and the IMF.
17.       According to its most recent PFP, for the period 1989/90 to
1991/92, the Government intends to provide a more favorable and balanced
macroeconomic environment to sustain economic growth. This objective will
be achieved through controlling growth in public spending, limiting
inflationary pressures and removing structural bottlenecks to economic
growth and to increased private sector activity.   In line with this
objective, the Government intends to: (i) achieve a turnaround in the
budget position (from a deficit to a surplus), taking into account a
gradual reduction in the flow of external budgetary assistance; (ii)
strengthen further public investment programming with an emphasis on
efficiency and the directly productive sectors; (iii) enhance industrial
development through appropriate incentive measures, including reductions in
production costs; (iv) promote and diversify agricultural production; (v)
accelerate the reform of the public enterprise sector tarough



rehabilitation, privatization, and; liquidation; and (vi) implement the
reform program of the banking sector. These planned measures are expected
to have a gradual impact, as discussed above, on economic performance over
the medium-term. The external financing requirements are also consistent
with the projections discussed earlier.
Bank Support to the Government's Adjustment Effort
18.       Previous Bank experience with policy-based lending in Senegal
comprises three Structural Adjustment Loans (SALs) approved in November
1980, January 1986, and May 1987. A Program Completion Report (April 1984)
and a Program Performance Audit Report (May 1985) reviewed the experience
with SAL I. The OED report on "The World Bank and Senegal, 1960-1987"
(November 1988), inter alia, analyzed the Bank's experience with all three
SALs in some detail. A Program Completion Report for SALs II and III (June
1989) is also available.
19.       SAL I, which was one of the first SALs approved by the Bank,
supported the initial steps of the reform process in the parapublic and the
agricultural sectors, and also dealt with improved production incentives
and investment policy. The program met most of its objectives in the areas
of parapublic sector management and production incentives, but ran into
difficulty in the implementation of policies concerning fertilizer and seed
distribution. As a result, the second tranche of the credit was cancelled
in June 1983. In addition, exogenous factors sucE as droughts and terms-
of-trade losses which worsened the economic situation had contributed to
the failure of SAL I to meet its objectives. By mid-1984, the economic
situation in Senegal had deteriorated further, prompting the Government to
formulate its medium-term adjustment program (PAML) which was a Bank
precondition of both the organization of the first Consultative Group
meeting for Senegal and the resumption of lending for structural adjustment
(SALs II and III).
20.       The two SALs supported reforms presented in the Government's
medium-term program (PAML). The main reforms initiated under SAL II
consisted of improvements in the industrial incentives system through the
New Industrial Policy (para. 21); liberalization of agricultural input
supply and rice marketing through the New Agricultural Policy (para. 21);
and improvement in the management of public resources. Most of the reforms
supported under SAL III represented a continuation and a deepening of those
initiated under the preceding SAL. Additional actions included initial
measures to improve financial intermediation, the rehabilitation of three
publicly-owned banks (BNDS, USB, and BCS), the formulation of a population
policy and an action program, and the alleviation ojf the adverse
transitional impact on employment caused by structural adjustment.
21.       Generally, SALs II and III have been successful because most of
the agreed actions have been implemented by the Government and the credits
have been fully disbursed. Significant progress has been achieved under
SALs II and III, subject to the provisos that the complexity of the reform
program and the extensive number of measures involved, taken together with
the limited administrative capacity of the Government, have delayed actions
in some areas. The budget and current account deficits have been reduced



and per capita growth in the economy has resumed. In public resource
management, improvements have been made in streamlining the tax system, in
reducing domestic arrears and subsidies, in adopting a three-year rolling
investment plan reflecting better priorities and, to a limited extent, in
containing the civil service wage bill as a percentage of current spending.
In the parapublic sect3r, the divestiture process has been initiated by
earmarking 26 public enterprises for sale (actually offering 10) and by
liquidating 9 others. Major achievements under the New Industrial Policy
have included the removal of quantitative import restrictions and price
controls on manufactured goods, the rationalization of the system of
protection, and the revision of the investment code to eliminate the bias
towards capital-intensive projects. Under the New Agricultural Policy,
fertilizer imports have been decontrolled, input subsidies reduced, and the
role of the state rural development agencies significantly curtailed.
22.       In spite of the many achievements, the adjustment process is far
from complete and Senegal still faces a number of severe financial and
economic constraints which have yet to be effectively tackled. The supply
response thus far from the private sector, especially in terms of new
industrial investment and exports, has been weak and ceteris paribus, is
expected to remain so because of high production costs and because of labor
market rigidities and deficiencies in the regulatory environment. Much
deeper reforms are still needed to address these problems and to provide
the correct incentives to private sector development. These reforms should
contribute to the real exchange rate depreciation that is needed to render
Senegalese enterprises more competitive in international markets,
particularly given that many of Senegal's competitors have been undergoing
devaluation-led adjustments. These measures need to be supported by
effective rehabilitation of the banking and financial systems.
Furthermore, serious weaknesses persist in the management of public
resources, especially the allocation between wage and non-wage expenditures
and the financial performance of the parapublic sector. Unless these
weaknesses are tackled, the probability of reaching the goals of
eliminating the budget deficit and restoring public savings is not very
high. It should be politically feasible to adopt the necessary reforms,
though on the basis of past experience in Senegal, particular care has been
taken, firstly to line up support against opposition from powerful vested
interest groups (such as civil servants and labor unions), and secondly to
avoid overestimating the Government's capacity to implement reforms and
underestimating the time needed to prepare and implerant the necessary
actions. In order to do this, SAL IV focuses on relatively fewer areas
than previous SALs and supports a limited number of critical actions. This
highlights the importance of the SECAL and hybrid operations in the Bank's
strategy of adjustment towards Senegal. These operations are essential
instruments for the mobilization of both the sectoral ministries and the
numerous cofinanciers in of support of needed reform.



- 9 -
III. SAL IV PROGRAM 1989-92
23.         Since Senegal, as a member of the West African Monetary Union
(UMOA) and, thus, of the CFA franc zone, cannot take unilateral action to
adjust the nominal exchange rate, the maintenance of tight fiscal and
monetary policy to bring about the reduction of the fiscal and external
deficits are critical to the achievement of real exchange rate
depreciation. Under SALs II and III, a series of demand-management
measures were undertaken to reduce the fiscal deficit and to domestic
inflation relative to that of major trading partners and, thus, to trigger
a real depreciation. These measures have been partly successful, helping
to reduce the resource gap and the inflation rate--the real effective
exchange rate depreciated in real terms by about 11 percent between 1986
and mid-1989. At this rate of improvement, however, demand-management
measures alone will not generate a sufficient real exchange rate
depreciation to initiate a supply response and, thereby, an increase in
exports in the near term. Additional measures will need to be introduced
under SAL IV to reduce the costs of production in general, and to create
additional incentives for exports.
24.       The adjustment package proposed under SAL IV consists of a
limited number of fundamental policy reforms accompanied by technical and
managerial steps to implement them. These are: (i) the improvement in the
production incentives system through a reduction in the taxation burden of
the corporate sector, the containment of costs of production, and the
elimination of labor market rigidities; (ii) the rationalization of public
current expenditure by ways of downsizing the civil service and increasing
its productivity; and (iii) the rationalization of the public enterprise
sector through a drastic reduction of all Government subsidies (direct and
indirect) and through aggressive privatization. Some of the proposed
reforms will have a deflationary impact on the economy.
A. Public Finances and Investment Programming
Public Finance
25.       Within the context of its continuing financial stabilization,
the Government intends to further improve the budgetary situation and to
restore public savings. It has set the target of a reversal of the
budgetary position from a deficit of 4.0 percent of GDP in 1988/89 (on a
commitment basis) to a surplus of 0.9 percent by 1991/92. As a corollary,
the Government expects to reduce its reliance on direct foreign budgetary
assistance and, at the same time, to service its external debt obligations
without recourse to debt relief. To achieve this target, the Government
will have to: (i) contain current spending, essentially through a reduction
in the civil service wage bill and in transfers to parastatals; and (ii)
mobilize additional domestic resources. The Government's macroeconomic
policy objectives and reform program are spelled out in the Letter of



- 10 -
Development Policy. Overall macroeconomic performance will be taken into
consideration before the release of the second and third tranches.
26.       The key budgetary issue in Senegal is the high civil service
wage bill in relation to Government revenues, large transfers and subsidies
to the parastatal sector, and sagging tax performance. In spite of efforts
to minimize nominal wage increases and to reduce the size of the civil
service, wages and salaries represent more than half of both current
expenditures and domestic revenues, including non-tax receipts. This
reflects the inefficient management of the civil service. Furthermore, the
civil service in Senegal is too large by comparison to employment in the
modern sector, which is one-third its size, and by comparison to countries
at Senegal's GDP level. As a result of the wage bill, few resources are
left for maintenance and operating expenses, leading to low productivity of
Government services. A reform plan for the civil service is discussed
below (Section D). Transfers to parastatals have also been a major drain
on budgetary resources, without the benefits of cost-efficient services to
the economy. The Government's two-pronged effort to resolve this issue
will focus, on the one hand, on the privatization of a large number of
parastatals whose management can best be handled by the private sector and,
on the other hand, a systematic reduction of subsidies, both direct and
indirect, to remaining ones (Section C). Measures will be taken to improve
the sectoral allocation of public resources in the context of the public
investment programming exercise discussed below.
27.       On the revenue side, the Government intends to continue
implementing the tax reform measures initiated under SAL III, and to widen
and improve the structure of the tax revenue base. More specifically, the
Government has, on the basis of the recent IMF/World Bank study, adopted an
action plan with a view to reducing the dependency on windfall profits from
petroleum imports and identifying other sources of revenue without
overtaxing the modern sector. These sources ares (i) improvement of tax
administration and collection, particularly in the Customs Department by
the computerization of customs clearance procedures; (ii) assessment of tax
arrears and their recovery through a better information management system;
(iii) gradual extension of the value-added tax to commerce and services;
(iv) launching of measures to tighten the taxation of the informal sector;
(v) expansion of the tax base with the completion of the ongoing fiscal
cadaster of the Dakar region and the reform of the land property tax
regime; and (vi) elimination or renegotiation of exemptions to the common
tax regime as they currently apply to certain enterprises (public and
private) through the system of "special agreements".
28.       The Government has recently reviewed its tariff structure and
levels, given both the sharp decline in customs revenues in the secend half
of 1988/89 and the difficulties experienced by some manufacturing
subsectors from increased competition since the adoption of tariff reform
in August 1986. In consultation with the Bank and the IMF, the Government
has adopted measures which are consistent with the thrust of the trade
reform introduced under SALs II and III, but which provide short-term
alleviation measures to help public finances and Senegalese manufacturing.
The customs duty rate ("droit de douane") has been raised across the board
from 10 percent to 15 percent. Exemptions from various import duties have



- 11 -
been agreed to on an exceptional basis for a period of two years to July
1991 for three sectors (textiles, batteries, and matches). The
strengthening of the Customs Administration is expected to contribute to an
increase in revenues over the SAL IV period. An action plan has been
prepared by the Government, including, inter alia, measures to prevent
fraud and to improve valuation methods through the imposition of minimum
duties across a wide range of imported products. The Government has
committed itself to the full implementation of the plan in its Letter of
Development Policy.
Public Investment Pro ramming
29.       The realization of a public expenditure program consistent with
sectorial policies and strategies is an important Government objective over
the medium-term. Support was provided under the previous two SALs to
improve the investment component of public expenditures. The second three-
year rolling public investment program (PIP) for the 1988/89-1990/91
period, in consultation with the World Bank, marks a clear improvement in
comparison with previous planning exercises, especially in terms of the
macroeconomic framework, sectorial coverage, financial profile, and project
evaluation. A satisfactory review of the next two PIPs will be a condition
of second and third tranche release, respectively. The current PIP for
1989/90-1991/92 has been reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory.
30.       There remains, however, room for substantial improvement in
procedures and a need for institution building, both of which the
Government will address under SAL IV. Three areas of reform have been
identified that would enhance the quality of the public investment program.
First, there is a need to consolidate progress achieved so far in the
programming, preparation, and monitoring of public investments. More
specifically, this concerns: (i) the methodology and approaches to project
preparation, implementation, and monitoring; (ii) the strengthening of the
links of the PIP with sectorial development strategies; and (iii) the
systematic evaluation of recurrent costs associated with all investments
included in the PIP. Project preparation guidelines that have been
developed for directly productive projects will be standardized and
supplemented by similar guidelines for other types of projects. More
importantly, the Government will ensure the systematic adoption of these
guidelines as a key criterion for project selection. To make a more
effective use of the experience acquired in earlier projects in the design
of new ores, efforts will be expended to provide regular and timely
monitoring of projects, in terms of both physical and financial
implementation. The Government will, in the preparation of successive
PIPs, review sector priorities which will serve as the basis for sectorial
allocation of resources. Finally, the Government will apply the analysis
of recurrent cost implications of the PIP, focusing first on the four
sectors of transport, health, education, and urban development and water
supply. This will ensure that a coherent link is established between
capital outlays and operating and maintenance expenditures.
31.       Second, while the PIP has been officially incorporated in the
overall budget since July 1987, for practical purposes, the capital and
recurrent components of the budget are still prepared independently of each



- 12 -
other, with the domestic contribution to the capital budget determined as a
residual. The absence of a coordinated approach to the preparation of the
current and investment budgets heightens the risk that too many new
projects will be started without sufficient operation and maintenance
funding for their upkeep, leading to a premature deterioration of the
capital stock. By promoting close coordination between the agencies
concerned (particularly the Ministries of Finance and Economy, and of
Planning and Cooperation), the Government will rationalize the preparation
of the budget. This will be supplemented by a more rigorous financial
monitoring of capital expenditures. These measures will help integrate the
annual investment program in the normal budgetary and expenditure control
procedure.
32.       Third, technical ministries at present generally lack the
institutional capacity to identify, prepare, and monitor their respective
projects. This places an undue burden on the Ministry of Planning and
Cooperation, which hinders its main functions of overall project
coordination and screening and formulating sectoral policies. The
Government will take steps to strengthen the analytic capacity of technical
ministries and gradually transfer to them the responsibility for project
identification, preparation, and monitoring to the technical ministries.
This will first be achieved in the rural development, education, health,
infrastructure and industrial sectors with support from the Development
Management Project (Cr. 1910-SE).
B. Incentives for Private Sector Development
Background
33.       In the past, the Senegalese economy has suffered from heavy
distortions favoring public sector and import substitution activity,
limiting diversification in the export sector and restricting the role of
the private sector, especially in the goods-producing sectors. These
developments were shaped by government policies which remained largely
unchanged until about 1980. These policies resulted, inter alia, in the
creation of a high-cost, largely inefficient, industrial sector which
enjoyed substantial protection and to an appreciation of the real exchange
rate that has further eroded the external competitiveness of Senegal. The
main elements were: (i) high nominal tariffs on final products, translating
into high rates of effective protection (averaging 100-150 percent) given
low tariffs on inputs; (ii) significant quantitative restrictions on
imports; (iii) an inappropriate investment code with relatively high rates
of corporate taxes; (iv) labor policies restricting mobility and
encouraging high levels of real wages (estimated to have averaged double
the wage level in neighboring countries during 1986, with a minimum wage
higher than in Portugal for example); (v) special agreements of an
essentially ad hoc nature under which about 27 companies in the industrial
sector benefitted from specific protection regimes (over the period 1979-
86), the latter special agreements with four such enterprises cost the
Government some CFAF 115 billion (US$360 million) in cumulative terms in
foregone revenue; and (vi) subsidization of inefficient public sector
enterprises.



- 13 -
Performance under Previous SALs
34.       With the support of both the Bank and the IMF, Senegal has
introduced a number of major policy changes in recent years, with the
objectives of: (i) increasing incentives for exports relative to those for
import substitution; and (ii) liberalizing the environment for private
enterprise development in the context of the New Industrial Policy of 1986.
35.       The major accomplishments of the reforms which have been
supported by three previous SALs fall into three broad categories. First,
in the area of trade regime, a series of export promotion measures have
been adopted, starting from the introduction of a duty drawback scheme and
of export subsidies on fob value under SAL I. Under SAL II, the subsidies
were rationalized and extended to the equivalent of 15 percent of value
added. Under SAL III and the IDA financed Industrial Sector Restructuring
Project (Cr. 1868-SE), measures were taken to strengthen the export
insurance agency (ASACE). An action plan is to be undertaken to improve
the functioning of the export promotion agency (CICES). The system of
import protection was radically revised under SALs II and III, which has
led, since August 1986, to lower levels of protection and greater
harmonization of tariffs--those on finished products average 40 percent,
those on inputs average 20 percent, and average rates of effective
protection have been reduced by 25 percent. These measures were
supplemented by the phase out of most product-specific duties, the
elimination of distortions introduced under the reference price system for
valuing certain imports ("valeurs mercuriales"), and the progressive
elimination, completed by 1988, of all quantitative restrictions, except
those covered by special agreements.
36.       Second, in the area of investment incentives, a new Investment
Code was promulgated in July 1987 which introduced automatic tax advantages
declining over the eligibility period, eliminated biases in favor of
capital intensive investments, offered advantages to small- and medium-
scale enterprises, and provided for streamlined administrative procedures
through the establishment of a one-stop window ("Guichet Unique"). An
initial effort in the area of labor code reform comprised measures
instituted to eliminate the need to hire through the Government's labor
office and to allow firms greater freedom to renew fixed-term labor
contracts. A series of supporting actions were taken, in particular in the
agriculture sector under SAL II, to improve the overall business
environment through price liberalization and the liberalization of the
distribution system. Under SAL III, the Government decided to abandon the
principle of special agreements with new enterprises and undertook to
revise the existing agreements. In November 1987, a special committee was
formed to prepare an action plan for the renegotiation of some agreements
and the phase out of the others over a three-year period. Detailed audits
of CSS (sugar), SAR (petroleum refining) and SOCOCIK (cement) have been
carried out.
37.       Third, the process of industrial restructuring was started,
under which the Government was expected to divest its interest in most
productive industrial enterprises in order to restrict negative impact on



- 14 -
the private sector. Financial sector restructuring, under which two major
banks were to be restructured and banking supervision strengthened, was
also expected to encourage private sector development.
38.       It is not yet possible to undertake a full a posteriori analysis
of the impact of the above measures. Nonetheless, there are grounds for
believing that, albeit necessary, such measures alone will be insufficient
to achieve the Government's underlying goals of sustained increases in
industrial output and employment by means of improved productivity and
increased competition. The trade reform measures certainly favor a more
competitive business environment and have removed distortions emanating
from the previous high rates of effective protection for certain
industries. However, additional reform measures are needed to remove
market rigidities, particularly for labor. Domestic producers have been
unable to adapt quickly to the new competitive environment. The export
promotion measures have had a limited impact on increasing and diversifying
exports. Furthermore, relatively little attention has been paid to the
discouraging impact of high effective corporate tax rates which, thus far,
have not changed under the reform program. This problem is not felt,
however, in the informal sector which largely escapes the tax system.
Accordingly, the shake out of existing enterprises may be more severe than
first expected and the creation of new ones slower and more arduous than
anticipated.
39.       Further action, supported under SAL IV, is needed to stimulate
private sector investment and output growth by helping to overcome the
continued constraints on private sector productivity growth and on the
ability of the private sector to compete in the liberalized domestic and
export markets. Further action is also required to reduce the high costs
of production that have persisted through the initial phases of adjustment,
mainly because of insufficient progress on labor and energy reform. These
two areas will be given increased attention in the measures proposed under
SAL IV to create improved incentives for the private sector.
40.       Support through the SAL needs to be complemented by a more
thorough reform of the banking system. The Government has realized that
the magnitude of the banking sector problems surpass its capability to deal
with them with its own resources and may risk undermining the anticipated
positive impact of various incentives supported under the adjustment
process on private sector development. A financial restructuring plan has
been prepared and was presented to the donor community in November 1987.
As a result, a Financial SECAL has been prepared and approved by the Bank
in December 1989. The main components aret (i) rehabilitation of banks
having potential, and the merger (with new private capitalization) or
liquidation of other bar,ks; and (ii) reform of the banking supervision
system and financial sector policies under the control of the Government,
in harmony with a broader program of reform of the BCEAO at the level of
UMOA which was agreed in July 1989.
Program Envisaged under SAL IV
41.       The main reforms contemplated in this component are fivefold:
(i) render labor market conditions more flexible with a view to reducing



- 15 -
costs; (ii) reduce the input and infrastructure costs to industry (energy,
transport and telecommunications); (iii) improve the investment climate
through simplified administrative regulations, appropriate fiscal
incentives, and elimination of distortions; (iv) improve incentives for
export-oriented investments; and (v) pursue the process of reform of
special agreements.
42.       Labor conditions.  The high cost of labor and the relative
inflexibility of the labor market have been identified, in studies prepared
under SALs II and III, as two of the principal constraints on productivity
growth and private sector development. Under SAL III, only very limited
reforms could be introduced because of the Government's inability to
overcome deep-seated opposition to any reform of the existing labor
legislation. It was possible to reach agreement on the liberalization of
hiring practices, i.e., the abolition of the requirement that all
recruitment be made through the Government. However, the attempt to relax
the constraints on the use of temporary employment contracts, considered an
important instrument for enterprise development, was only partially
successful--the maximum period for such contracts was extended from 6
months to 1 year. The strategy for pursuing and deepening labor reform
under SAL IV has had to be carefully considered to ensure the support
rather than the opposition of those groups which have frustrated past
attempts at reform. Consequently, the program of reforms and appropriate
justification have been discussed extensively with employers and unions
during the preparation of SAL IV.
43.       The Government's policy is to confront the problem of labor
rigidities on two levels and to establish a framework for action to bring
about reductions of the wage level and of labor costs in general. In the
short-term, the Government has agreed to take two actions which will
increase employment flexibility. Firstly, in terms of the application
decree of Article 35 of the Labor Code, existing enterprises will enjoy, in
the form of an increase in activity ("surcrolt d'activit4"), unlimited use
of temporarv contract labor. The decree was signed into law by the
President of the Republic of Senegal on September 15, 1989. Secondly, in
terms of a modification to the Investment Code, eligible enterprises will
be able to hire their workforce on the basis of temporary employment
contracts for a period of up to 5 years. Furthermore, small- and medium-
scale enterprises (SMEs) as defined in the Investment Code, i.e.,
investment in the range of CFAF 5 to 200 million (US$15,000 - 650,000),
employing at least 3 persons (about 40 percent of existing formal sector
manufacturing enterprises (SMEs) comprise this group), will henceforth be
exempted from prior Government authorization for dismissal of employees.
These advantages will be extended to all enterprises located in the Zone
Franche Industrielle de Dakar (ZFID) by virtue of a modification in its
statute. These modifications were approved by the National Assembly on
October 5, 1989 and promulgated on October 12, 1989. Therefore, the
Government has respected the agreement that the above measures, that is the
publication of the application decree and the enactment into law of the
revised Investment Code and ZFID statute, would be enacted before Board
presentation.



- 16 -
44.       The above-mentioned measures also encompass changes in the
liability for wage taxation for new and expanding firms. Under the revised
Investment Code, eligible firms will be exempt from the general payroll tax
("contribution forfaitaire") which is equivalent to 3 percent of nominal
wage cost. Furthermore, these firms will benefit from a wage subsidy,
equivalent to income taxes that would normally have to be paid by the
employers for all new employees. This benefit is, however, available only
when a minimum of 50 new jobs have been created, or for every new employee
beyond this level for expanding existing firms. As no employment threshold
applies, however, in the case of SMEs as defined by the Investment Code,
SMEs will benefit from the wage subsidy for all new employees hired. It is
thus anticipated, given that typical employment levels for SMEs in Senegal
are in the range 40-50 persons, that most enterprises will benefit from
this incentive. The benefit, however, does not apply to the existing
workforce, other than in the ZFID where the statute modification specifies
that all enterprises are covered. The value on average of this benefit is
estimated at 12 percent of nominal wage cost for eligible employees.
Although the impact on average overall wage costs in the economy will be
more muted, it will increase over time as the number of new employees
increases relative to the number of established workers. The impact will
be reinforced by the above-mentioned measures on increased employment
flexibility which are expected to lead to lower wage costs and higher
productivity.
45.       The Government intends to take other measures to encourage the
future reduction in the level of real wages, and, thus, to increase the
competitiveness of the Senegalese economy. Formal sector wage negotiation
is highly institutionalized, with annual collective bargaining of wage
agreements in 27 separate industry groupings. The agreements presently in
force include complex structures ("bar&mes de salairesn) of minimum wages
for different occupational categories and levels, which reduce wage
flexibility. Together with employers and unions, the Government plays an
important role in wage determination--firstly, through determining the
minimum wage (SMIG) which is both reference price and floor price for all
industry level negotiations, secondly, acting as an arbiter to ensure
agreement between the two parties to the bargain, and thirdly requiring all
enterprises, regardless or not of their participation in collective
bargaining, to implement any wage agreement reached. The Bank and the
Government have agreed that studies should be undertaken of Senegal's
comparative wage level and structure in order to inform the bargaining
process and that clear signals should be given that wages have to fall in
real terms. This latter effort would also be necessary to reduce the gap
between formal and informal sector wages (estimated as, at least, a factor
of 3) which presently acts as a major disincentive to the growth of small-
scale enterprises and which also hinders any significant employment
expansion in the modern sector, especially for export-oriented enterprises.
To this end, the Government has made an undertaking, as agreed, to freeze
the SMIG at its present nominal level for a period of at least the next 3
years, before Board presentation. The Government has further agreed in its
Letter of Development Policy to a review by the tripartite commission (see
below) of the wage setting system, inter alia with a vi9w to initially
reducing labor costs and moving towards market determined wages through
reducing Government intervention and making collective bargaining



- 17 -
voluntary. Terms of reference for the review of the wage setting system
were agreed during negotiations. The Government will adopt measures
satisfactory to the Bank to implement the recommendations of this review
before second tranche release.
46.       In the medium-term, additional labor market reforms would be
desirable to streamline existing legislation and to improve industrial
relations practices. Steps will be taken under SAL IV to initiate the
fundamental review of existing labor legislation. The Government has
agreed to establish a tripartite commission (i.e., with employer and union
participation) which will examine the existing labor legislation and
industrial regulations so as to identify new policies to encourage
production and employment in the modern sector. The Government intends to
seek technical assistance from the International Labor Office (ILO), which
has helped in the elaboration of terms of reference, to support the
commission's work. The process will be started under SAL IV and is
expected to solidify the practice of realistic negotiations of wages and
conditions and to promote dialogue among the social partners. The
principal areas to be tackled by this commission were agreed at
negotiations and have been reflected in the Government's Letter of
Development Policy.
47.       Production Costs.  The cost disadvantages suffered by producers
in Senegal vis-a-vis competition from elsewhere do not emanate solely from
the problems in the labor market mentioned above. Infrastructure costs
(mostly energy, transport, and communications) perceived to be higher than
justified by market conditions are also problematic. Problems also arise
from the pricing policies per se and from low service-quality which imposes
a variety of additional costs on producers.
48.       Studies have been conducted in the energy sector with a view
first, to determine appropriate price structures for petroleum products
bearing in mind, inter alia, the overall fiscal position of Senegal
(para.27) and economic criteria within the sector, and second, to reduce
the price of intermediate products of which the savings could be passed on
to industrial consumers as lower electricity tariffs. These studies,
undertaken in the context of the February 1989 IMF/Bank mission on taxation
issues, cover the system of procurement, refinement, and distribution of
petroleum products (including an operational audit of SAR) and the fiscal
aspects of petroleum product pricing. On the basis of these studiAq, it is
proposed that a new system be adopted in two phases for energy pricing. As
a first step, a simpler and more transparent structure for petroleum
product prices is to be introduced. Ex-refinery prices are to be set at
import parity and adjusted quarterly. Prices to distributors will be
derived from ex-refinery prices by adding an import duty, a value-added tax
(VAT), a specific petroleum product tax (contribution to the Energy Fund)
and a fixed handling fee to be paid to SAR and to be negotiated with the
refinery. As a second step, domestic prices of intermediate products (fuel
oil and diesel oil) will be lowered by eliminating the special taxation of
these products; electricity tariffs will be adjusted automatically through
the existing indexation formula. Because the special treatment to the
phosphate sector will be removed at that time, the net tax loss is
estimated to be small relative to the reductions in energy prices to the



- 18 -
industrial sector. These reductions, ranging at current international
prices from about 18 percent for high voltage electricity rates to 45
percent for fuel oil, are likely to have a significant impact on industries
and services which are heavy energy consumers, e.g., textiles and hotels
where electricity may account for up to 10 percent of total operating
costs. A major beneficiary of these measures would be the cement industry,
where energy accounts for about 60 percent of total operating costs.
49.       The first phase was to proceed immediately with the preparation
of an amendment to the SAR special agreement. In order to help the
Government negotiate a reasonable handling fee, the Bank has agreed to
finance technical assistance to the Ministry of Industrial Development
(MDIA), and consultants have been hired. Negotiations with SAR and
agreement on a provisional handling fee to be charged (US$ 2.25/barrel)
have been concluded on December 26 1989. The new transparent pricing and
taxation system for petroleum products, including the provisional handling
fee to SAR, will be introduced by decree on January 1, 1990. Agreement has
been reached that the Government will finalize the estimate of the handling
fee in consultation with the Bank no later than January 31, 1990 and the
new figure will be introduced in April 1990, at which time the Government
and SAR will work out the adjustment for the first quarter. The second
phase, that is the reduction of intermediate product prices, will take
place only after the fiscal impact of the first phase has been evaluated.
The Government will implement by July 1990, in consultation with the Bank
and the IMF and depending on the fiscal impact of the new structure as
evaluated in the fourth quarter of 1989/90, a reduction of fuel oil and
diesel prices and, thus, a reduction of electricity prices as a condition
of the second tranche release.
50.       The quality and cost of telecommunications services are becoming
increasingly important factors in the development of the industrial and
service sectors of the economy. A number of improvements have been
effected since 1986, pursuant to a tariff study, to ensure that service
charges more rationally reflect both cost structure and demand. On the
basis of this study, a revised tariff was introduced in July 1989 which
reduced national and international call charges by 20 percent during off
peak hours. The impact of this reduction on demand is to be monitored
coa.tinuously over the next year. If justified on the basis of this
experience, further reductions and structure revisions will be introduced
after July 1990. These revisions, which may include the introduction of a
third-charge band for semi-busy hour calls, could further decrease the
communication costs of enterprises. The potential benefit is likely to be
the greatest for export-oriented industry and services, and for heavy data
users, for whom communications costs may be 3-4 percent of total operating
cost.
51.       Management improvement and the reduction of the cost of
transport are the principal factors under examination in the proposed
Transport Sector Adjustment program (SECAL). Studies of the level and
structure of port charges of the Port Autonome de Dakar (PAD) are being
undertaken, with a view to both reducing cost to Senegalese importers and
exporters and increasing the attractiveness of Dakar as a port of
transshipment. It has been estimated that, on average, transport costs are



- 19 -
equivalent to 25 percent of the final cost of imported and exported goods.
Greater efficiency and lower costs would have an appreciable impact on the
competitiveness of Senegalese industry. The Government is to prepare a
timetable for the adjustment of tariffs. An action plan satisfactory to
the Bank will be prepared aad implemented as a condition of the Transport
SECAL.
52.       Investment Climate.  The measures supported under previous SALs,
specifically the reform of the Investment Code, have been insufficient to
create any substantial improvement in the climate for new investments in
Senegal. While the Code, as revised in August 1987, has helped to
eliminate previous capital intensity biases, not enough has been done to
improve the efficiency of administration and Government regulations or to
reduce the total tax burden faced by enterprises. In the preparation for
SAL IV and as part of an extensive program of fiscal reform that the
Government is implementing with the assistance of the IMF, the level and
composition of corporate taxation has been studied with a view to
identifying reductions in the tax burden on enterprises to levels
consistent with government policy to encourage emplcyment and investment.
From January 1990, revisions to the general tax code are expected to be
introduced which include the creation of a separate corporate tax at an
initial rate of 35 percent. The reforms will reduce the tax to be paid,
inter alia, through the suppression of the "Pr6lbvement au Budget de
1'Equipement (PBE)". Furthermore, the reform will lead to the elimination
of the double taxation of dividends, which was a disincentive to new equity
investment through the introduction of a single personal income tax at a
maximum rat_ of 50Z.  In pursuance of the objective of reducing labor
costs, wage subsidies equivalent to the tax payments for new employees are
to be introduced for eligible firms under the Investment Code (para. 44).
The aforementioned study has estimated for example that this latter measure
would (assuming straight line depreciation, deduction of investment
expenses against tax, and an inflation rate of 7 percent), reduce the
marginal effective tax rate on an investment in Senegal with a real return
of 20 percent, from 32 percent to 21 percent. This tax rate is very
competitive relative to other sub-Saharan African countries. The
Government has prepared a plan of action for the implementation of all
these measures together with a timetable for the study of further actions
to be taken during the SAL I- period. Consequently, the Government has
respected the agreement to examine the study's recommendations and to
prepare a plan of actions satisfactory to the Bank, before Board
presentation. As part of the overall performance review, progress in the
implementation of the action plan will be evaluated at the time of the
second and third tranche releases. The Government will complete the
following specific actions before second tranche release: establish a
separate corporate tax at 35 percent; eliminate the PBE; and establish a
single personal income tax at a maximum rate of 50Z.
53.       The development of the private sector is seriously hampered by
the poor regulatory environment. Legal constraints which are most
important in labor matters and administrative constraints which relate to
poor attitude and inappropriate organization in key ministries and agencies
are among the main reasons for the poor environment. In addition to the
measures related to labor market conditions (paras. 42-46) and civil



- 20 -
service reform (paras. 94-103), additional measures have been identified
and are to be implemented under SAL IV. A plan of action has been prepared
for %he strengthening of the customs administration, in view also of the
need to improve revenue collection (para. 28). Having established the one-
stop-w2rdow ("Guichet Uniquen) to improve the processing of applications
for investment code benefits, the Government is to ensure that all
departments respect the agreed procedures and timetable for submission of
approvals. A Bank-commissioned consultant study of the regulatcry
environment for the private sector has just been completed and explores
ways to simplify administrative controls and procedures, and thus to reduce
costs of the private sector. The Government has prepared a plan of action
based on this study, which provides for the restructuring of the fiscal
administration (Directioui Generale des Imp6ts et des Domaines) to create
inter alia, a simplified and more transparent structure and improved
operating procedures, including relations with the tax payer. Other
measures include actions to improve information for investors, simplify
fiscal texts, centralize formalities for company creation, and rationalize
various other procedures including registration for SMEs and licensing for
self-employed professionals. The Government has also agreed as part of
this plan to review and evaluate, on an annual basis during the SAL IV
period, the impact of the reduction of regulatory constraints and of the
various incentives on new investment. The Government has as agreed
prepared an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, before Board
presentation. As part of the overall performance review, progress in the
implementation of the action plan will be evaluated at second and third
tranche release. The implementation of the restructuring of the Direction
Gdn6rale des Imp6ts et des Domaines and the streamlining of operating
procedures in a manner satisfactory to the Bank will be a condition of the
second tranche release.
54.       Trade Regime.  The program envisaged under SAL IV is essentially
focused on further encouragement of exports. The main thrust of the
reforms is to reduce the cost of production to export activities and to
improve the special tax and incentive package available so as to increase
the international competitiveness of Senegalese enterprises. The principal
measures will be: (i) introduction of greater flexibility of labor
conditions; (ii) preparation of an action plan to improve the working of
the industrial free zone; (iii) enhancement of plan effectiveness and
extension of the concept to other free areas; and (iv) review of the
administration and effectiveness of the export subsidy and the duty
drawback scheme for exports with a view to improvement.
55.       An industrial-free zone (ZFID) has existed since 1974 but has
never been a real success. At present, there are 10 enterprises employing
about 600 persons in ZFID. Fiscal incentives are offered which are
somewhat more attractive than those available in general under the
Investment Code. However, ZFID suffers from poor location and a heavy
administrative structure, and is subject to national wage and labor
legislation. The Government has taken action on this latter point through
the recent modification of the ZFID statute indicated above (para. 43). A
number of other reforms have been proposed by an internal Government study,
with a view to ensuring that ZFID enterprises enjoy in all areas at least
equivalent incentives to those available outside (non-discrimination) and



- 21 -
also benefit from additional export incentives. Notably, the reforms
proposed include measures to: (i) streamline the ZFID administration and
confirm its autonomy from Government; (ii) improve access to the local
market; (iii) confirm eligibility for the export subsidy scheme; and (iv)
introduce "free points" in Senegal where eligible enterprises could benefit
from the advantages of the ZFID statute. Following recent agreement on the
principal recommendations of this study, the Government has prepared r plan
of action satisfactory to the Bank for the implementation of various
measures. Given that the measures to be introduced should lead to an
increase in enterprises operating in the ZFID, the Government has agreed
with the Bank on necessary safeguards for environmental protection. As
part of the overall performance review, the implementation of the action
plan will be evaluated at second and third tranche release. The Government
will publish decrees to confirm the eligibility of ZFID enterprises for the
export subsidy scheme and to enable the establishment of "free points".
56.       As part of the Government's strategy to encourage exports, an
export subsidy scheme and a duty drawback scheme for exports were
introduced under previous SALs. A study undertaken to review the
effectiveness of the schemes indicated that the impact was considerably
reduced by substantial delays and uncertainties related to the payment of
the subsidies and the reimbursement of import duties.   Because of weak
scheme administration, these instruments are considered, outside
Government, exceptional benefits rather than guaranteed incentives to
export. Thus, exporting enterprises do not take those schemes into account
in developing cost structure, and the impact on improved competitiveness is
minimal. Simplification of procedures and documentation required from
exporters was recommended to ensure timely payments of benefits and to
reinforce the effectiveness of the incentive to export. Many of the
administrative delays currently experienced are expected to be reduced as a
result of the strengthening of the customs administration. Furthermore,
and given that the Government has recently decided for revenue reasons to
increase again some import tariffs on a temporary basis (para. 28), a
possible increase in the funding of the export subsidy scheme would have to
be considered to increase the relative attractiveness of the export market
for enterprises. The Government has committed itself in its Letter of
Development Policy to implementing the recommended reforms to the export
subsidy and duty drawback schemes.
57.       Special Agreements.  Under SAL IV, the process of re.'gotiation
and phase out of the special agreements will continue. Accordingly, for
all existing agreements, other than the three cases cited below, there will
be no extensions beyond the present expiration dates. in the future, all
enterprises would benefit only from advantages conferred under the general
and relevant special regimes provided for in the Investment Code. The
following agreements have been reached with regard to three particular
cases:
(a)  A revision to the SAR agreement is to be prepared, bearing in
mind the introduction of a new structure for petroleum product
prices. This revision would eliminate the provision of a
guaranteed profit to SAR. All other advantages would be phased
out by 1992;



- 22 -
(b)  A program of actions leading to the revision of the agreement
with CSS is to be included under the proposed Agricultural
Sector Adjustment Program; and
(c)  An operational and financial audit of SOCOCIM has been completed
and an action plan for the implementation of the audit
recommendations, including the revision of the pricing formula
for cement, has been discussed with the Bank at negotiations.
Imr., -iention of the plan is to be monitored as part of the
overall performance review. The SOCOCIM special agreement will
be amended and the pricing formula revised in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank.
C. Parapublic Sector Reform
Background
58.       At present, there are 85 public enterprises (PEs) in Senegal, of
which about 25 can be considered as non-commercial or administrative
entities.  The PEs account for about 29 percent of total investment in the
economy, 17 percent of total employment and only 7 percent of GDP.  The
Government's equity in the sector doubled over the period 1982-87, reaching
CFAF 218 billion in 1987 or 71 percent of total PE equity.  The financial
performance of the non-financial parapublic sector has been poor and has
resulted in a growing net budgetary burden, reaching more than CFAF 14
billion in 1988/89. This figure, which represents 6 percent of revenues
and 75 percent of the overall budget deficit, is only partial and does not
include either other explicit transfers (such as loans from the Treasury
and debt servicing), or implicit transfers (such as tax exemptions, loan
guarantees, foregone interest on arrears, preferential interest rates, and
distortions from price controls) which are both large and increasing.
Table 8: GOVERNMENT TRANSFERS TO PUBLIC ENTERPRISES
-------------------------..-------------------------------__----------------- _------------
Year      Amount pa
period    CFAF b
----------------------------------------------------------------------__-----__-----------
Direct Government transfers (net)                      1988/89      14.2
Operating subsidies                                 1988/89       12.3
Equipment subsidies                                 1988/89        1.9
Indirect transfers (including private and public)      1984/89      80.0
of which tax and Import duty exemptions                           68.0
of which Financial preferential treatment                         18 0
Cross-debt arrears (owed to the Government)
As of end-1988                                                    41.4
During 1987-88                                                    18 6
Accumulated Overdrafts to 'Etablissoments Publics      6/1989       16.7
Estimated annual increase                                          2.0
Banking borrowings                                     1987        188.0
(as percent total credit to the economy)            1987         41.1
Sources S:negal Parapublic Sector Review 1989; and iniotry Economy and Finance



- 23 -
59.       A further effect of the PE deficits is the growing pressure on
the banking system. Over the period 1985-87, the parapublic sector's share
in credits to public and private enterprises was about 95 percent of long-
term loans, 15 percent of medium-term loans and 25 percent of short-term
loans. In 1987 PE borrowings from the banking system amounted to CFAF 188
billion or 41 percent of total credit to the economy. These percentages
are far in excess of the sector's contribution to GDP. A large number of
these loans are non-performing and have thus contributed to the crisis in
the banking sector (para. 40).
Performance under Previous SALs.
60.       The process of parapublic sector reform in Senegal really
started in 1985 when the Government adopted a new policy for the sector
supported by SALs II and III. The two main objectives of the new policy
are the withdrawal of the Government from enterprises which the private
sector could manage better, and the improvement in the efficiency of those
PEs that would remain under Government control.  These were to be achieved
principally by: (i) pursuing privatizatior. or liquidatior of selected PE
enterprises; (ii) improving the management and performance of the remaining
PEs, inter alia, through contract plans; (iii) instituting simplified PE
sector control procedures; and (iv) improving the quality of PE sector
analysis.
61.       Under SAL II, the Government prepared a list of 26 enterprises
to be privatized, began the process of restructuring and withdrawing from
the rural development agencies, decided to liquidate nine enterprises,
merged two export promotion agencies, and reduced direct operating
subsidies to the sector by 5 percent in 1986/87 compared with 1985/86. The
Government also contributed to the preparation of contract plans for
selected enterprises, improved the sector data base, reconciled cross-
arrears between the state and the sector up to the end of 1985, and
completed a number of important studies of the sector. Under SAL III, ten
enterprises were put up for sale, liquidations of nine non-viable PEs were
completed, direct operating subsidies to the sector were decreased in
1987/88 and 1988/89, to 85 and 70 percent respectively of the 1985/86
level, and preparation of PE contract plans continued with some preliminary
measures to enforce financial discipline in their implementation. In
addition, cross-arrears up to the end of 1986 were determined, a plan to
phase out a priori controls over PEs over a two-year period was agreed
upon, and a study of the supervisory agencies was completed.
62.       The above steps have established a framework for reforms, but
hard decisions with respect to a meaningful reduction of the role of the
Government in the sector have yet to be taken. The performance of the
sector as a whole has continued to deteriorate. Institutional
strengthening has not resulted in the reduction of the budgetary burden.
However, the previous SAL-supported policy reforms were really begun in
1986 and it is too early for any major impact to be apparent. The
principal achievements of the earlier SALs includes (i) the improvement of
the information base on the sector; (ii) the formulation of policy measures



- 24 -
on the basis of sound analytic work; (iii) the strengthening of local
auditing and management consulting capacity; and (iv) increased awareness
among PE managers and Government of the need for PE reforms and of the
steps needed to achieve those reforms.
63.       A number of major issues, however, remain unresolved.  The
burden of the PEs on public finances is one of the most urgent problems
facing Senegal today. The measures to reduce direct operating subsidies
have not brought about the necessary improvements. Enterprises have found
other means of maintaining their activities at existing levels without
improving efficiency. Enterprises have exploited opportunities for
increasing reliance on indirect subsidies, have increased their overdrafts,
and have built up arrears. The ability of Government to define and to
control the extent of this problem has been constrained by institutional
weaknesses in the Ministry of Finance which is responsible for managing
financial relations with the PE sector.
64.       While the contract plans (CPs) have done much to improve
transparency and mutual responsibility, and to highlight some of the
shortcomings in the Government's financial maniagement, their working has
been hampered. The Government has consistently committed itself beyond its
financial means in the CPs signed to date and its inability to honor its
commitments is threatening the credibility of the CP process. Many of the
Government's reform objectives, such as subsidy reductions, have not been
included in the CPs and the limitations on available budgetary resources
have not been taken into account before commitments were made.
65.       Despite the decision announced in October 1987 to offer 10
enterprises for sale, progress on the realization of privatization plans
has been disappointing. To date, shares of only 3 of these enterprises
have actually been sold. The political uncertainties, the poor investment
climate and the absence of a serious financial squeeze on PEs were
important delaying factors, but the privatization program as originally
conceived has had several shortcomings. Some of the PEs selected have
structural and other problems that make them unattractive to potential
investors in their present state and the steps necessary to prepare them
for sale were not fully thought through. On the other hand, many good
potential privatization candidates were not on the list. The approach
adopted showed little flexibility and good privatization opportunities may
have been missed. The decision that the Government maintain a share in
enterprises which are purely commercial or industrial in nature proved to
be a disincentive for many potential investors. The logistical
arrangements and expertise available for handling the privatization program
were, at least until late 1988, inadequate.
66.       Finally, the present system for monitoring and controlling the
parapublic sector is complex and inadequate. The system as it stands leads
to duplication of effort, overlapping of responsibilities, and results in
conflicting recommendations for action to Government. This is slowing down
the collection and analysis of data. and the formulation and implementation
of the reform program. This has long been acknowledged in Senegal and
confirmed by studies but no effective action has been taken to resolve the
problem.



- 25 -
Proposed Reforms under SAL IV.
67.       Thus, there is still a clear need for a comprehensive, but well
focused, reform program for the PE sector in Senegal. The new sector
policy and the reforms initiated under the previous two SALs provide the
framework for the needed measures. The measures to be taken under SAL IV
require a deepened reform effort and concentration on certain priority
areas. There are essentially two inter-related policy decisions which need
to be taken and implemented: (i) drastic cuts in the amount of direct and
indirect subsidies; and (ii) a reduction in the number of enterprises to
remain under Government control.
68.       Financial Relations between Government and PEs.  To achieve the
related objectives of reducing the budgetary burden of the parapublic
sector and of increasing the sector's efficiency through greater financial
discipline, the Government has agreed: (i) to reduce explicit subsidy
transfers; (ii) to eliminate overdraft facilities; (iii) to settle cross-
debts; and (iv) to eliminate all implicit subsidies other than those
covered by special agreements or the Investment Code.
69.       The Government has agreed on the basis for defining the program
of direct subsidy reductions to be implemented under SAL IV. The
Government has decided: (i) to use budgeted figures for 1988/89 as the
basis for the subsidy reduction program after extending the coverage to all
PEs and administration entities; (ii) to make a distinction between the
treatment of operational subsidy for commercial versus non-commercial PEs;
and (iii) to treat investment subsidies separately from operational
subsidies. Operational subsidies to commercial PEs, 11 PEs as defined by
the Government (list B), which stood at CFAF 0.9 billion in 1988/89, will
be eliminated altogether over the SAL IV period. The rationale for this
policy action is that commercially-oriented PEs should be able to generate
adequate revenue on their own. Operational subsidies to non-commercial PEs
(list A, excluding COUD) will be reduced from CFAF 10.0 billion in 1988/89
to CFAF 7.4 billion in 1991/92. The rationale for this policy action is
that although subsidization of certain enterprises providing economic
benefits without commensurate financial cash flows is justified, there is a
need to ensure the efficient use and the most effective allocation of
scarce budgetary resources. COUD, which is expected to receive an
operational subsidy of CFAF 3.4 billion in 1989/90, is to be treated
separately pending the preparation of a restructuring program to be
developed by June 1990, the implementation of which will be covered under
the proposed Human Resources SECAL. The Government has agreed that total
direct subsidies will not exceed the following amounts: (a) for commercial
PEs CFAF 0.6b for 1989/90, CFAF 0.3b for 1990/91 and zero for 1991/92; (b)
for non-commercial PEs CFAF 9.9b for 1989/90, CFA7, 9.1b for 1990/91, and
CFAF 7.4b for 1991/92. These agreements are to be respected as conditions
for second and third tranche release.
70.       With regard to equipment subsidy, the Government has agreed in
principle that these subsidies, which amounted to CFAF 2.4b in the budget
of 1989/90, will be converted to long-term loans or equity injections for
PEs. On the budget side, equipment subsidies will be subject to the same



- 26 -
procedures and criteria applied to the rest of the public investment
program. While these changes may not directly and immediately affect the
level of budgetary expenditure, they are likely to improve the budgetary
situation in subsequent years. Budgetary improvements will materialize as
enterprises begin to repay the government for the loans or as they begin,
in the case of profit-making enterprises, to remit dividends to the
Treasury. The new arrangements will, furthermore, put the pressure on PE
managers to bear the cost of borrowing, which, in combination with
recommended institutional reforms, should result in efficiency improvements
at the enterprise level. The Government has issued a circular confirming
the adoption of the new policy on equipment subsidies.
71.       The Government recognizes that operational subsidy reductions
should not be considered in isolation from the question of overdrafts.
Overdrafts, which are in effect a cross-subsidization between the 18
aetablissements publics" (EPs) whose finances are presently controlled by
the Ministry of Finance's Central Accounting Agency (ACC), have been
increasing just ds the subsidy reductions under SAL III were being carried
out. Ten out of the eighteen EPs have accumulated overdrafts which
amounted to CFAF 16.7b by end June 1989, up from CFAF 12.2b one year
previously. The rate of increase in the overdrafts in the first six months
of 1989 corresponds to an average annual increase of about CFAF 2.Ob.
These overdrafts are used by their recipients largely to finance working
capital, including salaries. This practice, which is facilitated by the
existence of the ACC, has adverse but delayed repercussions on the budget
and on the efficiency of PEs. As the recipients of overdrafts are
administrative type EPs (such as COUD and ISRA) that are in no position to
repay them, the ultimate responsibility of settling these overdrafts rests
with the Government as the owner. As a result, the temporary budgetary
relief, resulting from actions te reduce operational subsidies to PEs at
one point, is offset by budgetary imbalances at a later point. On the
enterprise side, the practice of cross-subsidization has the added
disadvantages of encouraging cost inefficient behavior on the part of the
recipients of overdrafts, and discouraging profit-making enterprises from
striving to maximize their revenue. To remedy this situation, the
Government has taken action as agreed, through its circular of August 18,
1989, to discontinue from July 1989 the practice of allowing EPs to have
overdrafts with the ACC, and to freeze accumulated overdrafts as of that
date. The Government has also agreed to transform the overdrafts into
long-term loans in July 1990 and to write-off by July 1991 that portion of
the corresponding debt which cannot be repaid.
72.       Arrangements will be made for timely disbursement of subsidies
allocated in the national budget to allow the EPs to finance their working
capital requirements. The Government also agreed to speed-up the process
of transforming all commercially-oriented EPs under the ACC into autonomous
societes nationales (SNs) and will transfer all non-commercial EPs under
the ACC to the central administration by June 1990. The combined financial
effect of the agreed actions on the reduction of subsidies and the
elimination of new overdrafts is estimated to be CFAF 5.5b, or 39 percent
of the 1988/89 amount (excluding COUD), over the SAL IV period.



- 27 -
73.       Cross-debts between the Government and PEs were identified for
the period ending 1986 as of mid-1987. The persistence and the magnitude
of the cross-debt problem have perverse effects on the financial management
of PEs and create severe cash flow difficulties for particular enterprises.
Attempts to settle them began under SAL III. As a result of these efforts,
the amount of undisputed 1986 cross-debts owed by the Government to PEs had
declined, upon settlement, from CFAF 40b to CFAF 32.9b by the end of June
1989. Similarly, undisputed 1986 cross-debts owed by PEs to the Government
have declined, also upon settlement, from CFAF 59b to CFAF 55.7b by the end
of June 1989. On balance, therefore, PEs continued to owe the Government
CFAF 22.8b as of the end of June 1989.
74.       Despite these efforts, the process of settling outstanding 1986
cross-debts has been modest and slow. There is yet a long way to go in
settling 1986 undisputed cross-debts. The 1986 disputed cross-debts and
inter PE cross-debts are unidentified. Moreover, net cross-debts have
continued to accumulate since 1986 and have increased by an additional CFAF
18.5b owed to the Government as of December 1988. The Government has taken
the first steps in the direction of defining actions to prevent the
recurrence of that problem. These measures include the establishment of a
clearing house to track future cross-debts and the development of measures
to control government consumpticn of services from the main creditor PEs,
i.e., SONEES (water), SENELEC (electricity), and SONATEL
(telecommunications). PE management performance on debt recovery will be
one factor in determining bonus payments for managers under the proposed
incentive system. The Government has prepared a comprehens-e action plan
to settle all cross-debts as of end 1989 and proposed measures which
include action to be undertaken at the enterprise level to prevent the
recurrence of cross-debts. As part of the action plan, the Government has
agreed before second tranche release to: (a) cancel all undisputed cross-
debts between Government and PEs, and among PEs as of December 31, 1989;
(b) write off all debts of non-commercial PEs to the Government as of
December 31, 1989; (c) budget in 1990/91 for at least one third of
uncompensated debts owed to PEs as of December 31, 1988; (d) settle all
disputed cross-debts between Government and PEs as of December 31, 1989;
and (e) assure at least one third of debts owed to Government by commercial
PEs as of December 31, 1988 have been settled.  The Government has
furthermore agreed before third tranche release to: (a) budget in 1991192
for at least one third of all debts owed to the PEs as of December 31,
1989; and (b) assure at least one third of all debts owed to Government by
commercial PEs as of December 31, 1989 have been settled. Prior to second
tranche release, the Government and the Bank will review the procedures put
in place to prevent the recurrence of cross-debts, and the Government will
adopt any additional measures required.
75.       The consultant study on indirect subsidies, which was prepared
in 1987 and financed under the second parapublic TA project, estimated the
cost to the Government in terms of foregone revenue of the indirect subsidy
transfers to all public and private enterprises to be as high as CFAF 80b
per year during the period 1984/89. Most of these subsidies, CFAF 58b
equivalent, were attributed to privileges accorded by the special
agreements and the Investment Code. The second largest component of
implicit subsidies, about CFAF 18b, was attributed to financial



- 28 -
transactions, including interest rate differentials for loans on-sent by
the Government to PEs and Government guarantees of PE borrowing. Action is
being taken on privileges accorded under the special agreements whereby the
Government has agreed to renegotiate several of the most important cases
(see para. 54) and not to pursue any new agreements. With regard to the
implicit subsidies associated with the preferential access to credit for
PEs, two actions have been agreed to and implemented by the Government per
circular dated August 14, 1989. Firstly, the Government has stated that
all externally-funded loans to PEs will be on-lent by Government at
commercial interest rates, except where the donor agency has a condition
for on-lending at a concessionary interest rate. Secondly, the government
has abolished the policy of Government guarantees of domestic loans to PEs.
The impact of these combined actions will be to reduce the distortive and
crowding-out effects of the current credit allocation policy. The
measures, furthermore, will contribute to increasing the transparency and
proper scrutiny of allocated subsidies. The Government, thus, has taken
action on eliminating these implicit financial subsidies.
76.       Privatization and Liquidation.  With the reduction in the amount
of direct and indirect subsidies, PEs will be forced to adjust to market
conditions, and to improve their financial performance. This change will
help to accelerate the process of liquidation of PEs which are unviable
from both economic and financial perspectives. The Government has,
furthermore, accepted that most viable PEs of a commercial or industrial
nature could be more efficiently managed in the private sector and could be
better able to exploit market opportunities. To accelerate the process of
divestiture, a number of accompanying measures will have to be put in place
under SAL IV. These will include the use of appropriate expertise to
execute the necessary preparatory 7fork for sale, the formal involvement of
the private sector in advising Government on privatization, and the
establishment of capital markets to broaden the range of financial
instruments available for privatization. The Government has prepared a
satisfactory strategy paper for future privatization which addresses inter
alia, questions related to such issues as incentives (fiscal, monopoly),
foreign participation, minimum government ownership, and liquidation in the
event the prospect for sale is not good.
77.       A detailed program of privatization of 30 PEs, to be implemented
over the period of SAL IV, has been agreed to by the Government. Of these
PEs, 20 were on the list of candidates for privatization agreed to
originally under SAL III. A timetable for the preparation and formal offer
for sale in a manner satisfactory to the Bank has been agreed to by the
Government as follows: 8 PEs by Board presentation; 9 PEs by the second
tranche release; and 13 PEs before the third tranche release. The overall
performance review at second and third tranche release will include
progress on the privatisation of PEs offered for sale and actions to be
taken by Government for PEs remaining unsold.
78.       The Government has agreed to liquidate at least ten PEs during
the SAL IV period. A recent study has identified 12 candidates for
liquidation. Of these, preparations for the liquidation of three PEs are
advanced, and two more PEs are being proposed for liquidation. More PEs
will be added to the list of potential liquidations if attempts to



- 29 -
privatise them are unsuccessful.   As a condition of the second tranche
release, liquidation decrees of five PEs are to be signed and operations
halted. A list of at least five additional PEs for liquidation would be
approved by the Government by June 1990 and liquidation decrees are to be
signed and operations are to be halted as a condition of third tranche
release.
79.       The enterprises earmarked for privatisation during the SAL IV
period account for over CFAF 18b of Government participation in equity
capital or around 11 percent of total Government equity in the PE sector.
Around 7,500 people are employed by these enterprises or about 25 percent
of total employment in the sector. The first group of enterprises to be
liquidated will account for about an additional CFAF 2b of Government
equity participation and will affect another 1,000 employees. The second
group of enterprises for liquidation will account for an as yet
undetermined supplementary reduction. Operational subsidies to all the
enterprises scheduled for privatization or liquidation amounted to around
CFAF 660 million in 1988/89 or about 5 percent of total operational
subsidies to the sector. The enterprises are mostly industrial or
commercial in character and include hotels, banks, and manufacturing, agro-
industrial, housing and construction, distribution, and ship-repair
entities.
80.       The percentages of total Government equity capital and total
operating subsidies accounted for by PEs to be privatised or liquidated are
relatively small because the enterprises with the highest Government
investment and operating subsidies are those which will remain in the
Government portfolio. For example, Government equity in the power utility
(SENELEC) alone accounts for over CFAF 60b, 36 percent of the total, and
over 90 percent of total operational subsidies are transferred to non-
commercial PEs which are not candidates for privatization in the short-
term.
81.       The Government has associated the private sector in the
implementation of the privatization program. A letter was sent by the
Government in July 1989 to the employers' organization, the Conseil
National du Patronat (CNP), inviting the CNP to nominate two private sector
representatives to the Consultative Committee on the Public Enterprise
Sector. The reconstituted committee will meet regularly to discuss the
privatization program and other aspects of PE reform. It was agreed that
specialist outside advice would be secured by the Delegation a la Reforme
du Secteur Parapublic (DRSP) for the entire period of SAL IV to help
implement the privatization program. Such help will be indispensable for
the program's success. This will mean in practice that the DRSP will
continue the process already begun of employing qualified consultants to
help at all stages in the privatization process of individual PEs, and will
maintain the presence of full-time privatization advisors in the DRSP. At
present, the British Government is planning to provide short-term
assistance in the evaluation of privatization efforts to date and in
providing practical advice for implementation of the program. The Canadian
and French Governments are financing two full-time privatization advisors
to the DRSP and the Bank's Second Parapublic Technical Assistance Project
is financing international consultants to work on individual



- 30 -
privatizations. The SAL will include a TA component to continue the
support for the PE reform after the closure of the TA project in December
1989 (see below.)
82.       A study, to be financed by the Bank, on the potential for
creating a secondary market for shares in private sector enterprises, will
be completed by June 1990. Terms of reference were agreed upon during the
appraisal. Action satisfactory to the Bank will be taken on the
recommendations of the study before December 1990.
83.       Enterprise Rehabilitation.  A timetable, formally agreed to by
the Government and the Bank, for the preparation of rehabilitation programs
or signature of contract plans (CPs) has been prepared. Based on the
experience under the previous SALs, these CPs will include all subsidy
reductions, cross-debt settlements, and financial transactions with the
Government for each enterprise and performance incentive bonuses for PE
managers. No CPs will be effective until the resources in the Government
budget have been identified to finance the stated obligations. Therefore,
CPs will have to be renegotiated on an annual basis to reflect the
budgetary situation. The Government will honor all commitments during the
SAL IV period. The DRSP will advise on measures that need to be taken at
the enterprise level to ensure compliance with CPs. These actions are
expected to increase the utility of CPs as an instrument for encouraging
performance improvement of PEs and for ensuring efficient allocation of
scarce budgetary resources to where they are most needed.
84.       The Government will sign CPs by the June 30, 1990 with OHLM
(housing), PAD (Dakar port), RCFS (railway), OPCE (post office), and
SONATRA (transport). The signed and effective CPs are to be submitted to
the Bank to ensure that the agreed upon measures for subsidy reduction and
cross-debt settlement have been taken into account. The overall
performance review at second and third tranche release will include an
assessment of the Government's honoring its commitments under these CPs.
85.       Legal and Institutional Reforms. In addition to the above
measures for rationalizing the PE sector, there are a number of legal and
institutional changes which need to be made with the objective of improving
the institutional framework for PE sector reform. These changes include:
(i) strengthening the DRSP as the only agency outside the Finance Ministry
responsible for formulating, managing, and monitoring the reform program of
the parapublic sector in Senegal; (ii) strengthening the "Cellule du
Secteur Parapublic" (CSP) in the Finance Ministry by giving it the
authority and responsibility for overseeing the financial relations between
the Government and the PE sector and for operating the financial management
information system; (iii) curtailing the roles of the other supervisory
agencies to a posteriori monitoring of compliance with legal requirements;
(iv) eliminating special controls on mixed-companies in which Government is
a minority partner; and (v) improving the composition of PE Boards of
Directors.
86.       The Government has agreed that, for the PE reform program to be
successful, the DRSP must be provided with the financial and manpower
resources it needs for the entire period of SAL IV. This includes local



- 31 -
and external resources. The DRSP will establish a PE sector information
system which will be operational by March 1990. It is proposed that this
system be used, among other purposes, for the operation of the incentives
system for PE managers aimed at rewarding those managers who achieve their
established targets. The DRSP will be responsible for the overall
management of the privatization and liquidation program and the preparation
and monitoring of rehabilitation programs and contract plans for those PEs
remaining under Government control. The DRSP will also carry out critical
studies on the PE sector to monitor the progress and update the content of
the PE reform program. It will be responsible for overseeing the
implementation of the legal reforms of the PE sector.
87.       The Government has also agreed that the CSP will be strengthened
to enable it to monitor all financial transactions between the Government
and the PE sector. The CSP will be in charge of the implementation of
measures aimed at preventing the recurrence of the cross-debt problem. The
CSP will also manage an information system on PE financial transactions,
which will be compatible with and linked to the system managed by the DRSP,
and which is also expected to be operational by March 1990.
88.       In line with the need to streamline the institutional framework,
the Government has agreed to take action, to include the preparation of a
modification of the PE Sector Law 87-19, with the objective of achieving
the following results:
(a)    Removal of the provision in the law which permits the signing of
a decree to impose the whole range of special controls which
apply to majority State-owned PEs on those SEMs in which the
Government is a minority partner, and also on private sector
companies which have received financial support from the
Government;
(b)    Elimination of the right of veto on PE Board decisions by the
Financial Controller of the Presidency (CFP);
(c)    Limitation of the role of the Organization and Methods Office of
the Presidency (BOM) in the PE sector to responding to specific
requests from PEs Boards of Directors;
(d)    Limitation of the activities of the Audit Commission (CVCCEP) to
its role of a posteriori auditing of PE accounts so that the
CVCCEP is not involved in providing organizational or management
advice to PEs except insofar as it concerns their accounting
systems;
(e)    Closure of the Centre des Etablissements Publics (CEP) which
includes the Agent Comptable Central (ACC) and the ContrOleur
des Operations Financieres (COF) which will imply the
transformation of all Etablissements Publics (EPs) of a
commercial or industrial nature into independent Societes
IJationales (SNs) and the inclusion of all administrative type
EPs in the central administration; and



- 32 -
(f)    Reconstitution of PE Boards of Directors so that at least two
Board members are required to be selected for their expertise,
not for their ex officio positions in the administration nor for
their representation of special interest groups.
89.       A copy of the modified drafts, or new texts, will be submitted
to the Bank for examination and comments, and agreement will be reached
between the Bank and the Government before submission of the text to the
National Assembly.
90.       Technical assistance needs.  PE reform in Senegal has been
supported by the Bank's Second Parapublic Technical Assistance (TA) Project
(Credit No. 1398-SE), due to close in December 1989. In order to maintain
the momentum of the proposed reforms, the Government has agreed with the
Bank that up to US$4 million out of the amount of the credit from SAL IV
will be affected to TA requirements. About 25 percent of this amount (US$1
million) will finance the continuation of the functioning of the DRSP and
of the CSP (paras. 86-87). This will include the cost of local
consultants. The remainder (US$3 million) will finance consultants and
technical assistance necessary for the preparatory work and implementation
of the privatization and PE rehabilitation programs.
D. Civil Service Reform
Background and Performance under Previous SALs
91.       The high cost and the poor performance of the civil service have
posed major constraints on the Government's ability to manage the economy.
A first attempt was made in 1976 to reorganize the central ministries
(Ol'op4ration organigramme") with a view to downsizing staff, reducing wage
costs, and improving efficiency. The program had to be abandoned because
of resistance from some ministries. From 1982 onwards, in the face of
mounting fiscal deficits, the Government has been taking steps to maintain
a ceiling on the number of civil servants, to freeze salaries, and to
improve the management of the civil service. These measures have been
supported by SAL II and SAL III.
92.       Under SAL II, the Government froze the number of civil servants
at the level of July 1985, that is, just over 70,000. Under SAL III, the
first steps were taken towards reducing civil service numbers by holding
personnel to their June 1987 level of 68,000 Although the wage bill
remained roughly constant in real terms during SAL II and SAL III, it was
reduced in 1988/89 to 51 percent of operating expenditure and to 46 percent
of revenue. Targets under both SALS were met; however, the resultant
reduction in the wage bill was too modest in both absolute and relative
terms to have a major impact on the budget.
93.       The Government has recognized that further progress on civil
service reorganization and cost reduction depends to a large extent on
improving the quality of management of a number of civil service
departments and agencies. Under SAL III, a number of actions were
initiated to strengthen personnel management, specifically through the
first staff census in April 1987, the study of the reorganization of the



- 33 -
central ?ayroll agency and of the civil service directorate, and a review
of procedures and policies. However, progress in implementing these
measures and in defining the required follow-up actions has been slow.
Table 4: CIVIL SERVICE WAGE BILL INDICATORS
…_________________________________________-_______________________________
1984/86  1986/88  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89
-------------------------------------------------------------__------------
Wage bill (CFAF, billions)  106.8   111.8   119.8   122.8  126.1
Real growth (percent)            -3.2     2.1    -0.4   -0.2
Wage bill as percont of
Total current expenditures 49.1    60.7    61.6    60.0   50.4
(SAL III targets)                               62.0   61.0
Current exp. *xcl. debt   61.7    82.4    82.0    61.8   82.2
Revenues (excl. grants)   62.8    61.1    47.7    48.8   46.8
Total civil servants    87034   88843   88131   67100  68649
Proposed Reforms under SAL IV
94.       In order to improve the efficiency and motivation of the civil
service and reduce the wage bill, the Government is committed to
implementing a comprehensive reform program which will include a
restructuring of key ministries and a substantial reduction in the number
of staff. During the SAL IV period, there will be a net reduction in the
number of civil servants by 4,806 (7.2 percent of the total numbers at the
end of June 1989), and a reduction of the annual wage bill from the
original projected level of CFAF 131.6 billion in 1989/90 to CFAF 126.8
billion for the same period, and CFAF 125 billion thereafter. In the
process, the number of civil servants per 1,000 people would be reduced
from the current 9.0 to 7.7 by June 1992, a ratio comparable to that of
other African countries with better resource endowments than Senegal. The
savings from these reductions will help, inter alia, finance incentives for
good performance and increase overall civil service efficiency. The three
main components of the reform program are: (i) reduction in the number of
civil servants through a program of administrative restructuring and
voluntary departures; (ii) management of the wage bill within a tightly
defined ceiling; and (iii) further institutional reforms to increase civil
service efficiency.
Staff Reductions
95.       Although the Government has long considered the downsizing of
the civil service to be a politically delicate undertaking, it now
recognizes that staff reductions are crucial to improve the allocation of
scarce domestic resources and to increase the efficiency of the civil
service. These reductions are expected to be achieved primarily through a
major restructuring of the administration, leading to the reorganization,
or in some cases elimination, of certain departments, and to the
"privatization" of others, i.e., all those that can generate revenues.
Implementation will be by means of a voluntary departure program (see



- 34 -
below). This program will be open to staff from all ministries, with the
exception of the teaching staff in the Ministry of Education, medical staff
in the Ministry of Health, military personnel in the armed forces, as well
as the police.
96.       Gross Reduction.  The Government's proposed measures are
expected to result in 8,642 gross staff reductions by June 1992. Details
on the expected reduction during the next three years are given in Table 5
and summarized below:
(a)  Restructure the administration and reduce the number of
ministries from 26 to 15; this will be followed by an
organizational audit of all ministries to identify additional
redundant positions. About 2,850 positions will be eliminated
by this measure, 1,400 (49 percent) of which by June 1990; this
represents 33 percent of the total planned gross reduction over
the period;
(b)  Implement an early retirement program for staff aged 48 years or
over. Approximately 1,450 persons will be affected, all of them
by June 1990: this represents 29 percent of the gross reductions
projected during the 'irst year, and 17 percent of the total
gross reduction over the period;
(c)  "Privatize" selected government services; 1,309 staff,
representing 15 percent of the total gross reduction, will be
affected by this measure. The bulk of the first-year reduction
will come from the privatization of road maintenance services,
consistent with the policy reforms of the Bank Transport SECAL
currently under preparation. In addition, the Government will
study the feasability of privatizing hospital and related
services, which would release an additional 1,279 positions from
the civil service.
(d)  Eliminate from the payroll those civil servants identified as
irregular in a second staff census, which is conservatively
estimated to involve 370 civil service positions during the
first year. This recently completed census of the ministries of
education, health, rural development, and equipment was
undertaken by the Government after the first census of the
entire civil service, started in 1987, unearthed more than 5,000
irregular employees; and
(e)  Facilitate normal retirement which is expected to release close
to 2,700 positions over the SAL IV period, equivalent to 31
percent of the total gross planned reductions.
97.       Recruitment.  Senegal has one of the lowest primary school
enrollment ratios in Africa, and health coverage is deficient as well. In
order to increase the country's educational capacity, a total of about
1,900 primary school teachers are expected to be hired, equivalent to half
the projected total recruitment. The other recruitments involve mostly
health personnel and graduates of Government training schools. The



- 35 -
practice of automatic hiring of graduates from these schools will cease
completely in June 1992 in order to accomodate the class entering in the
fall of 1990.
Table S  CIVIL SERVICE STAFF REDUCTIONS, 1989/90-1991/92
1989/90  1990/91 1991/92 Totl  D Oistrib. (X)
Total Reductions     4.932   2.666   1.155   8.642   100.0
Program Departures
Restructuring      1,400   1,000    460   2,860   88.0
Early retIreent    1,460       0      0   1,460   16.8
Privatlzation        718    696       0   1,309    16.1
Other
Irregularities       870                    870    4.8
Attrition            999    959    706   2,663    80.8
Total Recruitments   1 400   1 281   1 166   8 836   100.0
Educatron           *436    *i8    7Y    'i    49.9
Other                966    se0    ass   1,923   60.1
(as percontage of
program departures)  (27)   (38)   (80)   (34)
Net Reductions       8.682   1.274      0   4.808
Total Civil Servents   63,017  61,748  81,748
98.       The Government has agreed, in principle, to bar from recruitment
any former civil servant who benefits from the departure program, and to
carry out recruitments in a manner consistent with the staff reduction
effort in each of the three years. A ratio defined as the "number of
recruits (excluding teachers) divided by the number of program departures"
meets this concern. Teacher recruitment is excluded from the definition of
the ratio to safeguard staffing needs in the education sector. Based on
the Government's program summarized in Table 5 above, this ratio averages
34 percent for the SAL IV period (ranging between 27 percent in 1989/90 and
80 percent in 1991/92). The Government is committed to limit recruitments
in the education sector to 435 in 1989/90, 681 in 1990/91 and 797 in
1991/92. Respectively as conditions of second and third tranche release
the aforementioned ratio will not exceed 27 percent for 1989/90 and 38
percent for 1990/91. If, however, the total number of program departures
during 1989/90 is lower than anticipated, the Government is nonetheless
committed to a minimum net reduction of 564 staff, a reduction consistent
with the recent downward trend. The Government will evaluate the
performance of the first phase of the voluntary departure program before
September 30, 1990, and, in the event of significantly lower numbers of
,iepartures than projected, will take all necessary additional measures in
t:onsultation with the Bank in order to ensure the success of the program.
The adherence to the aforementioned ceilings on recruitment and staff
reductions will be conditions for the second and third tranche releases.



- 36 -
Wage Bill Management
99.       Overall objectives.  Effective July 1, 1989, civil service
salaries which had not been adjusted since 1983 were increased by CFAF
3,000 per employee, or about 2.5 percent of the average salary. Special
additional increases were granted at the same time to education and health
sector staff. This total wage adjustment of CFAF 4.5 billion is in
addition to the wage increases due to automatic promotions, estimated at
CFAF 2 billion. As a result, the total wage bill (defined as the sum of
all base salaries, indemnities, family allowances, retirement fund
contributions, hospital and transportation benefits, and variable elements
such as overtime, backpay, and advances) would have increased from CFAF
125.1 billion in 1988/89 to CFAF 131.6 billion for 1989/90 without other
action by the Covernment. The Government is committed, however, to reduce
the wage bill to CFAF 126.8 billion in 1989/90, without resorting to
accumulating arrears, and to maintain it at or below CFAF 125 billion in
1990/91 and 1991/92. This last commitment is a condition for the second
and third tranche releases. The long-term goal is to maintain the wage bill
below 40 percent of revenues.
100.      Wage bill management measures.  In addition to staff downsizing,
a number of policy decisions and improvements in the numagement of the wage
bill components make these reductions possible; successful implementation
is a condition for the second and third tranche releases:
(a)  There will be no salary increase until June 1992, with the
exception of performance incentive bonuses, which may become
effective in July 1991 at the earliest if certain conditions are
met (see below). These bonuses, to be determined by a study
undertaken within the framework of the Development Management
Project (PAGD), w.ll be independent of the base salary, and
their total amount determined in consultation with the Bank;
(b)  All potential economies on the wage bill (defined as the
difference between the above-mentioned ceilings and the actual
wage bill before any action is taken on arrears settlement,
Government contribution to the compensation package, and
incentive bonuses) will be allocated as follows, in this order
of priority: (i) settlement of backpay arrears (the current
amount of backpay arrears is unknown, but will be determined in
April 1990 when the career situation of all civil servants is
fully updated. A timetable for the settlement of these arrears
will then be established.); (ii) Government contribution to the
funding of the separation packages; and (iii) performance
incentive bonuses, to be implemented on July 1st 1991 at the
earliest. Of these economies, savings from the civil service
reductions alone are estimated at about US$ 36 million on a
cumulative basis for the three-year period (Table 6);
(c) Computation rules for all indemnities will be rationalized and
consolidated in order to avoid the cumulation of benefits;



- 37 -
(d)  The Government's contribution to the civil service retirement
funds will be reduced from 20 percent to 15 percent of the base
salary; and
(e)  The current system of reimbursement for hospitalization and
transport costs will be modified in order to rationalize
payments and eliminate irregularities.
Institutional Reform
101.      In order to achieve the wage bill and staff level targets during
the SAL IV period and sustain these achievements beyond 1992, the
Government has identified the following critical measures:
(a)  Upgrade the status of the Central Payroll Agency into a
Directorate;
(b)  Improve the structures, administrative procedures, and the
quality of staff of the new Central Payroll Directorate, the
Civil Service Directorate, and the personnel units (DAGE, SAGE)
in the sectoral ministries;
(c)  Introduce a standardized automatic information processing
capability at the Civil Service Directorate and the Central
Payroll Directorate; and
(d) Review the current training policy and the role of Government
pre-service training schools.
Some of these measures have been defined under the PAGD; actual
implementation would require firm political commitment because of
bureaucratic vested interests and inertia. To ensure effective
implementation of reform measures envisaged under this component, the
Government will accelerate the adoption of a new organizational chart and
staffing level for the Central Payroll Directorate, the Civil Service
Directorate, and the sectoral personnel units. It also plans to
decentralize the personnel computerized data processing to the level of the
Payroll and Civil Service Directorates, instead of having personnel data
treated by the Computer Data Processing Directorate of the Ministry of
Economy and Finance. Progress in implementing improved organizational
charts and staffing patterns of the Civil Service and Central Payroll
Directorates, and key sectoral personnel units, and a computerized data
processing system will be reviewed at second and third tranche release.
Modalities of departure and financing of separation packages
102.      Modalities of departure.  The voluntary departure program is
expected to be implemented in January 1990. It will be open to all civil
servants (with the exception of those mentioned in para. 95) with a minimum
of 5 years of government work. Those younger than 48 years will be offered
a fixed compensation package, consisting of 60 months of salary (base
salary plus indemnities) for the lowest pay grades (D and E), and 48 months
for all others; those aged 48 to 55 will be eligible for early retirement,



- 38 -
and awarded compensation equal to 75 percent of the number of months
remaining before they reach age 55, with a maximum of 48 months of salary.
In addition those civil servants losing their position as a result of the
restructuring will be placed on administrative leave ("mis a la disposition
du Ministere de la Fonction Publique') until their voluntary departure, or
reassignment, while those working in units to be privatized will be
offered 12 months of salary as compensation for the loss of their civil
service status. For both voluntary departures and early retirements, staff
will have six months during which they will be entitled to the separation
package: they will be granted full compensation if they decide to leave
within the firat four months of the program, and only half of that
compensation if they leave on the fifth or sixth month. Payments of the
separation packages will be made from a special Fund ("Fonds de Reserven),
to be created to that effect in January 1990.
103.      Financing the Incentives for Departure.  To minimize political
resistance, the Government stresses the voluntary character of tuLe staff
reduction program and the importance of providing attractive incentive
packages. The total cost of the packages is estimated at US$ 69 million.
The Government, in cooperation with the Bank, has mobilized donor support
towards that end. As of now, some US $ 65 million have been secured,
either specifically earmarked from Lhe donors such as France (US $ 15.8
million) and the African Development Bank (US $ 2.4 million) or through the
use of counterpart funds to SAL IV financing. It is worth mentioning,
however, that the economies resulting from the reduction program would
offset the full compensation cost in about five years from the date of
implementation of the program.
Table 6: FINANCIAL IMPACT OF THE CIVIL SERVICE REDUCTION PROGRAM
(millions of US dollars)
1989/90    1990/91    1991/92  Total
Financing requireents       42.0        19.6       7.7    69.8
Economies on wage bill
Incremental savings       8.4 !/      1.8      0.0
Cumulative savings        3.4        16.6     17.8    86.2
p/ Reprosenta *conomies during the lost quarter of the fiscal year; for the
year as a whole, these economies would amount to CFAF 18.6 billion.
Managing the reform program
104.      The Government has agreed that the primary responsibility for
coordinating the implementation of the civil service reform component will
rest with a special interministerial committee ("Comite de Pilotage"),
composed of a limited number of senior officials representing relevant key
ministries, and placed under the direct chairmanship of the Minister of
State. This committee is to be created shortly, and its life limited to
the duration of the program.



- 39 -
E. Social Dimension of Adiustment
105.      Over the medium-term, the reforms anticipated under SAL IV,
combined with those initiated under the previous two SALs, are expected to
lead to better use of public resources (including adequate provisions for
basic needs fulfillment), efficient and active involvement of the private
sector in the development process, lower inflation rates and, consequently,
real increases in per capita income of the order of one percent per annum
in combination with higher employment growth. Both urban and rural average
incomes are expected to increase. While the proposed adjustment program
focuses primarily on directly productive activities, other Bank activities
(particularly those in the pipeline such as the Human Resources SECAL and
the Employment Project), along with parallel initiatives of the NGOs, are
tackling important social issues such as employment and basic needs
fulfillment. It is, however, anticipated that the reform program will
create real transitional costs for the economy and for certain groups in
society, mainly in the form of job losses as the civil service, public
enterprises, and financial inetitutions are restructured or abolished.
106.      To minimize the adverse short-term impact of the structural
adjustment process on specific socio-economic groups, the Government
undertook under SAL III, a series of measures focused on creating jobs.
Thus, a National Employment Fund (FNE) and the "Delegation & l'Insertion, a
la Reinsertion et a l'Emploi" (DIRE) were created in 1987 to ease the
transition of laid-off workers in the parapublic and industrial sectors and
to stimulate voluntary resignation from the civil service. Unemployed
graduate students and immigrants returning from abroad are also eligible
for assistance under this fund. To date, the fund has created over 1,000
new jobs at a cost of US$5 million. The Government undertook, with the
UNDP/Bank support, the development of a monitoring system of the evolution
of socio-economic conditions under structural adjustment, the first phase
of which is progressing well. A study fund was also established for socio-
economic studies that will identify projects and programs to minimize the
cost of adjustment for the most vulnerable groups.
107.      Under SAL IV, the Government will consolidate and reinforce the
above measures (including a survey of former civil servants to monitor
their reinsertion in the private sector) and focus on job creation because
the proposed adjustment operation will lead to more substantial employment
cutbacks in the civil service, the parastatal sector, and the banking
sector than was the case under the previous SALs. Firstly, the Government
will review its experience with the FNE/DIRE program with the view of
expanding the program if deemed successful. Draft terms-of-reference for
this review have been agreed to with the Government and the study is
expected to be completed shortly. An action plan will then be developed by
the Government and agreed upon with the Bank. The action plan will
include, among other things, the reinforcement of the monitoring system and
the involvement of additional financing institutions in implementing the
program.
108.      Secondly, a significant effort is being deployed by the Bank and
the donor community in the design and implementation of innovative job
creation programs that support SAL IV adjustment efforts. At the



- 40 -
initiative of the Government, a donors' conference was held in Paris in May
1989 to marshall support for the Government's Program of Action for Youth
Employment. This program consists of a large number of small projects,
most of them in urban infrastructure maintenance and rehabilitation, with
the potential of creating nearly 45,000 jobs over a 4-5 year period.
Funding for about half of the program's approximate cost of US$100 million
has already been identified. The proposed program management is noteworthy
for its flexibility, autonomy, and ability to activate quick administrative
and financial decisions. A key part of the program is the Bank's Public
Works and Employment Project (Cr. 8032-SE), a US$20 million project
predicated on identifying repair, rehabilitation, and maintenance in mostly
urban areas, which can be undertaken by small contractors who use labor-
intensive methods. The construction subsector has been targeted by the
project because of its relatively low skill requirements and flexible
hiring patterns, and because of the large volume of potential
rehabilitation works already identified. In addition to the short-term
benefit of creating paid employment and, thereby, easing the initial
employment costs of adjustment which fall primarily on the urban poor, the
project aims at increasing the long-term skills of both small contractors
and their temporary employees. Projects will be approved by the program
management unit provided they meet the key eligibility criteria of
readiness for execution, labor-intensity, high economic benefit, and skill
enhancement.
109.      Thirdly, to protect particularly vulnerable groulps of the
general population from the potential adverse effects of the expenditure
containment measures included in SAL IV, the Government has agreed that it
would monitor public expenditure programs in the education and health
sectors to ensure that adequate resources are made available for primary
health and primary education.  *he statistical data base required as an
input to this exercise will be provided by the household income and
expenditure survey financed in part under the ongoing Development
Management Project, which will begin in earnest by February 1990. Initial
results should be available by September 1990 to facilitate estimates as to
the demand for health and primary education services by both the urban and
rural poor. On the basis of these preliminary estimates, the level,
pattern, and adequacy of public expenditures in these subsectors will be
examined and expenditure reallocations proposed for the 1991/1992 budget.
The Government will complete the required analysis and makes satisfactory
proposals for necessary expenditure reallocations to be included in the
1991/1992 budget.
IV. THE PROPOSED OPERATION
Financing and Management of the Program
110.      Borrower and Credit Amount.  It is proposed that the
Government's adjustment program be supported by an IDA credit on standard
terms of the equivalent of US$ 80 million, and by a Special Joint Financing



- 41 -
non-reimbursable contribution of US$6.3 million equivalent from
Switzerland, to be administered by IDA. The borrower would be the
Government of Senegal. Because of past experience with slow implementation
of reforms in Senegal, the proposed credit would be disbursed in three
tranches, the first becoming available upon effectiveness (February 1990),
the second tranche to be released in December 1990, and the third, in
December 1991. The dates for the second and third tranches are, however,
indicative and would depend on satisfactory progress in implementing the
whole program. Disbursement of the entire credit is expected to be
completed within 24 months of the date of effectiveness. Additionally, a
number ef other donors have expressed interest in cofinancing SAL IV under
the Special Program of Assistance (SPA) for debt-distressed countries. The
African Development Bank (AfDB) has officially indicated its intention to
cofinance the adjustment program. It is expected that the total resources
to be provided to Senegal over the period 1989-91 would be the equivalent
of US$ 184 million, sufficient to cover all financing requirements.
111.      Procurement and Disbursement.   Procurement procedures have been
designed to permit rapid use of funds while ensuring efficiency and
accountability in the process. It is proposed that eligible imports by
public agencies and by the private sector exceeding US$ 2 million would be
subject to international competitive bidding (ICB). Procurement by public
agencies for items costing below the threshold will follow standard
government practices found to be acceptable in the past. Eligible imports
below the threshold by private entities would be procured in accordance
with normal commercial practices, and wherever possible, quotations from
eligible suppliers from at least two countries would be sought. Single
source purchasing would only be used for proprietary equipment or where
compatibility with existing equipment requires standardization.
Procurement documentation would be maintained for ex-post review by the
Bank.
112.      The Government is concerned that underinvoicing of imports is
becoming a major problem having negative consequences on revenue collection
and on protection of local industry. There is by contrast no major problem
with overinvoicing as Senegal has no exchange control restrictions for
current transactions.  Verification of imports has been limited in the past
to physical inspection for quality and quantity by the Customs Department.
The Government however intends to continue the process of strengthening
customs services under SAL IV through a series of actions, including
computerization and an increased role for the valuation office, to
facilitate price verification of imports and improve collection of customs
revenue (para. 28). The Government has agreed to evaluate the impact of
these measures with the Bank by September 1990, further to which additional
actions, including the appointment of expert certification agencies, may be
taken.
113.      The proceeds of the credit would be used to reimburse 100
percent of the CIF cost of eligible general imports. Public and private
sector imports would be eligible, except for:
(a)  Negative list;



- 42 -
(b)  Imports of goods under contracts costing less than US$5,000
equivalp-.t;
(c)  Imported goods already financed under bilateral or utilateral
credits; and
(d)  Imported goods purchased on the local market.  Procurement of
petroleum and food imports would be limited respectively to 20%
at maximum of the total credit amount.
114.      The Government will establish a Special Account at the Central
Bank (BCEAO) to facilitate disbursements. At effectiveness, an initial
deposit of US$ 10 million equivalent would be made. This account would be
replenished regularly on the basis of fully documented reimbursement
applications in excess of US$500,000 or on the basis of statements of
expenditure (SOEs) for expenditures below that amount. The Central Bank
would indicate on the SOEs the nature and origin of the goods, as well as
the payment date, and would maintain all relevant supporting documentation
(invoices, evidence of shipment, customs declarations, evidence of payment)
for review' by Bank supervision missions. Expenditures under the IDA credit
would be in accordance with normal IDA rules. Retroactive disbursement
would be permitted for an amount not exceeding 20 percent of the total
credit amount for eligible imports procured no earlier than four months
prior to credit signing. Expenditures covered by the Swiss contribution
would be subject to rules established under the Umbrella Agreement between
the Swiss Government and IDA.
115.      Management and Monitoring of the Program.  The SAL IV program
will be implemented by the various agencies involved in the reform process,
under the overall responsibility of the Office of the President. The
existing Inter-ministerial Committee is chaired by the President of the
Republic and supported by a technical body ('Le Comite de Suivi des
Programmes de Politique Economique") which has proved to be effective in
coordinating and monitoring the preparation and execution of the program.
In addition, frequent contacts with Government through the Bank resident
mission staff and supervision missions would facilitate continuous
monitoring of the program's progress. Under the Development Management
Project and the Industrial Sector Restructuring Project, technical
assistance and training is being provided to strengthen the institutional
capacity of certain agencies involved in the reform process. Bank staff
will also coordinate with the IMF to ensure adequate monitoring of key
economic policies and indicators.
116.      The Government has agreed to provide the Bank with quarterly
status reports on the implementation of the various measures under SAL IV.
The content and format of these reports have been discussed at
negotiations, and will cover, inter alia, the following: (i) civil service
departures and recruitment by ministry; (ii) civil service wage bill,
separating base salary from indemnity and bonus payments; and (iii)
subsidies and other financial transfers from t..e Government to the public
enterprise sector. The Central Bank will arrange for annual audit reports
by auditors acceptable to the Bank within 12 months of credit effectiveness



- 43 -
and annually thereafter. The audit reports will include an opinion on the
operation of the Special Account and the use of PEs.
Monitorable Actions
117.      The policy measures to be taken under the proposed SAL IV, as
detailed in the Government's Letter of Development Policy (LDP) and in
Annex III, are of two types--firstly, those at the core of the adjustment
program (.'.e., without which there would be little justification for the
program izself) and, secondly, those accomparying measures dealing mostly
with the overall macroeconomic framework in which the reform program has to
be implemented and with processes, procedures , and secondary actions
related to the various components of the program. Hence, tranche release
will depend upon both a satisfactory review of overall performance under
the adjustment program and upon the completion of a specified list of core
actions. The LDP, in which the Government declares its commitment to the
proposed program, forms the basis for SAL IV and hen-e for the performance
review. Considerable emphasis will be placed on the overall macroeconomic
stability (essentially, reduction in both the budget and the current
account deficits and prudent monetary policy) in deciding on tranche
releases. Unforseen critical events (such as droughts, shortfalls in
Government revenues, adoption by Government of policies jeopardizing the
adjustment effort) and the Government's policy responses will also be taken
into account in assessing the overall economic performance and therefore
tranche releases. A list of the core actions is presented below; the other
complementary measures are given in the LDP (Annex IV) and in Annex III and
will be reviewed with the Government during negotiations.
118.      The following actions have already been taken by the Government
under the proposed program:
(a) Approval by the National Assembly and enactment into law in
October 1989 of the modified Investment Code and the Industrial-
Free Zone Statute regarding labor conditions and wage cost
subsidies (para. 43);
(b) Freeze of the minimum wage (SMIG) at its present nominal level
for a period of at least the next three years (para. 45);
(c)  Completion of negotiations with SAR on a provisional handling
fee to be paid to the refinery and publication of a decree
reflecting the new transparent pricing and taxation system for
petroleum products (para. 49);
(d) Reduction in telecommunications call charges by 20 percent
during off peak hours from July 1989 (para. 50);
(e) Preparation of an action plan simplifying and reducing the tax
burden on enterprises to levels consistent with government
policy to encourage employment and investment (para. 52);



- 44 -
(f)  Preparation of a plan of action to strengthen the customs
administration and to improve the administrative ernvironment
(paras. 28 and 53);
(g)  Publication of a decree limiting for two years (until July 1991)
the preferential import duty treatment for three sectors:
textiles, matches, and batteries (para. 28);
(h)  Mobilization of additional domestic resources through an
increase in the customs duty rate ("droit de douane") from 10
percent to 15 percent, the establishment of a system of minimum
duties ("minimum de perception"), and the simplification and
widening of the VAT system (paras. 27 and 28);
(i)  Adoption of a satisfactory three-year rolling public investment
program for the period 1989/90 to 1991/92 (para. 29);
(j)  Completion and adoption by the Government of a comprehensive
strategy towards privatization of the parastatal sector (para.
76);
(k)  Elimination of new overdrafts for PEs avd of the Central
Accounting Agency (paras. 71 and 88);
(1) Adoption of an action plan and begirnning of the process for the
settlement of cross-debts of PEs, including those between PEs
themselves. Adoption of measures to prevent the recurrence of
cross-debts (para. 74);
(m)  Issuance of a circular to PEs abolishing government guarantees
of domestic loans and stating that new foreign loans will be on-
lent to PEs at commercial interest rates (para. 75);
(n)  Completion of audits, preparation of prospectuses and formal
offers for sale of eight PEs (para. 77); and
(o)  Preparation of an action plan to restructure the civil service,
and public announcement of the decision to implement the reform
program. (para. 94)
119.      The following are the core actions to be taken by the Government
as conditions of second and third tranche release:
Second Tranche:
(a)  Review the wage setting system with the view to initially
reducing labor costs and moving towards market determined wages,
and adopt measures satisfactory to the Bank inter alia to reduce
Government intervention and make collective bargaining voluntary
(para. 45);
(b) Simplify the tax system and reduce the tax burden on enterprises
to levels consistent with Government policy to encourage



- 45 -
investment and employment through the establishment of a
separate corporate tax at 35 percent, the elimination of the
"Prelevement au Budget de l'Equipement" (PBE), and the
establishment of a single personal income tax at a maximum rate
no higher than 50Z (para. 52);
(c)  Simplify fiscal administration through the restructuring of the
tax department (DGID) and the streamlining of operating
procedures to increase transparency (para. 53);
(d)  Reduce fuel oil and diesel prices starting July 1, 1990 in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank once the fiscal impact of the
new pricing and taxation system has been evaluated during the
fourth quarter of 1989/90 (para. 49);
(e)  Prepare and adopt a three-year PIP satisfactory to the Bank for
the period 1990/91-1992/93 (para. 29);
Cf)  Reduce direct subsidies to commercial PEs to less than CFAF 0.6
billion by June 1990 ar.d budget for no more CFAF 0.3 billion in
fiscal year 1990/91. Reduce direct subsidies to non-commercial
PEs (excluding COUD) to less than CFAF 9.9 billion by June 1990
and budget for no more than CFAF 9.1 billion in fiscal year
1990/91 (para. 69);
5g) Cancel all undisputed cross-debts, settle all disputed cross-
debts, write off all debts of non-commercial PEs to Government
as of December 31, 1989; include in the 1990/91 budget at least
one third of all debts owed by the Government to the PEs, and
assure settlement of at least one third of all debts owed by
commercial PEs to the Government as of December 31, 1988;
(h)  Complete audits, prepare prospectuses and make formal offering
of sale of nine (9) PEs. Sign liquidation decrees and cease
activity of at least five PEs (paras. 77 and 78);
(i) Limit the wage bill in nominal terms and without incurring pay
arrears to CFAF 126.8 billion by June 1990 and budget for CFAF
125 billion in 1990/91 (para. 99). Implement wage bill
management measures (para. 100); and
(j)  Recruitment of civil servants, other than teachers, should not
exceed 27 percent of total voluntary departures in 1989/90. For
education, recruitments in 1989/90 should not have exceeded 435
by June 1990. If, however, the total number of program
departures during 1989/90 is lower than anticipated, there will
be nonetheless a minimum net reduction of 564 staff by June 1990
(para. 98).
Third Tranche:
(a) Prepare and adopt a three-year PIP satisfactory to IDA for the
period 1991/92-1993/94 (para. 29);



- 46 -
(b)  Eliminate direct subsidies to commercial PEs by June 1991.
Direct subsidies to non-commercial PEs (excluding COUD) should
have been reduced to less than CFAP 9.1 billion by June 1991 and
budgeted for no more than CFAF 7.4 billion in fiscal year
1991/92. (paras. 69 and 71);
(c)  Include in the 1991/92 budget at least one third of all debts
owed by the Government to the PEs and assure settlement of at
least one third of all debts owed by commercial PEs to the
Government as of December 31, 1989;
(d)  Complete audits, prepare prospectuses and make formal offering
of sale of thirteen (13) PEs. Sign liquidation decrees and
cease activity of at least five PEs (paras. 77 and 78);
(e)  Wage bill in nominal terms and without incurring pay arrears
should have been CFAF 125 billion by June 1991. The budgeted
wage bill for 1991/92 should not exceed CFAF 125 billion (para.
99). Implement wage bill management measures (para. 100); and
(f)  Recruitment of civil servants, other than teachers, should not
exceed 38 percent of total voluntary departures in 1990/91. For
education, recruitments in 1990/91 shtould not have exceeded 681
by June 1991 (para. 98).
Benefits and Risks
120.      Benefits.  As discussed earlier, the proposed program is
expected to maintain internal and external equilibria achieved under SAL
III, help restore creditworthiness, and improve the conditions for
sustained growth and employment creation. In particular, the revision of
the role of the Government in the economy (from an interventionist to a
regulatory stance) and the reform of both the banking and public enterprise
sectors will encourage the private sector to grow and expand. Given
Senegal's poor natural resource endowment, the proposed program is a
necessary but not a sufficient condition for long-term development.
However, without the proposed reforms, there would be little prospect for
maintaining a positive per capita income growth and for the country to
remain current in its debt servicing.
121.      Risks.  Two major risks could undermine the success of SAL IV.
First, weak administrative capabilities in Senegal could cause delays in
preparation and implementation of the program. There are a number of TA
projects in place--two financed by IDA (PAGD and PE) and one financed by
the IMF on fiscal policy. Second, short-term costs, particularly loss of
employment, may put the Government in difficulty with various opposition
groups and parties. There may be considerable pressure from interest
groups, such as the civil servants, the parapublic enterprises, and labor
unions, to postpone reforms. Some remedial measures have been included in
this program. Overall, these risks are not, however, unexpected and are
within manageable bounds. In addition, the program has been designed to



- 47 -
require the implementation of a limited number of critical actions, most of
which would be undertaken upfront to ensure the Government's early
commitment to the adjustment process.
V.   BANK GROUP STRATEGY AND OPERATIONS
Country Assistance Strategy
122.      Bank strategy in Senegal has two broad and interrelated
objectives. The first objective is to assist the Government in the medium-
term in rectifying structural imbalances in the economy which are the
cumulative result of internal and external shocks as well as policy
distortions over several years, compounded by the fixed exchange rate
regime. The means employed have been to improve the incentives environment
and to promote greater efficiency in economic management. The primary
instrument to support this objective has been adjustment lending,
buttressed by appropriate technical assistance operations. The second
objective is to promote a sustainable level of long-term growth and
development. The instruments designed to address this objective are
sector-based rehabilitation/investment projects, within an appropriate
framework of sectoral policy reforms.
123.      The country's development strategy, as spelled out in the most
recent Policy Framework Paper for 1989/90 to 1991/92, lays heavy emphasis
in the short-term on improving incentives for private investment;
rehabilitating the banking system and deregulating the financial sector;
and improving resource utilization and expenditure control in the public
sector. These objectives are supported by the policy reforms described in
this report and by a Financial Sector Adjustment Credit which is being
processed in parallel with SAL IV. Together, these two operations are
expected to improve the utilization of existing production capacity and,
thus, to improve the competitiveness of Senegalese industry. Furthermore,
they would increase the volume of and improve the quality of public and
private investments and, thereby, enhance growth prospects in the medium-
term. Beyond 1992, the Government recognizes the need to rebuild
productive capacity, even as the earlier stabilization and structural
reforms continue. Thus, the public investment program for that future
period includes major projects in energy distribution, in water supply, and
highway rehabilitation and maintenance, for which IDA financial assistance
has been requested. The proposed lending program in the period beyond
1990/91 is thus balanced between investment programs in urban
ir.rastructure and services (sanitation, water, energy) and policy-cum-
investment operations which focus on further private sector development, on
the environment, and on human resources development.
124.      Bank assistance strategy is not predicated on Senegal changing
the nominal exchange rate. Such a decision cannot be taken unilaterally
given Senegal's membership in UMOA and in the CFA Franc Zone. To achieve
the depreciation of the real exchange rate which is required to increase
the external competitiveness of the Senegal economy, appropriate demand-



- 48 -
management policies, together with additional measures to reduce production
costs and to encourage production of tradables, must continue to be
implemented over an extended period of time. The envisaged adjustment
period may, therefore, be longer and more difficult and the export response
slower than would be the case if the nominal exchange rate could be
devalued. Nonetheless, Senegal is expected to be able to meet its
objectives over the medium-term, provided it consistently applies those
required policy measures which are being supported through SAL IV.
Bank Group Operations, Past and Future
125.      As of September 30, 1989, the Bank Group had approved 88
operations in Senegal for a total of about US$916 million, consisting of 57
IDA credits (including three Special Fund credits), 20 Bank loans, two SFA
and nine IFC operations. To date, 39 credits and the 20 loans have been
fully disbursed. Of the 24 active projects, 5 are in agriculture or rural
development, 4 in industry and energy, 6 in infrastructure, 3 in human
resources; there are also 6 TA and adjustment operations. The Small Rural
Operations II Project (US$16 million) was approved in March 1989. As
discussed above, Bank assistance will focus heavily on adjustment for the
next few years, particularly at the sectoral level.
126.      In the area of Structural Adiustment, the SAL II and SAL III
operations have been for the most part successfully completed. A full
discussion of Lhe experience with these operations is offered in paragraphs
18 to 20. The proposed SAL IV operation will build on the experience of
SALs II and III, but will support a relatively limited number of critical
actions, described in sections III and IV of this report. A technical
assistance project is supporting the formulation and implementation of the
various action programs included in the SAL operations, with measures to
improve the management of public investment, public debt, personnel
information and career development, management of economic information, and
the development of a policy formulation capacity.
127.      While some measures aimed at the reform of the banking system of
Senegal were supported under SAL III, the dimensions of the crisis in the
financial sector were initially underestimated by IDA and the Government.
A subsequent IDA-financed study of the causes of the problem found that 8
of 15 banks, either wholly or partly owned by the Government and including
those banks to be rehabilitated under SAL III, were effectively bankrupt.
They had nonperforming loans of CFAF 233 billion (or 15 percent of GDP) out
of a total loan portfolio of CFAF 323 billion and debt outstanding to the
BCEAO of CFAF 167 billion. The sharp deterioration in the financial
position of the system was attributed to poor management as well as to
inappropriate policies, at both the BCEAO and Government levels. The study
drew particular attention to the following problems: (i) the negative
impact of mandatory credit ceilings per bank and per sector on good lending
practices; (ii) interference by the Government in lending decisions; (iii)
lax supervision of banks leading to disregard of prudent financial ratios;
and (iv) laxity in the application of refinancing policies. These problems
are being tackled under the Financial Sector Adjustment Credit.



- 49 -
128.      The next phase of reforms in the agricultural sector will be
supported by the Bank under a separate Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Credit (ASECAL). This phase will be characterired by policy development in
arens complementary to the thrust of the improvements made to date. The
overall aim of the Agriculture SECAL is to support more efficiency and
price responsiveness in agriculture, a decrease in government controls, and
the elimination of subsidies. In particular, the reforms to be pursued
will be: (i) in the cereals subsector--further review of the system of
protection with the overall goal of encouraging the production and
transformation of coarse grains in which Senegal has a comparative
advantage (i.e., millet and sorghum), diversifying production into other
crops such as maize, and further liberalizing the rice market; (ii) in the
groundnut subsector--action planning to redace losses in processing and
privatization of confectionery groundnut operations, and revised protection
against imported oils as a precursor to the eventual elimination of all
subsidies; (iii) a full review of the agricultural credit system; and (iv)
the development of appropriate land tenure and land management regimes to
encourage resource conservation and long-term private investment,
especially in the Pleuve region. Measures to reduce losses in the cotton
subsector and to promote diversification for exports would also be pursued.
129.      The two other sectors where important reforms are to be pursued
are transport and human resources. Major improvement is being sought in
the planning, operations, and management of the transport sector in
Senegal.  A dialogue has been established with the Government since a
policy review meeting with the Bank in 1986. Broad agreement, as included
in the Declaration of Transport Policy, has been reached on the need for
reforms in three main areas: (i) improved investment planning in the
transport sector with a target of at least 80 percent of investment in the
sector earmarked for infrastructure maintenance and rehabilitation, and a
stronger emphasis through 1991 on repairing the dilapidated highway
network; (ii) increased mobilization of sector resources through improved
efficiency, cost control, and revised tariff policies which are expected to
be especially vital in the railways and ports subsectors; and (iii)
strengthened sector management through a series of institutional reforms,
including revising the legal status and increasing the autonomy of the
railways parastatal. Improved transport efficiency is a key factor in the
process of increasing market responsiveness in the economy and redu_ing
costs of production for agriculture and industry. The envisaged Government
investment program for the period 1989-93 provides for an increasing role
for the private sector, with a minimum of one-third of future road
maintenance to be contracted out.
130.      The development of the human resource potential of Senegal is of
high priority if the growth possibilities created by structural adjustment
are to be capitalized. The Government, in consultation with the Bank, has
identified a number of areas where policy reforms are required: (i)
population policy--legal and regulatory changes are envisaged to counter
biases in favor of large families and against womer, and a revised priority
investment and action program is to be implemented; (ii) health--total
expenditure is expected to grow in real terms to improve, inter alia, the
"field effectiveness" of health services and to implement an essential drug
distribution program; and (iii) education--spending will be refocused on



- 50 -
basic and primary education with a target increase in enrollment ratios
from the present 56 percent to 65 percent by 1995, and the autonomy of
technical and professional schools will be increased to cater to demands
other than those of the Government services. The Bank expects to support
this program through a Human Resource Development SECAL.
VI.   COORDINATION WITH THE IMF
131.      The proposed SAL IV is a critical element both in the
Government's strategy and in the overall program of structural reform for
Senegal supported by the IMF and other donors. The program has been
developed in close collaboration with the IMF staff, and is consistent with
and reinforces the current ESAF program which amounts to SDR 145 million
and was approved on November 21, 1988 for a three-year period. The IMF
staff concluded negotiations with the Government on the second-year
arrangement under the ESAF in August 1989, and got Board approval in early
December. The Bank staff participated fully in those negotiations. Prior
to ESAF, the IMF had successfully implemented a SAF and a series of stand-
by agreements. The Bank will continue to work closely with the IMF in
maintaining macroeconomic stability and to ensure consistency in policy
reforms.
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
132.      I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
133.      I am also satisfied that the proposed Special Joint Financing
Administration Agree.nent for the non-reimbursable contribution from
Switzerland would comply with the procedural arrangement between the
Government of Switzerland and the Association for cooperation in the
Cofinancing of Specific Development Projects or Programs dated April 9,
1987.
134.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit and that the Association act as Administrator of the
proposed Special Joint Financing non-reimbursable contribution from
Switzerland.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
January, 1990
Washington, D.C.



7ANIA1.d dcl 13SNOYG                                                                GBONIAL: SMAL PMPV   AM (1967-93 DATA FRtl lIW * .  8/SO)
SamAl. - JET e3@l1C ?iOICATOR  aJ                                                                                         11/13/00
Actual~~~~~~~~---            --      --        --      --        --      --        ----- -----r-oced---
UseS (MP groebh rae.                           4.84   -0.0    25.2        2.6    -4.6       5.6      4.8     4.0      0.1    -1.5       4.6      a.l      6.6      .8.      5.6      5.0      8.6      8.6
Reel ad  ro th veto                           -8.5   -1.7    14.9        2.2    -5.8       8.9     8.9       8.2      8.2    -1.4      8.4      4.4      4.1      4.8      4.0      4.0      4.0      8.9
meal @W pa. u.ite from"h Tae.                   4.9   -4.4    11.7    40.6    -4.0          1.0     0.8      1.2      2.8    -4.2       1.4      1.5      1.2      1.8      1.1      1.0      1.0      1.0
Reel Prig.Comaau. $NWe. .l9e growt ruse        -1.6    0.?       6.5    -1.9   -11.0        4.4     0.9    17.4    40.1    -4.2         5.6      1.9      1.5      0.0    -0.6    .0.6        0.1    -1.1
Long-term peabla. am 2J1 (is  6l mIImto)      665.0  106.6  2214.9   1494.7  &816.   197.0  2466.4  8167.   80166114   SU4-S  866611.0  S65.5  57M10   6610.5  4660.7  41166.6   WE79.    411111.5
LT pubIce OW~Eapeirbe goods & eorv. S_J       16.    96.0   127.6   146.5.5    5    81.1   M65.    18.4   160.0    SI.*    =.S   112.8   101.41    .191.   18.    176.6   166.0                       W-*.
LI u  pAis 00W0P                               81.5   40.7    46.1    60.6    411.1    71.1    65.7    66.7?    611.2          .0      67. 1    04.2    62.2    60.7       W.0      VA.    86.4    66.4
LT phibl. due. service (I millipe.)           119.0   90.9    46.1    66.9    651.61    66.8   607.4    Sn't(   849.7   462.9   661.8   864.    8640.1   864.6   880.6   296.8   374.9    U.1
LT phil. ch DaA er,ic.UEspota 0G5 4J           19.61   .6.       4.1      5.5      6.7    10.1    19.61    21.7    10.8    27.4    24.8    22.6    19.1    1.0.4    14.5    18.0    10.1               .6.
LT public Dbel servic./62P                      6.0    8.?       1.?      2.0      8.0      8.4      5.5      6.0     7.0      6.1      7..      6.9      0.9      5.1      4.8      4.0      8.4      2.9
LT Ph8.o lab.rrelfSp.rbe 03 AL/                 8.8    8.9       8.8      4.0      8.8      4.6      9.2      8.9      9.8     9.9      8.8      7.8      0.0      8.1      4.4      8.8      8.4      8.0
LI phibl. lnier.eIb/6                           1.9    1.7       1.8      1.7      1.1      1.6     1.6       2.4     2.6      2.9      2.8      2.2      1.6      1.6      1.4      1.3      1.1      1.0
Gacwe ioueetm&Waop                             18.8   28.0    14.7    18.2    15.4    18.11    14.8          1.8.    14.5    I15.3    151.6    15.6    18.4    18.5    16.2    10.7          16.7    11.7
Domesic.e.vigeaIMP                             .0.5   -1.71      1.7      8.1      6.4      1.0      6.9      8.2     7.1       6.1     6.6      6.8      7.6      0.2      9.0      0.7     10.4    21.1
Ibliml 660Iaa/Uap                              -4.5    4.04    -1.6    -1.9        0.5    -1.0       1.4      2.0      2.9     4.9      5.2      8.1      5.1      6.6      7.0      6.0      9.1     12.0
Ibrelmel .ellcAlsm eavevI    rube Cur.   )      1.7    1.6       0.2      0.8    -0.6    .0.9        1.1      0.1     0.2    -1.5       0.1      0.0      0.0      0.2      0.4      0.6      0.4      0.0
Public lome.tueb/66P                           6.0    4.4       4.0      4.0      4.2      4.1     4.8       4.5      .         .       .         .       .         .       .
Privet.e ims.etwomba/UP                         O.9   10.5    10.1    t0.7    10.4          9.     10.8      1.         .       .        .         .       .         .       .
Pr&..bie &*WsIrn  eevisge/406P                    .      .         .        .        .       .                 .        ..       .-       .       ..        .       ..
PhI l.frluuta lnecutmI ratio                   410.6   43.0    519.7    57'.6    40'.9,   44.0,    41.8    42.4         .-       .        .       ..       .         .       .
t    8 lJ                                                                         814       4.0     6.2      7.8      8.4      5.0      4.9      4.9      4.7      8.0      8.9      4.2      4.8      4.4
Governmen.t revenue. evei.ars.ate/P            21.1   20.7    16.4    16.4    19.4    18.51   la.I    ISA            16.6    17.5    16.2    108.        19.4    10.4    19.4    19.4    19.4    19.4
04.erueb *sp.sd.& not leedieeJ6                610.1   51.5    27.0    26.6    24.0    81.6    21.3    ?ul.s    20.0    21.0    20.8    29.1    17.6    281.0    18.                18.4     18.2    15.1I
2441.1  C- or Surplus W/GOP 7_J                -0.1  -10.9    40.1    -7.2    45.5    -4.2    -4.2    -2.6    -8.2            -14.8    -2.1I    -0.3      1.6      1.4      1.11     1.1      1.2      1.8
(semio 1bei. aeci gereate)
Moe$ W soeth robe of NamS  4J                  -4.6    9.1       4.6      9.0    -7.2   -12.7        8.0    12.0      5.6    -1.2       5.6      4.4      4.4      5.0      6.1      8.2      1.4      8.5
Exports  P8/62   4J1         .                   .7   61.6    26.7    60.7    29.7    26.0    26.2           017.    21.4    17.4    27.2    27.8    11.4    27.           16.2    26.6    29.1    29.0
Reel .rcwth rubc of MME  4_J                    7.6   18.8    -4.4        8.8     -.9.     -6.9    -8.2    45.8    -2.5        0.4      6.0      4.7      4.1      8.8      8.8      5.4      a'8      8.8
leport SES/00   4Lj                            44.7   51.       48.1    45.5    41.8    87.1    66.7    47.2    48.7    44.5    45.0    45.3    45.4    45.8    411.6                52 60 46.0 A     W
Curteai  eccaebm beleace (S6 ciii) S_J       426.8  -656.4  -447.6  -448.4  -410.9  -480.4  -412.7   -470.8  -466.8  -4811.5  -480.7  -4561.5  -5161.2  -824.1   -146.8  -540.    -612.81  -466.1
Current a.cowmei/P  8J/                       -17.7  -26.9   -17.4   -16.1   -17.7   -i1.6   -16.4   -10.2            .9.4    -.0.     40.4     4.5    40.5    .4.1    -7.7    -7.8    40.4           .4.6
Current. accoaub bale"". (6 mill.) 6J1       -86.1  -401.5  -268.6  -2617.6  -272.8  -517.4  -410.7  -257.0  -2166.18  -104.1  -i911.4  -105.4  -269.8  -214.2  -2166.0  -266.0  -271.4  -246.2
Curr.nb mccount/W6  6J                        .18.0   .16.7   -10.8    iI1.1   -11.7   -12.4   -11.0   ~. -5.8    -8.2        -.9    -3.7    -4.0    -4.4    .-4.3    -4. 1         -4.0    -8.3    -2.6
Nercd. Terms at traed  Indee (1960.100)       100.0  12262    104.7   107.2   122.6   124.2   142.4   1461.6   188. 0    248.5    41.46.    147.4   145.6   146.9   142.0   156.9    140.0   159.9
(in UN4 term.)
1-J All figure. are p.ucceibepee. eel... othuruine sepcifimed.
2J/ PullI;c ond publicly. juereeled debt autobeading and disbursed.
S_J Pice-your ewers"e. one Spoor Sao.
4_J oeri.sd f roe conetent 1960 price. dete (traed date from Ntft.onal Acceunte for 2960-166 mad f rom Women. of Puicente for 1967-97).
SJ Ecciuding official trunefere.
6J Includine offivial tresefero.                                                                                                                                                                       1 
7_J Deficit or eurplue an commitment basis..0 
ej include. morkur. r.emtteaceIQ 
x
0
Un



SE4L - ULAM  P PAENTS                                   Annex I
Pige  2  of  5
(6 milIIons at Current Prices)
Actual                        ProIl .                 Projections
1oo    low68    1964      18       1964    1967    196       199      1990    1992    19e7
A.  Eaport oat *o    A WS                606.    948.3   900.4    06.0  1027.0  1168.8  LS01.1  188.7  1468.6  1789.1  2811.5
1. Nerchendi.. (PU                     481.7   606.6   897.0   481.0   611.0   On8 1   760.5   847.4   928.8  1120.1  1917.2
2. Mon-Feeor services                  86.1   841.0   802.6   821.0   416.0   492.8   810.7   621.8  6831.8   618.9   894.
S.  Import. of  sod a WS                1214.7   19.9  1186.7  112*.0  1484.0  1448.0   18.8  182.1  1719.4  2061.1  3210.0
1   erchanadie CFB)                    878.1   917.8   61u.9   790.0  1010.0   948.0  1009.4  1Oi1.t  114.0  1411.7  224.4
2. Non-Factor Services                 39.6   874.6   889.8   868.0   424.0   800.0   824.1   88. 8    878.8   669,4   983.6
C.  Regorec Balance                     -47.9  -8.1  -286.8  -W1.0  -407.0  -277.8  -262.8  -22S.4  -2.8  -842.0  -398.8
0.  Not Feor Income                      -96.6   -96.7  -312.9  -148.4  -281.7  -22S.4  -287.4  -289.9  -227.8  -209.0  -141.1
1. Faca., leipta                        26.7    28.8    18.7    18.6    17.8    20.0    20.1    20.1    27.9    89.6    76.4
2. Fah    Payment.                     12.2 1J24.2    16.6   160.0   249.0   248.4   237.8   260.0   288.7   248.6   217.8
(Interet payments)                  87.0    41.8    81.6    42.9    97.7   11.8   1*0.4   149.0   138.4   11S.4    90.2
E.  Nat Current Trarfer. (periv.)        -19.6    -1.6      0. L    17.0    26.0      8.      81.4    63.1    32.0    34.7    44.8
1. Current Recelpt.                     76.0    89.2    84.8    62.6    62.1    74.9    76.2    78.9    81.6    94.2   .04.0
a. workars' reittnce.                74.8     i.1    s0. 4      22.2      ..    74.9    76.2    7i.9    81.6    94.2   104.0
h. othor current trans.               1.0      4.1     8.9    60.4        ..      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
2. Current Payment                      98.8    60.6     8 4.0    80.8    86 1    44.J    4.8 4..8    48.7    89.4    S9.4
F.  Current Aceont sblance              -26 .   -448.4  -410.9  -480.4   412.7  -470.8  -488.8  -431.3  -480.7  -816.2  -498.1
(ova .official transfer*)
0.  Long-Torp Capitol Intlow             421.1   408.8   871.7   379.0   462.0   888.4   811.6   807.0   448.4   378.4   616.1
1. DIrct Inveatment                     12.9  -46.8    27.2    -8.8    -2.0   -84.1   -72.9   -16.1            4.0    28.2    86.7
2. Official Capital Orunt              140.2   157.6   186.7   138.0   202.0   218.0   208.0   2S7.2   261.8   249.9   249.9
8. Nat UT iLane (M  data)              191.7   802.1   16.8   168.8   286.4   197.0   179.4    87.9   193.1   10.8   309.8
a. Diuburemnte                      818.4   8lO.1   204.0   212.1   87.r7   866.8   410.0   85t.8   448.1   889.9   478.4
b. RepaymWe                         126.7    18.0    84.7    4.8   118.8 1J9.6   280.6   268.8   2885.0   28i.6   168.9
4 Othor LT Infloe  (not)                77.8   -19.6    86.6    66.0    2.           0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
H.  Total Other Item (not)                07.6    21.6    13.0    66.8   124.8   171L.6   15.9   216.1   -18.0            0.0      0.0
1. Nat Short Tom Cap Itl tI.                    66.8    29.8    91.7    81.7        0.0    -8.0      0.0   -18.0       0.0     0.0
2. Capital Flowa NAL4.                   0.0       . 0    0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
8. Err'., end Omimalo.                 -26.7   -1.4   -16.8    -8.4    72.8   171.6   166.9   216.1            0.0      0.0      0.0
IVIVLL u.SLAM (04)                   -48.8   -19.7   -28.1   -18.1    -8.2    66.6         2.2    91.8   -17.8  -187.8   121.0
I.  cianps. In Not smarv                  4i.8 W  19.7    26.2    18.1        6.2   -6ti. 6   -2.2   -91.8   -91.4   -44.8  -140.8
1. Nat Cradit from 1P                   87.2    12.6      4.2    40.8       6.2   -17.8    16.6    18.1        4.8    -0.9    -7.7
2. Other t_arv  Chonge.                  9.2      7.1    22.0   -27.2       0.0   -89.1   -21.0  -104.9   -98.7    -8.7  -102.8
- indiae  incrase)
J.  Additional finaning required           0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0   106.7   102.4    19.8
(afi ll rop not of aintixation
ed lntareet Vap)
CCont'd on neat page)



Annex I
SOAL&  - BALANCE 0PPAflES                                  Page  3  of  5
QAE llilona at Current Prices)
Actual                       Peal IM.                Projections
iwo     ieu      19ee 4   es9     ieee    ie17     to"    ie9e       1990    1m      e199
Shasre of QDr (Current t8) I
1. Re.ource %lang.                      -18.7   -14.0   -12.4   -12.8   -10.9    -6.0    -8.8    -4.8    -4.6    -8.6    -4.8
2. Total Interest r1ym-t                  1.9      1.7     2.2      1.7     2.6      2.8      2.6     8.0      2.6      1.9     1.0
3. Currest Aocount blanc                -17.7   -18.1   -17.7   -17.6   -16.4   -10.2    -9.4         4.6    -8.4    -8.5        5.
4. LT Cm*ulItl InfIa (lIne 0)           14.2    16.4    16.0    14.6    12.9        7.7      6.0     6.1      6.4      6.2     7.0
S. Net CraiIt fro  the DP                 1.8      0.8     0.2      1.6     0.2    -0.4       0.4     0.0      0.1    -0.7      0.4
Meaccandum Item:
MlP Cal  1. of Current U81)            2970.0  2408.0  2124.0  2664.0  8740.0  4899.4  4979.7  4994.6   86.7  608.4  8616.6
Foreln EIhcango Rfarvea:
1. Int'I. Rerves (VFS lid)                6.0    12.2      0.7      S.1     0.4      9.2      -       -
2. od (end yr Landn prlis)               17.0    11.2      9.6      9.4    11.7    18.7       -        -
3. Cra" Raeere  mncl. Gold               28.0    2S.4    13.8    14.5    21.1    22.9         -       -
4. ro  Re   in Mnth& Iort GfS             0.2      0.2     0.1      0.2     0.2      0.2      ---
Eacheon  Rates (AFAM)t
1. Ibn. Off. X4b-e (VS rh)              211.0   361.1   487.0   449.    8 46.0   800.8        -       -         -
2. Rel 6. X-f-at (101100)               100.0    92.0    94.0   108.0   112.0   108.0         -        -
0. X-46. for QN Consaesl.n              211.0   861.1   487.0   449.8   046.3   800.5         -       -



Annox I
Page 4 of 6
STATUS OF WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL
I. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1989)
_____ ____ ____ _____ ____ ____ _____ ____ _-__ _____ ____ ____ ____
Amount In US1 million
(lose cancollotions)
Undis-
Credit No.    Year    Borrower   Purpose                            Bank       IDA        burned
-- -- -- -  --     -- -- -    - -- -                                       ---         - - -
A. Thirty-nine (89) credita closed                                             420.57
C11080-SEN    1961    SENECAL    Forestry                                        9.30       2.42
C11766-SEN    1982    SENEGAL    Agricultural Roeserch                          19.60       0.74
C1i100-SEN    1988    SENEGAL    Rural Health                                   16.00       3.68
CF6130-SEN    1984    SENEGAL    T.A. for Urban Mgmt A RehMb.                    2.96       0.26
C13980-SEN    1984    SENECAL    Pnrapublic II T.A.                             11.00       1.065
C14060-SEN    1984    SENEOAL    Eastern Senegal Rural                          16.10       5.11
C14690-SEN    1984    SENEGAL    Dakar Port III                                  2.65       0.82
C1U540-SEN    1986    SENEGAL    Water Supply II                                24.06       1.95
C17100-SEN    1986    SENEGAL    Energy Sector Rehab.                           20.00      12.24
C17140-SEN    106B    SENEGAL    Telecom  II                                    22.00      17.08
C17850-SEN    1967    SENEGAL    Primary Education Dov.                         12.00       9.11
CISSSI-SEN    1988    SENEGAL    Irrigation IV                                  88.60      29.28
CI1SSO-SEN    1988    SENEGAL    Industry Sector                                83...      28.78
C18840-SEN    1968    SENEGAL    Municipal Housing Dev.                         46.00      40.26
C19166-SEN    1086   SENEGAL    T.A. for Development Mgmt                       17.00      18.65
C18021-SEN    1989    SENEGAL    SAL III                                         5.56          6
C19920-SEN    1989    SENEGAL    Small Rural Ops. II                            16.16      13.87
B. Seventeen (17) ongoing credite                                              806.76     179.76
C. Twenty (20) Loans cloed                                          129.88
Tot l                                                               129.83     726.27
of which repaid                                                    62.62      14.92
Total held by Bank A IDA                                             76.71     711.86
Amount sold             5.76
of which repaid       8.26
Total Undisbursed                                                                         179.76



Annex I
Page 5 of 6
SI. Statemnt of SFC Investment  (as of September S, 1989)
----               ----- -------------------
Amount In US8 million
Equity
Fiscal Year    Obligor                            Type of Business                   Loan      Investment   Total
1967           Societe IndustrelII* d'Engrais    Fertillser Plant                      2.46        1.01       8.46
du Senegal (SIES)
1972-74        BUD Senegal                        Vogetable Export                        -        06.4       06.4
1974           SOFISEDIT                          Development Finance Co.                 -        0.84       6.34
1980           Banque do IHnbitat du Senegal    Money A Capital Market                    -       6.40       .046
1980           Societe Hoteliere du Beracholi    Tourism                               8.0o           -       8.00
1982           Industries Chimiques du Senegal   Fertilizer Plant                     26600           -      26600
19084          Afrlcan Seafood                    Fish Proessolng Plant                3.29        0.91       4.20
1986           SOTIBA-SIMPAFRIC                   Print Manufacturing                  3.20           -       8.20
1968           Industries Chimique du             Fertilizer Plant                    12.60        0.15      12.15
Seneal It                                                                 ---
Total Gros  Commitments                                                46.94       8.71       52.65
Less Cncel lations, Terminations,
Repayments, Sales and Losses                                           82.84       1.86       84.19
16.06       1.86      18.46
Total Com It ment  held by IFC



Annex II
PaRe 1 of 1
Supplementary Proiect Data Sheet
Timetable of Key Events
- Time taken to prepare the programs           17 months
- Initial discussions with IDA:                June 29-July 12, 1988
- Preparation Mission:                         November 7-24, 1988
- Appraisal Mission:                           July 3-21, 1989
- Negotiations:                                November 27-December 11, 1989
- Planned date of effectiveness                Febuary 1990



SEAL: SJCTURAL ADJUST4T CRIOIT  (SAL IV)  POLICY MATRIX                     04-Jan-90                           Page 1                   ANNEX III
RE    AtEAS A O£ J8TIVES                   STATUS A RtEtET ACTION                            SAL IV ACTION PR1RA                                                      TIDrC        CIONDrION FOR
I. MA OSCWIC AND FISCAL MANAGEET
1. Financial Stabilization. Continue to       - Nttble progr_es hao been _d- in recent       1. Redres the budgetary position (on a co_sit_mnt basis and excluding                    Overall
iprove the Government's fiecal and        years auch that the budget deficit ant             external grants) from a deficit of 4.01 of ceP in 1988/89 to:                         Perfor_nco
current  ccemrt operatione.                from 8.2b of MP in 190883 to 2.63 of CP in          * -2.89 of MP in 198/90                                                6/90
1987/8  and the current account deficit frou       * -1.53 of GDP in 1990/91                                               6/91
17.43 to 10.2b over the am  period. The          Reduce the current aceent deficit (excluding grant.) from 9.6$ of MP                  Overall
inflation rate declined aharply.                 to:                                                                                    Performnce
* 4.6S of MtP in 1989/90                                               6/90
* -6.9$ of GDP in 1990/91                                              6/91
2. Current E-peditore. Reduce the             See civil service and PEn section.                Se civil ervice an  PEn sections.
wog bil and iprove a loeatiown
between   ge and rm-wae
expeditorne so a* to increaee the
productivity of civil service.
Reduce tranfer to parmett la.
S. Revenue lbi lination.   Iprove reveu       - A tariff refos  -  adoptied in Augut 1966   2. R_eD  the import duty  eptionan inputs to textiles. batteries,            7/91         Oera ll
perfor_nce a_ redue relIance on            and a tea reorm ma. initiated under SAL III.      and _tchd industrie..                                                                 Perfor_nce
exceptional resources (pofibt from         including the eteniain of the valuE added
;_pot  of rice and petrolem) by           tax (VAT) to n_w _mbeectore and the
obifting awe stable reveue baee.           simplification of direct taxation for
individuals and copanies. Further to a sharp
decline in cueto_ collection. In the- second-
half of Ff69. on an esceptional and temporar
ba;s,  tariffs have been raised by o percontag
points acros the boerd in September 1969
for a t-year period.
- A plan of action ma  developed on the basis  S. leplesnt the       ic ta xnd administration action progrea. in          Continuous   Overall
of a otudy of the  omest  ta system end          partiular extend VAT to services and comrce. and roduce the                            Performance
administration in collaboration with the DIF     underinvoicing of iports by introducing a minima duty on
ad the WDrld Bnk. The study aime  at Ci)         underinvoiced item.
reducing the dependence on taxation on enrg
an  (;i) identifying other sources of revenue  4. l_eettion of an action plan to  prove custom administration.            9/90         Overall
withut averteing the indrn mectar (July           particularly the valuation sections an  the coputerization of                        Performace
1969).                                          "custom clearnce procedres to reduce freud.
S. Taks  t-o  of arres  nd r-inforc  the m_chaies of thwir                  Continuous  Overall
- Iplementation of tea administration  _raeurm    recovery  through o teuberixation of informtion.                                     Performance          la >
siming at improving tax collection. Thees                                                                                                                   t  S
sers., particularly those in the area of                                                                                                                   tQW  :
cuetoes, were identified under SAL 1II.                                                                                                                        x
4. Public Investment Programing               - Basic principl es of project planning and   e. Isprove the proparatioa of the three-year rolling public invetment                                         0  t-4
- Consolidate the process of              preparation are  ell  established (3 PFIP, have    prograa by consolidting PrIP with recurrent budget and better
budgeting already undrw y to               boen *atidefctorily reviewed by the Bank         defining sector strategies. and adopt for each year an investsant
achieve greater efficiency of              including that for 1980/90-1991/92).  Studies    progrm  in consultation with M.
public investment,                         are under way to take into consideration the        o 1990/91-1992/98                                                     6/90         Trnche* II



SENEGAL: STRUCTUtAL ADAJUSTMET CRED1T  (SAL IV)  POLICY MATRIX                 04-Jan-90                             Page 2                     ANB  III
F3M AtEiAS A OBJETIVE                        STATUS A RECT ACTION                                SAL IV ACTION PROURAN                                                       TDmoC         COrITION FOR
recurrent coet impact of the PTIP in four              * 1991/92-1993/94                                                        6/91          Trench- III
mactors (Education. Haalth, hydraulic&, and
Traneport). A guide for project unalymia
(for productive projects) have bon
completed nnd is being disseminated.
S. Financial Sector.  Improve the financial   The Oovernment is currently implementing a
intermwdi-tion procee..                     financial _ector reform program with the
eupport of IDA, France and USA.
II.  PRIVATE S1r0R DCNIVYE
1. Removal of labor mrket rigidities and        - Two aspects of labor code hav- been changed  1. Expand significantly poeeibility of using fixed term contracts by               10/8°         omrd Pr_nt
reduction in labor cost3.                   under SAL II which allo  employers to (i) hire    (a) paeing application d eree to the Labor Code to cover *isiting
without using the 'Service de la Main               firaa which ara expanding; (b) modifying the Investment Code to allow
d'Oeuvre; and to (ii) expand eomewhat use of        firma to use renewable fixed term contract. of up to S year. and
fi id-term emloyment contracts.                     exec t SlE from prior muthorieation for layine off workers, and (c)
modifying the ZFIM statute to enable enterpriee to benefit from
mot favorable conditions under the investmnt code.
2. Reduce labor cost by freezing the 9410 for 3 yeara and exempting             10/89         Board premnt.
certain enterprima from both weontribution forf-tai t*  and
payment of incom  taxes on their  xployae.
3. Review the country's wage matting *ystes with the view to  e                9/90          Tranche It
tbo rds market doterained wage. Participation of employers and labor
organizations will help solidify practice of realistic negotiation.
and dialogue aong social parterners.
2. Reduction in production coat. other          - A number of etudixs have been completed        4. Amend the special agreement with SMR on termo  and conditions acceptable  12/89           Board Preent.
than Labor,                                  in the energy *ector. They cover audit              to IDA and publ;ih a decree to that effect reflecting a new transparent
of SAR, the system of procurement, refi-            pricing and tacation asyste  for petroleum products.  Under the now
ning and distribution of petroleum pro-             system, ac-SMR prices will be met at import parity and adjusted
duct., and the fiscal aspect of petro-              quarterly.  In addition. SAN will be paid a handling fee to be
leua pricing and taxes (DIF/Bnk atudy).            negotiated with the tao parties concerned.
S. Reduce, in consultation *ith the World Bank and I. energy price.
a First phase                                                             7/90          Tranche II.
a Sub-equent actions                                                      1990/91       Overall 
Performance 
- Offpeak telecomomnicationo charges reduced   e. Reduce further telecomunict;ons prices for peak and aei-busy                  6/90          Overall              0  I
by 201 from July 1, 1989.                          hour periods, and tariffs for the port of Dakar.                                           Performnce           1  H
- A study is underway to formulat
appropriate tariff, for the port of Dakar.



SEBAL: STRUCTlRAL AOJUSTME5T CREDT (SAL. IV): POLICY MATRIX                 04-Jan-90                           Pag. S                    AhDNt III
RE9 AREAS A O8JECTIVES                     STATUS A RECIT ACTION                             SAL IV ACTION PROM                                                         TIMING       CQNDITION FOR
3 Iprowvent in investment incentive.         - Establishment of one-atop services for       7. Study and implement _* ures aimed at simplifying the administrative
and in the roeultory environment.          inveetors (Ouichot Unique),                        regulations for doing bue;neae in Senegal and for the strengthening of
fiecal administration (Dcm).
* Prepare plan of action bs*ed on the findings of the study.            I1/89        Board Preent.
a Implement plan of action.                                             Continuous   Overall
Performance
* Restructure DOID and improve oporating procedures.                    9/90         Trenche 11
8. Prepare  and implent an action plan for reducing the  arginal             12/89        Board Present.
effective ta- rate, followine the findings of the corporate teestion
study and the implomentation of the new direct tax structure.
* Implement plan of action                                             Continuous   Overall
Performnce
a Eatabliah single personal income ta, separate corporat  tax and       1/90         Tranche II
eliminate P8E.
4. Prmotion of exports.                        - Duty drawback eche" ,ond export subsidiee   9. Revise legislation af ZFI  and improve adiinistration to eliminate
introduced under SAL I and rationalized under    constraints to its eapansion.
SAL II.                                              a Iple_ent action plan.                                               7/90         Overall
Performnce
10. Review effectiveness of duty drawa  scheme and administration             12/90        Overall
and structu4- of export ubsidy scheme. Implement findings of tho                       Performance
review.
5. Special Agreements.                                                                      11. Impleant a plan of action revising the SOCOCIH epecial agreement, in   6/90            Overall
particular the pricing system.                                                         Performnce
---------------- ----------------  ------__   __  ----------- ----------- ------ - - - -- - - - -- - - - -- -- - --   - _ _ -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ---_  -   ------   -   -- --  -__ _ _ _ _  -------- __ __ _   .-___-____- __-______- _
III. PARAPWLIC SWTOR REFW  (PEa)
1. Subsidy Reductions. Improved                - A program of direct operating subsidy       1. Elimination of direct operational subsidy to commercial PEn and
financial relations between the State      reductions has ben agreed under SAL III           Reduction of direct operational subsidy to no-comrcial PEa
and the Paropublic Sector and              and implemented according to the folloeing        (excluding COUD). The budgeted and actual total asount should not
reduction of the burden on public          schedule:                                         eacoed:
finances.                                  196/87 59 reduction aim-a-vis 195/86 amounts          CFAF 9.9 billion for 89/90 for non-commrcial PE
2987/88 1SS reduction vi-a-via 1988/816 *sounta       CFAF 9.1 billion for 90/91 for non-commarcial PE-                     7/90         Trenchb  II
1908/89 30t reduction via-a-vis 198/8t amounts        CFAF 7.4 billion for 91/92 for non-commerci;l PE-                     7/91         Trench. III
1909/90 SW0 reductio  vi-a-vi; 1988/86 amounts        CFAF 0.6 billion for 89/90 for co_ercial Pr=
CFAF 0.8 billion for 90/91 for commercial PEn                        7/90          Tranch* II             >
CFAF 0.0 billion for 91/92 for commercial PE&                        7/91         Tranche III
- Covernment has i;ued circular discontinuing 2. All future Capital increases should b- either in the form of long-         Continuous   Overall
practice of ewuipmnt subsidies.  As of July       term loan. or euity injections as appropriste and should be eubjected                  Performance
1989. practice of allrming EP to have             to the some criteria as the roet of the PTIP.                                                             0
overdrafte has been discontinued.
3. Transform stock of overdrafts as of June 1989 into longer ters loen      7/90         Overall
and write off the part that cannot be paid by non-commerc;al                           Performnce



Sit3AL: STRUCTURAL ADJTMT CREDIT (SAL IV): POLICY MATRIX                       04- Jan-90                            Page 4                      EX  III
Rhl4 MEAS A OBJrVIES                         STATUS A  ET  ACTION                                SAL IV ACTION PROGRA                                                        TDhDO         CONDITION FOR
antarpris  .
Croes-d-bts between the PEa and the Statr        4. Develop an action program -atiafctory to the Bank to *ettle                 12/89         Board
were dtemrinad up to the end of 186.                all crome-debta as of December 1989. The program ahould includ*                           Pramntatian
Timatable h_a been establi hed for their            measures to prawnt tho recurrence of crom--debte.
settlemeant.
Oovernment l miinated indi rect financial        5. Cancel all undisputed cro-s-debte, sectl- all disputed cros-debte,          9/90          Trmnch- I1
subsidije  through (a) abolishing Covernment        write off all debts of non-commercial PEa to Covernunt as of December
gusrentoe  on PE dommrtic borroming and             31, 1989; include in the 1990/91 budget at loast one third of all
(b) charging comwreial interest rates an            debts owed by the Government to the PEa, and *-ur- settlement of at
on-lent foreign debt.                               leat one third of all de'%* owed by comeercial PEa to the 4overnment
ma of Oecember 31. 1988.
6. Include in thu 1991/92 budget at leset one third of all debts owed          9/91          Trenche III
by the Covernent to the PEe and *asure settleaant of at least one
third of all debts owed by crovercil -  to the Government *a of
December 31. 199.
2. Privatization. Withdrawal of the             - The liquidation of 7 SEM& and 2                7. Completion of all preparation and formal offer for a-Ie in a
State from non-etrategic PEa by              Etabl i     tne Publice  asu  finalized in March    mnner eatiafactory to the Bank of:
means of privatization and                   1988.
liquidation.                                                                                         SIDEC. VACAP. SAIH, SERAS, SNSS. SERDI (Projsct). SOED.                 12/89         Board
- 26 SBta were selected for privatization               SENHT                                                                                 Prentation
and 10 were announced for eels in October
1987. Shares in two of the companies on the             SIPOA. SINAE5, WAM, DAR NARDIE. DAWEt, SODEIE, Projet                   9/90          Trenche II
list and in one other company  ere aold end             Fruitier iboro. CNCAS, BICIS
those of a fourth company ware offered for
sale in the third quarter of 1989.                    . S0TE , SICAP. S, SODDA, SOEZI. SWOIH. SODISA. SODDCA.                  9/91          Tranche III
SONPI, SI", SEPFA. SOWDIS. SMACOS
- Government has andored a strategy for
privatization aimed at withdrawal from all       8. Liquidation*
non-strategic PEa.
Liquidation decrees eigned. employees laid off and all                  6/90          Trench. II
- Covernment h-a decided on five PEs for                operations stopped for five anterprises to be liquidated.
liquidation.
Signature of liquidation decree  for aecond group of at least           6/91          Tranch* III
5 PEn. employs  laid off and all operations stopped.
9. Undertake study and act on recomendation for the creation of                12/90         Overal 
secondary market for shares.                                                              Performance
S. Rehabilitation of PEe. Maintain              - Etebli_se*enta Publics (EP) wmre converted 10. Rehabilitetion progra_m and contract plans
efficiency and performnce of those           to Societes Nationalas (SNa) in 1987.                   Include all subsidy reductions, cross-debt. settlement and other        Continuou-  Overall              Jo
PED to reain under Covornment control        improving their *nagesant autonomy.                     financial transactions with Government in the CPs.                                    Performnce             X
by meansaof rehabilitation plans and the 
contraet-plan (CP) aechanism.                - Rehabilitation program  were prepared for           .No CP  will be in force without identification of reseourc-  in          Continuoua                       0  i
SOTRAC. SONTEL, SONEES and SiLEC.                       the current and following y-r'- national budget to finance the_                                              1
If neceary. CP  *;ill be renegotiated annually, according to the                                         c
- CPs were signed for SOTRAC,SONATL, SNEES,             budgetary resources available.
SEILEC. and Lettrs, de Missieons (LM) were



SENE3AL  STRUClURAL ADJUSMENT CFtEDIT (SAL IV): POLICY MATRIX               04-Jun-90                            Pago 5                   ANNIX III
REFORM AJEAS A O8JECTIVES                  STATUS & RIF4      ACTION                          SAL IV ACTION PROGRAM                                                     TIMING       CONDrrION FOR
signed for SOAI. SODEVA, SODETIFC-,'SAieD,            Propari programs and begin implementation for  MIS, ORTS, ITA,        6/90           "O'D I I
and SGIIVAC.                                          SICAP. OHL4. PAD and RCFS                                                          Perform-nce
- obnagemnt audit- *uor copletod for                  Sign CPu for 1.1 PAD. RCFS. OPCE and SONATRA.                         6/90         Overall
aelected PEa.                                                                                                                            Performnce
Subminsion of revi-ed CP consistent with agreed _e-srus to            7/90         Trancha II
reduce subsidies and a*ettl ersoe-debt-.
All new CP* to incude performance incentives bonue. for PE            Continwous   Overall
managare.                                                                          Performance
Honor all financial obligations of Oovernaent within the CPl.         Continuous 
, The OR!P will advis. on the n eesery measuree at enterpri-e level   Continuous   Overall
progr_ to ensure coapliane with agruemente.                                        Performnce
4. Sector honagnt. Legl and                   - The Contrat-Plan Cell was upgraded in June  11. Strengthen ir,titutional fraemor  for PE reform.
Institutional Reform.                      1987 to the Dlgtion of Parapublic Sector
Reform (CfSP) and bas recently been provided      - Maintain the staffing and financing of the delegation for PE reform    Continuous   Overal I Perf.
with nem promises and additional staff.           (ORSP) to allow it to continue formulting, mnaging and monitoring
the PE reform program and to mnage a perforence incentive systm for
PE mnagers.
- Retain apecialist advice in the form of long term TA and ahort
term consultant. to help with audit.. evaluations, negotiation and
oeet of PEe to be privatized.
- Studioe  on the o;nniistion and functions  12. Strengthen parapublic cell in ministry of Finance to enable it to          3/90         Overall Perf.
of the supervieory agencies -ere completed in     monitor  ill governmnt/PE financial transactions. Cr-t. an
March 1988.                                       informtion syst-  which will work aloegaide that of the DRSP and be
compatible with it. Design and implemnt system.
13. Amnd and publiah parapublic sector law (87.19) so as to:                  6/90         Overll
Eliminate special controls on eissd sconosy PEe (SEM) in                           Perform_nc
hich governennt i a minority partner and on primate sector
companies receiving financial support froa Government.
Eliminate the right of veto on PE board deci-ions by Financial
Controller of the Presidency (CFP).
Limit th. role of the Office of Organization and
Method. (OM) in the PE sector to re ponding to mpecific
request from the Bards of Directors.
Restrict the role of the Audit Comi_sion (CVCCEP) to                                                   I 
a posteriori auditing of PE account..                                                                     x
Transform all commercial public establishment. (EP) into                                               0  t-
mocietee nationslos (SN), and turning all *i-;nistrative and                                           M1
non-coamercial EP to the central administration. Closing down                                          O
the e ntre for public establi ihment (CEP) which includes the
central accounting agency (ACC) and the controller of financial



SE82AL: STRXTURAL ADJSTIENT CEDIT (SAL IV): POLICY MATRIX                    04-Jan-90                           Page a                    AIX III
IWlq  AREAS A O8JETIVES                    STATtS & RtECT ACTIXN                              SAL 1V ACTION PROGAM                                                     TD4DM         CONDrTITW  FOR
Op*roetone (ClP).
Modify the coeposition of oll PE boards of directors to
include in each case at least two pereone nominated because of
their capabilities and qualifications and not because of their
positions in the administration or their rapr e_ntetion of
intereet grouPe.
14. Full impleernt.etion of cloeura of ACC/COF and change  to  ill PE         12/90        Oveall
Board of Directors.                                                                    Performance
V. CIVIL SERVICE REFO
1. Dverall obJective.                                                                        1. Prepare an action plan in coneult:tion with MA to reduce the sag          11/89        Negotiations
bill and iprove civil sorvice mnagement. The plan is to include
in particular the _eaaur   4e cribed below.  In *ddition, the
Qovemrnant ia co_itted to _intain. beyond 1992. the number of civil
ervente below 1991/92 levels, and the sag  bill below 405 of revnue..
2. Staff reduction                            No now hiring. except for replsceeant          2. Reduce the number of civil aervanto through a progras of
rediction.                                 and reductions in the number of intake froa       adinistrative restructuring and voluntary departure..
training schools.  A numer of studies have
been completed by the Oov*rnment. naely the           l plement the restructuring plan reucing the nuaber of                3/90        0ovrall
July and Nov_ber 1989 Ob  report, which               ainistris. froe 26 to 13.                                                          Performance
focus on the restructuring of the current
administration.                                       Reduce the number of civil servants by about 4.300 through            6/91         Overall
voluntary departure, restructuring and early retiresnt by                          Performance
June 19.
Privatize elected services thue reducing the civil er,ice by        12/91         overall
*another 1.300 staff.                                                              Performance
Eliminate from the payroll *Il irregulr ceses identified by the      6/90         O0erall
second *taff canes.                                                                Performance
Enaure that recruitment does not *xceed the following:
- 43  schoolteachers, and 7M  of progres departures in the non-      6/90         Tranche II
education sector for 1989/90. At a minimum, there will be
364 net staff reductions by June 1990.
- 661 schoolteachers, en3   of program departures in the non-        6/91         Tranche III    r      . D
education *ectora for 1990/91.                                                                       lb
3Q :
- 797 achoolteacher. and 805 of program departures in the non-      6/92         owvrall                  X
education * ctors for 1991/92.                                                  Performance         ra'
0)1-4
3. Ws" bill reduction.                        Staff Cenau- coepleted in 1987 and updated     S. Control the cage bill end improve its esnagesent.                                                           1 
in 1989. Audit of composition of wage bill                                                                                                                    O
co pleted in Soptembr 19e9.                           K ep wage bill at or below following ciling- without incurring
backpey arrears as of July 1, 1989:



SEBNAL: STRUCTURAL ADJSTM4BT CREDrIT  (SAL IV): POLICY MATRIX                 17-J,n-90                            P.ge 1                    A       JII
1 AAS A *8JE1WTri                           STATUS A RteCET ACrIN                              SAL IV ACrICN  ROaWRAD TIMIM                                                             CODITION FOR
- Realize CFAF 126.8 billion in 1989/90. and budget no more than      6/90          Tranche II
128 billion for FY 1990/91.
- Realis. CFAF 125 billion in 1991/92. and budget no more then         6/91         Tr,nch- III
126 billion for FY 1991/92.
Update the administrative status of all civil servants. determine    4/90           Ov-rall
the total amount of back pay adjustments required, and set a                        Performnce
tim_tablo to clear them.
Reduce Governments -ontribution to the Employue Pension Furida         7/90         Overall
from 20f to 161 af bhe   salary.                                                    Performanc*
* No esry incross_ until June 1992. with the exception of              Continuous   Overall
performnce incentivo bonuses to bh  determined independently                        Perfor_nce
from the base salary index.
Allocate all economies on the wage bill (defined as the                Continuous   OveraIl
difference between the sbove-mentioned e ilinge and the actual                      Performance
eage bill *inus arrears *ttlesent. government contributione to
the eperaftion package, end incentir bonuse) to tho following.
in that order: *ettl- pay arrearm; contribute to separation
packgea; end increase bonum_.
4. Iprove civil service management            lMjor groundwork has been completed under the  4. Adopt end implemnt all institutional asasres required to carry out
systes_  end monitor the reform progrm.    Development lanagxsnt Project. This include         the reform.
organizational study of Civil Service
Directorast, completion of a payroll processing        Adopt teats redefining the rolee and functions of the sectoral         4/90          Overall
system (3/89), revise of civil service                 personnel unite (DAE and SAG.                                                        Perform_nce
policies and _etoral personnel unite (S/89).
The status of the Central Payroll Agency was           Implement now rewultons governing National Training Schools            9/90          overall
raised to that of Directorate in Septesber             (Eeole- Nationals. de Formation), in particular those putting an                    Performnce
1989.                                                  end to automtic recruitmnt in the civil ervice.
brmonise special sttutes with the gneral statute of the Civil          7/90         Overall
Service, end define tha n_ indemnity  nd bonue system  (in                          Performance
consultation with the Bank on the principle of fixed swounte
independent of the be" salary).
*mpl_ent organizational chart and staffin9 for the Central            4/90          Overall               la P.
Payroll Directorate MM5) and the Civil Service Directorate (FP);                    Performnce            D  :
and computerize DCi operations.                                                                           tD 
Eatabliehment of an Inter-sgncy Steering        S. Manage the Civil Service Program. -
Committee in Nov. 1987, and a task force on                                                                                                                     0°H
Automatic Data Processing in Sept. 198.                Establish a Steering Comitte (Comite de Pilotage) to monitor           1/90         Overall Parf.          - 
the re-tructuration and voluntary departure prgram.
---     - - - - - - - --  - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - -  -- - ----    - - ----   - - - - - - - - -- -  - - - - - - - - -- - - - -  - - ----     - - -  - - - - -  -



SENBAL: STRUCrLPAL ADJUSTMT CRtDIT (SAL IV): POLICY IATRIX                  17-Jan-90                            Paeg  1                  AIeM III
tEF    AEAS A OJErTIYS                     STATUS A ReCE9T  ACTI1N                            SAL IV ACIaON FEDORAM                                                     TlIC        C0WITION FOR
V. SOCIAL DIPSEIONS OF ADJ.s1
1. Job Creation end Poverty Alleviation.      - Creation of the  Deleation a l'Inrortion    1. Review experience with tho RE/DIRE program with a vie of                    12/80        Overall P rf.
a la Reinertion at a l'plo; (DIED)                expanding the progra  if doemd sueee_ful.
Estebli;h,ent of a National Employment
fund (RE) and of a Special Ebloyant Fund.         - lplse_nt a public works and employment project in urban ares           Continuous   E mpIymnt
with donora eupport.                                                                   Proct
2. based on eatimtee of demand for health and primary education              6/90         Overall
ervicsee by urbxn and rural poor. propoe otiefaectory reallocation        6/91         Performance
of public expenditures in thes suboectors to be incorporated in
1990/91 and 1991/92 budgets.
2. Population Policy and Hmun Re wurcee.      - Statemnt of population policy was                - Revise existing lgal documnt related to family code planning            12/89        Owerals Perf.
prepared under SAL II. ^n adjustment              and economic rights of women.
program for the human resources eoctor
i being formulated.                               - Prepare and implement actions contained in the lR SEAL according        Continuous  lt SECAL
to the timtable set in the SEAL.
S. Monitoring the impact of stuctural         - Financing wa arranged in order to                - Establi h the surey unit at the Directorata of Statistics to design                  Overall Perf.
adjutmant.                                 establieh a pormnent survey capacity and           the pormnent houeeold survey.
to carry out socio-economic studies
Methodology of the  urvey was ogred with          - Establish regional offices to carry out dota collection,                                     a
Directorate of Statistics. Sampling frame.
and classification of households into socio-      - Set up a data analysis unit to produce results on the standards of
economic groups v" comp,'ted.                     living of households.
- Identify eocio-economic studies related to hou-ehold behavior           12/39
so as to forsualtn projects related to vulnerable groups.
M D
00 
O 0
P1tl.



Annex IV
Page 1 of 50
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
(No. 3)
FOURTH STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(SAL IV)
Dakar, December 29, 1989



CONTENTS                   Annex IV
Page 2 of 50
Page
I.   THE MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK . . . . . .         ..3
1.  Economic Policy Objectives  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
2.  Monetary Policy and Reform of the Banking system  . . . . . 3
3.  Strategy for Public Finance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
4.  Debt Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
5.  Upgrading of the Economic Information System  . . . . . . . 7
II.  INCENTIVES FOR PRIVATE INVESTMENT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
1.  Overview and Objectives ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..   7
2.  Improving the Regulatory'and Institutional Environment
for Firms                   .. . ... . 8
3.  Cost of Factors of Production .                        . .     . 9
4.  Reform of the Trade and Services Sector . . . . . . . . . .11
5.  Improving the Institutional Framework for Investment
Promotion   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .12
6.  Special Agreements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .13
III. PUBLIC INVESTMENT PROGRAM AND POLICY  . . . . . . . . . . . . .13
1.  Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .13
2.  Action Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .14
IV.  CIVIL SERVICE REFORM  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .14
1.  Reform Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .15
2.  Institutional Reform  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .15
3.  The Voluntary Departure Program . . . . . . . . . . . . . .17
4.  Personnel Management  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .20
5.  Rationalization of the Wage Bill  . . . . . . . . . . . . .21
6.  Projected Results of the Reform and Long-Term Prospects . .22
7.  Financing and Savings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .24
V.   REFORM OF THE PARASTATAL SECTOR . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .26
1.  Background and Objectives   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .26
2.  Improving State-PE Financial Relations  . . . . . . . . . .26
3.  Privatization and Liquidation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .34
4.  Rehabilitation of Enterprises . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .35
5.  Legal and Institutional Framework . . . . . . . . . . . . .35
VI.  THE SOCIAL DIMENSION OF THE ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM  . . . . . . . .37
1.  Assessment and Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . .               37
2.  Action Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..38
ANNEXES
Action Plan . . . . ... ..... . . 41
Table 1: Direct subsidies, transfers and overdrafts to PEs. 48
Table 2: Cross debts between PEs and Government and
between PEs and themselves . . . . .   .  . . . . .49



Annex IV
Page 3 of 50
SENEGAL
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY (No. 3)
I.    THE MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK
1.    Economic Policy Objectives
1.      In order to realize its Medium- and Long-term Adjustment Program
(PAML) (1984/85-1992/93), the Government is committed to implementing a series
of economic policy measures to ensure adequate growth of per capita income, a
moderate inflation rate, and an improved budgetary and external position.
After a sharp fall in the rate of real GDP growth in 1988/89 owing to
unfavorable climatic conditions, the growth rate of Senegal's economy is
projected at 4.6 percent in 1989/90 and 3.8 percent for the two following
years. The inflation rate, measured by the GDP deflator, is expected to be no
higher than 2.5 percent through 1991/92. It is anticipated that the budget
deficit, on a commitment basis and excluding grants, will decline from 4
percent of GDP in 1988/89 to 2.8 percent in 1989/90 and will become a surplus
of 0.8 percent of GDP in 1991/92. The current external deficit, excluding
official grants, will continue to improve, declining from 8.3 percent of GDP
in 1989/90 to 6.1 percent of GDP by 1991/92. Finally, it is also projected
that the balance of payments will be in surplus by 1991/92 and that external
budgetary financing needs will decline sharply in the medium term.
2.   Monetary Policy and Reform of the Banking System
2.          The Government will continue to implement a prudent monetary
policy. The growth of domestic liquidity will therefore be controlled in
order to contain aggregate demand. It is projected that over the next three
years domestic liquidity will increase 4.7 percent a year on average.
Moreover, the expected improvement in the budgetary situation will enable the
Government to limit the net indebtedness of the State to the banking system,
thereby allowing adequate expansion of credit to private sector activities
without provoking excessive growth in domestic credit. The conduct of
monetary policy in the years ahead will also be facilitated by two factors,
namely the reform of the banking sector and the reforms in the utilization of
monetary policy instruments introduced by the Central Bank (BCEAO).
3.          The insolvency and illiquidity of the banks originated firstly in
the significant proportion of bad debts held by a number of banks and
financial establishments, and secondly in excessive operating costs. This
situation led the Government to introduce a reform program in the banking
sector whose main objectives, set out in the policy statement for the banking
sector, are financial rehabilitation through the restructuring of the sector
and the establishment of a healthy banking environment.
4.          All the components of this reform program, which is already making
good progress, should be in place by the end of 1989. The specific objectives
of the program are: (i) recapitalization of two banks complemented by
measures designed to reduce operating costs; (ii) the closing of four public
sector banks and one private sector bank, the sound loans being taken over by



Annex IV
Page 4 of 50
a new financial institution while the delinquent loans will be passed to a
collection agency. These measures are being accompanied by a reduction in the
State's share of the capital of these banks to less than 10 percent. Steps
will be taken to strengthen the supervision of the banks and to facilitate
loan recovery, while the recent changes within the West Africa Monetary Union
(WAMU) should produce a much more flexible approach to monetary policy, based
to a greater extent on the market. The BCEAO will pursue a more active
interest rate policy designed to stimulate domestic savings and promote the
development of financial intermediation.
3.    Strategy for Public Finance
5.          During the period of the PAML, the State's financial position has
improved considerably, this being reflected in a steady decline in its deficit
on financial operations (commitment basis) which reached 11.3 percent of GDP
in 1980/81 before diminishing to 2.6 percent in 1987/88. This favorable trend
has been the result of: (1) a marked increase in general revenues; (2) a
significant contribution from extraordinary revenues derived from certain
imported products (rice and oil); and above all (3) rigorous control of
current expenditure (equipment and supplies) and investment expenditure.
Nonetheless, despite these satisfactory results, the public finances continue
to be constrained by factors linked to: (1) the volume of external debt
service; (2) the still excessive weight of the wage bill and State assistance
to establishments and enterprises in the parastatal sector; and (3) the
excessive dependence of budgetary resources on extraordinary revenues. Given
the importance of this issue, emphasis will continue to be placed on both
enhanced resource mobilization and effective control of public expenditure.
a.    Resource Mobilization
6.          In order to put public finance management on an even sounder
footing, efforts will focus on expanding the tax base to ensure the steady
growth of total revenue whilst reducing dependence on the extraordinary
revenues from oil and rice, and also reducing the tax burden on certain
economic actors. The Government will pursue the implementation of a range of
measures intended to modernize and strengthen procedures for the
administration and collection of taxes and customs duties.
7.    Improvements in the Tax System    As of January 1, 1990 a new corporate
tax will be introduced that will replace all the taxes to which companies are
currently subject. To enable this measure to have its full effect, it has
been decided to eliminate the capital budget levy. The tax rate will be 35
percent! this will ensure a reasonable level of receipts and will alleviate
the tax burden on companies. Following an evaluation of the reform on June
30, 1991 the 35 percent rate may be reduced to 30 percent from the year
1991/92 onwards. As regards individuals, a single personal income tax will be
introduced in order to eliminate the double taxation of dividends. In the new



Annex IV
Page 5 of 50
income tax schedule the highest effective marginal rate will not exceed 50
percent. The reform will be applied from January 1, 1990 onwards. This new
tax will be complemented by the introduction of taxes withheld at source on
income from land, shares and bonds, and on professional earnings.
8.          To widen the tax base, the value added tax will be applied to all
commercial transactions and services. This new tax will replace the current
system of turnover taxes. The introduction of taxation appropriate to each
kind of economic activity is also a central element in the upgrading of the
tax base. Hence the business enterprise levy system will be reviewed to
reduce distortions in taxation among the various categories of commercial
activities. In addition, the Government will take a series of measures
intended to tighten considerably the taxation of the informal sector. The
taxation of interest income will also be reexamined with a view to its
possible elimination in light of the results of a study.
9.          Computerization will play a particularly important role in
rationalizing the procedures for administering and collecting taxes. This
objective will essentially be realized by completing the computerization of
indirect taxes and customs clearance procedures, updating taxpayer records and
identifying unlisted taxpayers, deploying new tax collection procedures and
monitoring payment of arrears of taxation. As regards infrastructure, tax
collection centers will be opened in Dakar and other large towns. This step,
together with the introduction of the fiscal cadaster for the Dakar urban
area, will facilitate a more accurate census and permit swifter intervention
vis-a-vis taxpayers.
10.   Strengthening of Customs services    To improve the efficiency of the
customs administration, the Governnent has prepared an action plan designed to
strengthen the Customs Department. Execution of this plan is scheduled for
the early part of 1990. Its principal elements are: the upgrading of the
customs service through the introduction of the GAINDE system for computerized
management of customs and trade data; better control over the value of
imports; improved management of special customs regimes; and the introduction
of a system to evaluate the impact of customs reforms.
11.         The GAINDE system should be brought into service by January 1,
1990 at the latest. About nine months after its introduction the Government
will review its operation and adopt additional measures designed to optimize
the system's impact. To combat fraud in the form of under-invoicing, the
Customs Department has established a special section whose principal
responsibilities are the preparation and updating of a central database which
will be integrated into the GAINDE system before the end of 1990. The
resources for this unit, augmented by the creation of the position of customs
advisor in Senegal's embassies in the major supplier countries, will be
reassessed before the end of June 1990 with a view to their reinforcement.
The introduction of the GAINDE system will permit systematic monitoring of
special customs regimes (temporary admission for processing, industrial
warehousing, drawback, and investment code). Before the end of September 1990



Annex IV
Page 6 of 50
the State will begin a complete survey of warehousing systems and will
initiate a thorough review of the agreements providing for this suspensive
system. Checks on customs regimes will also be strengthened. Finally, to
enhance the process of customs administration reform, the Government will,
before the end of 1990, undertake a qualitative and quantitative evaluation of
the effects of recent changes (raising of import duties and introduction of
minimum import valuations) on customs revenues and on the performance of the
private sector.
b.    Improving the Management of Expenditure
12.         The role and weight of the public sector are crucial elements in
Senegal's adjustment problems at the present time. This awareness has led the
Government to adopt as an explicit objective the promotion of "a modest State
and a modern State." Specific measures designed to reduce the size of the
civil service wage bill and the level of State assistance to public and
parastatal sector agencies and enterprises have been prepared and constitute
the principal features of the program. Nonetheless, steps must be taken to
ensure that sufficient resources are allocated to expenditure on equipment and
supplies, to enable services to function normally.
13.         In addition, the management of physical assets will be
rationalized and a study of the suitability of building a modern
administrative block to accompany the planned restructuring of administrative
services will be finalized. The operations of special accounts at the
Treasury will be brought under closer control through the integration of
certain accounts into the operating budget.
4.    Debt Management
14.         The Government will continue to follow a prudent debt management
policy in order to limit debt service to manageable proportions. To this end
it will limit new nonconcessional borrowing to a minimum and will as far as
possible substitute grants for loans. External financing needs, excluding
project-related financing but including IMF resources, are expected to
diminish in such a way that Senegal should be able to service its external
debt obligations.
15.         To provide better information on changes in the public debt
situation, a computerized debt monitoring payment and recording system will be
installed. The collection of statistics on long and short-term private sector
debt will also be improved. Improved data collection on the guaranteed debt
(drawings and settlements) and completion of the review of debt already paid
will permit tighter control of the State's obligations and of amounts due. A
guide to the improvement of debt management will be prepared. Provision will
continue to be made to ensure annual growth of 10 percent in the allocation
from the operating budget to the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement.



Annex IV
Page 7 of 50
5.    Upgrading of the Economic Information System
16.         This will entail a continuation of actions already begun with a
view to improving both the processing of economic information on the one hand
and the Government's analytical and forecasting capability on the other. To
this end, the programs to upgrade the information system on enterprises,
foreign trade and the public administration will be pursued so as to permit
regular preparation of national accounts.
17.         In the area of national accounts, the principal steps include: (i)
rapid preparation of interim accounts at current and constant prices; (ii)
regular publication of Statistical Centre (CUCI) data; (iii) preparation of
financial accounts for the public administration; (iv) introduction of a
program to improve foreign trade statistics; and (v) introduction of a
permanent system of administrative statistics. As part of the upgrading of
data processing, a multi-annual forecasting model (three years minimum) for
the public finances will be established following completion of the relevant
feasibility study. A program of household surveys will also be implemented to
provide a better understanding of the socio-economic aspects of the medium and
long-term adjustment program.
II.   INCENTIVES FOR PRIVATE INVESTMENT
1.    Overview and Obiectives
18.         The growth of productive investment, especially in the industrial
sector, has slowed somewhat in recent years. Apart from unfavorable worldwide
economic conditions, the incentives policies in effect were no longer having
positive effects on firms' behaviour. This, taken together with the past
priority given to import substitution industries and with the weight of
administrative constraints on firms' operations (price control, investment and
trade regulation, social legislation, etc.), persuaded the Government in 1986
to adopt as part of the PAML a new industrial development strategy designed to
raise the sector's productivity and competitiveness. This involved the
elimination of quantitative restrictions, the simplification of foreign trade
procedures, the removal of price controls and a review of the labor code. The
plan brought about a more liberal environment favoring the development of
industry. Since the financial situation at the time delayed implementation of
the measures designed to bring about a concomitant decline in the cost of
production factors to bring them into line with international levels, major
distortions resulted; currently these are still seriously undermining the
competitiveness of Senegal's industry, now open to unrestricted competition
although confronted abroad by barriers limiting its access to competitive
markets.
19.         The Government's main objectives in this sector are to improve
productivity and increase competitiveness so as to raise output through the
reduction or even elimination of the administrative and regulatory obstacles
hampering investment and firms' operations.



Annex IV
Page 8 of 50
20.         On the basis of the results achieved over the last two years, the
Government has taken steps to improve the regulatory and institutional
environment for firms and to reduce the costs of production factors.
2.    Improving the Regulatory and Institutional Environment for Firms
21.         The Government will continue the process-- already well under
way-- of easing all the formalities entailed in setting up an enterprise and
making investments. To this end the Investment Code was revised in September
1989 with special emphasis on making the labor regulations governing new
enterprises, those established in the Dakar industrial free zone (ZFID) and
small and medium-sized enterprises (PMEs) more flexible.
22.         The strengthening by June 30, 1990 at the latest of the "Guichet
Unique," whose functions will be expanded to include the centralization of the
formalities involved in setting up an enterprise, is also one of the
Government' s priorities.
23.         In addition, the Government proposes to modify certain regulatory
provisions no later than June 30, 1990, by simplifying the documentation
required to establish an enterprise, specifically by restricting the need for
a notarized instrument to certain categories of companies only.
24.         In the area of company taxation a series of measures has been
prepared which, through the introduction of the single personal income tax for
individuals and of a corporate tax, is designed to simplify both procedures
and legislation. The reorganization and computerization of the Fiscal
Department (DGID), which will take place from January 1, 1990 onwards, will
expedite procedures in the area of fiscal administration. Specifically, it is
planned to introduce a single taxpayer dossier which will limit the number of
agents with whom the taxpayer must interact within the DGID to one. Once the
system has been in operation for a certain length of time, the Government, in
consultation with its development partners and no later than September 1,
1990, will review its operations, and in particular the DGID's procedures, in
order to identify possible corrective measures. The restructuring plan for
the Customs Department is also designed to simplify and accelerate customs
procedures.
25.         The following steps will also be taken:  preparation of an
investment guide (March 1990); wider diffusion of legal and fiscal documents
relating to companies (July 1990); simplification of the conditions for
commercial registration (June 1990); easing of certain formalities, including
the conditions for practice of the professions (June 1990).
26.         The evaluation of the program to increase production, including
both the elimination of existing constraints and the introduction of a number
of new incentives to firms, will be carried out by an independent expert in
June 1991 and June 1992 to enable the Government to take such measures as may
be shown to be necessary.



Annex IV
Page 9 of 50
3.    Cost of Factors of Production
27.         The Government intends to reduce the cost of factors of production
and to introduce a vigorous employment promotion policy by controlling the
increase in labor costs and promoting greater flexibility in the labor market.
a.    Technical Factors
28.         The various deregulation measures already taken under the
industrial development strategy have helped to improve the environment in
which Senegalese firms are developing. Nonetheless, these reforms, marked by
the restoration of market prices and trade liberalization, have not allowed
the country's industry to recover its full vigor given the lack of
complementary measures required to put Senegalese firms on the same supply and
operational footing as their competitors.
29.         Energy.      The authorities have decided to put special emphasis
on the cost of energy, currently a particularly significant handicap. Energy
prices will be fixed at a level that will help Senegal's industries to compete
on an equitable basis in overseas markets.
30.         Consequently the Government has decided, while taking current
financial constraints into account, to undertake, in consultation with its
development partners, reforms in the energy sector that have two main
components:
the introduction from January 1990 onwards of a new price
structure for petroleum products, based on the principle of fixing
ex-refinery prices as a function of import prices and on a
transparent taxation system; to this effect, the special agreement
signed between the Government and the Societe Africaine de
Raffinage (SAR) has been amended to define the new ex-SAR price
setting mechanism, and in particular set the amount of the
handling fee that will be paid to the refinery. This amount has
temporarily been set at US$ 2.25 per barrel for the first quarter
of 1990, and will be permanently determined in consultation with
IDA by January 31 1990. It will be reflected in the ex-SAR
pricing structure on April 1st 1990, when the Government and SAR
will also make the necessary adjustments for the first quarter of
1990;
after an observation period lasting some months, reductions will
be made in the prices of industrial fuels (fuel oil and diesel
oil) in order to align them as far as possible with international
prices, by July 1, 1990 at the latest. Electricity tariffs will
be correspondingly adjusted through the application of the tariff
indexing formula.



Annex IV
Page 10 of 50
31.         This major reform will be complemented by other specific measures
designed to stimulate the supply of petroleum products at a lower cost; to
this end the Government will examine the conditions for progressive
deregulation of petroleum products distribution and transportation operations.
Improving the management of SAR and SENELEC will remain a central concern of
those responsible for the energy sector.
32.         Transport.  As indicated in the policy statement on the
transportation sector, the Government is committed to reviewing the situation
for all modes of transportation and defining specific measures designed to
promote the development of this important sector for economic recovery.
Specific steps are planned to improve maritime transport and reduce
transportation costs for industry, possibly through tariff adjustments and
improvements in service efficiency.
33.         Telecommunications (telephone, telex and telefax).  The services
provided by this sector have become increasingly important for the modern
firm. The recently completed tariff study has led to the introduction of a
tariff structure reflecting the real costs of the different services, thereby
facilitating more rational utilization of the network. The Government has
placed special emphasis on improving service quality after deciding to reduce
all rates with effect from July 1989 onwards (201 reduction in off-peak hours
on the national and international network).
34.         By June 30, 1990 at the latest, and in light of initial experience
with the tariff adjustments, SONATEL will examine the possibility, first, of
introducing a "semi-busy hour" tariff and, second, of further tariff
adjustments for international communications so as to reduce the price
differential between communications originating in Senegal and those
originating abroad.
35.         In addition, the Government has also decided to replace, from
January 1, 1990 onwards, the tax currently applied to telephone charges by a
recoverable valued added tax (VAT), as part of the overall review of company
taxation.
b.    Labor
36.         During the first phase of the PAML, in the context of improving
the industrial environment, the Government took measures designed to ease
rigidities in the operation of the labor market, specifically through the
elimination of the monopoly of the employment service as regards job
opportunities and amendments to the legislation on labor contracts.
37.         In September 1989, the Government took important steps with a view
to reducing nominal wages and to enhancing the flexibility of the labor
market. To this end, it decided to freeze the guaranteed minimum wage (SMIG)
for a period of three years from July 1, 1989 and made significant reforms in
the regime for small and medium-sized businesses (PMEs), firms in the Dakar



Annex IV
Page 11 of 50
Industrial Free Zone (ZFID) and companies recognized under the Investment
Code. Advantageous fiscal arrangements were also introduced in relation to
taxes and charges on wages and salaries.
38.         The revision of the Investment Code will henceforward permit
eligible companies to benefit from the amendment to the last paragraph in
Article 22 of Law No. 87-25 of August 18, 1987 concerning the Investment Code.
This amendment authorizes the hiring of workers in companies recognized under
the Code as additional personnel to perform work resulting from incremental
business as defined in Article 35, para. 4, of the Labor Code, for a maximum
period of five years. Consequently, firms may during this period make
renewable fixed-term duration labor contracts with their workers.
Furthermore, the articles in the Investment Code governing the specific system
for PMEs have been amended so that the latter do not have to obtain prior
approval for making redundancies caused by economic factors.
39.         The provisions of the Investment Code have been extended to
companies either established in the ZFID already or which may benefit
eventually from the specific status of "free company", no matter where they
are established within Senegal.
40.         Over the medium term, the Government is committed to pursuing its
labor market reform program, in close collaboration with the social partners
representing labor unions and employers. The Government has therefore decided
to set up a tripartite national commission (State-Employers-Workers) which
will serve as a framework for consultation and agreement among the social
partners on an in-depth reform of the regulations governing labor relations.
The terms of reference for this commission, which will begin its work on
January 1, 1990, will essentially cover the following matters: the wage-
setting system, the need for fi'exibility in company management, protection of
workers, vocational training a:ad redeployment policy, decentralization of the
social dialogue, rationalizaticn of administrative methods, particularly labor
inspection, reforms in recruitment practices for higher-level personnel and
the scope of a possible revision of thd Labor Code. The commission will
submit its initial conclusions before the end of 1990. The Government will
take the necessary measures in consultation with its development partners in
order to implement the commission's recommendations on reforms in the wage-
setting system no later than September 30, 1990.
4.    Reform of the Trade and Services Sector
41.         The Government will strengthen its program ii support of this
sector's development so as to help the firms involved adjust to the new
economic context.
a.    Exports
42.         Before June 30, 1990 the Government will introduce an action plan
in line with the spirit and letter of the new approach being adopted, namely:



Annex IV
Page 12 of 50
identification of a target group of potential export products; the
organization of seminars on the utilization of the generalized system of
preferences; and improved operation of the instruments already introduced to
promote exports (export subsidy and duty drawback). To this end, a program to
simplify the administrative procedures related to obtaining these latter
advantages, both as concerns the Customs Department and the Treasury, will be
prepared and implemented by June 30, 1990 at the latest.
b.    Imports
43.         In this sector, the Government intends, first, to strengthen the
conditions for healthy competition by working more effectively against
smuggling, dumping and under-invoicing. On this point, while reaffirming its
commitment to the principle of liberaliziag international trade, the
Government notes that certain competing countries apply quantitative
restrictions (even including prohibition) on products which can be freely
marketed in Senegal. In accordance with GATT regulations, the Government
reserves the right to take countermeasures in the form of: (i) the application
of safeguards othor than the traditional quantitative restrictions, on the
basis of strict reciprocity; (ii) the preparation of an adequate strategy
against dumping and under-invoicing; (iii) the negotiation with donors of
stabilization clauses and trade regimes to be agreed with Senegal during the
adjustment period.
5.    Improving the Institutional Framework for Investment Promotion
44.         In creating the Dakar industrial free zone (ZFID) in 1974, the
Government had as its objective the establishment of an attractive framework
to encourage foreign and domestic investors to set up labor-intensive, export-
oriented industrial companies.
45.         A review of results to date shows that these have fallen far short
of the objectives set at the time. The authorities have consequently taken
steps: (i) to strengthen the powers of and respect for the autonomy of the
ZFID Administration; (ii) to make it possible from January 1, 1990 onwards to
sell, without any prior authorization other than the approval of the
Administrator of the ZFID, up to of 40 percent of production on the local
market, subject to payment of the relevant duties and taxes; (iii) to adopt by
June 30, 1990 the decree restoring the export subsidy for companies in the
ZFID; (iv) to introduce no later than June 30, 1990 the status of free company
and "free points"; (v) to construct temporary premises; (vi) to strengthen
ZFID promotion policy through better utilization of commercial
representations, the integration of the ZFID into the structures for the
coordination of promotion activities by local investors, and the introduction
of a databank and computerized records.
46.         Since these measures are expected to increase the number of
companies established within the ZFID, the Government will take all the
necessary steps to protect the environment.



Annex IV
Page 13 of 50
6.    Special Agreements
47.         The Government has decided to sign no more special agreements with
companies, and to bring the policy of special fiscal treatment to an end. The
Government will not extend existing special agreements. In future all
companies will be subject only to the provisions of the common regime and the
particular regimes contained in the Investment Code.
48.         The special agreement with the SAR will be renegotiated before the
end of 1989 to permit integration of the new system for fixing prices and
taxing petroleum products. The special agreement with the CSS will be
reexamined as part of the reforms in the sugar subsector as set out in the
policy statement on the agriculture sector. Following an operational and
financial audit, an action plan relating to the special agreement with SOCOCIM
has been prepared. An amendment to this special agreement is planned before
June 30, 1990 in order to introduce a new formula for fixing cement prices.
III. PUBLIC INVESTMENT PROGRAM AND POLICY
1.    Performance
49.         Senegal's pre-1985 public investment policy showed its limitations
both as regards the relevance of the investment projects selected and the
mobilization of the necessary resources. Since then, the basic objective of
government public investment policy under the PAML has been to increase
investment efficiency. Since implementation of the adjustment program began,
efforts have been made to achieve this objectively by establishing a three-
year rolling plan within the wider framework of the reform of the national
planning system.
50.         The new economic planning framework adopted by the Higher Planning
Council on June 29, 1987 was recently supplemented (as part of the application
phase) by a study of future trends. This presents a long-term view of Senegal
(i.e. over the next 25 years), and provides a basis for the first economic
policy declaration. This declaration will be based on the various future
options available, macroeconomic and financial studies of economic
circumstances in Senegal and abroad, and implementation reviews of investment
programs. These studies, together with strategy papers relating to important
sectors such as agriculture, transportation, education, health, population,
and water management will help improve resource allocation by identifying
sector priorities which will be reviewed annually in preparation for the PTIP
(three-year public investment program).
51.         For the third PTIP (from 1989/90 to 1991/92), the investment
target is CFAF 485 billion, compared with CFAF 469 billion for the previous
PTIP. The focus is still on high-yield investments in transportation (20.2
percent of the total), agriculture (16.8 percent), and water supply (14.6
percent). In transportation, the main objective is to rehabilitate and
maintain existing infrastructure, particularly with regard to road
transportation. In agriculture, the emphasis is on infrastructure development
in irrigated areas and, to a lesser extent, in areas producing rainfed crops.



Annex IV
Page 14 of 50
Investment in water supply is mainly intended to increase the efficiency of
the existing distribution system in urban areas, and to develop small-scale
irrigation projects in rural areas.
2.    Action Plan
52.         The 1989-92 PTIP shows considerable progress in a number of areas.
Nevertheless, there is still room for improvement -- with regard to both
sectoral consistency and project selection -- if the objective of increasing
the efficiency of public investments is to be achieved. The Government's
public investment policy will be based on the followinig principles: (i)
improving the investment planning, budgeting and monitoring cycle; (ii)
incorporating the PTIP into the Government's recurrent expenditure budget.
53.         For the preparation of the next PTIP, project identification and
preparation wi11 be decentralized to the technical ministries, i.e. the
Ministry of National Education, the Ministry of Rural Development, the
Ministry of Public Health, the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of
Water Resources, and the Ministry of Industrial Development and Crafts. A
study will be made of the ministries' capacity for performing these
activities, and on this basis planning units will be established or
strengthened within each of them. These units will take increasing
responsibility for such tasks, particularly -roject preparation. A further
priority will be to draw up an appraisal guide for infrastructure and social
projects. This guide, like the one prepared for production projects, will
help set standard criteria and models for appraising projects in this
category. The price series and deflators to be used in project analysis will
be regularly disseminated, so as to standardize project appraisal. Regular
meetings of the Project Selection Committee will be organized.
54.         From June 1990, computerized project monitoring will be
introduced, both for financial aspects (half yearly) and for physical aspects
(every six months). In addition, a study for improving project implementation
will be prepared, and an action plan adopted.
55.         From the next fiscal year (1990/91), efforts will be made to
integrate the PTIP more fully into the recurrent expenditure budget, so that
it can be an effective instrument of the Government's economic policy. This
will require enhanced integration of project planning and appraisal and an
appreciation of the PTIP's impact on recurrent costs, together with improved
coordination of the agencies responsible for preparing the PTIP and the State
budget.
IV.   CIVIL SERVICE REFORM
56.         In implementing the second phase of the PAML, Senegal plans to
substantially improve the allocation of its human, financial, natural and
other resources in order to favor the productive sectors. This is the overall
context of the public sector reform, which must be reflected, as soon as



Annex IV
Page 15 of 50
possible, in a substantial increase in the efficiency of public administration
and public enterprises as they perform their fundamental tasks, and in a
considerable reduction in their drain on national resources. The purpose,
therefore, of the current reform is to improve the effectiveness of public
administration, and thereby open up activities and release resources for the
private sector.
1.    Reform Objectives
57.         The role played by Senegal's present capital, Dakar, in the French
colonial system in West Africa has given Senegalese public administrators a
sound, long experience. In addition, the State very soon came to play a major
role in all aspects of economic and social life, because of the multiple
challenges of development and the evident economic weakness of the local
private sector. This role should have been limited to one of promotion for
the non-strategic sectors. However the State ended up as the country's main
employer. Because of the financial crisis referred to above, the delays and
problems characterizing the initial adjustment process in the public sector
resulted in the increasing and exclusive use of available resources for the
purposes of supporting the sector, at the expense of developing the production
of tradable goods and services.
58.         In light of this situation, the Government decided to implement a
policy of bringing operating costs under control. This policy began to be
applied in 1984 and was implemented through vigorous measures designed to
check the growth of the civil service wage bill. This has consisted mainly of
suspending general salary increases for public employees, and strictly
containing staff numbers by imposing a restrictive hiring policy.
Unfortunately, the wage bill has continued to increase, and salary payments
rose from 47.3 percent of recurrent expenditures in 1979/80 to 49.1 percent in
1984/85 and to 50 percent in 1987/88. Consequently, and in light of the major
constraints on available resources, it has been found necessary to reform the
civil service in order to pave the way for a more efficient public
administration and better resource utilization. The resulting action plan
eomprises three main components: institutional reform, introduction of a
system of voluntary departure, and rationalization of wage bill management.
2.          75citutional Reform
59.         The institutional reform has two components:  a redistribution of
governmental responsibilities, and the "privatization" of certain government
agencies.
a.    The Redistribution of Responsibilities
60.         This relates to the Government's restructuring plans, the purpose
of which is to achieve effectiveness and efficiency in the organization and
management of public administration.



Annex IV
Page 16 of 50
61.         To this end, a three-point action program has been prepared,
aiming at: (i) bringing certain agencies together, on the basis of similarity
and complementarity of functions; (ii; reducing the number of units (i.e.
departments, directorates and other units); (iii) redefining departmental
functions, in order to make sectoral integration more consistent. This
program will be implemented between November 30, 1989 and December 31, 1990,
as per the following schedule: decision to restructure the public
administration, and publication of the initial legislation: December 15,
1989; placing on administrative leave Government employees affected by the
restructuring, between December 31, 1989 and April 30, 1990, such staff being
identified before the first date.
62.         It should be noted that the Government employees affected by the
restructuring may be candidates for voluntary departure. The principles of
the leave of absence system and the modalities governing its application will
be officially published by December 31, 1989 at the latest.
b.    The Privatization of Certain Government Agencies
63.         The purpose is to reduce the interventionist role of the State and
to disengage from certain productive activities of a commercial, or
potentially commercial, nature. To this end, certain agencies will be
privatized, although some of these will have the opportunity to receive
exclusive State contracts for a period not exceeding two years, provided that
this is justified for strategic reasons. The agencies to be granted autonomy
have al:eady been identified on the basis of the following criteria:
profitability, capacity for self-financing, and capacity for self-management.
64.         Initially, some of these agencies (i.e. the Maintenance Department
of the Ministry of Water Resources and the Road Maintenance Department of the
Ministry of Infrastructure) will be used t) test the operation. As a result
of the operation itself, 1,309 government employees will be released during
the program, for which the following actions are planned:
-     study of the financial impact and the practical modalities of this
transfer of State-run activities to the newly privatized
enterprises (this will be implemented by February 28, 1990 at the
latest);
study of the new legal relationships among the various parties
concerned (i.e. the State, former Government employees, and the
new units). The conclusions of this study will be available by
February 28, 1990 at the latest;
finally, it has been decided that the two test enterprises will
begin to operate starting in March 30, 1990, and that the
remaining enterprises will be established between June 30 and
December 31, 1990.



Annex IV
Page 17 of 50
c.    Organizational Audit of the New Departments
65.         The Government has decided tQ undertake an organizational audit of
the new ministerial departments, beginning in April 1990, which may result in
a staff reduction of 1,450 employees (1,000 in 1990/91 and 450 in 1991/92), on
the basis of the voluntary departure program. This action will bring the
total number of staff affected by the program (through early retirement and
voluntary departure) to 4,300 employees. The audit will be concluded before
September 30, 1990.
3.    The Voluntary Departure Program
66.         In order to streamline government agencies and make their
organization and management more effective and efficient, an incentive scheme
has been prepared to promote the early departure of a considerable number of
employees. It is based essentially on separation packages, with modalities
depending on the age of the employee in question. Those employees with at
least 5 years in the civil service and under 48 years of age will be eligible
for severance payments, and those 48 and older will be eligible for early
retirement packages. In addition, the system will be open to staff in all
ministries, except teaching staff in the Ministry of Education, medical staff
in the Ministry of Health, military personnel in the armed forces, and the
police.
67.         Payments for voltntary separation are set within a range in which
the maximum is 60 months' (i.e. five years) salary, and early retirement
packages are determined according to the number of years remaining before
normal retirement age.
68.         The program is due to begin on January 1, 1990, and should lead to
a staff reduction of 4,300  'ployees as of June 30, 1992 under the early
departure scheme alone, i.e. not counting scheduled retirements (2,663), the
separation of a further 370 employees as a result of the second staff census,
and the departure of 1,309 employees as a result of the privatization program.
Consequently, staff reductions over the period in question are expected to
total 8,642.
69.         In order to maintain efforts in primary education, the Government
plans to hire a total of 1,913 teachers at this level between now and June
1992. Including other recruitment, mostly health personnel and graduates of
the national training schools, hirings over the period are expected to total
3,836, resulting in a net reduction of 4,806 employees. This would result in
a reduction of the number of Government workers from 66,549 on June 30, 1989
to 61,743 on June 30, 1992.
70.         Former Government employees who have benefited from the voluntary
departure program will not be rehired by the Government, and recruitment will
be adjusted to departures by means of a ratio for each year of the program.
The ratio is based on the rnumber of staff accepting voluntary departure (i.e.



Annex IV
Page 18 of 50
the total of voluntary departures, early retirements, and transfers to
privatized enterprises) and hiring needs in primary education. The ratio is
defined as "the number of hirings (excluding primary teachers) divided by the
number of employees accepting voluntary departure". Under the program, the
ratio will be equal to 27 percent in 1989/90, 38 percent in 1990/91, and 80
percent in 1991/92. The Government has also decided to set ceilings, and will
limit hirings of teachers to 435 in 1989/90, 681 in 1990/91, and 797 in
1991/92. In the event that the number of voluntary departures in 1989/90 were
to be lower than the number projected above, there would nonetheless be a
minimum net reduction of 564 staff.
71.         Consequently, the overall staff reduction program, which is based
on the voluntary approach, depends essentially on the restructuring of
government agencies; this will bring about a reduction of 5,609 employees by
June 1992, i.e. 3,563 in 1989/90, 1,596 in 1990/91, and 450 in 1991/92. In
addition, there is a potential reduction of 1,279 staff, corresponding to the
number of employees in the Centre Hospitalier Universitaire (CHU) hospitals
and assimilated structures, whose possible privatization will be studied by
the Government.
72.         The 2,850 employees whose positions are eliminated as a result of
restructuring in 1989/90 will be be placed on administrative leave between
December 31, 1989 and March 30, 1990. These employees will then receive
payment from the Senegalese counterpart funds for the Civil Service reform
(i.e. from the special Reserve Fund to be established in January 1990). The
same procedure will be applied to the 1,000 employees whose positions will be
eliminated as a result of the 1990/91 restructuring, and the 450 affected by
the second organizational audit in 1991/92. In each case, these employees
will be placed on administrative leave.
73.         Severance payments and early retirement packages will be
determined as follows, in accordance with the draft decree establishing the
modalities for departure.
a.    Voluntary Departure Compensation
74.         These will be available to civil servants under 48 years old with
at least five years service.   The payment is set at the equivalent of 60
months of salary for those in categories D and E, and 48 months for all
others. All severance payments are calculated on base salaries, i.e. the
grade-related salary plus the special supplement corsisting of the residence
allowance and family benefits. The payment will be the equivalent of 12
months' salary for all employees accepting positions in the privatized
agencies az,d who did not choose the voluntary departure option.



Annex IV
Page 19 of 50
b.    Early Retirement Packages
75.         These are payable to employees who are at least 48 years old.
They are to receive payment for the equivalent of 75 percent of the number of
remaining months before they reach the age of 55, with a maximum of 48 months.
A subsidy will be provided to enable the civil servants affected to receive
their full pensions from the age of 55, and other Government employees to draw
a prorated pension at the age of 50, calculated in accordance with the
relevant legislation and regulations.
76.         Severance payments and early retirement packages will only be
available 6 months after the start of the program: employees accepting
voluntary separation during the first four months will receive the entire
payment, those accepting it on the fifth or sixth month will receive half, and
those who leave after the sixth month will not be entitled to the package.
77.         The degree of overall success of the first phase of the staff
reduction program will be evaluated by the Government before September 30,
1990. If the number of voluntary departures is significantly smaller than
expected, the Government will adopt, in consultation with donors, the
additional measures necessary for the success of the program.
78.         The realization of the numerical objectives of the program assumes
that the compensation packages as currently designed are in reality
sufficiently attractive, and depends in addition on the proper coordination of
the following actions, which will be taken before the operation begins on
January 1, 1990:
-     an information and awareness-raising campaign (ending
December 31, 1989);
-     establishment, before January 15, 1990, of a small
Steering Committee in the Secretariat General of the
President of the Republic, to be responsible for
operating the voluntary departure program;
-     establishment in January 1990 of a special Reserve
Fund to finance the operation; this Reserve Fund will
be sufficiently funded from th.o very beginning;
-     appointment in January 1990 of an Administrator for
the Special Reserve Fund (to report to the Steering
Committee);
-     mobilization by the donors of the resources necessary
for the financing of the voluntary departure program.
79.         A reinsertion program will be implemented for those civil servants
with viable projects.



Annex IV
Page 20 of 50
4.    Personnel Management
a.    Modernization of State Personnel Management
80.         The purpose of this component is to establish proper control over
staff numbers and the wage bill by utilizing management instruments in such a
way as to establish sound and rational management of State employees.  The
action program is based on the following two main activities:
-     The bodies responsible for the administrative and financial
management of personnel will be restructured, these being the
Civil Service Department (DFP), the Central Payroll Department
(DCS), and the SAGEs and DAGEs of the technical ministries. In
particular, their new organization charts will be established by
April 30, 1990. In addition, individual records will be
computerized, and an autonomous computerized data input and
processing system will be established at the DFP and DCS levels.
This operation will be completed by February 28, 1990.
-     Regulations governing policies on hiring and training,
compensation, allowances, social charges and benefit programs will
be rationalized, and training schools reorganized.
This action program will be spread over three years and must be executed by
the end of the 1991/92 fiscal year at the latest, the most far-reaching
activities being undertaken between October 1989 and December 1990.
b.    Control of the number of civil servants
81.         The purpose of this component is to improve personnel management,
control the number of State employees, and rationalize the State employee
hiring and training system. To this end, an action program has been prepared,
consisting of the following components: (i) follow-up on the findings of the
second joint IGE/BOM staff census; (ii) implementatiot- of the mission report
recommendations relating to improvements in personnel management in the
Ministry of Civil Service and Labor, the Ministry of Economy and Finance
(DCS), and the technicel ministries; (iii) periodic scrutiny of changes in
staff numbers and monitoring of the administrative status of State employees;
(iv) improvements in the employee hiring and training system.
82.         This program calls for the following actions:
-     Communication (by November 30, 1989) of any anomalies identified
by the IGE/BOM mission to the Ministry of Economy and Finance
and/or Ministry of the Civil Service and Labor, so that they may
take all necessary actions. Such actions should lead to the
removal of a number of employees -- provisionally estimated at 370
-- by February 28, 1990.



Annex IV
Page 21 of 50
Redistribution of personnel management responsibilities among the
Ministry of the Civil Service and Labor (MFPT), the Ministry of
Economy and Finance (DSC) and the technical ministries, and also
among the technical ministries, particularly at DAGE and SAGE
levels. This action must be completed by April 30, 1991 at the
latest.
Simplification of certain legal and regulatory provisions,
particularly those relating to disciplinary and promotion
procedures, in order to increase the efficiency of Government
personnel management. This action must be completed by June 30,
1991.
Use of a periodic staff censuo at three-year intervals.  The next
will be performed before June 30, 1992.
Preparation of a study on national training schools, examining the
scope of their relationship to the State, their recruitment
methods, placement policies and the nature of their curriculum.
The findings of this study must be made available before April 30,
1990, and their implementation completed by September 30, 1990 at
the latest. In particular, the practice of automatically
recruiting graduates into the civil service should be terminated
by that date.
5.    Rationalization of the Wage Bill
a.    Rationalization of wage bill manaRement
83.         The purpose of this component is to gain an enhanced understanding
of the components of the wage bill (defined as the sum of all base salaries,
indemnities, family allowances, retirement fund contributions, hospital and
transportation benefits, and variable elements such as overtime, backpay, and
advances), and to upgrade payroll management. The measures adopted will allow
a wage bill ceiling to be set at CFAF 126.8 billion for 1989/90, and CFAF 125
billion for 1990/91 and 1991/92, the long-term goal being to maintain the wage
bill at a level compatible with budgetary revenues and the overall trend. The
measures are the following:
Updating of cases now pending in MFPT relating to the
administrative status of employees. It will then be possible to
assess the arrears owed by the State in the form of back pay.
This updating, together with computerization, will improve career
management. This action must be completed before April 30, 1990.
Preparation of a budgetary chart for the DCS.  This chErt will
allow the comparison of actual payments made on any sub-component
against the budgeted projections. The chart for 1989/90 must be
prepared by December 31, 1989, and the one for each of the



Annex IV
Page 22 of 50
subsequent fiscal periods must be prepared by July 31 of the
corresponding fiscal year.
From July 1, 1990, reduction of the State's contribution to the
retirement funds from 20 percent to 15 percent of base-salary, in
accordance with a study to be completed by June 30, 1990 at the
latest.
Harmonization of special statutes with the general statute of the
Civil Service, and establishment of the system of allowances and
benefits on the basis of lump-sum payments not indexed on base
salaries. This action is to be taken before September 30, 1990.
Completion by June 30, 1990 of a study aimed at improving the
existing system of transportation and hospitalization budgets.
Implementation (beginning December 31, 1989) of all guidelines
resulting from the report on wage bill components and relating to
the internal organization and management procedures of the DCS in
the Ministry of the Economy and Finance.
b.    The New Policy on State Employee Compensation
84.         The purpose of this component is to improve the pay and working
conditions of State employees, while simultaneously observing the
macrofinancial constraints identified above. The following actions will
therefore be taken: (i) preparation of a study on the conditions and pay
levels of State employees, to be available by December 31, 1990; (ii)
implementation in consultation with donors and by July 1, 1991 of a system of
performance bonuses, based on the recommendations of this study, and in
compliance with the CFAF 125 billion ceiling set for the wage bill.
85.         This program will lead to economies on the wage bill, which will
be allocated as follows, in this order of priority: settlement of back pay
arrears; Government contribution to the separation packages; and performance
incentive bonuses.
86.         It should be emphasized that the increases in compensation planned
for July 1, 1991 will consist exclusively of performance bonuses based on
employees' productivity and output, and that these bonuses will not be indexed
to salaries. In any event such an increase will only be granted if the
overail budgetary situation is favourable.
6.    Proiected Results of the Reform, and Long-Term Prospects
87.         In addition to resulting in a more efficient public
administration, the proposed reform will bring about the following
improvements in the number of civil servants and wage bill levels:



Annex IV
Page 23 of 50
a.    Number of civil servants
88.         The Action Plan for the Reform of the Civil Service will enable
the State to reduce staff levels from about 70,000 employees at the beginning
of the PAML in 1985 to 61,743 in June 1992. In light of the policy of
curtailing the hiring of graduates from the national training schools (limited
to about 1,597 over the period January 1990 to June 1992) and the hiring of
primary school teachers (totaling 1,913), the civil service will be reduced
substantially by 4,806 employees over this period. The proportion of public
employees to total population will be reduced to about 7.7 per thousand,
compared with 10.8 per thousand at the beginning of program implementation,
thus bringing it closer to accepted international levels. Staff numbers
achieved by June 30, 1992 will not be exceeded, as the number of hirings will
not exceed the number of departures thereafter.
b.    The Wage Bill
89.         All things being equal, the wage bill (CFAF 125.1 billion as of
June 30, 1989) was projected to reach CFAF 131.6 billion by June 30, 1990.
This projection took account of special payments to health and education
employees, the general increase in salaries, the hiring of graduates from the
national training schools, and wage drift.
90.         This projection was reduced to CFAF 126.8 billion for June 30,
1990, in light X. the following factors: a net 3,532 reduction in staff
numbers; stabilization of family benefits at their June 30, 1989 level, as a
result of improved management; a CFAF 3 billion reduction in variable items,
resulting from changes in the system of advances; and the stabilization of the
State's contribution to retirement funds and hospital and transportation
benefits at their June 30, 1989 levels. Savings achieved through these
measures will largely offset total increases in basic salaries (CFAF 4.2
billion) due to general salary increases, hirings of school graduates, grade
promotions, and the increase in special payments and indemnities (CFAF 2.3
billion).
91.         The wage bill will be reduced from CFAF 126.8 billion (June 30,
1990) to CFAF 125 billion (June 30, 1991) by means of the CFAF 4.9 billion
savings resulting from voluntary separation, early retirement and the granting
of autonomy to certain agencies; updating of civil service records, and the
reductior, in employers' contribution rates.
92.         This total saving (defined as the difference between the above-
mentioned ceilings and the actual wage bill before any action is taken on
arrears settlement, Government contribution to the compensation packages, and
incentive bonuses) of approximately CFAF 10 billion per year should make it
possible to settle arrears within the CFAF 125 billion limit imposed on the
wage bill. If the settlement of arrears, the Government's contribution to the
early departure program and the overall budgetary sitaation make it possible,
this saving should allow civil service salaries to be increased on July 1,



Annex IV
Page 24 of 50
1991. On the other hand, if total arrears exceed the savings produced as of
June 30, 1991, the settlement of these will be continued over one or several
fiscal years, thus reducing, or even exhausting, the funds available for the
planned salary increase, which will then be postponed until the following
fiscal year.
7.    Program Savings, Costs and Financing
93.         Assuming an average monthly salary of CFAF 110,000 and the
compensation packages as described above, the minimum total cost of departures
will be CFAF 22 billion. To this amount one should add the compensation paid
to those civil servants in the units to be privatized who choose the voluntary
departure program. Total savings from staff reductinns alone over the period
from January 1989 to June 1992 are estimated at CFAF 11.5 billion, with
additional savings of CFAF 5.5 billion per year after that date. Other
savings will result from the overall improvements in wage bill management (see
table below). In addition to the Government's contribution, the financing
requirements of the program are met by direct contributions from certain
donors and SAL IV cofinancing counterpart funds.



Annex IV
PFge 26 of 50
CHANGES IN STAFF NUMBERS AND WAGE BILL.
AND COSTS OF EARLY DEPARTURES
1988/89       1989/90          1990/91      1991/92       1992/98       TOTAL
1. STAFF NUMBERS
TOTAL RECRUITMENTS                     1400             1281         1155                      8886
Educrtion                               435              681          797                      1918
Other                                   986              600          586                      1928
TOTAL REDUCTIONS                       4932             38834        1156                      8842
Scheduled retirements                   999              969          705                      2668
Early departures                       2860             1000          460                      4800
- early retirement                   1460                0            0                      1460
- other                              1400             1000          450                      2850
Privatisation                           713(*)           698                                   1809
Second census                           870                                                     870
NET REDUCTIONS                         3632             1274            0                      4808
TOTAL STAFF              68649        63017            61748        61743
'Recruitment Ratio' (5)                27.1             87.8         79.6                     84.8
.....................................................................................
2. WAGE bILL (in billions of CFAF).
Variable items            12.2          9.2              3.7          8.7            8.7
Retirement funds
contribution               9.6          9.6              7.2          7.2            7.2
Other                    103.8        108.0            104.8        104.1          104.0
Total wage bill        126.1        128.8            115.7        116.0          114.9
Wage bill cetling                     128.8            126.0        126.0          126.0
Availablo savings                       0.0              9.3         10.0           10.1
Memorandum items: (as)
Savings on variable Items              3.0              6.6          0.0            0.0
Savings on employers'
cortributions                         0.0              2.4          0.0            0.0
Savings on staff numbers               1.1              4.9          6.6            6.6       17.0
.............................................................................................
8. COST OF EARLY DEPARTURE PAYMENTS (in billions of CFAF)
Voluntary separation                    7.6              5.4          2.4                      15.6
Early retirement                        4.8              0.0          0.0                       4.8
Privatization                           0.9              0.8          0.0                       1.7
Total                                13.3              8.2          2.4                     22.0
.............................................................................................
4. COST OF EARLY DEPARTURE PAYMENTS (in millions of US8)
Voluntary separation                   24.0             17.2          7.7                      48.9
Early retirement                       16.1              0.0          0.0                      15.1
Privatization                           2.8              2.6          0.0                       5.8
Total                                42.0             19.8          7.7                     69.3
(a) Includes 31 employees from the M'S6o Agricultural Center, already privatized.
(s) Not mutually exclusive.



Annex IV
Page 26 of 50
V.    REFORM OF THE PARASTATAL SECTOR
1.    Background and Obiectives
94.         In the parastatal sector, the operating costs of its many
enterprises, covering all areas of economic activity, have become too much of
a burden on public finances. As early as July 1985 this situation prompted
the Government to define a new policy towards the parastatal sector whose
objectives can be summarized as follows: (i) reducing the size of the sector
by liquidating or divesting enterprises and refocussing its role on its
primary tasks; (ii) improving the performance of the enterprises by
restructuring them and rationalizing their relations with the State; and (iii)
reviewing and reorienting the procedures for supervising the enterprises.
95.         In the course of the first three years of implementation of the
program, the Government, under the divestiture policy, evaluated the State's
portfolio, liquidated seven mixed ownership enterprises and two public
establishments of an industrial or commercial character (EPICs) and marked 26
enterprises for privatization. In addition, the rehabilitation of some
enterprises is proceeding by means of contract plans and rehabilitation plans.
This effort will be pursued and strengthened during the next phase of the
program.
96.         The reform of   ' financial relations between the State and the
public enterprises now cen.  a on preparing an inventory of cross-debts and
claims of the State and the enterprises. Subsidies and financial commitments
are also being monitored as part of the performance contract plans or similar
programs.
97.         The reform of the parastatal sector will continue with the
reduction of subsidies and other transfers from the State to the sector, the
streamlining and strengthening of the institutional framework, the
continuation of the privatization program, continued use of contract plans and
the rationalization of supervisory structures and methods.
2.    Imiroving State-PE Financial Relations
98.         The Government has adopted an integrated approach to reforming
financial relations between the State and the enterprises which covers
subsidies, overdrafts, and reciprocal debts and claims as well as financial
commitments made in conjunction with the performance contracts.
a.    Policy on Subsidies
99.         Indirect subsidies.  These are essentially of two kinds: subsidies
of a customs and fiscal nature and subsidies of a financial nature. The
latter chiefly pertain to the conditions for onlending of resources from
external donors and the government guarantees for loans from domestic banks.
The main recipients of subsidies of 4 customs and fiscal nature are the



Annex IV
Page 27 of 50
private enterprises to which these subsidies are granted under special
agreements with the State. The reduction and even elimination of these
subsidies is planned through the renegotiation or expiring of all these
agreements.
100.        With respect to the subsidies of a financial nature, the
Government has decided that henceforth any external loan to a commercial
enterprise should be passed on at the market rate of interest and that
guarantees granted by the State for local loans would be abolished as of
December 1, 1989.
101.        Direct subsidies.  The enterprises concerned are characterized
mainly by the very rigid manner in which they are managed with respect to
tariff policies and the markets covered, and also by very high structural
costs; their profitability suffers accordingly. However, the specificity of
each enterprise or each group of enterprises requires a case-by-case approach.
For this reason the actions aimed at reducing and even eliminating direct
subsidies, which amounted to CFAF 12.3 billion during the 1988/89 budget year,
will begin with the reclassification of the enterprises into two major
categories: strategic or noncommercial enterprises (list A) and commercial
enterprises (list B).
102.        In the case of the strategic or noncommercial enterprises which
produce public goods and services or whose activity does not generate
revenues, the contract-plan policy will be pursued, rehabilitation plans
implemented and cuts in subsidies will be considered in this context. The
Government has drawn up a specific action plan involving cuts in subsidies for
each enterprise in this group (list A). This plan is attached to this Letter
of Development Policy. Subsidies linked to the operation of the noncommercial
enterprises of the parastatal sector (except COUD) should not exceed CFAF 9.9
billion in 1989/90, 9.1 billion in 1990/91 and 7.4 billion ill 1991/92. A plan
to restructure COUD in order to reduce its budgetary burden will be decided
not later than June 30, 1990 and put into effect on September 30, 1990.
103.        The subsidies to the commercial enterprises on list B will be
reduced to zero at the end of 1991/92 according to the following schedule:
CFAF 0.6 billion in 1989/90 and 0.3 billion in 1990/91.
104.        Equipment subsidies will henceforth be converted into long-term
loans or capital grants and will have to meet the same criteria and procedures
as all PTIP investments.
b.    ACC overdraft strategy
105.        Overdrafts from the Central Accounting Agent (ACC) have been
obtained by the public establishments (public establishments of an industrial
and commercial or administrative character - EPs). Over the years, and
especially since the implementation of the plan to reduce direct subsidies,
these EPs have resorted more and more to overdrafts from the ACC, with the



Annex IV
Page 28 of 50
result that their cash pOSitiOtL has steadily deteriorated. Thus the
cumulative overdraft of all the public establishments amounted to CFAF 16.7
billion at June 30, 1989 as against CFAF 4.8 billion at the end of 1984-85.
Furthermore, the personnel costs of those eame entities represented 87Z of
that overdraft in 1987-88. which highlights the trend, observed in recent
years in many of these establishments, towards financing personnel costs by
means of overdrafts.
106.        Analysis of the cost structure of the various enterprises shows
that it is impossible for many of them to repay the advances made. Similarly,
the Treasury does not have .he resources to back such oper&tions. The
authorities have therefore decided to freeze overdrafts at their current level
and transform them into long-term loans, with a view to writing them off as
bad debts in July 1991 for those enterprises unable to repey them. Individual
accounts for each of the Pgs have been opened at the Treasury ir. order to make
it impossible for establishments with surpluses to finance the deficits of
those in difficulty. The public establishments under the ACC system will be
turned into either administrative services or autonomous national companies
(SNs) by June 30, 1990.
c.    Settlement of reciprocal debts between the State and the PEs
107.        The establishment of a system designed to reduce and then
eliminate the accumu!ition of reciprocal debts between the State and the
enterprises in the parastatal sector, as well as among the enterprises
themselves, is an essential component of the effort to restore the financial
relations between the State and the enterprises in the sector to a sound
footing. This component complements the program to reduce direct and indirect
subsidies and to abolish the overdraft system. The result of this policy when
fully applied will be a drastic reduction of the total volume of resources
available for financing the public enterprises, which will have to adapt
swiftly to their new environment. The measures described below, designed to
settle the cross-debts as of December 31, 1986 and December 31, 1988,
respectively, should be considered in this overall framework.
108.        The attached table provides a provisional view of overall cross-
debt situation between the State and the public enterprises, and among the
enterprises themselves, up to December 31, 1988. This matrix will be modified
and made final in March 1990, and will serve as the basis for the complete
cross-debt settlement plan. In June 1990 the final figures for cross-debts up
to December 31, 1989 will be added. Given their volume, the debts between the
State and the parastatal sector represent an important source of financing for
enterprises that are net debtors vis-a-vis the State. The public authorities
have therefore decided to adopt measures in order to settle the arrears and,
in addition, safeguards to prevent them from occurring again in the future.
109.        Settlement plan based on the situation at 12/31/86.  The situation
established as of December 31, 1986 produces a net balance in favor of the
State of CFAF 41.4 billion after the update effected in November 1989.  This



Annex IV
Page 29 of 50
evaluation brought to light two major categories of State debts, viz.
authorized debts, estimated at CFAF 1.3 billion for the State, and
nonauthorized debts estimated at 14.2 billion. A cross-settlement covering
the authorized debts in their totality was carried out in 1987. Nonauthorized
debts in the amount of CFAF 5.6 million were settled, after certification, by
Lmutual cancellation, while direct payments totalling CFAF 840.3 million were
made to the enterprises.
110.        With these settlements taken into account, the balance owed by the
State amounts to CFAF 7.8 billion, the debts in question being considered as
disputed inasmuch as they have not been certified to date. For their part,
the enterprises owe CFAF 50.1 billion to the State. To settle the situation
as of December 31, 1986, the measures given below have been decided on, based
on the particular nature of the different categories of debts.
111.        With respect to the enterprises owing the State more than it owes
them in debts that are payable immediately (CFAF 55.7 billion at the end of
October 1989), the collection centers have been instructed to demand immediate
payment in the absence of a moratorium (for a maximum of three years) or to
make special relief arrangements under the pertinent regulations. Meanwhile
the tax authorities have taken a number of actions aimed at recovery of taxes
owed. These measures include: (i) issuing warnings to the enterprises, (ii)
withholding amounts due from planned payments, (iii) charging interest on
arrears and (iv) issuing notices to third-party debtors. The various
settlement programs will therefore be established by the agencies concerned,
on a case-by-case basis. The debts will be settled in their entirety within a
three-year period as from 1989/90.
112.        Concerning the debts of public establishments (EPs), most of which
do not generate revenues and could therefore meet their obligations only with
Increased ass'stance from the State, it has been decided purely and simply to
write them off. This debt category accounts for CFAF 11.3 billion (20.2 -4.5
(PAD) - 4.4 (RCFS). In September 1989 all public establishments were
requested to prepare and implement, by March 31, 1990 at the latest,
rehabilitation plans designed to adjust their needs to their real resources.
113.        As regards the claims of enterprises which owe the State less than
it owes them, an amount of CFAF 7.8 billion is currently deemed in dispute
inasmuch as those claims were not certified. For most of those claims, this
situation has existed for almost three years. Mainly involved are claims of
enterprises that have been unable to furnish any substantiating documentation.
The Government has therefore decided, after a final deadline set for November
30, 1989, to remove them from the State's stock of debt, thus compelling the
enterprises to enter them as loss items while allowing them a grace period of
a further three months in which to document them (circular No. 030 PR/SG/DRSP
of November 14, 1989). As further evidence is provided, the State will
include these debts in the settlement schedule referred to above. Should the
situation of those disputed debts be entirely cleared up, settlement would
occur in the following manner: mutual cancellation, CFAF 6.7 billion, and



Annex IV
Page 30 of 50
budget entries, CFAP 1.1 billion. Thus no more than CFAF 1.1 billion will
remain outstanding at the end of June 1990, of which CFAF 600 million would be
paid in 1990/91 and CFAF 500 million in 1991/92.
114.        In overall terms, the entire stock of debt evaluated as of
December 31, 1986 will have received appropriate treatment, either by being
settled (in the case of certified debts) which can be cancelled mutually or
written off (in tbe case of debts of public establishments to the State) ol.
scheduled for repayment over three years from fiscal 1989-90; this is alreacly
being carried out with regard to debts to the enterprises not subject to
mutual cancellation.
115.        Settlement plan based on the situation at 12/31/88.  Since it was
not possible earlier to take immediate measures precluding any further
accumulation of arrears, a new calculation as of December 31, 1988 was carried
out so as to introduce those measures on the basis of the updated situation.
An update of the reciprocal debts between the State and the parastatal sector
as of December 31, 1988 resulted in '-he identification of CFAF 45.1 billion in
State claims on the sector, i.e., on the basis of the debts claimed, a balance
of CFAF 18.5 billion (45.1 - 26.8) in favor of the State. Following
certification, this positive balance amounts to CFAF 30.5 billion (45.1 -
14.3), an amount that will be adjusted downwards as certification proceeds.
116.        At the present time, the certified debts amount to CFAF 11.7
billion. This sum, which includes the certifications issued since the
inventory, carries the rate of debts acknowledged as against debts claimed by
the enterprises to 442 against 15?. This percentage will probably be
increased before the November 30, 1989 deadline set with SENELEC (CFAF 3.3
billion claimed) for which the level of certification could reach 100Z.
Another case worth mentioning is that of the rural development agencies
(SODEFITEX, SODEVA), whose debts consist of arrears under the contract plans.
As such they will be subjected to specific treatment in conjunction with the
rehabilitation plans. At worst, the State will be left with a balance in its
favor of CFAF 12.9 billion.
117.        The Government has announced the following program to clear these
debts:
Determine the sums that may be subject to mutual cancellation and
actually settle all debts which can be dealt with by this
procedure before anuary 31, 1990.
For debts, without counterpart owed by enterprises to the State,
commence negotiations with the SNs, the SEMs and the relevant
government department (Fiscal, Treasury, etc.) by December 31,
1989, with a view to adopting a settlement timetable. These
negotiations will be completed by the end of March 1990 at the
latest. For these debts, a repayment schedule with moratoria of



Annex IV
Page 31 of 50
up to a manimum of three years will then be drawn up, pursuant to
the regulations, and entered in the budget of the enterprises with
an effective date of not later than July 1, 1990.
Write off the debts of the EPs (public establishments) on January
31, 1990.
Decide on the disputed claims on November 30, 1989.  These claims,
which are not always certified, are to be entered as profit-and-
loss items pending certification. The enterprises will thus have
been given a period of four months to justify the claims.
Settle the State's debts for which there are no counterparts in
three budget installments, the first to be included in the 1990/91
budget. The final amounts, which will reflect the result of the
arbitration on the disputed debts, will be decided before January
31, 1990.
118.        Plan for the settlement of cross-debts as of 12/31/1989.  The
situation created by reciprocal debts between the State and the enterprises
and among the enterprises themselves will be updated prior to March 31, 1990
and a settlement plan announced prior to June 30, 1990. All these debts will
be settled within three years from 1990/91.
119.        Conclusion.  The situation regarding all the cross-debts between
the State and the enterprises will be definitively resolved at the end of
1992/93, i.e. June 30, 1993. The State will have settled, either by mutual
compensation or through appropriate planning for the noncompensated debts, all
its debts to enterprises in the parastatal sector. As regards the State's
claims on these enterprises, those on non-revenue earning public
establishments will be written off. With respect to the other enterprises
(SNs and SEMs), a three-year moratorium will be negotiated with the State so
as to schedule repayments over a period compatible with the enterprises'
rehabilitation efforts and available resources.
d.    Settlement of reciprocal debts among enterprises in the parastatal
sector
120.        The public enterprises operate in many different sectors of the
national economy, but only SENELEC (electricity), SONEES (water) and SONATEL
(telephone) are providers of nationwide services maintaining regular financial
relations with almost all the PEs. Reciprocal arrears among the PEs are at
fairly high levels and are adversely affecting the sector's financial
transparency. The Government has therefore conducted a survey of the 24
largest enterprises in the sector, for which the balances are significant.
This survey revealed that as of December 31, 1988 the total stock of inter-
enterprise claims was estimated at CFAF 32.9 billion, CFAF 24.2 billion of
which were finally acknowledged by toth parties.



Annex IV
Page 32 of 50
121.        The discrepancy between debts and acknowledged claims stems from a
number of factors, including reorganisations (the former OPT was transformed
into SONATEL and OPCE), settlements effected on illiquid banks, statements
drawn up on different dates by the creditor and the debtor, and disagreements
between enterprises (SENELEC and ICS). To these factors must be added any
discrepancies resulting from accounting errors by the various enterprises.
122.        The following steps will be taken on the basis of the information
gathered:
Settlement where possible of debts among these enterprises by
mutual cancellation not later than January 31, 1990. The Board of
Directors of each enterprise must give prior authorization to that
effect if necessary.
For the public establishments without sources of revenue, whose
creditors for the most part have debts to the State, offsetting
transactions with the debts of the State can be arranged, provided
that the claims on the public establishments have been certified.
The plan for settling this situation will be announced by January
31, 1990 and implemented over three years.
-     A repayment schedule covering the outstanding debts among the
principal enterprises (SENELEC, SONATEL, SONEES) and between them
and the rest of the sector will be proposed by the CSP to their
boards of directors not later than January 31, 1990, after
negotiations with the interested parties. The settlement program
will be carried out over a three-year period.
-     For the cross-debts of the other PEs, which involve rather modest
amounts, a repayment schedule will also be available before
January 31, 1990 and ready for application from that date forward.
123.        The settlement program will include the issuance, at market rates,
of debt bonds with maturities of two, three or four years, which the debtor
enterprises will transfer to their creditors in the parastatal sector in
payment of their arrears. The debt bonds received by the creditors may be
used only to pay other creditors.
124.        The implementation of these plans will make it possible to place
the financial relations between the State and the sector, and among the
enterprises in the sector, on a sounder footing. Nevertheless, it will be
necessary to take further steps aimed at preventing the future accumulation of
cross-arrears between the State and the sector and within the sector. The
measures designed with that purpose in mind are covered below.
e.    Establishment of a system to improve the settlement of cross-
debts between the State and the parastatal sector and among the
enterprises of the sector



Annex IV
Page 33 of 50
125.        The mieasures envisaged involve both the improvement of the
information system for making the timely identification of debts and means of
settlement more automatic and the introduction of performancc indicators and
incentives. A number of short-term measures, supplemented by o'hers aimed at
the longer term, have been announced. A group responsible for monitoring
financial relations with the parastatal sector has been set up in the Ministry
of Economy and Finance. It is composed of the parastatal sector unit (CSP),
the Treasury, the Budget Department, the Debt Departmentment, the Fiscal
Department, the Customs Department, the Statistical Department, the COF, the
Portfolio Department and the ACC. The group will meet each month to review
the financial transactions between the State and the enterprises, and will be
expanded every three months to include the Delegation for Parapublic Sector
Reform (DRSP) and the credit managers of the various ministries. These
meetings will review all financial transactions conducted during the relevant
period between the State and the sector and take appropriate action with
detailed reports to the competent authorities.
126.        As one of the main causes of the accrual of arrears was the
sluggish procedure for approving subsidies, the Government has decided to make
the DRSP responsible for ensuring the timely mobilization of credit transfers
(subsidies) for the enterprises, in order to reduce substantially the lags
noted in that area.
127.        Enterprises with debts to the State will, as expressly provided
for under the applicable regulations, be subject to automatic withholding with
regard to all their available resources in banks and at the Treasury. The
Treasury will regularly review these withholding operations at the monthly
meetings of the financial relations monitoring group.
128.        Other measures which need further study before implementation are
also contemplated. These include the introductiun of performance standards
for the public administration, and an official will be assigned this task in
each department. An evaluation system will be introduced for water and
electric power consumption and telephone use. In keeping with overall budget
constraints, budget allocations to each department will be determined so as to
cover possible arrears. A circular from the Minister of Economy and Finance
will announce the allocations to the various departments following the budget
decisions. Monitoring systems will provide for an evaluation of the
management perfornance of each enterprise head, with the rate of debt recovery
and settlement constituting major elements thereof. In addition, for those
PEs which are programmed to receive subsidies, the possibility will be
explored of having the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) automatically
withhold planned subsidies for the settlement of accumulated debts.
129.        To eliminate any claim-certification or debt-acknowledgment
problems (a major concern in relation to arrears, especially in connection
with water, electric power, telephone service and other utilities), the
following procedures will be introduc_d in December 1989:  (i) To be valid,



Annex IV
Page 34 of 50
bills will have to be sent out within 30 days following the period in which
service was supplipd, and (ii) the consuming agency or organization will have
a maximum of three weAks in which to contest a charge. If a charge has not
been contested after this three-week period, it will be deemed to have been
approved, and (iii) payment for the service in question must be made at the
latest within the month following the three-week period. When that month has
passed, the supplier will cease to supply or service the ccisuming a3ency or
organization.
130.        The State will refuse to approve any new loans to public
enterprises that are in arrears to it. Although a case-by-case approach is
necessary in the analysis of the reciprocal-debts situation, examination and
settlement of the problem will be coordinated in their entirety by the
parastatal sector monitoring group created in the MEF. Measures will be taken
by June 30, 1990 to ensure that the amounts entered in the national budget
beginning in 1990/91 are sufficient to cover reasonable and authorized charges
for public services supplied to government agencies. At the same time,
disciplinary measures will be taken against heads of administrative units
whose excessive spending is due tc lax consumption management.
3.    Privatization and Liquidation
131.        Privatization of PEs will be pursued with ever-increasing
effectiveness as experience is gained. A new strategy for privatization has
been prepared. This strategy is based on the need for total disengagement
from all nonstrategic enterprises and encompasses all forms of State
divestiture: sale of shares, liquidation, sale of assets, management
contracts, leasing-management and contracting of certain activities to the
private sector, etc. In addition, all measures aimed at financial
rehabilitation that are prerequisites for the privatization of enterprises
will be announced in conjunction with the new strategy.
132.        The sale already underway of the first 10 enterprises will go
ahead. A detailed program involving 31 enterprises to be privatized has been
prepared by the Government and covers the period 1989-91. The privatization
will proceed by stages as follows: (i) preparation of audit reports, (ii)
compliance with all legal requirements and public sale offers according to the
following timetable:
SIDEC, VACAP, SAIH, SERAS, SNSS, SENPRIM, SONED, SENHOTEL in
November 1989
SIPOA, SINAES, HAMO, DAKAR-MARINE, IRANSEN, SODEHME, PROJET
FRUITIER DE M'BORO, BICIS, CNCAS by September 30, 1990
SOTEXKA, SICAP, BHS, SODIDA, SODEZI, SODITH, SODISA, SODIKA,
SONEPI, SIAS, SEPFA, SONADIS, SONACOS by September 30, 1991



Annex IV
Page 35 of 50
133.        With respect to the enterprises to be privatized in the first
wave: in the case of VACAP, if the negotiations with the current partner do
not lead to an agreement before December 21, 1989, an open invitation to bid
will be issued by January 31, 1990.  For the SNSS the services of a commercial
bank will be retained by January 31, 1990 to find a taker. SONED's
reciprocal-debts situation will be resolved by January 31, 1990, and in the
meantime bids to purchase the organization will be invited by December 31,
1989.
134.        A list of 12 public enterprises marked for possible liquidation
was prepared, and a decision to liquidate five of them was taken in November
1989. They are SISAC, SNPC, SOMIVAC, SEIB and SGHCV. Signature of the
decrees for their liquidation will be completed by June 30, 1990. A second
group of five enterprises will be liquidated by June 1991.
135.        In addition, the Government has decided, first, to bring the
private sector into the design and management of the privatization program by
inviting the national employers' council to appoint two representatives to the
consultative council of the parastatal sector and, second, to call whenever
necessary on private bodies experienced in this area to help in the
implementation of this policy.
136.        A study on the possibilities of creating a secondary share market
will be finalized by June 1990 and thz recommendations carried out by December
1990.
4.    Rehabilitation of Enterprises
137.        The rehabilitation of the enterprises remainJng in the State's
portfolio will be pursued by implementing and strengthening the policy of
contract plans for the enterprises concerned. To that end, a detailed
timetable for the preparation, signature and monitoring of the contract plans
has been devised.  All the contracts to be negotiated will contain incentives
for the managers of the enterprises to achieve the agreed financial and other
goals.
138.        Concurrently, a statistical framework will be prepared outlining
all the State's financial commitments under the performance contracts. As
from 1989/90, budget entries will precisely reflect the commitments undertaken
in conjunction with the performance contracts.
5.    Legal and Institutional Framework
139.        The effort to achieve greater rationaliza ion of the supervisory
bodies will be pursued.  To that end, supervision of parastatal sector
enterprises will be limited to the DRSP and to t-i: Ministry of the Economy and
Finance. Consequently, the role of Financial Controller of the Presidency
(CFP) and the Commission for the Verification of the Accounts of the Public
Establishments (CVCCEP) will be limited to ex-post audits, while the



Annex IV
Page 36 of 50
Organization and Methods Office (BOM) and other study groups in the parastatal
sector will act only at the -squest of the Boards of Directors of the public
enterprises.
140.        The authority and competence of the Boards of Directors will be
reinforced by the inclusiotL of private sector representatives known for their
professional competence. Supervision of mixed economy companies in which the
State has a minority interest will be reduced to its simplest form, with
emphasis placed on making the directors of those companies totally
accountable. These SEMs will be subject to the rules of private law in
matters of management oversight.
143.        State control over SEMs where the State holds minority shares will
be reduced to the minimum possible, the emphasis being placed instead on the
directors of these enterprises. These SEMs will be subject to private law for
matters relating to their management.
142.        In that connection, a number of amendments to Law No. 87-19 will
be submitted to the National Assembly for approval in July 1990. They will
provide for:
Easing of the oversight procedures and modalities set forth in
Articles 43 and 44, under which special State controls can be
imposed by decree on enterprises in which the State holds a
minority interest or on private enterprises which receive
financial assistance from the State;
Elimination of the veto right of the Financial Controller of the
Presidenc:. (CFP) in the boards of directors of public enterprises
(Article 37);
Limitation of the CVCCEP's role to ex-post inspection only
(Articles 46, 49, 54, 56);
Abolition of the Public Establishments Center (CEP), including the
ACC and the COF (Articles 22-29, 58);
Mandatory inclusion in the enterprises' boards of directors of at
least two members chosen for their expertise.
143.        The Government has decided to implement measures to strengthen the
agencies charged with the supervision of the parastatal sector reform, that is
the parastatal sector unit (CSP) in the Ministry of Economy and Finance and
the Delegation for Parapublic Sector Reform (DRSP). The Government will take
all actions necessary to ensure that these agencies have the financial,
material and manpower resources to fulfill their functions. In particular,
the Government has decided firstly that both agencies will benefit no later
than March 1990 from having sector information systems established, and



Annex IV
Page 37 of 50
secondly that DRSP will have access to the necessary expertise for the
implementation of the privatization program. Financing up to the equivalent
of US $ 4 million will be allocated in installments for this purpose.
VI.   THE SOCIAL DIMENSION OF THE ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
1.    Assessment and Obiectives
144.        Encouraging as the results over the three years of implementation
of the PAML have been, there will first, for some years yet, be a continued
need for a stringent policy aimed at reducing internal demand while the
production incentives, whose positive effects will be felt only gradually, are
put in place. In that context, it is essential to consider the social
dimension of the adjustment policy and thus to take steps to mitigate, in the
short run, the impact of the economic policy measures on the poorest groups,
especially urban and rural workers. Looking beyond the short term, it is
equally essential to develop analytical tools with which to integrate the
social dimension into economic formulation.
145.        The Government has implemented, over the past two years, a number
of measures designed to reduce the temporary costs of the adjustment policy.
They include the creation of the Employment and Redeployment Office and the
National Employment Fund, and the formulation of a population policy. These
policies will be pursued and strengthened to enhance their effectiveness while
specific measures are put in place to develop Senegal's principal resource:
its people. The Government is defining, in conjunction with its partners, a
medium-term human-resource development program which combines sector policy
and investment measures.
146.        The Government's first objective in its intensified focus on the
social dimension of the adjustment policy is to promote employment, by
introducing major programs such as the large public works project, which seeks
to create temporary jobs in infrastructure projects and has the backing of the
donor community. The following actions are also planned in the context of the
National Employment Fund: (i) placement and redeployment in production
activities of laid-off workers; (ii) the revival of production through the
creation of a PME network; and (iii) an improved match between training and
employment in order to better meet the needs of the economy.
147.        Two other objectives are being pursued by the Government: the
introduction of an action plan based on the population policy in order to
integrate the demographic variable better into economic and social development
strategies, and the development of human potential through the implementation
of appropriate health, education, and social development policies.



Annex IV
Page 38 of 50
2.    Action Plan
1.    Employment Promotion
148.        The employment and redeployment efforta will be pursued as part of
the employment action plan. Accordingly, the experience of the National
Employment Fund will be reviewed with the aim of broadening the employment
program and speeding up the procedures for financing and decentralizing the
DIRE's efforts on behalf of the regions. Projects will be selected for
consistency with the revitalization goals defined by the Government, with a
view to creating a PME network in promising activities; occupational
requalification will be provided through a requalification fund situated in
the ONPF. Traineeships in enterprises will be organized in accordance with
the provisions of the National State/Employers' Agreement. Particular stress
will be laid on matching training and employment over the medium term. As
part of the same endeavor, a reetructuring of some aspects of the vocational
training system will be undertaken, based on a review of existing structures
and the preparation of a training program in collaboration with the ONPF. The
Government further plans, through pericdic follow-ups on former State
officials and employees, to evaluate the success of their redeployment into
the private sector.
2.    Population Policy
149.        In keeping with the objectives laid down in the statement on
population policy, a priority action and investment plan prepared in March
1989 covers the following areas: mother-and-child health; fertility and birth
spacing; promotion of women, youth and the aged; preservation of the family;
migration, urban development and land use; studies and research; information,
education and communication concerning population issues.
3.    Realizing Human Potential
150.        A special effort will be made on behalf of sectors such as
education, health and social development. Adequate resources will be
earmarked through budget allocations and the three-year investment program to
meet the health and primary-education needs of the poorest segments of the
population in urban and rural areas.
a.    Education
151.        The Government reaffirms its determination to promote elementary
education and thereby pursue the goal of universal schooling. A medium-term
action plan covering training and teacher-recruitment needs in the elementary
education system will be designed in that connection.



Annex IV
Page 39 of 50
152.        The following decisions will be taken in light of the foregoing
and of wage-bill constraints. Priority will be assigned to national education
in conjunction with measures for redeploying civil servants. Civil servants
thus made available to the Ministry of National Education will be eligible for
accelerated training. Once redeployment has reached its limits, the
Government, working with its partners, will study ways and means of
maintaining recruitment in the sector. Ways and means of fostering private
education will also be considered. The development of technical and
vocational education is also a Government priority. Particular emphasis will
be placed on streamlining training structures and examining their mission.
Literacy will be fostered through an integrated approach (functional literacy
for adults and development of elementary education) and a meaningful linkage
of functional literacy to vocational training. The expansion of post-primary
education will depend increasingly on the means at the State's disposal as
well as the acceptance of cost-sharing by those benefiting from training.
However; particular emphasis will be placed on improving the quality of
training, providing students with a better learrning environment and
establishing a meaningful link between training and national development
concerns.
b.    Health
153.        Improving the population's health status is also one of the
eovernment's priorities. Particular emphasis will therefore be placed on the
qualitative improvement of health services. The following measures are
planned in that regard: (i) formulation of a national %., 8th policy and review
of Country Health Programming for Senegal, bearing i.. i_2n .-'  -ecent
performance of the economy; and (ii) establishment of a medium-.-term human
resource plan in the health sector.
c.    Social development policy
154.        Programs identified in relation to social development policy fall
under three main headings. First, the stre3ngthening and restructuring of
GOPEC, responsible for promoting the employment of young people without
diplomas in urban and rural areas. Second, the development of a program in
support of the "disadvantaged family" through the financing of small
productive projects at the family level. Third, support for the community
development unit charged with establishing a credit system for legally
constituted rural and urban groups. Such programs will be put in place
through a Social Development Fund in which operation the Senegalese
authorities, donors and NGOs will participate.
4.    Institutional Development
155.        As part of the UNDP project 'Evaluation of the social dimension of
adjustment in Sub-Saharan Africa", analysis and monitoring tools as well as



Annex IV
Page 40 of 50
the required statistical base will b- developed with a view to integrating the
social dimension into the design of macroeconomic policies.
For the Government of the Republic of Senegal
The Minister of State,
General Secretary to the Presidency
H.E. Mr. Jean Collin
(original in French signed)
Annexest Action Plan
Table 1-Direct subsidies, tranRfers and overdrafts to PEs.
Table 2-Cross debts between PEs and Government and between PEs
themselves



Annex IV
Page 41 of 50
SENECAL - LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
--------------------------------------
ACTION PLAN
I.      MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK
1. Macroeconomic indicators
- Reduce overall fiscal balance (on a commitment basis and excluding grants) to:
-2.8 % of COP                                                                             08/30/90
-1.6 % of GDP                                                                             06/30/91
- Limit monetary growth to 4.7 % per year for each year                                         08/30/90
06/30/91
- Reduce current account deficit (excluding grants) to:
-8.3 S of CDP                                                                            06/30/90
-6.9   of GDP                                                                                06/30/91
2. Public debt management
=_____________________
- Create users' guide to debt management                                                        12/31/89
- Maintain the 10 X annual growth rate in the CAA budget                                        1989/90 to 1990/91
- Minimise new non-concessional external borrowings                                             continuous
3. Resource mobilization
Improve tax management and collection
-------------------------------------
- Implement single personal income tax for individuals                                          01/01/90
- Implement corporate taxation system
establish corporate tax rate of 36 %                                                      01/01/90
eliminate capital budget levy (PBE)                                                       01/01/90
evaluate reform, and reduce rate if justified to 30 X                                     07/01/91
- Increase investment tax deduction allowances for new companies
-study                                                                                    '8/30/91
decision                                                                                  07/01/92
- Decentralize and computerize management of tax arrears                                        1989/90 to 1990/91
- Implement fiscal cadaster
cadastral surveys                                                                         12/31/89
computerization                                                                           08/30/90
- Implement source deduction on income from rents, dividends, and capital gains                 01/01/90
* Improve tax base and stabilize revenues
---------------------------------------
- Extend VAT to trade and services sectors
complete study                                                                           08/30/89
*adopt a simplified accounting system                                                     06/30/89
*ffectiv, implementation                                                                  01/01/90
reduced rate 7 %
normal rate  20 %
higher rate 30 %



Annex IV
Page 42 of 50
Reexamine tax (TPS) on debt Interest
*tudy                                                                                   07/01/91
decision                                                                                07/01/92
* Reinforco Customs Department
____________________________
- Implement computerization through the GAINDE system                                         01/01/90
- Examine the functioning of the GAINDE system, and Implement accompanying                    09/30/90
moesures
* Improve quality of economic data
________________________________
- Establish 1981/82 to 1988/87 financial accounts for public administrations.                 12/81/89
Elaborate provisional accounts in current and constant prices for 1988.
- Set-up a methodology to improve foreign trade statistics                                    12/31/89
- Set-up permanent system of administrative statistics
update law 68-S9 clarifying and ;-ationalizing Information circuits                     1990
create macroeconomic data bank                                                          1990
conclude study on harmonization of structures                                           12/81/89
= Implement two surveys of the informal sector                                                02/28/90
TI.    PRIVATE SECTOR INCENTIVES
_________________________
1. Improvements in Investment Incentives and In the regulatory environment
------------------------------------------------------__---------------
- Strengthen the uGuichet unique' and centralize all formalities for enterprise               08/30/90
creation
- Reorganize the fiscal administration (DGID) and stroamline Its procedures                   01/01/90
- Monitor the implementation of the reorganization of DGID and take additional measures if  09/01/90
necessary
- Improve Information for investors and prepare an investment guide                           03/31/90
- Disseminate edited texts of the tax code and of various other regulations                   07/81/90
- Simplify registration procedures for SMEs                                                   08/30/90
- Review and evaluate, on an annual basis, the impact of the elimination of
constraints and of the various Incentives for new Investors
first evaluation                                                                        08/30/91
second evaluation                                                                       08/30/92
- Eliminate certain requirements (such as need for r,tarrzed certificates) for
registration of limited liability companies                                                08/30/90
- Liberalize licensing conditions for self-employed professionals                             08/30/90
2. Production costs
________________
- Amend special agreement with SAR and publish decree reflecting a new transparent            12/26/89
pricing and taxation system for petroleum products
- Reduce fuel oil and diesel prices to industry and adjust electricity tariff                 08/30/90
accordingly
- Establish a firm amount of 'handling fee  for SAR.  This amount will be reflected           01/31/90
In the structure of ex-SAR prices as of 04/01/90
- Introduce further adjustments to telecommunicetions tariffs                                 E1/30/90



Annex IV
Page 43 of 50
- Set up a tripartite commission (with employer and union participation)                        01/01/90
to undertake fundamental revlew of oxisting labor legislation
first set of recommendations                                                              12/31/90
review of the wage-setting system In collaboration with the social                        09/30/90
partners and implementation of Its recommendations
3.  Trade regime
- Prepare and implement a plan of actions8or simplifying administrative procedures             08/30/90
related to the export subsidy and duty drawback system
4.  Investment promotion
- Carry out a study on the modalities for the establishment of duty-free enterprisos            08/31/90
outside of the ZFID
implementation of the recommendations of the study                                        08/30/90
- Publish circular setting out possibility for ZFID companies to sell a
maximum of 40% of their output on the local market after payment of import
duties and taxes                                                                              01/01/90
- Confirm eligibility for export subsidy scheme
study                                                                                     03/31/90
implementation of the study recommendations                                               08/30/90
- Build factory buildings for lease within the ZFID                                             continuous
- Open Investment promotion offices In major industrial cities abroad                           1990
S.  Special agreement with SOCOCIM
=_____________________________
- Resolve fiscal dispute with SOCOCIM-Industrles
mission by the fiscal administration (DGID)                                               01/01/90
implementation of agreements reached                                                     03/31/90
- Carry out a detailed study on the modalities for establishing a uniform price                 03/31/90
of cement throughout Senegal
- Carry out a study on the modalities for introducing a new price formula for                   03/31/90
cement with a margin linked to variable costs only
- Amend special agreement with SOCOCIM to introduce new price formula and                       08/30/90
establish stabilization system for cement
III.    PUBLIC INVESTMENT PROGRAM
- Adopt an appropriate public investment program for each year as pert of the                   1990/91
rolling three-year public investment program                                                  1991/92
- Decentralize all activities relabed to project identification and                             12/31/89
preparation
- Prepare project appraisal guide for non-productive projects                                   12/31/89
- Disseminate price projections for use in project appraisal on a regular basis                 12/31/89
- Prepare and review sectoral investment strategies on a regular basis                          continuous
IV.     CIVIL SERVICE REFORM
1.  Institutional reform
- Propare texts related to the restructuring of the administration                                 12/89
- Effectively implement restructuring                                                              12/89
- Establish list of civil servants to be placed on administrative leave as a result of          12/31/89
the restructuring



Annex IV
Page 44 of 50
- Final choice of departments to be privatized totally, and of those that will                  12/81/89
be awarded public concession status
- Study the practical modalities and the financiel Impact of the                                02/28/90
privatization of certain Government services
- Study the legal Implications and requirements of the relationship between                     02/28/90
the state, privatized firms and former civil servonts working In those firms.
- Create the newly privatized firms                                                             03 - 12/90
- Organizational audit of the new departments                                                   04 - 09/90
2. Voluntary departure of civil servants and State employees
…--------------------------------------------------------
- Information and awareness-raising campaign                                                       12/89
- Form the Steering Committee                                                                      12/89
- Create the Reserve Fund and nominate Its Administrator                                           01/90
- Decr- s describing modalities for voluntary departure and early retirement                       12/89
- Implement voluntary departure program                                                         01/01/90
- Voluntary departures following organizational audit                                           07/01/90
3. Personnel management
a Modernization of the State personnel management system
- Computerize Individual files and set-up Independent computer file in the DFP                  02/28/90
and the DCS
- Implement restructuring of State personnel management agencies (DFP, DAGE, SAGE, DCS)         04/30/90
- Rationalize regulations on recruitment and pay, and restructure national                      09/30/90
training schools
* Control of the Civil Service size
- Follow-up and take appropriate action on Irregular cases arising from second                  11/30/89
staff census
- Study national training schools                                                               04/30/90
- Ensure that recruitment does not exceed the following:
. 436 schoolteachers, and 27% of program departures In the non-education                     08/30/90
sectors for :989/90. At a minimum, there will be 664 net staff reductions
by June 1990
681 schoolteachers, and 38% of program departures in the non-education                      06/30/91
sectors for 1990/91
. 797 schoolteachers, and 80% of program departures in the non-educati4n                     06/30/92
sectors for 1991/92
- Redefine personnel management responsibilities between Ministries of                          08/30/91
Civil Service, Economy and Finance, Technical Ministries, and at the DAGE and
SAGE levels
- Simplify legislative and administrative regulations in order to improve State                 04/30/91
personnel management
- Undertake third staff census                                                                  03-08/92
4. Rationalization of the sage bill
- Implement wage bill study recommendations                                                     12/31/89
- Verify all wage bill components                                                               08/30/90



Annex IV
Page 45 of 50
- Set wage bill ceilings at:
126.8  billion CFAF                                                                        1989/90
126.0 billion CFAF                                                                         1990/91
126.0 billion CFAF                                                                         1991/92
- Estimate total pay arrears owed by the State, and prepare a settlement plan                    04/30/90
- Implement accounting system to check wage bill expenditures vis-a-vis budgeted                 06/80/90
projections
- Study hospitalization and transport indemnity systems                                          06/80/90
- Reduce Government's contribution to retirement funds from 20% to 16% of base                   07/01/90
salary
- Harmonize special statutes with the general statute of the civil service, and                  09/80/90
redefine indemnities independently of base salary
- Study conditions and pay levels of civil servants and State employees                          12/81/90
V.      PARAPUBLIC SECTOR REFORM
1. Subsidies
- Implement computerized follow-up system for all financial flows                                08/30/90
between the State and public enterprises in the 'Cellule du Secteur
parapublicl in the Ministry of Economy and Finances
- Implement, on a case by case basis, plan to reduce direct subsidies (s e Table
1), i.e. to a maximum (excluding COUD) of:
non commercial enterprises (list A)
CFAF 9.9 billion                                                                           1989/90
CFAF 9.1 billion                                                                           1990/91
CFAF 7.4 billion                                                                           1991/92
commercial enterprises (list B)
CFAF 0.6 billion                                                                           1989/90
CFAF 0.8 billion                                                                           1990/91
CFAF 0.0 billion                                                                           1991/92
- Restructure COUD in ordor to reduce its budgetary burden                                       09/80/90
- Transform equipment subsidies to long-term loans or capital increases                          starting 11/89
2. ACC overdrafts
- Abolish overdraft system                                                                       08/. ./89
- Transform all existing ACC overdrafts to long-term loans after 1 year                          09/80/89
- Cane-l all long-term loans that cannot be reimbursed                                           06/80/91
3. Cross-debts (see table 2)
e Stock as of December 81, 1986
- Mutually cancel all non-disputed cross-debts between the State and the PEs                        11/89
- Prepare settlement agreements for outstanding debts owed by PEe to the State.                     11/89
Settlement will be completed over a three-year period stsrting in 1989/90
- Cancel the debts of those public establishments that do not generate their own                    11/89
resources
- Implement the settlement programme for all debts owed by the State to the PEs,
estimated as follows:
CFAF 684 million                                                                            1989/90
CFAF 800 million                                                                            1990/91
CFAf 600 million                                                                            1991/92



Annex IV
Page 46 of 50
- Eliminate *11 debts owed to the PEe by the State which have not been certified                 11/89
e Stock as of December 31, 1988
_____________________________
- Update the inventory of cross-debts for the period up to December 31, 1988                     12/89
- Settle those debts which can be mutually cancelled                                             03/90
- Negotiate a programme to settle the outstanding debts owed by PEs to the State              03/31/90
implement the settlement program over a three-year period starting in
1990/91                                                                                 07/01/90
- Cancel the debts of the public establishments which do not generate their own               01/31/90
resources
- Arbitrate disputed claims                                                                   11/30/90
- Settle all debts owed by the State to the PEs over a three-year period,                     1990/91
starting in 1990/91 (total ostimated at FCFA 260 million)                                   1991/92
1992/93
* Stock as of December 31, 1989
____________________ ________
- Update the inventory of cross-debts including those between the PEs themselves              03/31/90
- Prepare an action programme for settlement of all these debts and implement it              06/30/90
over a three-year period starting in 1990/91
PE/PE cross-debts
- Mutually cancel where possible                                                              01/31/90
- Implement a settlement program over a three-year period atarting in 1990/91,                03/31/90
with the State acting on behalf of these public establishments unable to
generate their own resources
s Measures to reduce the magnitude of the cross-debt problem and to improve
settlement of debts in the future
------------------------------------------------------------------__---------
Involve the CSP in the process of commitment and disbursement of credits to                 1990/91
the PE sector
Set up a monitoring committeo including representatives of the State and maJor              03/31/90
PEs
Reduce Government consumption of water, electricity and telephone services                  08/80/90
Develop an incentive system for PE managers based on their performance in                   06/30/90
settling and recovering debts
Adopt measures to improve the certification or formal recognition of debts                     12/90
between the State and the PEs
Refuse all new loans to PEs which are in arrears with payments owed to the State            continuous
4. Privatization and liquidation
__ __________________________
- Implementation of the new privatization strategy                                            continuous
- Offer for sale Government shares in:
SIDEC, VACAP, SAIH, SERWS, SNSS, SENPRIM, SONED, SENHOTEL                                  11/8S
SIPOA, SINAES, HAMO, DAKAR-MARINE, IRANSEN, SODEHME, PROJET FRUITIER DE                 09/30/90
M'BORO, CNCAS, BICIS
SOTEXPA, SICAP, BHS, SOD;DA, SODEzI, SODITH, SODISA, SODIKA,                            09/30/91
SONEPI, SIAS, SEPFA, SONADIS, SONACOS



Annex IV
Page 47 of 50
- Liquidate (sign liquldation decrees) of the 6 following enterprises:                           06/80/90
SISAC, SNPG, SOMIVAC, SEIP and SGHCV
- Liquidate (sign liquidation decrees) of at least 6 other public                                08/30/91
enterprises
- Complete study and Implement recommendation on the creation of                                 12/31/90
a secondary market for shares
6. Rehabilitation of enterprices
- Prepare program contract plans for OHLM, PAD, RCFS, OPCE, SONATRA                              06/30/90
- Prepare recovery programs for NIS, 'Le Solsill, ORTS, ITA, CNTDS, ISRA, SICAP                  06/30/90
- Prepare financial restructuring plans for SONEES, SENELEC, SONATEL                             12/31/90
- Harmonize all State commitments included in contract plans with the                            1989/90, 1990/91,
national budget                                                                                1991/92
S. Legal and institutional framework
- Modify law 87-19 in order to:                                                                  06/30/90
limit State control on mixed enterprises in which the State holds a
minority stake, and on private enterprises benefiting from State support
*eliminate the CF right to veto in Board decisions of public enterprises
limit the role of the control commission of the CVCCEP to a posteriori
control of PE accounts
limit the role of the SO  and other consultancy organizations
to responding to requests from the decision-making bodies of public
enterprises
- Eliminate COF and ACC                                                                          12/31/90
VI.     SOCIAL DIMENSION
________________
- Review the experience of the National Employment Fund with a view toward                          12/89
expanding the employment program and accelerating financing procedures
- Implement Public Works and Employment Project                                                  continuous
- Implement a priority action plan on population                                                 continuous
- Study possible modalities of private school promotion                                          1990
- Design a medium-term plan on human resources                                                   12/31/89
- Design an action plan for the production of family businesses                                  12/81/90
- Adequately allocate funds In the budget and PTIP to address the health and                     1990/91
primary education needs of the least-favoured groups of the population                         1991/92
1992/93



Annex IV
Page 48 of 50
Table 1:                    Direct subsidies, transfers and Overdrafts to Public Ent.rprises (CFAF millions)
1988/89                     1989/90                  1990/91                 1991/92
-- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - - - - --  - -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- ----- - ..-- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - -- - - - -           
S        0        Total    S        0     Total      S      0      Total     S       0     Total
NON-COMMERCIAL OR STRATEGIC ENTERPRISES (List A)
ONAC                   38.3       0.0     38.3      38.3    0     88.8      38.3    0      38.8      38.3    0     38.3
ISBEA                  27.6       0.0     27.6      27.6    0     27.6      27.6    0      27.6     27.6    0      27.6
COUw                 1348.0    623.9   1971.9   3412.0    0   3412.0   3412.0    0   3412.0   3070.8    0   3070.8
INSEPS                106.7       0.0    106.7    105.7    0    106.7    106.7    0    105.7          O.0    0      0.0
INDR                  130.0     19.1    149.1    130.1    0    130.1        91.1    0      91.1      0.0    0       0.0
SAED                  481.9       0.0    481.9    335.4    0    835.4    181.6    0    181.8    189.3    0    189.3
INSTITUT ISLAMIQUE    26.8       0.0      26.8      26.6    0     26.6      26.8    0      26.6     26.6    0      25.6
CNTDS                 180.0      34.1    194.1    160.0    0    160.0    136.0    0    138.0         80.0    0     80.0
ORTS                  827.1    621.1   1348.2    888.6 5    0    68.6    678.9    0    678.9    413.6    0    413.5
ONFP                  360.0       0.0    360.0       0.0    0      0.0       0.0    0       0.0       0.0    0      0.0
ISRA                  940.6    433.7   1374.3    913.0    0    918.0    913.0    0    913.0    467.0    0    457.0
PAD                   140.9       0.0    140.9    140.9    0    140.9    119.8    0    119.8         98.8    0     98.6
RCFS                  210.1       0.0    210.1    210.1    0    210.1    210.1    0    210.1          0.0    0      0.0
BRGM                   95.8       0.0     95.8      79.3    0      79.3     87.4    0      87.4     47.9    0      47.9
SAR                    78.6       0.0     76.6      63.6    0     63.6      64.0    0      54.0      38.2    0     38.2
UNIVERSITE           4601.8       0.0   4601.8   6146.8    0   5146.8   6148.8    0   5146.8   5100.0    0   6100.0
SOTRAC                800.0       0.0    800.0    800.0    0    800.0    800.0    0    600.0    400.0    0    400.0
UNCM                   83.7       0.0     83.7      69.6    0     69.6      69.1    0      69.1       0.0    0      0.0
ZFID                   88.9       0.0     88.9      73.8    0     73.8      66.4    0      86.4      59.7    0     69.7
ENSUT                 127.6       0.0    127.6    172.6    0    172.6    172.6    0    172.6    152.5    0    152.6
ENS                    20.0       0.0     20.0      t0.0    o     20.0       0.0    0       0.0       0.0    0      0.0
ORCHESTRE NATIONAL    48.2        0.0     48.2      48.2    0     48.2      48.2    0      48.2       0.0    0      0.0
UNIVERSITE MUTANTS    21.4        0.0     21.4      21.4    0     21.4       0.0    0       0.0       0.0    0      0.0
ASECNA                198.1       0.0    198 1    184.4    0    164.4    139.7    0    139.7        99.1    0      99.1
SODEVA                171.2       0.0    171.2    142.1    0    142.1    108.8    0    108.8          0.0    0      0.0
PTA & Others          280.8       0.0    280.0    280.8    0    280.8    280.8    0    280.8    180.8    0    180.8
SUB-TOTAL           11375.8   1631.9  13006.7  13283.4    0  13283.4  12669.3    0  12669.3  10468.8    0  10465.8
SUB-TOTAL (ex COUD 10027.6   1008.0  11034.8   9861.4    0   9861.4   9147.3    0   9147.3   7386.0    0   7386.0
COMMERCIAL ENTERPRISES (List 8)
ITA                   129.6    116.8    245.3    170.0    0    170.0    102.0    0    102.0          0.0    0       0.0
MSAD                   44.8    102.4    147.0       44.6    0     44.6      28.8    0      26.8       0.0    0      0.0
CEREEQ                 18.9      84.0    102.9      17.4    0     17.4       0.0    0       0.0      0.0    0       0.0
NIS                     2.6       0.0      2.6       0.0    0      0.0       0.0    0       0.0       0.0    0      0.0
CICES                 106.0       0.0    106.0      71.0    0     71.0      42.8    0      42.8      0.0    0       0.0
SONEPI                 70.0       0.0     70.0      43.1    0     43.1      36.9    0      86.9       0.0    0      0.0
ASACE                 144.0       0.0    144.0       0.0    0      0.0       0.0    0       0.0       0.0    0      0.0
CNQP                  119.9     61.1    181.0       90.8    0     90.6      64.4    0      64.4      0.0    0       0.0
APS                   56.1       68.2    114.3      48.8    0     46.8      27.9    0      27.9       0.0    0      0.0
SONATRA               102.8       0.0    102.8      72.0    0     72.0      61.2    0      81.2       0.0    0      0.0
SOMIVAC               130.2       0.0    130.2      68.9    0     68.9       ).O    0       0.0       0.0    0      0.0
SUB-TOTAL             923.6    421.6   1346.0    624.2    0    824.2    360.8    0    360.8          0.0    0       0.0
CRAND TOTAL         12299.1   2063.4  14351.7  13887.8    0  13887.6  12910.1    0  12910.1  10465.8    0  10456.8
Gd TOTAL (ex COUD) 10961.1   1429.6  12379.8  10476.8    0  10476.8   9498.1    0   9498.1   7388.0    0   7386.0
…=-=--------------------------=_-====Z=-__-  -          -GG___ -_=======  =2=___= _ __ _--G-==========-
S: subsidies and tronsfers; 0: overdraft.
Source: Ministry of Finance



Table 2:           ULSPIJTED CROSS ODET BETEEN PES AND COVIET   iLv BETvWE  PES TFBGELYVES 1088 (;n CFAF .; II; ons)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------_____ _---- __-------------------------------------------------    -------------------------------------------------------______________-___
Debtore
Croditor.         1    2      3    4      5    6      7    8      9     10   11   12   13   14   15   16   17   18   19   20   21   22   23    Total  Ovt 1986 Ct lO8 aCd total
1 CPSP              -   2948    93                                                                                                                              3039     3119    3116       9274
2 SGIAOIS                 -                                                                                                                                        0       48        9        57
3 S0aDBIM          2110         -                                   185                                                                                         2245     -          22      2267
4 SAED              90                -                                                                                                                          908     -        1636      2544
5 SENEL8 C                             26   -           124    8    2    16                  3    13               282  309  211    17   67        3  812       1893      376    3271       5540
6 SONEES                                3   173   -      33    4           11                      10               72    19    2    5   31   23         4       390              3282      3672
7 SOIATBL                                   157         -                  10                      13               48    a    7       6           8   438       715    6403    4922       12040
8 SHELL                    42          11  1794          14   -                                                                                                 1861     -         98W      2697
9 SOINACOS         1132   58                 13                     -                                                                                           1201      144     -         1345
10 STRAC                                                                   -                  4                                                                     4      177      200       381
11 ICS                                       389                                                                                                                  389     1992      669      3050
12 PAD                                                                 9               -                             22           9   60    2                     102    2Z66       611      3079
13 SPT                       2                 7           6                                                                                 10          12        37       19    -            56
14 SASM                                                   11                                                                                                       11       40      202       253
15 cosaE                                                                                                -                  61                                      61      120       79       260
16 C.S.S.                              133                27                89          9           2         -    185   10    5                                  460     -        1231      1691
17 D. NRX!E                             27    5                                         11                          -                                              43      689      657      1389
18 TAIBA                                                                                                                  -0                                              -        -            0
19 SSP-THSE5                                                                                                                                                        0       12      225       237
20 RCFS                            3                      13     1                                                        169   41   -                            227      188    1006       1421
21 CPCE                                                   66                                                                                _                      66      148       97       311
22 SAR                                                        3703                                                                                -              3703       42    x          3745
23 GMS                                                     2                 7              452                                                         -         461     a          25       486
24 SSPPF-SMLIL                                                                               56                                                                    56        3       80       139
SIB-TOTAL        4150 3048    96  200 2538    0   298 3716   146   133    0   20  S1S   38    0    0   609  576  275   88   110   34  1286                   17872    17064   24178      39114
Oat 1988        10003   -           440 6056   x   9138   38   37  1255 4682  4464   -          20  -        2  1080          30  4415  1130   -             53768
Cat 1988         5156    15   22  635 7881 4604  4038   119   22   877  9763  1629              455   -       6  1149   -    225  668  937   a        95    44860
Crond Total     19309 3061   118  1275 16395 4604 13492 3893  205 2265 14445 6113  S1S  513            0     9 2838  576   630 5174  2177   34  1381    116500
X a Entreprieee non included
Source: Ministry of Finance
0Q 0
fD X
x
0
O ,
C



Table 2:                       UNDISPUTED OtSS DST SETIEEN PEa AND COV 4EENT AND BEflEE4 PES T ELVES, 1988 (in CFAF  ;Illions)
Debtor.
Creditor.        24    23    26    27    28    29    30    31    32    33    34   3S    36    37    Zs    39    40           Totel Cvt 1986 Ct 1988  Cd total
23 ISRA                                                                                                                              0     -          486       486
26 LUNASE                                                                                                                            0 o             -            0
27 SNH-HL                                                                                                                            0       18O     -          180
28 HAND                                                                                                                              0      -           4         4
29 SAPCO                                                                                                                             0      -        -            0
30 SERAS                                                                                                                             0        SO     -           so
31 SICAP                                                                                                                             0      781       634      1415
32 SMEc                                                                                                                              0      -          16         16
33 SODEVA                                                                                                                            0      -         50f        503
34 SODIDA                                                                                                                            0      a        -             0
35 SONATRA                                                                                                                           0        24       66         90
36 SOTEXKA                                                                                                                           0        90     -            90
37 VACAP                                                                                                                             0     -           45        45
38 SEIB                                                                                                     -                        0     -         x            0
89 SODE08E                                                                                                                           0     -         a            0
40 SO                                                                                                                    - D0                54       247       301
SUB-TOTAL          0      0     0     0     0      0     0     0     0      0     0     0      0     0     0     0     0      17872    17064    24178      59114
CGt 1986          11      0         -     371    34    so    80   609   as6           923   116   618  6608   302   356       53768
cat 1988          96    38   902    53   327   937   367   433   496   433   884   260   686   716   a         a       12     44860
Crand Total       107    38   902    53   698   971   417   313  1103  1289 a84  1183   602  1336  6608   302   368    116300
X - Entrepriese non included
Source: Ministry of Finance
0Q 
(D XD
Ln
o C-
C> -
0
P-h
n
0



BIRD 18499R
65<  l   t  Islou   M          A  U  R  I T  A    N   E                     '     sa      MTs Cer-)#                  LlCye
N-k,lh~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t, ~~~~~~~Ajg6rIe                                          '
SENEGAL                                                         / 'GAl .
RAPPORT  ECONOMIQUE  %                          .                       LGul                                                                                  N
IA. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~neSIeraL,r_.'_   At 
/  ~ ~ ~~~ ~~~~Se l_eo Ble, IC61             nIR
0                                                                                                                                 5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  00
DENStTE DE LA POPULATIONe t,a km2)  A; IJ                                                                                                              Guirlh g00      \    -ti
5 20                      Tmp'5
<20 -5012
Tiogn            Noorn
La              e (ee5'
_'oyo                                                           r ''' BeaOe$~ /dd  G9o Rogor          N    ;~                        
ROLUTES 81TUMEES               I) R
A         '          -)-l.    ob.                 A.             >               , <.           /   S   EA
0 9 20 3040 5 b 00000 90 IC j   9,  C    '-      aoo ScA,e  q8       Sooen4oo                     ,OE;J /,
Kiza]%lleo~I"             ',      .       '                                           _\A _^edoeigou 
CPP S#lrrin * G UI N E  E -B   52S A U °\ ,_Y 
KAI                                             ,5F               LI4X - T+?         \         G  U  I  N   E BE Z                 FEVRIER 1987
DA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(
I.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
CA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ERES18



