CREDIT NUMBER          SE
Development Credit Agreement
(Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                               , 1990


﻿CREDIT NUMBER($/SE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  t1ECXZ1,/'efy /            , 1990, between
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated
December 29, 1989 from the Borrower describing a program of
actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve structural
adjustment of the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the
Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of
the Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in the
financing of urgently needed imports required during such execu-
tion;
(B) the Borrower intends to obtain from the Government of
the Swiss Confederation (Switzerland) a non-reimbursable contribu-
tion (the Swiss Contribution) in an amouit of ten million Swiss
Francs to assist in financing urgently needed imports required
during the execution of the Program on the terms and conditions
set forth in a bilateral agreement (the Swiss Contribution
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and
Switzerland, and the Association shall administer the Swiss Con-
tribution in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement;
(C) Switzerland intends to appoint the Association to
administer the Swiss Contribution in accordance with the provi-
sions of the Procedural Arrangements for cooperation in the
cofinancing of specific development projects or programs within
the framework of the eighth replenishment dated April 9, 1987 (the
Arrangement) between Switzerland and the Association; and
(D) on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Associa-
tion has decided in support of the Program to provide such
assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit in three tranches
as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿S2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Se6 1=1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit ASteeitnts" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modificatioris-thereof set forth below (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a) Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
"'Project' means the imports and other activities
that may be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement.";
(b) Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing
Date or such lator date as may be agreed for this pur-
pose between the Borrower and the Association, the
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Associa-
tion shall reasonably request, on the execution of the
Program referred to in the Preamble to the Development
Credit Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and
the Association of their respective obligations under
the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Credit."; and
(c) the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble of this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)  "SITC" means the Standard International Trade Classifi-
cation, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations
in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 3 (1986);
(b)  "CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower;
(c)  "Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;


﻿- 3 -
(d) "Central Bank" means the Bangue Centrale des Etats de
l'Afrique de l'Ouest:
(e) "FY" means the Borrower's fiscal year which runs from
July 1 to June 30; and
(f) "Swiss Contribution Account" means the account
established by Switzerland for the purpose of the Swiss Contribu-
tion.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to sixty-two million four hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 62,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit and the amount of
the Swiss Contribution may be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and the Swiss Contribution Account, respectively, in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b) Except as the Association and Switzerland shall other-
wise agree, the allocation and withdrawal of the Swiss Contribu-
tion shall be governed, mutatis mutandis, by the provisions of the
General Conditions.
(c) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain two special accounts (the IDA Special Account
and the Swiss Special Account) in its Central Bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be April 30, 1992 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as
of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.


﻿-4-
(b) The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date
and at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied from the next date in that year speci-
fied in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to sub-paragraphs (b) and (c)
below, the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each June 15 and
December 15 commencing June 15, 2000, and ending December 15,
2029. Each installment to and including the installment payable on
December 15, 2009, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
(b) Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's
economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under para-
graph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by


﻿- 5 -
the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of
such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modifi-
cation.
(c) If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 2.09. (a) The National Director of BCEA0 for Senegal
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions c. Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions.
(b) Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the
Borrower hereby entrusts the Central Bank with responsibility for
the preparation of withdrawal applications under the Credit and
the Swiss Contribution and for the collection of the documents and
other evidence to be furnished to the Association in support of
such applications; such withdrawal applications shall, to the
extent practicable, be consolidated so as to apply for withdrawal
of aggregate amounts of not less than FCFA 300,000,000 equivalent.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from
time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views on
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions
specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b) Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association for its review and comment a report on


﻿-6
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail
as the Association shall reasonably request.
Section 3.'.2, Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Swiss Contribution shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall strengthen the principal
agencies of the Borrower involved in the implementation of the
public sector enterprise reform. To that end, the Borrower shall
employ, if needed and in conformity of paragraph 143 of the
Program, consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
the principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on
the basis of the "Guidelines for,the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the expen-
ditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Swiss
Contribution.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in para-
graph (a) of this Section including those for the
Special Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.


﻿-7-
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account or the Swiss Contribution Account were
made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower
shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Associa-
tion has received the audit report for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
Account or the Swiss Contribution Account was made,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such"
expenditures;
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine
such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audits referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the proce-
dures and internal controls involved in their pre-
paration, can be relied upon to support the related
withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) that a situation has arisen which shall make it
improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will
be carried out.
(b)  (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the
right of the Borrower to withdraw the Swiss Contri-
bution made to the Borrower for the financing of
imports required during the execution of the
Program shall have been suspended, cancelled or


﻿terminated in whola or in part, pursuant to the
terms of the Swiss Contribution Agreement.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction
of the Association that: (A) such suspension,
cancellation, termination or premoturing is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
any of its obligations under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for imports required during
execution of the Program are available to the
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. In the event that Switzerland or the Associa-
tion terminate the functions of the Association pursuant to para-
graph 5 of the Arrangement, the Association shall notify the
Borrower promptly of the date on which Switzerland shall assume
the rights and obligations of the Association under this Agree-
ment,
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 (a) of this
Agreement, the Borrower's Minister responsible for Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿-9-
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere de 1'Economie et des Finances
Rue Charles Lain6
B. P. 4017
Dakar
Senegal
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINIFINANCES                   3203 SG
Dakar
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                         440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
6414 (WUI)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Credit and the Swiss Contribution
may be withdrawn from the Credit Account and the Swiss Contribu-
tion Account for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required during the execution of the Program and to
be financed out of such proceeds.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or sub-groups, or any successor groups or sub-groups under
future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by
notice to the Borrower:
Group    Sub-grop                 Description of Items
112          -                     Alcoholic beverages
121          -                     Tobacco, unmanufactured,
tobacco refuse
122          -                     Tobacco, manufactured
(whether or not containing
tobacco substitutes)
525          -                     Radioactive and associated
materials
667          -                     Pearls, precious and semi-
precious stones, unworked
or worked


﻿12 -
G~ r A    ubgoa                    Description of IteMs
718         718.7                  Nuclear reactors,      and
parts thereof, fuel ele-
ments (cartridges), non-
irradiated for nuclear
reactors
897         897.3                  Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals
(except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths' or
silversmiths' wares
(including set gems)
971           -                    Gold ,   non-monetary
(excluding gold ores and
concentrates)
(b) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower, excluding, if
the currency of the Borrower is also that of another country,
expenditures in such currency for goods supplied from the
territory of such other country;
(c) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals from the Credit Account in an
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 12,500,000,
may be made on account of payments made for such expenditures
before that date but after the date falling four months before the
date of this Agreement;
(d) expenditures to be financed from the Swiss Contribution
unless the Swiss Contribution Agreement became effective;
(e) expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $5,000 equivalent;
(f) expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency
other than the Association shall have financed or agreed to
finance;
(g) expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-
military purpose or for luxury consumption;


﻿13
(h) expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent
to SDR 12,500,000 for petroleum products and to SDR 12,500,000 for
foodstuffs from the Credit Account;
(i) expenditures for foodstuff, crude fertilizers, crude
minerals and petroleum products from the Swiss Contribution
Account;
(j) expenditures for goods imported under contracts for the
supply of commodities if such contracts were awarded by direct
contracting without competition; and
(k) expenditures for services in excess of an aggregate
amount equivalent to SDR 3,200,000.
3.   Withdrawals for expenditures undei contracts for the procure-
ment of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than
$500,000 may be permitted by the Association upon the basis of
statements of expenditure under such terms and conditions as the
Association shall specify.
4.   No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be
entered into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in
respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Swiss Contribution:
(A) after the aggregate of the proceeds withdrawn and the
total amount of such commitments shall have reached the
equivalent of SDR 25,000,000 from the Credit, unless the
Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of
views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement
based on evidence satisfactory to the Association;
(a) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Program, and
(b) that the actions described in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement relating to the Second Tranche have been
taken,
(B) after the aggregate of the proceeds withdrawn and the
total amount of such commitments shall have reached the
equivalent of SDR 43,700,000 from the Credit unless the
Associaiion shall be satisfied, after an exchange of


﻿- 14 -
views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement
based on evidence satisfactory to the Association,
(a) with the further progress achieved by the Borrower
in the carrying out of the Program, and
(b) that the actions described in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement relating to the Third Tranche have been
taken.
5.   If, after any exchange of views described in paragraph 4
above, the Association shall have given notice to the Borrower
that the progress achieved and actions taken are not satisfactory
and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not
have achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation, then the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Swiss Contri-
bution or any part thereof..


﻿-  15  -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
1.   Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $2,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:
(a) Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner of.the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder's
invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid;
such advertisements should be placed in at least one
newspaper of general circulation in the Borrower's country
and, in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
(i) a notice in the United Nations publication,
Development Forum, Business Edition; or
(ii) an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical journal of wide international circula-
tion; or
(iii) a notice to local representatives of countries and
territories referred to in the Guidelines, that are
potential suppliers of the goods required."
(b) The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
used in international trade and specified in the bidding
documents."
(c) Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.


﻿- 16 -
2.   Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $2,000,000 shall be awarded:
(a) by purchasers subject to the Borrower's public p:ocure-
ment procedures for the importation of goods, on the basis of such
procedures, provided that such procedures shall have been found
acceptable by the Association; or
(b) by other purchasers, in accordance with established
commercial practice, provided that such contracts shall be awarded
on the basis of evaluation and comparison of quotations obtained
from suppliers from at least two countries, except where direct
contracting is permitted under paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.
3.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
prior to the submission to the Association of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account and the Swiss
Contribution Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids and recommendations for award, a description of
the advertising and tendering procedures followed and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request.
4.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 2 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
prior to the submission to the Association of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account and the Swiss
Contribution Account in respect thereof, such documentation and
information as the Association may reasonably request to support
withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.
5,   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 3 and 4 of this
Schedule, where payments under a contract are to be made out of
the proceeds of the Special Accounts, the copies of such contract
or the documentation and the information to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 3 or paragraph
4 of this Schedule, as the case may be, shall be furnished to the
Association as part of the evidence required under paragraph 4 of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
6.   The provisions of the preceding paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account and the Swiss Con-
tribution Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.


﻿17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Conditions of Tranche Releams
Second Tranche:
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4 (A) (b) of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement:
1.   The Borrower has taken measures, satisfactory to the Associa.
tion, for the execution of the recommendations of the Commission
Tripartite regarding the wage setting system.
2.   Tho Borrower has:
(a) established a corporate tax of 35%;
(b) eliminated the PAivement jM Budgt&       1'EqUipment; and
(c) established a single, personal income tax at a maximum
level of 50%.
3.   The Borrower has restructured the Direction Gdn6ral& dA&
IM2A A&s&  AU  Domainaes and streamlined its operating procedures,
including its relation with taxpayers, in a manner acceptable to
the Association.
4.   The Borrower has, based upon a review of the fiscal impact of
the new pricing and taxation system relating to petroleum products
reduced the diesel and fuel oil prices to the industrial sector,
in a manner acceptable to the Association, and adjusted the
electricity prices in conformity with the tariff indexing formula.
5.   The Borrower has submitted a public investment program
covering the FYs 1990/91 through 1992/93 satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation.
6.   The Borrower has:
(a) reduced its direct subsidies to commercial public enter-
prises to a maximum amount of CFAF 600 million during FY 1989/90
and budgeted no more than CFAF 300 million as direct subsidies to
commercial public enterprises for FY 1990/91.


﻿- 18 -
(b) reduced its direct subsidies to non-commercial public
enterprises (excluding COUD) to a maximun amount of CFAF 9.9
billion during FY 1989/90 and budgeted no more than 9.1 billion as
direct subsidies to non-commercial public enterprises (excluding
COUD) for FY 1990/91.
7.   All undisputed cross debts between the Borrower and public
enterprises and among public enterprises, as of December 31, 1989,
have been mutually cancelled; the Borrower has written-off all
debts owed by the non-commercial public enterprises to the
Borrower as of December 31, 1989; the Borrower has included in its
budget for FY 1990/91 at least one third of all uncompensated
debts owed by the Borrower to public enterprises, as of
December 31, 1988; all disputed cross debts between the Borrower
and public enterprises., as of December 31, 1989, have been
settled; at least one third of all debt owed by commercial public
enterprises to the Borrower, as of December 31, 1988, have been
paid; and progress, satisfactory to the Association, has been made
in the settlement of uncompensated debts among public enterprises.
8.   The Borrower has put into effect procedures, satisfactory to
the Association and in conformity with paragraphs 125 through 130
of the Program, to prevent the recurrence of cross-debts among
public enterprises.
9.   The Borrower has furnished complete audit reports to the
Association, taken all necessary legal measures and issued formal
offerings for the sale of the public enterprises specified in
paragraph 132 of the Program.
10. The Borrower has issued liquidation decrees and all
activities have been ceased regarding the public enterprises
specified in paragraph 134 of the Program.
11. The Borrower has limited its wage bill, without incurring pay
arrears, to a maximum amount of CFAF 126.8 billion during FY
1989/90, and budgeted no more than CFAF 125 billion for FY
1990/91, and has implemented wage bill management measures
satisfactory to the Association.
12. During FY 1989/90, the Borrower has: (a) recruited no more
than 27% of total voluntary departures of civil servants for all
sectors other than education; provided, however, that, in case
voluntary departures remain below the targets set forth in the
Program, the Borrower has reduced the number of its total civil
service by at least 564 as of June 30, 1990; and


﻿- 19 -
(b) recruited no more than 435 new civil servants for the
education sector.
Third Trancht:
Actions referred to in Paragraph 4 (B) (b) of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement:
1.   The Borrower has submitted a public investment program
covering FYs 1991/92 through 1993/94, satisfactory to the Associa-
tion.
2.   The Borrower has:
(a) reduced its direct subsidies to commercial public enter-
prises to a maximum amount of CFAF 300 million during FY 1990/91
and eliminated its direct subsidies to commercial public enter-
prises in the budget for FY 1991/92; and
(b) reduced its direct subsidies to non-commercial public
enterprises to less than CFAF 9.1 billion during FY 1990/91 and
budgeted less than CFAF 7.4 billion as direct subsidies to non-
commercial public enterprises (excluding COUD) for FY 1991/92.
3.   The Borrower has included in its budget for FY 1991/92 at
least one third of all debts owed by the Borrower to public
enterprises as of December 31, 1989; at least one third of all
debt owed by commercial public enterprises to the Borrower, as of
December 31, 1989, have been settled; and progress, satisfactory
to the Association, has been made in the settlement of
uncompensated debts among public enterprises.
4.   The Borrower has furnished complete audit reports to the
Association, taken all necessary legal measures and issued formal
offerings for the sale of public enterprises specified in
paragraph 132 of the Program.
5.   The Borrower has issued liquidation decrees and all
activities have been ceased regarding the list of public enter-
prises specified in paragraph 134 of the Program,
6.   The Borrower has limited its wage bill, without incurring
pay arrears, to a maximum amount of CFAF 125 billion during
FY 1990/91, budgeted no more than CFAF 125 billion for FY 1991/92,
and has implemented wage bill management measures satisfactory to
the Association.


﻿- 20 -
7.   During FY 1990/91, the Borrower has recruited no more than:
(a) 38% of total voluntary departures of civil servants for
all sectors other than education; and
(b) 681 new civil servants for the education sector.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Accounts
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during the execu-
tion of the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Swiss Contribution in accordance with the provi-
sions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(b) the term "Authorized Allocation" means: (i) an amount of
FCFA 3,000,000,000 in the case of the IDA Special Account; and
(ii) an amount of FCFA 600,000,000 in the case of the Swiss
Special Account; such amounts to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and the Swiss Contribution Account, respectively and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Accounts have been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and the Swiss Contribu-
tion Account and deposit into the respective Special Accounts such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Accounts at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and the Swiss
Contribution Account and deposit into the appropriate Special
Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the appro-
priate Special Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of
payments made out of the Special Accounts for eligible expendi-
tures. Each such deposit shall be withdrawn by the Association
from the Credit Account and the Swiss Contribution Account in the
respective equivalent amounts as shall have been justified by the


﻿- 22 -
evidence supporting the request for such deposit furnished pur-
suant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Accounts for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Accounts shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals can be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account or the Swiss Con-
tribution Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article V of the General Conditions and para-
graph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or the
Swiss Contribution, minus the amount of any out-
standing special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to the Program, shall be
equal to the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account or the
Swiss Contribution Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of
the Credit or the Swiss Contribution shall follow such procedures
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent
that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Accounts as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Accounts: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association, deposit into the Special Accounts


﻿- 23
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Assopta-
tion) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the
Association into the Special Accounts shall be made until the
Borrower hat made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Accounts will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account or the Swiss Contribution Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


