Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 25880-BR
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
PROGRAM DOCUMENT
FOR A
PROPOSED SECOND PROGRAMMATIC FISCAL REFORM LOAN
(FISCAL RESPONSIBILITY AND TAX REFORM)
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$404.04 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
May 14, 2003
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit - Real
Exchange Rate
BRLI = US$ 0.324736
US$1 = BRL 3.07943
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Abb reviations and Acronyms
AAA                 Analytical and Advisory Activities
ALM                 Asset and Liability Management
ANA                 The National Water Agency
BCB                 Central Bank of Brazil
BMF                 Brazilian Mercantile & Futures Exchange (Bolsa de Marecaderias
& Futures)
BNDES               Federal Development Bank
CA                  Current Account
CAE                 Country Assistance Evaluation
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
CDI                 Interbank Deposit Certificates
CEF                 Federal Loan and Savings Bank (Caixa Econ6mica Federal)
CEM                 Country Economic Memorandum
CFAA                Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CIDE                New gasoline tax (Contribui,cao de Intervengdo no Dominio
Economico)
CONFIS              Financing Contribution for Social Security (Contribuiv4o para o
Financiamento da Seguridade Social)
CPMF                Federal Tax on Financial Transactions (ContribuiVco Provis6ria
sobre Movimenta,co Financeira)
CSLL                Corporate Income Tax
CVM                 Brazil Securities and Exchange Commission
DMC                 Debt Management Committee
DMO                 Debt Management Office
DRU                 De-linking of Federal Revenues (Desvincula,cao de Receitas da
Uniao)
FAT                 Worker Support Fund (Fundo de Amnparo ao Trabalhador)
FCVS                Compensation Fund for Wage Fluctuation (Fundo de Compensacdo
de Variaq5es Salariais )
FDI                 Foreign Direct investment
FGTS                Payment Fund For The Private Sector (Fundo de Garantia por
Tempo de Servi,o)



FINCR              Finance Credit Risk
GDP                Gross Domestic Product
IBRD                International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICMS                Goods and Services Tax (Imposto sobre Comercializaqdo de
Mercadorias e ServiVos)
ICR                 Implementation Completion Report
IDB                 Inter American Development Bank
IGF                 Federal Tax on Fortunes
IMF                 International Monetary Fund
INSS                Social Security Administration for Private Workers (Instituto
Nacional de Seguridade Social)
IOF                 Tax on financial operations (Imposto sobre OperaV5es Financeiras)
IPCA                Whole sale Consumers Price Index
IPI                 Industrialized Goods Tax
IPMF                Former CPMF
IPTU                Urban Property Tax (Imposto sobre a Propriedade Territorial
Urbana)
IPVA                Vehicle Property Tax (Imposto sobre Propriedade de Veiculos
Automotores)
IRPF                Income Tax (Imposto de Renda de Pessoa Fisica)
IRPJ                Corporate Income Tax (Imposto de Renda de Pessoa Jur(dica)
ISS                 Service Tax (Imposto Sobre Serviqos)
ITBI                Real State Transactions (Imposto sobre Transmissdo de Bens
Im6veis.)
ITBI-IV             Municipal Real State Tax (Imposto sobre Transmissdo de Bens
Im6veis-Inter Vivos)
ITCD                State Inheritance Tax (Imposto sobre a Transmissao Causa Mortis
e Doaq,ces,)
ITR                 Rural Property Tax
WV                  Municipal Retail Sales Tax
LDO                 Budget Guidelines Law (Lei de Diretrizes Or amentdrias)
LFT                 Selic Indexed Paper
LOA                 Annual Budget Law
LRF                Law of Fiscal Responsibility
LTN                 Straight Treasury Bills
MMA                Ministry of Environment (Minist6rio do Meio Ambiente)
MPOG               Ministry of Planning (Ministerio do Planejamento, Orgamento e
Gestdo)
OPCS               Operations Policy and Country Services
PDC                Public Debt Council
PEC                Proposal for a Constitutional Amendment
PEM                Public Expenditure Management
PFRSAL             Programmatic Fiscal Reform Structural Adjustment Loan
PFRL II            Second Programmatic Fiscal Reform Loan
PGFN               Federal Attorney's Office (Procuradoria Geral da Fazenda
Nacional)
ii



PIS/ PASEP         Social Integration Program (Contribui,do para Programa de
Integra,do Social)
PME                Montly Employment Survey (Pesquisa Mensal de Emprego)
PPA                Multi-Annual Plan (Plano Plurianual)
PREM               Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
PSBR               Public Sector Borrowing Requirement
PT                 The Workers Party
RCL                Expenditure/Net Current Revenue
RFFSA              Federal Railroas S/A (Rede Ferroviaria Federal S/A)
RGPS               Social Security contributions
ROSC               Report on Observance of Standards and Codes
RPPS               Public Sector System (Regime Pr6prio de Previde^ncia Social)
SELIC              Special System of Custody and Settlement of Federal Securities
SEMA               Special Secretariat for the Environment
SIAFI              Integrated Financial Administration System
SIG                PPA Management Information System
SIMPLES            Taxation Regime For Micro-Enterprises (Sistema Integrado de
Pagamento de Impostos e Contribui,ces das Microempresas e das
Empresas de Pequeno Porte)
SINTEGRA           State Information System of Goods and Service Tax (Sistema
Integrado de Informa,ces Sobre Opera,ces Estaduais com
Mercadorias e Servi,co)
SISBEX             Market Trading System for Government Securities (Sistema de
Negocia,cao de T[tulos Puiblicos e outros Ativos)
SOF                Federal Budget Secretariat
SPC                Secretariat of Complementary Pension System
SPI                Secretariat of Planning and Strategic Investment
SRF                Secretariat of Federal Revenue (Secretaria da Receita Federal)
STN                National Treasury
SUSEPE             Superintendency of Pension Insurance
TAL                Technical Assistance Loan
TIIS               Treasury Inflation-Indexed Securities
VAT                Value-added tax
Vice President:  David de Ferranti
Country Director:  Vinod Thomas
Sector Director:  Ernesto May
Lead Economist/Sector Leader:  Joachim von Amsberg
Co-Task Manager:   Santiago Herrera
Co-Task Manager:   Yasuhiko Matsuda



BRAZIL
SECOND PROGRAMMATIC FISCAL REFORM LOAN
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:              Federative Republic of Brazil
Implementing           Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Planning and Budget
Agencies:
Poverty Category:      NA
Amount:                US$404.04 million (Single Tranche)
Terms:                 Fixed-spread loan in US dollars, with a repayment period of 10 years
including five years of grace.
Commitment Fee:        0.85% per annum during the first four years and 0.75% per annum
thereafter on undisbursed loan amounts, beginning to accrue sixty
days after the loan agreement is signed.
Front-End Fee:         1% of the loan amount, to be financed under the loan.
Objective:             The objectives of the government's fiscal reform program are to
reduce Brazil's remaining macroeconomic vulnerabilities, and thus
promote sustainable growth and poverty reduction. Specifically, the
proposed loan supports a set of policy measures aimed at (i)
institutionalizing responsible fiscal policy and nsk management and
(ii) initiation of reform actions to reduce the tax system's
distortionary effects on the national economy.  The measures
supported by the loan are expected to contribute to poverty reduction
by creating macroeconomic stability and a favorable investment
climate for growth. Expected results, by the end of the program in
2006, include:
*  a fiscal framework and hence an economy more resilient to
shocks:
*  reduction of the public debt/GDP ratio to around 50% with a
declining trend;
*  reduction of the risks inherent in the public debt composition;
*  reduction in the weight of distortionary cascading and payroll
taxes in the federal tax structure; and
*  elimination of inefficient fiscal competition among states, and
thus increase in their revenue collection capacity measured in
terms of the share of own taxes in the states' net current
revenues (which include constitutional transfers from the
federal government).
The broader programmatic framework for fiscal reform agenda, of
which the proposed loan forms a part, would address another related
goal, namely more equitable and efficient public expenditure.
iv



Separate programmatic loans will be prepared over the next several
years to support additional advances within the overall program.
Description:          Brazil's new Government, elected with a broad popular mandate, is
focused on social justice, while at the same time committed to
maintaining economic stability and pursuing key structural reforms.
Brazil, today, has a historic opportunity to overcome longstanding
social problems and economic vulnerability and deliver the promise
of a better quality of life for all its citizens
This opportunity comes at a time of an unusually adverse external
environment, which poses grave economic risks.   The new
government needs to quickly build a record of credibility that will
enable Brazil to improve its access to international markets.  Many
of the reforms necessary to ensure sustainable growth require difficult
decisions and compromises.  The new government is uniquely
positioned to enact these difficult reforms. President Lula is enjoying
a period of strong popularity and legitimacy, which is allowing his
administration to adopt hard economic measures and to propose and
openly discuss deep reforms. The establishment of the Council for
Economic and Social Development as a forum to discuss the
structural  reforms  between  government  and  civil society
representatives, and the two meetings of President Lula with the 27
state governors represented initiatives without precedent to build
political and social support needed for the structural reforms. After
extensive consultations, the Government has now sent to Congress
sound proposals on Social Security and Tax Reforms, which enjoy
broad societal support including from the 27 governors and the
Council.
The Government's ambitious fiscal reform agenda addresses four
broad objectives: (i) institutionalization of responsible fiscal policy
and risk management; (ii) improvements in efficiency in the revenue
structure and further strengthening of the tax administration; (iii)
efficient and equitable public expenditures geared toward provision of
public goods for poverty reduction and growth promotion; and (iv) a
more equitable and sustainable social security system.
The proposed loan addresses two of the four broad objectives of fiscal
reform mentioned above: (i) institutionalization of responsible and
credible fiscal policy and risk management; and (ii) improvements in
efficiency in the revenue structure and further strengthening of the tax
administration. Within the context of the first broad objective, the
loan would support: (a) strengthening of macro-fiscal planning; (b)
effective control of sub-national debts and sub-national fiscal
discipline; (c) improvements in fiscal transparency and reporting; (d)
capacity building in public debt management and its further
institutionalization; and (e) market development for government
securities. With respect to the second broad objective, the loan would
support a tax reform to reduce distortionary effects.
v



Regarding the first major area of the loan, namely institutionalization
of responsible and credible fiscal policy and risk management, the
following are the specific objectives and measures that the loan would
support in each sub-component:
* Strengthening of macro-fiscal planning: The overall objective
is to reduce volatility and uncertainty arising from fiscal policy
decisions. The Government has adopted a credible medium-term
fiscal framework.  Credibility has been enhanced by the
achievements of the announced primary surplus targets in four
consecutive years. The Government has begun to institutionalize
this credibility by improving the quality of its medium-term fiscal
projection and planning, primarily through the LDO Annex on
Fiscal Targets, in which it- has announced stringent primary
surplus targets for the three following years. The announced
target of 4.25 percent of GDP for 2004-06, higher than the target
agreed in the August 2002 IMF Agreement, show the
government's strong commitment to prudent fiscal policies.
Furthermore, the government is considering the adoption of a
fiscal framework that sets the primary balance as a target that
depends on the level of economic activity. This is a welcome
advance in institutionalization, especially if it is framed within a
medium term program of stabilizing and reducing indebtedness of
the government. The performance indicator of this area is the
achievement of a debt to GDP ratio of 50 percent by 2006 with a
declining trend and the achievement of the targeted surplus levels
for the 2003-2006 period.
* Effective control of sub-national debts and sub-national fiscal
discipline: The overall objective is to maintain the fiscal effort
undertaken by sub-national governments and to promote more
broad-based compliance with the LRF. The proposed loan would
support (i) the passage of the Senate Resolutions 40 and 43 to
regulate sub-national indebtedness as required by the LRF, (ii) the
National Monetary Council Resolutions 2827 and 2920 to
regulate the financial sector's credit supply to the public sector, as
well as (iii) the impressive turnaround in sub-national fiscal
behavior as evidenced in the effective compliance with key
provisions of the LRF - the personnel expenditure/net current
revenue (RCL) ratio below 60% and the debt stockIRCL of 2.0 or
less for states and 1.2 or less for municipalities.  These
resolutions have created a robust regulatory environment to
minimize the risk of excessive sub-national borrowing in the
future, while the actual performance by the majority of the sub-
national governments show that these legal provisions have been
effectively complied with. The key performance indicator in this
area is the aggregate fiscal performance of states and
municipalities with respect to the above-mentioned key LRF
parameters.
* Improvements in fiscal transDarency and reporting: The
overall objective is to sustain the marked improvements in fiscal
vi



transparency and reporting achieved since the passage of the
LRF. Notable recent achievements include the consolidation of
public sector accounts from the Union, all the state governments,
and a vast majority of the municipal governments. With respect
to the problem of contingent liabilities (so-called skeletons), the
recognition of which has contributed to 25% of the increase of
federal debt between 1994 and 2001, the Government formally
adopted a transparent method of discussing fiscal risks in an LDO
Annex. The Annex identifies multiple sources of fiscal risks and
assesses sensitivities of the budget and the public debt to different
scenarios. With this new practice, the Government achieved
substantial transparency, a necessary first step for effective
management of contingent fiscal risks. The issuance of high
quality Annex on Fiscal Risks in the LDO is a concrete action the
proposed loan would support.
o  Capacity building and strelngthenina of internal governance
arrangements for public debt management:      Substantial
progress was achieved in the institutional development of the
middle office and the Annual Borrowing Plans. The STN has
already adopted its own code of conduct in line with the
international best practices. The overall objective of this set of
measures is to create the governance structure necessary to
implement the benchmark developed by the STN Middle Office.
STN is in the process of centralizing debt management (domestic
and external) functions, to make debt managers accountable for
public debt risk levels, and has already consolidated the domestic
debt operations under its responsibility. The performance
indicator of achievements of this objective would be the debt
targets as set in the Annual Borrowing Plans for the period 2003-
2006. By meeting the Annual Borrowing Plan targets, Brazil will
gradually reduce over time the rollover risk of its debt, as well as
its exposure to exchange rate and interest rate risks.
o  Market development for government securities: The overall
objective here consists of developing a domestic market for
different types of securities, to permit the implementation of the
associated benchmark (i.e., possibility of issuing long term
securities, fixed rate nominal debt, etc.). The proposed operation
supports actions both on the supply and demand sides of
government securities. On the supply side, the government seeks
to design and implement a domestic issuance strategy, and has
advanced in this direction by reducing the fragmentation (number
and types of securities and issues).  On the demand side,
authorities aim at diversifying the investor base, to reduce
concentration risk and funding costs.
Regarding the second broad objective of the loan, namely the
improvements in efficiency and equity and in the revenue structure
the following are the measures that the loan would support.
vii



*  Initiation of a tax reform to imDrove efficiencv: The loan
would support recent advances in tax policy changes. In the last
two years the political climate surrounding the issue of tax reform
has changed dramatically. In 2002, the previous government
issued Presidential decree MP-66 (Medida Provis6ria, MP-66
later converted into Law 10.637) and initiated a modest step to
transform the small turnover PIS/PASEP into a value-added tax
base. The Law 10.637 also established similar reforms for the
larger COFINS cumulative tax for 2004. With the arrival of the
new administration which advocated a major reshuffling of the
tax system, tax reform has become one of two major fiscal
structural reform agenda being vigorously debated in the country.
The basic guidelines of the Tax Reform that the government has
submitted to Congress as a constitutional amendment proposal
have wide agreement among government and key stakeholders,
namely (i) simplification of the tax system; (ii) progressive
elimination of indirect cumulative taxation; and (iii) the
harmonization of state value-added taxation systems (ICMS).
The main points of this proposal are:
*  Progressively convert the PIS/PASEP and COFINS from
turnover tax bases to value added tax bases;
*  Leave the ICMS to the states but create national uniformity
legislation to avoid fiscal war among states;
*  Allow flexibility to reduce the CPMF rate from 0.38% to
0.08% maintaining it as an anti-evasion tool through the
cross-checking of bank information and the income tax
declarations (the plan to reduce this tax is contingent on
finding alternative deficit-neutral options so that fiscal
sustainability is not jeopardized); and
*  Increase the progressivity of the state inheritance tax.
The tax reform proposal is expected to be revenue neutral in the
medium term, while in the longer run the efficiency gains derived
from a less complex system and the end of fiscal wars among states
will lead to a less burdensome tax structure that will be conducive to
growth. In particular, in the short run to compensate for the tax base
reduction implicit in switching from a turnover-based PIS-PASEP to
a value added tax, the rate was increased from 0.65% to 1.65%.
Similarly, the rate of the COFINS tax, another turnover-based tax
which will be converted to a value-added tax, is expected to be
increased from the current basic rate of 3% to maintain revenue
neutrality. The CPMF reduction will begin to be implemented, only
when deficit-neutral options are identified. For all of the above, the
tax reform proposal is considered compatible with the medium-term
objective of ensuring debt sustainability.
Justifications for the proposed loan rest on three sets of
considerations.  First, as described above, there has been good
progress in important institutional  and  structural  reforms.
viii



Maintenance of a credible fiscal policy and a strong record of
compliance with the Law of Fiscal Responsibility at all levels of the
federal system are among the strongest evidence of improved fiscal
performance. Second, and beyond the specific measures taken and
supported by this loan, the responsible policy stance taken by the new
Government more broadly provides a very favorable context for the
proposed operation, including progress in social security reform,
responsible monetary policies, as well as decisive policies to address
poverty and inequality directly. These developments show that a
broad consensus on the basic elements of sound economic and social
policies has evolved, and would permit implementation of consistent
policies in the medium and long run. Third, despite the positive
turnaround, Brazil still finds itself in a fragile position vis-a-vis
international financial markets. Bank financial assistance in support
of fiscal reform could both send a positive signal to the market as a
validation of the Government's efforts and achievements so far, and
also address Brazil's external financing needs.
Beinefits:             The ultimate benefits of the supported reforms will be reduced
macroeconomic vulnerability, resulting in sustained growth and
poverty reduction. The policy measures supported by this loan are
intended to improve the quality of fiscal adjustment through further
institutionalization of the fiscal decision making process (setting
primary balance surpluses, establishing benchmarks for debt
composition). With the institutionalization proposal, the volatility
and uncertainty arising from fiscal policy will be mitigated. The loan
also supports a tax reform oriented at obtaining a less complex tax
system, which will reduce the burden of the public sector on private
activity and hence will contribute towards a more favorable
investment climate. By reducing uncertainty and reducing the burden
of a complicated tax structure, there will be a more favorable
environment for growth.
Risks:                 Slippage of the proposed reforms: In the recent past, tax and some
social security reform proposals faced strong political opposition and
stalled in Congress. A similar risk cannot be ignored with respect to
the latest Government reform proposals. A major setback in the
reform process or significant delay in approval would undermine
confidence in the ability of the government to deliver the promised
results. This lack of confidence could affect the public's perception of
regime sustainability. However, the extensive consensus-building
process that preceded the Government's submission of the reform bill
to Congress as well as the explicit endorsement the Government has
received from the state governors augur well for the reform's
prospect. Based on these considerations, as well as the importance of
the proposed reform, the risk is considered acceptable.
Negative external shock. Negative shocks arising from international
capital markets could lead to a sudden stop of capital flows, which
would, in turn, give rise to a currency depreciation. Though the
ix



central bank has a track record of letting the floating exchange rate
operate, the current debt composition biased towards dollar-indexed
debt would revive concerns about debt sustainability. The country's
track record of fiscal adjustment in the face of external shocks tends
to make this risk acceptable.
Financing Plan:       Not Applicable
Net Present Value:    Not Applicable
Project
Identification Number:  P070641






Table of Contents
.  Introduction  .................................................................I
II.  Growth, Poverty  Reduction  And  Fiscal Reform  ................................................................3
A.   Macroeconomic Context ................................................................3
B. Growth, Poverty Reduction and Fiscal Adjustment: Motivation for the Fiscal
Reform Agenda ................................................................7
III. The Fiscal Reform Agenda: Achievements and Remaining Challenges         .    .11...................... 1
A.   Institutionalization of responsible fiscal policy and risk management ................................. 13
B.   Towards a More Efficient Tax System ...............................................................  26
C.   Efficient and Equitable Public Expenditures ...............................................................   30
D.   Social Security Reform ...............................................................  33
IV. Proposed Second Programmatic Fiscal Reform Loan ............................................................... 35
A.   Programmatic Framework, Loan Design, and Possible Future Loans              .     .      36
B.   Country Context and Timing of Bank Financial Assistance     .     ....... .............................. 48
C.   Description of Financial Assistance and Conditions for Disbursement          .    .      50
D.   Country  Assistance  Strategy  Update .......................................................  50
E. Link with other Bank support                               ..51
F. Link with Other Partner programs              ..52
G. Program Implementation and Supervision           ..53
H. Compliance with Bank Policies              ..53
I.   Disbursements, Auditing and Fiduciary Environment        ..53
J. Environmental Issues                 ..54
K. Risks .                     5
Annex 1: Letter of Development Policy .57
Annex 2:     Policy Matrix for the Overall Fiscal Reform Program, 2003-2006 .63
Annex 3: Brasilia Letter .71
Annex 4: Public Debt Sustainability in Brazil .74
Annex 5:     The Brazilian Fiscal Responsibility Law and Sub-national Fiscal Trends .84
Annex 6:     Fiscal Risks and Contingent Liabilities in Brazil .95
Annex 7:     Public Debt Management: Governance, Capacity, and Market Development.             101
Annex 8: The Brazilian Tax Reform Process .117
Annex 9:     The Impact of Brazilian Fiscal Adjustment on Poverty .135
Annex 10:    Fiscal Reform and the Environment in Brazil ..........................................  147
Annex 11:    Fund Relations Note ..........................................                   155
Annex 12:    Economic Indicators ..........................................                   156
Annex 13:    Status of bank Group operations ..........................................       157
Annex 14:    Brazil at a Glance ..........................................                    159
This report was written by Santiago Herrera and Yasuhiko Matsuda (co-task managers) based on technical
inputs from Augusto de la Torre, Thomas Glaessner, Jeppe Ladekarl (secondary debt market), Antonio
Velandia (debt management), Fernando Blanco (sub-national fiscal issues, tax reform, poverty impact),
Andrew Sunil Rajkumar (environmental Impact), and Milka Casanegra (tax administration). Maria del
Carmen Mifioso, Monica Singh, Patricia Chacon Holt, Julia Conter, and Daniela Ramos provided valuable
editorial and research assistance. Joachim von Amsberg supervised report preparation.
xi






I. INTRODUCTION
1.    President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva was elected with a strong mandate of 61% of valid
votes in October 2002 on a platform that emphasized poverty reduction and growth. He also
committed himself to a responsible economic program, including tight fiscal policy to stabilize
public debt, inflation targeting, and the honoring of all debt contracts. The transition period
following the elections was characterized by a high degree of goodwill and cooperation between
the old and new administrations. President Lula took office on January 1, 2003.
2.    Brazil's new Government is focused on social justice, while at the same time committed
to maintaining economic stability and pursuing key structural reforms. Brazil, today, has a
historic opportunity to overcome longstanding social problems and economic vulnerability and
deliver the promise of a better quality of life for all its citizens. The new Government has
embarked on a new and ambitious social agenda, including two new flagship programs, Zero
Hunger and First Employment, intended to address hunger and misery and generate employment
for youth, respectively. The Government has also initiated serious attempts to re-organize the
social programs toward a better articulated social protection policy based on robust program
evaluations. Improving the quality of public spending is a prime concern for the Government
given its genuine commitment to social development and clear recognition of the prevailing
fiscal constraints.
3.    Brazil's unique opportunity to address long-standing social and economic issues comes at
a time of an unusually adverse external environment, which poses grave economic risks. The
Government is quickly building a record of credibility by making prudent choices regarding
fiscal and monetary policies and by aggressively pursuing a long-standing structural reform
agenda. Successful pursuit of these policies and reforms will enable Brazil to improve its access
to international markets.
4.    Many of the reforms necessary to ensure sustainable growth require difficult
compromises. Yet the new government is uniquely positioned to enact these difficult reforms.
President Lula has demonstrated the willingness to pursue sound macroeconomic policies and to
pursue difficult reforms. He is enjoying a period of strong popularity which is allowing his
administration to adopt hard economic measures and to propose and openly discuss deep
reforms. The establishment of the Council for Economic and Social Development as a forum to
discuss the structural reforms between government and civil society representatives, and the two
meetings of President Lula with the 27 state governors, represented initiatives without precedent
to build political and social support needed for the structural reforms.  After extensive
consultations, the Government has sent to Congress consensual proposals on Social Security and
Tax Reforms, which are supported by the 27 governors and the Council.
5.    Among the most innovating aspects of the new Government's governing style is its
serious commitment to broad consultations based on the principles of transparency and
participation. The above-mentioned Council and the consultations with state governors are only
the most visible of the new administration's participatory approach to governance. President
Lula's Workers' Party was the originator of the famous participatory budgeting at the municipal
level, and now his Government is trying to scale up this approach at the national level. For
I



example, the Government is initiating a participatory process for elaborating the next four-year
plan (PPA) that will be the basis of the public expenditure program for 2004-2007.
6.    Higher, sustainable growth and lasting poverty reduction are both key objectives of the
Lula administration. The Government recognizes that neither is possible without successful
structural reforms, especially in the fiscal area. If the new administration's drive for reform is
not provided the necessary support at this juncture, an opportunity to introduce lasting changes in
Brazil, benefiting current as well as future generations, may be lost. The broad programs and
policies presented by the Government are consistent with the policy matrix in this document, and
will be the basis for deepening Bank assistance and policy dialogue regarding these issues.
7.    Within this general context, the Government has requested an adjustment operation from
the Bank to support fiscal reform. In response to this request, this project document proposes a
second Programmatic Fiscal Reform Loan (PFRL II). The first loan (Programmatic Fiscal
Reform Structural Adjustment Loan, or PFRSAL) was approved by the Board in January 2001 in
support of the progress to date in fiscal management (e.g., passage of the landmark Law of Fiscal
Responsibility), public expenditure management (e.g., issuance of the multi-year expenditure
plan, PPA, with an innovative results-oriented framework), and public debt management (e.g.,
initiation of the reform to debt management governance arrangement and a Bank-supported
program of capacity building). Consistent with the CAS objective of supporting "improvements
in fiscal institutions and public sector management for better fiscal performance and incentives
for fiscal discipline,"' the proposed second Loan would support improvements in Brazil's fiscal
policy and management in the last two years within a broader medium-term program of
reform/policy agenda.. Although progress in measures supported by PFRSAL has not been
uniform across different areas, there have been notable advances toward institutionalizing
responsible fiscal management and steady improvements in debt management capacity building.
In areas where the progress has been more limited, namely public expenditure management, the
Bank will continue policy dialogue and technical assistance, and once a critical mass of
significant actions has been taken, a separate loan will be prepared to support such additional
achievements.
8.    The overall objective of the Government's fiscal reform agenda is to create a favorable
investment climate and an environment conducive to growth through a public sector adjustment
of good quality - a necessary condition to ensure overall sustainability - and to strengthen its
capacity for well-targeted intervention for poverty reduction. The overarching reform program
of the Government is composed of four main pillars: (i) institutionalization of responsible fiscal
policy and risk management; (ii) progress toward a more efficient tax system; (iii) more
equitable and efficient public expenditure; and (iv) a more equitable and sustainable social
security system.
9.    This second loan of the program seeks to underpin (i) institutionalization of responsible
fiscal policy and risk management; and (ii) reform of the tax system to reduce its distortionary
effects on the economy and to further strengthen tax administration. To these ends, the loan
would include advances achieved in policy measures in the following technical areas: (i) federal
macro-fiscal planning; (ii) effective control of sub-national debts and sub-national fiscal
'CAS, March 6, 2000; Report No. 20160-BR, p 31
2



discipline; (iii) improvements in fiscal transparency and reporting and in management of
contingent liabilities; (iv) capacity building in public -debt management and its
institutionalization; (v) market development for the sale of government securities; and (vi)
undertaking of a tax reform program.
II. GROWTH, POVERTY REDUCTION AND FISCAL REFORM
A.    MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT
10.   Brazil engaged in a process of far-reaching economic reform throughout the nineties with
liberalization of trade and price controls and privatization of public enterprises. In 1994, the
government introduced the Real plan, stabilizing inflation at internationally comparable levels;
low rates of inflation have continued till today. Until 1998, however, fiscal reform lagged
behind reform in other areas. After the end of the inflationary period in 1994, Brazilian fiscal
accounts deteriorated progressively. The deteriorating fiscal accounts and the tight monetary
policy associated with use of the exchange rate as a nominal anchor led to rising external and
public debt; eventually, in a climate where financial crises in Asia and Russia were having
contagion effects, significant capital outflow occurred from the country, and real interest rates
rose significantly. Finally, in 1999, Brazil was forced to abandon its crawling peg exchange rate
regime in favor of a flexible exchange rate with an inflation-targeting framework as the new
nominal anchor.
11.   Since then, the country initiated a significant fiscal adjustment. In October 1998, the
government launched the Fiscal Stability Program to tackle the fiscal imbalance.  The
government set and ac,hieved stringent targets for the primary fiscal surplus; the public sector
primary surplus (as a percentage of GDP) was 3.25% in 1999, 3.5% in 2000, 3.7% in 2001 and
3.9% in 2002. The government also implemented a robust sub-national fiscal adjustment
program through a series of legal measures including the state debt refinancing program (Law
9496/1997) and the landmark Law of Fiscal Responsibility enacted in May 2000.
12.   The high and sustained primary surpluses were expected to control debt accumulation
and, together with the new fiscal control measures, inspire investor confidence, bringing the real
interest rate down fairly rapidly. The fiscal outlook began to improve in 2000, only to turn
negative again in 2001-2002 largely because of the shocks including (i) the domestic energy
shock in 2001; (ii) the uncertainty and risk aversion arising from the corporate corruption
scandals in developed markets and the economic crisis in Argentina; (iii) the oil price shock
resulting from the international political situation; (iv) the growth slowdown in the United States
and Europe, and (v) the uncertainty surrounding the 2002 presidential election. As a result, the
debt/GDP ratio actually worsened from 49.3% of GDP in 2000 to 57% of GDP at the end of
2002.
3



Table 1: Main Macro Statistics in Braz5i
1999    2000   2001    200    2003    2004   2005
Real Annual Growth Rates
Gross Domestic Product (GDP)                      0.8     4.4     1.     1.5     2.8    3.5     4.0
Per-capita GDP                                   -0.5     3.1    0.2     0.3     1.5    2.3     2.7
Real per-capita Private Consumption                       2.0    -0.6   -0.8     1.0    3.0     3.5
Merchandise Exports                              -6.1    14.1    5.6     3.      6.8    4.7     5.0
Percent of GDP
Gross Fixed Capital Formation                    20.2    21.5   21.1    19.3    19.4   19.8    20.0
Gross National Saving                            15.3    17.3    17.0   17.7    18.0   17.8    17
Current Account Balance                          -4.8    -4.1    4.1    -1.7    -1.4   -2 0    -2.
Non-Financial Public Sector Balance              -5.8    -3.6   -5.2    -4.7    -4.4    -3.1   -1.5
Other                                                         I
Annual inflation (consumer prices)                8.9     6.C    7.7    12.5     8.5    4.5     4.5
Gross Reserves (months of imports of goods and non-
factor services)                                6.8     5.4    5.9     7.3     9.1    8.3     8.
Public Debt/GDP*                                 49.4    49.4   52.     56.51   57.0   55.1    53.7
Primary Balance/GDP                              3.25    3.55   3.751   3.90    4.25   4.25    4.25
Unemployment Rate                                 8.2     7.8    6.8     7.9     8 2
Source: World Bank staff calculations based on Central Bank of Brazil data
13.    In 2002, Brazil managed to achieve a rapid adjustment of its external accounts. The
current account deficit fell from 4.5% of GDP during 1999 to 2001 to 1.7% of GDP in 2002.
However, because of large external financing requirements (Table 2), the economy remained
vulnerable to short-term capital market flows. This exposure adversely affected domestic
interest rates and exchange rate behavior, as well as perceptions of public sector solvency, since
much of the public debt was linked to the dollar or the short-term interest rate, or short-term in
nature.
Table 2. Brazil: External Financing Requirements, 1998 - 2006
(US$ billion)
1999  1999   2000  2001   2002 2003  200    2005  2006
1. Gross Financing Requirements    70.6  83.0  68.3   59.8  43.5 46.9   47.5   46.3  52.8
CA Deficit                     33.   25.4   24.6  23.     7.7  7.0  10.1   12.8  15.6
M&L Term Amortization          37.2  57.6  43.6   36.5   35.8 39.5  37.4   33.5  37.2
2. FDI                             28.9  28.6   32.8  22.6   16.6 16.C  16.4   17.4  18.4
3. Net Financing Requirement (1-2)  41.7  54.4  35.5  37.    26.9 30.9  31.1   28.9  34.4
4. Int'l Reserves (end of Previous  52.1  34.4  23.9  31.5   27.8 14.0
Year)                                                                      I
5. Net Financing Requirement / GDP  .05  .1C     .06   .07   .05  .05    .06    .05   .0
6. Net Fin Requirement / Int'l      0.8   1.6    1.5   1.2    0.8  1.4
Reserves
Source: World Bank staff calculations based on Central Bank of Brazil data and IMF projections
4



14.   In an effort to calm the market's nervousness preceding the 2002 election, the
government entered into a $30 billion stand-by arrangement with the IMF in August 2002, which
upon its approval on September 6, 2002, made US$6 billion available during 2002, and another
US$24 billion for 2003, conditional on continued implementation of the program agreed on. The
standby arrangement is based on the maintenance of a 3.75 percent of GDP primary surplus
target for 2003 (or higher if required to stabilize the public debt to GDP ratio), and the
continuation of the inflation-targeting regime.
15.   The new administration arrived in the context described above.  The market was
concerned about Brazil's debt sustainability, high domestic debt and interest rates, and
inflationary pressures. In response to market expectations, President-elect Lula appointed a
competent economic team; the inauguration speeches by President Lula, Finance Minister
Palocci and Central Bank President Meirelles were pivotal to confirming the administration's
commitment to sound economic management. These speeches underscored the large social
inequities and tough challenges ahead; an earnest promise was made to tackle them while
maintaining fiscal responsibility.
16.   These speeches were quickly followed by concrete fiscal adjustment measures that sent
strong signals of the government's commitment to fiscal responsibility. First, in early February,
the Government announced a new primary surplus target of 4.25% of GDP, well above the level
previously agreed in the IMF Program, and higher than any previous primary surplus achieved.
Second, to make this primary surplus target materialize, the Government announced drastic cuts
in the spending limits authorized in the annual budget, while largely protecting social
expenditures. In March 2003, the IMF successfully completed a second program review and
disbursed another US$4.1 billion based on Brazil's satisfactory compliance with the program
targets. The Government's commitment to tight fiscal policy has since been formalized in the
draft Budget Guidelines Law (LDO) submitted to Congress on April 15, 2003. The LDO
establishes medium-term primary surplus targets at 4.25% of GDP for the entire period 2003-
2006.
Table 3: Main Fiscal Aggregates
In Percent of GDP       | 2000 | 2001 | 2002 | 2003 | 2004    2005    2006
Federal Government
Primary Balance                 1.9    1.8     2.4    2.5     2.5I  2.5     2.5
Interest Payments               5.1    5.7     8.9    5.3    4.5     3.5    2.9
Borrowing requirements          3.1    3.7     6.5    2.8j    2.0    I .0   0.4
States and Municipalities
Primary Balance                 0.6    0.9     0.8    0.9    0.9     09 9   0.9
Interest Payments               2.7    3.0     4 6    3.1    2.6     2.0     1 .7
Borrowing Requirements          2.1    2 1     3.8    2.2  [ 1.7     1.1    0 8
Public Enterprses
Primary Balance                 1.0    0.9     0.8    0 9    0.9     0.9  0.9
Interest Payments               0.2    0.3     0.8    0.3    0.3     0.2    0.2
Borrowing Requirements         -0.8    -0.6    0.0   -0.6    -0.6   -0.7    -0.7
Public Sector
Primary Balance                 3.5  | 3.7     3.9    4.3    4 3     4.3    43
Interest Payments               7.1  l 7.2     8.6    8 7    7.4     5.7    4.8
Net Borrowing Requirements       3.6 J 3.5     4.7    4.4    3.1     1 5    0.5
Source: IMF Second Review of the Stand By Agreement February 2003 and LDO 2004.
5



17.   The Lula administration has been equally aggressive in pursuing structural reforms
deemed necessary for restoring credibility and sustainability in Brazil's economic management.
On April 2, 2003, the proposed Amendment 53 of the Constitutional Article 192 was voted in the
Lower House, and approved by a large majority. Once approved by both houses, the measure
would pave the way for a regular law to establish the Central Bank's operational autonomy,
which would significantly improve the overall credibility of macroeconomic management in
Brazil, and would likewise contribute to lowering the interest rate. Two other major reforms, tax
reform and social security reform, are being actively debated nation-wide, and the Government
already presented reform proposals to Congress on April 30, following broad consultations with
key stakeholders. Although these difficult reforms cannot be expected to proceed without any
opposition, the broad contours of the reform proposals have received strong endorsements in the
so-called "Letter from Brasilia" signed by the 27 state governors, who are key political
stakeholders in Brazil's federal system (Annex 3).
18.   Markets have reacted very positively to the first months under the new Government and
the perceived consistency of the macroeconomic program, as reflected in the projections of main
macroeconomic indicators (see Table 1). As of early May 2003, the exchange rate has
appreciated to below R$3.00 (from R$4 in September 2002) and sovereign bond spreads have
narrowed to below 800bps (from 2500bps in September 2002). The positive reaction of
international markets to the strong election results and the post-election statements by the
incoming president, coupled with the impact of the IMF agreement, have allowed some
breathing room for the new government to establish a track record of responsible economic
management, and to conceive and initiate its agenda for growth and poverty reduction.
19.   The medium-term growth scenario shows output growth increasing gradually and
stabilizing at around 4 percent per year. In 2002, Brazil's trade surplus rapidly increased to $12
billion, mostly as the result of import compression. The growth rate of exports was surprisingly
low in 2002, despite the unexpected depreciation.  Although quantum indices showed a
significant improvement, low export prices more than compensated for this positive trend.
During 2003, exports are expected to respond favorably to (i) the more stable currency at a
depreciated level; and (ii) a reduction in uncertainty about international conflicts and oil prices.
The export growth rate is expected to stabilize at around 4 to 5 percent in the medium term.
20.   The rapid fall in the current account deficit is not expected to persist. As growth begins
to pick up, the external balance would decrease slightly and stabilize at a moderate current
account deficit of between 2 and 3 percent of GDP. Though the financing requirement levels are
high in absolute terms, and in relation to international reserves, the floating exchange rate system
has been shown to operate well, mitigating the risk of an attack against the currency. Our
projections do not anticipate major external financing problems provided that the proposed
reform agenda is pursued in conjunction with the serious macroeconomic management currently
being implemented. However, if the refortn agenda suffers a major setback, the sizable
financing requirements would put pressure on the exchange rate and sovereign spreads, reversing
the gains achieved in the recent past.
21.   Continued stability of the Brazilian economy will depend critically on the Government's
ability to make advances with the other announced structural reform measures and on external
market developments. If the early actions on responsible economic management are followed
6



through with the implementation of a credible medium-term fiscal program (as already
announced in the draft LDO for 2004) and structural reforms required to sustain fiscal
adjustment, further market improvements would allow Brazil to enter a virtuous cycle of
improving debt and fiscal indicators, reinvigorating its investment climate, emphasizing
productivity improvements and in turn generating renewed economic growth. This would, in
turn, lead to a lasting reduction in vulnerability. In such a scenario, according to our projections,
output growth in the medium term is expected to increase gradually and stabilize at around 4
percent per year, with steady improvements also expected for other economic variables.
22.   Despite the considerable fiscal and external adjustments in recent years, it will take time
to reduce the remaining vulnerabilities. Substantial macroeconomic risks will remain for some
time. Global risk aversion continues to hamper the return of capital flows and foreign direct
investment to the country. Thus the external vulnerability continues to be a concern. The
experience from the recent past has shown the difficulties of a reduced access to external
markets. The depreciation of the real, higher inflation, an interruption in the declining trend of
domestic interest rates, and lower growth generated a perverse public debt dynamic that further
worsened access to the international market.
23.   On the internal side the main risks arise from the high level of inflation and from
uncertainty about the fate of the Government's reform proposals. High inflation sparks inflation
expectations, giving rise to high interest rates. Unless inflation expectations return to single digit
levels and the Central Bank regains its anti-inflation credibility, it will be difficult to reduce
interest rates. Without lower interest rates growth prospects will be dim. On the political front,
until the Government's proposals are actually approved in Congress, uncertainty will remain. In
case the reforms are not approved, or significantly diluted in their content, the market
perceptions of Brazil's macroeconomic fundamentals are likely to turn negative. Although the
prospects for passage of the reform proposals are better than ever in recent years because of the
Government's concerted efforts to build political support prior to presenting the proposals, the
risk of reform slippage cannot be discarded.
B.    GROWTH, POVERTY REDUCTION AND FISCAL ADJUSTMENT: MOTIVATION FOR THE
FISCAL REFORM AGENDA
24.   Economic stabilization in the early nineties achieved a significant reduction in poverty;
the percentage of the population below the poverty line fell from 45.3% in 1988 to 33.5% in
1996, after which it has remained stable.2 But most of this poverty reduction can be explained
by economic growth and the once-and-for-all effect of the price stabilization program in 1994.3
In the period since 1996, poverty reduction has stagnated, largely due to a tapering down of
economic growth since then, and to the adverse macroeconomic conditions and increased
volatility since 1998. To be able to continue poverty reduction in the near future and in the long
term, it is vital for Brazil to: (i) continue on a path of economic growth that is steady, sustainable
and equitable; and (ii) at the same time improve the quality of its social spending so that it brings
greater benefits for the poor. The Lula administration is committed to this dual policy agenda of
2Figures are from the Instituto de Pesquisa Economic e Aplicada (IPEA), a government research institute.
3 Paes de Barros, 2001.
7



growth-oriented macroeconomic policy and social spending directed at poverty reduction.4 For
both types of policies to be viable, the Government is deepening adjustment to public finances
and carrying out major structural reforms.
3BE.  Growth-Oriented Fiscal Policies
25.   A growth-oriented policy agenda has many facets, and may differ from country to
country. In the context of Brazil, the key policies that are needed to stimulate sustainable and
equitable growth can be subdivided into policies that stimulate investment in physical assets,
5
technological innovation, and upgrading of human capital and skills. Fiscal policies can play a
role in strengthening each of these three growth pillars in Brazil. Growth-oriented fiscal policies
can (i) create a stable macroeconomic environment conducive for investment, (ii) reduce
unnecessary public sector burden, especially the tax burden, on the economy to stimulate
innovation and productivity growth, and (iii) provide needed fiscal space for priority public
investment.
26.   A fundamental prerequisite for sustainable growth is macroeconomic stability. Reducing
the public debt burden and securing debt sustainability is key to achieving stability. Reduced
debt (and thus reduced perceived risks to sustainability) would buttress market confidence and
stimulate investment, which would contribute to higher growth over the long run.
27.   Besides the high level of public debt, the tax system imposes a burden on the economic
growth both because of the high level of taxation and the complicated tax structure. By
emerging market standards, Brazilian tax burden, amounting to 34% of GDP in 2002, is high. In
addition, it features a range of inefficiencies, such as the prevalence of inefficient cascading
taxes that distort relative prices by having differential impacts on firms with different degrees of
vertical integration, high payroll taxes that inhibit employment, and excessive fiscal competition
among states and municipalities which reduces fiscal revenues for sub-national governments and
induces inefficient regional allocation of resources (see Annex on Tax Reform).
28.   All these tendencies worsened over the period of fiscal adjustment starting in 1998,
because of: (i) the increased tax burden during fiscal adjustment due to the expenditure rigidities
that have limited the government's ability to pursue adjustments through expenditure cuts
(explained below); and (ii) the tendency of the federal government to rely increasingly on those
taxes that are not shared with sub-national governments, even though these are precisely the
taxes that have distortionary effects on the economy. Without an overhaul of the current tax
system, Brazil's growth prospects will continue to be compromised, and even the sustainability
of the strong fiscal adjustment effort demonstrated so far could be at jeopardy if society begins to
perceive the continued burdens of the inefficient tax system as intolerable. Therefore, the
Government has launched a tax reform initiative with a view to simplifying tax legislations for
the main state VAT tax (Imposto sobre Comercializa,do de Mercadorias e Servi,os or ICMS),
and reducing the weight of the distortionary taxes in the federal taxes.
4This vision of the administration is clearly expressed in Politica Economica e Reformas Estructurais (Ministerio da
Fazenda, April, 2003).
5 Brazil: The New Growth Agenda, World Bank Report No. 22950-BR, November, 2001.
8



29.   Another manner in which policy can affect long-term growth in Brazil is through public
investment, for example on human capital and infrastructure (e.g., road network to reduce
logistics cost). Because of the fiscal adjustment since 1998, the country had to reduce certain
categories of its public investment sharply in recent years, especially in critical infrastructure.
Even though aggregate public investment has not been shown to enhance growth in Brazil, there
are essential infrastructure needs that continue being unmet in Brazil and are likely to be a
significant growth bottleneck. Reforms that lead to a reduction in unproductive or ineffective
public spending would release funds for essential public investments that could significantly
enhance economic growth.
30.   The most serious constraint to efficient expenditure reallocations and efficient fiscal
adjustment is the problem of budget rigidity. One of the main reasons why Brazil raised
revenues over the period of recent fiscal adjustment, rather than lowering expenditures, is that
the extent of the latter was limited by the system's inherent rigidities. The adjustment would
have been easier and probably less distortionary without the rigidities, because then it would
have been easier to cut low-priority expenditures rather than increase the tax burden on the
economy.
BII.   Distributive Impacts of Fiscal Policies
31.    Aside from growth-oriented policies, poverty reduction depends on distributive impacts
of fiscal policies. Both progressive tax policies and expenditures designed to directly benefit the
poor could contribute to poverty reduction. A recent World Bank study concludes that the
indirect taxes in Brazil are mildly regressive with the poorest 40 percent of the population paying
about 16 percent of total indirect taxes compared to less than 10 percent of their income share.6
Although the direct taxes are progressive, with the poorest 40 percent of the population
contributing only 0.2 percent of the total, these taxes account for less than a third of the total
taxes in Brazil. Thus the overall distributive effects of the Brazilian tax system are dominated by
the regressivity of the indirect taxes, which have increased their share during the last few years
as the government tried to raise additional revenues for fiscal adjustment purposes. Measures to
improve distributive impacts of the indirect taxes are possible, and some are contemplated in the
proposed tax reform. But given the nature of Brazil's tax base (e.g., highly skewed income
distribution), major improvements through changes in tax structures, such as significant increase
in the weight of direct taxes, are unlikely. Thus progressive effects of fiscal policies are
expected from (i) reducing the overall tax burden by shifting to fiscal adjustment through
expenditure cuts; and (ii) improving the effectiveness of pro-poor public expenditures.
32.   The impact of pro-poor expenditures is a function both of their quantity and quality in
terms of the extent to which the spending reaches the poor. As noted above, Brazil's poverty
reduction in recent years has resulted mostly from economic growth, rather than from public
spending directed at the poor. This is because Brazil's social spending has traditionally been
poorly targeted; based on household survey data for 1995-96, a World Bank study estimated that,
on average, only 14% of the resources spend on federal social programs actually reach the
6 Inequality and Economic Development in Brazil, confidential draft, World Bank (June 2002).
9



poorest 20% of the population.7 Much of this spending goes to programs that are known to be
poorly targeted (e.g. the federal social security program, the Unemployment Insurance Program,
higher education and curative medical care in wealthy regions).
33.   There is some evidence, however, of a change in focus regarding the effective use of
social spending for poverty reduction. Over the period of fiscal adjustment that began in
1998/1999, there were two developments that resulted in an increase in the expenditure that
actually reached the poor: (i) total spending on all social programs - including programs that
were poorly targeted - rose from 15.5% of GDP in 1998 to 18% of GDP in 2001; and (ii) there
was a very significant increase in the use of well-targeted programs. Some of the best examples
of the latter include the conditional transfer programs such as Bolsa Escola and the Child Labor
Eradication Program which have effectively reduced short term poverty by directing transfers to
the poorest families and are expected to reduce long-term poverty by breaking the inter-
generational poverty cycle through improved health and education.
34.   The effectiveness of social spending can be made more increased by improving
management, reducing undue duplication of benefits and improving targeting. Further reforms
in these areas could liberate enough resources to fill the gaps that currently still exit in the
Brazilian safety net. The commitment of the Government to evaluate thoroughly the impacts of
existing programs and to improve the national annual household survey so that it becomes a
more useful monitoring and evaluation tool will permit better program design, better
coordination across programs and program expansion on a more effective basis.
35.   There is little evidence that the fiscal adjustment of the last few years adversely affected
the poor. The mildly regressive impacts of the increased indirect taxation have likely been
compensated by the government's conscious efforts to protect social expenditures from spending
cuts and to increase expenditures directed to the poor8 (See Annex on the Impact on Poverty of
Brazilian Fiscal Adjustment for more details). Additional improvements are possible, however,
by reducing the burden of the indirect taxation, creating even more budgetary space for well-
designed and well-managed social programs, and strengthening the targeting mechanisms.
Structural reforms to reduce budget rigidities and institutional reform to strengthen public
expenditure management overall would be crucial for these objectives. In particular, the
proposed social security reforms would begin to reduce one particular inequitable category of
public social spending and thus contribute to the reduction of overall high inequality in Brazil.
' Brazil Attacking Brazil's Poverty. Brazil Country Management Unit. PREM Sector
Management Unit. Latin American and Caribbean Region, World Bank (2001).
8 The Bank supported this effort with two adjustment operations, in 1999 and in 2003.
10



36.    Overall,  the  government's   fiscal                     Figure 1:
reform  program  is expected   to  generate     Sovereign Spreads and Poverty Gap in Brazil*
substantial benefits to the poor. In addition to  400 -                                23
the direct effect of public spending discussed  300   Sprads2
above, fiscal adjustment is creating    the   200 --                   -    -21
preconditions for sustained growth, which will    *    ;                               20
reduce poverty. through jobs and income.      100 - %  -   -   --       -
Moreover, fiscal adjustment is critical for     0                                      19
maintaining  macroeconomic    stability  and  -100 -   --18
preventing the resurgence of high inflation   -200 t.. --                  --- .-- 17
that in the recent past affected the poor most  -300-- - -------------------------.- 16
adversely. It is noteworthy that, even in the  -400        PoverV.,                   - 15
short run, there   is significant empirical       92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01
evidence  in  Brazil of a    close  positive     'Sovereign spreads are deviations from Latin average and Poverty is
association between stability (as measured by     Pi poverty gap indicator Source Thomas (2002) and Herrera(2002)
sovereign spreads) and poverty reduction (as measured by short-run poverty indicators9) as data
reported in Figure 1 demonstrate.
III. THE FISCAL REFORM AGENDA: ACHIEVEMENTS AND REMAINING
CHALLENGES
37.    The central objectives of the new administration's economic policy are to regain Brazil's
capacity for sustainable growth, generate employment, and improve income distribution. The
Government recognizes the critical importance of macroeconomic stability, noting the perverse
impacts of inflation and volatility on both sustained growth and on income distribution. The
short-term macroeconomic stability is necessary but insufficient to guarantee resumption of
sustained growth and accelerated social development. The Government is thus committed to
implementing a long-term fiscal adjustment, paying particular attention to its quality to avoid
unnecessary distortions that could result from certain short-term oriented measures. The goals of
this sustained adjustment would be to reduce the debt burden, recover the government's capacity
for maintaining essential public investment and service delivery, and create conditions for
eliminating the pro-cyclical bias in fiscal policy.
38.    Various structural and institutional reforms form part of this agenda, including the major
reforms to the tax and the social security systems that the Government has already launched.
The tax reform is intended to reduce the distortionary impacts of the federal taxes and reduce the
inefficient tax competition among states, and thus facilitate sustainable fiscal adjustment without
jeopardizing growth prospects. A key objective of the social security reform is to reduce the
excessive budget rigidity and create more space for well-targeted social expenditures for poverty
and inequality reduction, in addition to improving the system's long-term actuarial balance and
9 The poverty gap indicator in this diagram was calculated using data from the Pesquisa Mensal de Emprego, a
survey covering only labor income (with social transfers not included) earned in six major metropolitan areas.
Because of this narrow coverage, the data do not accurately capture national poverty trends, but are ideal for
analyzing short-term fluctuations in poverty. Refer to Annex "Impact on Poverty of Brazilian Fiscal Adjustment"
for more details.



correcting the current regressive pattern of benefits distribution. Various measures to improve
the quality of public spending are being considered. For example, institutional strengthening for
social policy targeting, including an adoption of a systematic approach to program impact
evaluations, would contribute to greater efficiency and equity in expenditure allocations and
execution. '0
39.   Based on the Government's stated priorities, the overall fiscal reform strategy can be
characterized as being based on the following four main pillars: (i) institutionalization of
responsible fiscal policy and risk management; (ii) progress toward a more efficient tax system;
(iii) more equitable and efficient public expenditures; and (iv) a more equitable and sustainable
social security system. By the end of the four-year period, Brazil could achieve the following
outcomes through the pursuit of this reform agenda.
o The fiscal system, and hence the economy, would become more resilient to shocks. By
developing further the institutions that reduce uncertainty arising from the fiscal
policymaking process, and by gradually changing the debt composition to reduce rollover,
interest rates, and exchange rate risks, the economy would be less vulnerable to shocks.
o A robust institutional framework for fiscal management mechanisms (either rule-based or
institution-based) would be established to reduce possible market concerns regarding future
fiscal policy and debt sustainability, and facilitate adoption of a fiscal policy that
contemplates the operation of automatic stabilizers subject to the restriction of achieving a
desired medium-term debt level. The resultant boost in market confidence would allow
Brazil to regain full access to market financing, which would then contribute to sustained
growth and poverty reduction.
o The public debt would be stabilized and improved in composition away from the current
structure of high indexation to the dollar and the overnight Selic, and excessive concentration
of short-term maturities. The improved debt composition plus the prudent fiscal policy
envisioned should result in a lower debt ratio, of around 50 percent of GDP in line with the
government target, with a declining trend.
o Both domestic and external debt management would be concentrated in the National
Treasury Secretariat (STN) to ensure greater strategic consistency, and coordinated with the
monetary policy function of the Central Bank.
o Tax reforms would significantly reduce the weight of cumulative taxes in the overall federal
revenue structure, improve the progressivity of the tax structure, curtail inefficient tax
competition among states and thus improve their revenue collection capacities, and further
increase the efficiency of tax administration.
o The social security reform would reduce the burden of the annual deficit of the public sector
system (RPPS) from the current 4% of GDP, and combined with other structural reform
measures, would reduce the degree of budget rigidity to permit more flexible reallocation of
budgetary resources to new government priorities.
10 Based on Politica Econ6mica e Reformas Estruturais, Ministry of Finance (April 2003).
12



* A robust system of program evaluations and public evaluation reviews would be
institutionalized within the annual budget process to improve the government's ability to
improve effectiveness, efficiency and equity of its expenditures through better targeting and
management. This would result in a greatly increased share of total federal social spending
reaching the poorest 20% than the current estimated rate of 14%.
40.   The following section describes in details the main issues and government achievements
in diverse technical areas intended to address the four pillars of the fiscal reform agenda. A
summary of the relevant completed and planned actions is provided in the policy matrix in
Annex 2.
A.    INSTITUTIONALIZATION OF RESPONSIBLE FISCAL POLICY AND RISK MANAGEMENT
41.   This broad category seeks to encompass different actions aimed at creating the
institutions necessary for sustainable fiscal adjustment. In particular it would support actions in
four principal areas: (i) reduction of uncertainty in macro-fiscal management; (ii) further
strengthening of sub-national fiscal discipline; (iii) transparency in fiscal reporting and in the
management of fiscal risks; and (iv) public debt management with respect to internal governance
and development of a secondary market for government securities. The remainder of this section
describes achievements and challenges in each of these areas.
1. Sustainable and credible macro fiscal management
a. Background and Issues
42.   Since the adoption of the Fiscal Stability Program in 1998, the federal government has
sought to reduce the net debt/GDP ratio of the public sector to less than 50% (it was 50% at the
end of 2000). To achieve this outcome, the Government established a target for the primary
surplus of 3.0% in 2001, which would have resulted in a public sector borrowing requirement
(PSBR) of 4.6% of GDP. However, as a result of external shocks during 2001-2002, the
debt/GDP ratio rose to 57% of GDP by the end of 2002 (the ratio reached 63.6% in September).
The unexpected increase in debt was due to the higher-than-expected real interest rate and
greater-than-expected devaluation. In addition, GDP growth was lower than originally expected
in both 2001 and 2002. In response to these shocks, the Government aimed at, and achieved, a
higher primary surplus (3.7%) than originally targeted (3.0%) in 2001 and raised the primary
surplus targets to 3.9% of GDP in 2002 and 3.8% in 2003.
43.   The new Government that started its four-year term in January 2003 soon announced a
primary surplus target of 4.25% for 2003 to signal its own strong commitment to fiscal
discipline. The Government followed up this announcement with a drastic control of budgetary
expenditures in its budgetary and financial programming decree of February 11, 2003. The
February decree revised the estimated net revenue downward from 19.97% of GDP (R$299.5
billion) in the 2003 Annual Budget Law (LOA) to 18.89% (R$301.6 billion).
13



44.     To generate a larger primary surplus target with a reduced revenue (as % of GDP), the
government had to resort to "cutting" expenditures (Table 4).11 Given that close to 80% of the
total authorized in the LOA 2003 were obligatory expenditures, the burden of the expenditure
control fell on discretionary spending, which was reduced from R$62.1 billion (4.1 % of GDP) in
the LOA 2003 to R$48 billion (3.0%) in the decree. The bulk of the "cuts" occurred in non-
social areas, thus continuing the government's conscious effort to preserve budgetary allocations
to the social sectors. Social expenditures were "cut" from R$37.3 billion (2.49%) to R$35
billion (2.19%), whereas the other discretionary expenditures were "cut" from R$24.7 billion
(1.65%) to R$12.9 billion (0.81%).12
Table 4: Primary Balance of the CentraR Government
ITEM                                      EXECUTED/02         LAW/ 2003            REVISED 2003
R$ billion  % GDP    R$ billion  % GDP   R$ billion  % GDP
1: TOTAL REVENUE                            324.9      24.29     353.7     23.58      357.7     22.40
2. TRANSFERS TO STATES AND MUNICIPALMES      52.3      3.91      5.42       3.62      56.1      3.51
3 NET REVENUE (1-2)                         272.7      20.38     299.5     19.97      301.6     18.89
4. EXPENDITURE                              240.7      18.00     265.7     17.71      262.4     16.43
4.1 Mandatory                               183 6      13 73     203.6     13 57      214 5     13 43
Personnel and Social Expenses                73 9      5 52      76 6       5 11      78 5      4 91
Social Secunly Benefits                      88,0      6 58      97 2       6 48     105 4      6.60
Others                                       21,7      162       29.8       199       30 6      1.92
4.2 Discretionary - Executive Power          57 1      4.27      62 1       4 14      48 0       3 0
Health, Education and other Social Areas Preserved  32 1  2.40   37 3       2 49      35 0      2 19
Others                                       25 0      1 87      24.7       1 65      12 9      0 81
5. FISCAL PRIMARY BALANCE AND SOC. SEC. (3-4)  31.9    2.39      33.8       2.25      39.1      2.45
6. STATE-OWNED ENTERPRISES PRIMARY           6.3       0.47       8.3       0.55      11.2      0.70
BALANCE
38.2      2.86       42.1      2.81      50.3       3.15
7. UNION PRIMARY BALANCE
Cash Basis, (+) Surplus, (-) Deficit
Expenses Cash Basis
Source MPOG/MF
45.     In sum, the two successive administrations have continued to demonstrate a strong
commitment to the implementation of a fiscal adjustment program. The initial fear during the
early stages of last year's electoral campaign, that the next administration (irrespective of the
electoral outcome) might not maintain responsible fiscal management, was allayed shortly
thereafter when all major candidates stated their commitment to fiscal responsibility. The latter
demonstrates the degree of national consensus on the importance of fiscal responsibility. The
"These "cuts" are in fact "temporary" withholding of the authorization to incur spending commitments rather than
permanent expenditure cuts. Often, this control is relaxed towards the end of the year and ministries are authorized
to commit more spending than initially authorized in the decree.
12 While these "cuts" in non-social discretionary expenditures appear drastic, it should also be noted that in Brazil,
the approved budget tends to be over-estimated vis-a-vis the realistic revenue capacity. This mostly results from the
addition of parliamentary amendments, that is, inclusion of many expenditure proposals by individual members of
Congress, mostly in the areas of transport and other relatively small-scale capital investment projects. If one takes
this phenomenon into account, the actual extent of cuts from a reasonable level of initial budget allocation would be
much less than it appears from the official figures.
14



decisive measures announced and pursued by the new administration further confirm Brazil's
commitment to responsible fiscal management, an essential basis for fiscal sustainability.
46.    As discussed below, the Law      of Fiscal Responsibility has contributed greatly to
institutionalizing good fiscal management at all levels of the Brazilian federation. At the same
time, the Government is seeking to further improve the credibility of macro fiscal management,
and thus the sustainability of public finance. The Government is committed to maintaining the
primary fiscal surplus required to stabilize the debt to GDP ratio. Thus, a larger primary surplus
might be required under adverse circumstances. In fact, the primary balance plays a dual role as
insurance against future shocks and as a valuable signaling tool to convey to investors the
government's commitment to servicing future debt obligations. Additionally, the Government
recognizes the need to improve the debt composition in favor of longer maturities, which
reinforces the need to reduce debt levels.'3
47.    Debt path simulations show that the public debt-to-GDP ratio would decline in the base
case in which the determinants of the debt ratio (growth, exchange rate, interest rates and
spreads) converge to their most likely values without uncertainty (Table 5), while maintaining a
constant primary surplus of 4.25 percent of GDP. This scenario assumes that the growth rate
converges to 3.8 percent annually (which is the potential growth rate of output according to
Central Bank estimates); that the exchange rate depreciates at a rate equivalent to the difference
between domestic and international inflation, starting from the average forecasted level of 2003
of about R$3.5 per dollar;'4 and that inflation declines slowly to 4 percent, while real interest
rates converge rapidly to 8 percent per year, and sovereign spreads decrease as the debt ratio
falls. This scenario shows that, if the fiscal primary surplus is kept at 4.25 percent of GDP, the
net debt/GDP ratio declines from 57 percent (projected) in 2003 to 50 percent in 2006.15
48.    The above simulations ignore the fact that an economy is subject to random shocks. In
reality, output growth, interest rates and the exchange rate are volatile, and there is some
probability that their true values will differ (perhaps substantially) from their expected values in
either direction. While the last few months demonstrate the possibility of developments that are
more positive than those projected in the base case, the debt dynamics in 2001-2002 are a telling
reminder of the remaining vulnerability of Brazil's fiscal fundamentals.        Although the
government maintained tight fiscal policy for the last several years, its effects on debt
sustainability were counterbalanced by the slow GDP growth, the high real interest rates and
rapid depreciation of the real - circumstances that are largely attributable to unexpected severe
exogenous shocks beyond the government control.
13 See Brazil. Stability for Growth and Poverty Reduction Report No. 25278-BR, World Bank. 2003.
14 This is an arbitrary assumption to incorporate the possibility of reversal of the real exchange rate depreciation
experienced in 2002. Since part of the debt accumulation is due to interest payments, which are a flow, these are
valued at the average exchange rate. Stocks are valued at end-of-period exchange rates. Hence the exchange rate
we use is the mid-point between both, 3 2.
15 This simulation, as well as others presented in this introduction, includes recognition of contingent liabilities
(skeletons) net of privatizations of I 0 % of GDP in 2003-2006, and 0.5% per year thereafter. If one agrees with
estimates of the present value of skeletons at 10% of GDP, this value, fully amortized over a 20 year period, would
imply a yearly payment of 1.2 percent of GDP, with a 10 percent interest rate.
15



49.    The Annex on Fiscal Sustainability presents several simulations that incorporate
uncertainty, and discusses the implications for the debt sustainability analysis. The main result is
that there is the possibility that the announced 4.25 percent of GDP primary surplus might not be
sufficient to achieve a reduction in public debt ratios. In this sense, an even higher primary
surplus could be viewed as an insurance against future shocks. However, Brazil has a track
record of successfully adjusting further in situations of crisis. On this basis, the current fiscal
stance is considered appropriate.  The Government is now focusing on the quality and
sustainability of adjustment which is the objective of the fiscal reform agenda.
Table 5: Public Net Debt Dynamics Without Uncertainty
Assumptions and Resulting Public Debt/GDP Ratios
2002     2003    2004     2006    2009
Nominal Exchange Rate (RIUS) EOP      3.5     3.50     3.64     3.79    3.90
Inflation Rate (GDP deflator, percent per year)  16.0  10.0  7.0  5.0   4.0
Nominal Basic Interest Rate (Selic)   19.0    22.0     15.0     13.0    12.0
GDP Growth Rate                       1.6      2 5      3.8     3.8      3.8
Sovereign Spreads (basis points)      1200    1000     800      650     500
Resulting Public Debt/GDP ratio assuming a  .57  .57    .55     .50     .40
continuous fiscal primary surplus of 4.25
percent of GDP from 2003 onwards
Source: World Bank staff calculations
b. Government Actions: Achievements and Challenges
50.   Since 1998, Brazil has faced multiple external shocks arising mostly from international
capital markets. Authorities reacted by increasing the primary balance surplus as needed in
response to the changing external circumstances. This fact differentiated Brazil from other
emerging economies. The LRF and the improvements in the content of the Law of Budget
Guidelines (LDO) were important steps in reducing the uncertainty of future fiscal policy. Since
2000, the Government has introduced explicit medium-term fiscal plans in the LDO Annex on
Fiscal Targets, which establishes, among other things, the target primary surplus and the
expected level for the debt to GDP ratio over a three year horizon. In the draft LDO for 2004
that was submitted to Congress on April 15, the Government set the primary surplus target of
4.25% for 2004-2006. Similarly, the Annex of Fiscal Risks has been revamped since the passage
of the LRF, and now provides a good example of transparent management of contingent
liabilities (discussed below).
51.   The Government is contemplating further improvements to fiscal credibility.  To
maintain a sustainable debt level, such improvements could include the development of an
explicit fiscal framework for setting the primary balance that would allow automatic stabilizers
to operate throughout the business cycle, with set targets for the debt level. The Government has
clearly stated, however, that before adopting such a framework, the medium-term debt ratio
target has to be achieved, making clear that the primary objective is ensuring debt sustainability.
16



2. Sub-national Fiscal Discipline
a. Background and Issues
52.    During the nineties, sub-national fiscal behavior contributed to the deterioration of public
sector accounts. The lack of both efficient sub-national indebtedness controls and federal
government credibility (given the federal government's reputation for refinancing state and
municipal debts) explains some of the irresponsible fiscal behavior of states and municipalities
and the resulting accumulation of sub national debt.
53.   In the course of ten years, the federal government set up three debt restructuring
operations for sub national debt. In 1989, the federal government assumed the states' external
debt amounting to 2 percent of GDP. In 1993, the federal government refinanced the debt that
states and municipalities had with federal financial agencies, totaling an amount equivalent to 7.2
percent of GDP. Finally, in 1997, a program was launched to rescue states' bonded debt, by an
amount equivalent to 11.5 percent of GDP.
b. Government Actions: Achievements and Challenges
54.    With the landmark Law of
Fiscal Responsibility (LRF) Brazil       Table 6: New Senate Debt Regulations
has made    great strides toward
institutionalizing fiscal discipline                     Resolution    (Res. 40 and 43)
at the federal and sub-national                          (78)
levels. Uncontrolled indebtedness                        states        states
by a number of state governments  New borrowing/revenues  <18%         <16%     <16%
(and  the  federal bailouts) had  debt service/revenues  <13%          <11.5%  <11.5%
represented an important source of  stock of debt/revenues  <1:1       <2      < 1.2
fiscal instability in Brazil, and the  adjustment period  10 years     15 yrs  15 yrs
Primary balance        >0            none    none
LRF was intended to solidify the   Revenues are net of Constitutionally mandated transfers to
Brazilian federation's institutional  municiptos. Note that under Resolution 78, revenues also excluded
incentives  and   capacities  for  other legally mandated transfers. The reduction in the ceilings on
responsible management of public  new borrowing and debt service was intended only to compensate
finances. In particular, the legal  for this change in the definition of current revenue.
regime for ensuring sub-national fiscal discipline has been further buttressed with the issuance of
the two new Senate resolutions (No. 40 and No. 43, December 2001). These Resolutions
maintain that the ratio of personnel expenditure to net current revenue cannot exceed 50% for the
federal government and 60% for states and municipalities, and also establish rules for new
indebtedness by sub-national governments. The ceiling for the ratio of debt to net current
revenue was established at 2 for states and 1.2 for municipalities, and the time frame for the
convergence to these limits was set at 15 years. Limits on credit operations and debt service as
well as strict rules for fiscal management in election years and in the last year of an
administration are other instruments that were implemented to control sub-national indebtedness.
Governments are now prohibited from committing to new expenditures during the last eight
months of their terms if they do not have sufficient cash to pay for such commitments.
17



55.   Brazil has also introduced some measures to control the supply of credit to non-
creditworthy governments. The LRF prohibited credit or debt refinancing operations between
levels of government. Moreover, credit operations of public banks with states and municipalities
that were out of the limits specified in Senate Resolutions 40 and 43 were prohibited.
Resolutions 2827 and 2920 of the National Monetary Council (March and November 2001,
respectively) limit bank exposure to the public sector to 45% of equity - a limitation that is
particularly binding for the Caixa Economica Federal (CEF), which constitutes the most
important source of credit supply for states and municipalities. According to government
figures, net new borrowing by state governments (gross borrowing less amortization) declined
from 22% of net current revenue in 1997 to six percent in 1999. In 2000, amortization exceeded
new borrowing - by three percent of net current revenues. While the stock itself continues to
grow, this is largely due to the capitalization of interest under debt service caps, rather than new
borrowing per se. (See Annex on the Law of Fiscal Responsibility and Sub-national Fiscal
Trends.)
56.   So    far,  the   sub-national   Figure 2: Primary Balances of States and
governments' ability to meet two of the      Municipalities, 1997-2001
key LRF parameters - the ratio of
personnel expenditure to net current                   _______
revenues and of debt stock to net current
revenue, and the Senate Resolutions 40
and 43 - are quite positive. Since 1998-
99, when Brazil began the current fiscal
adjustment effort, only eight out of the  W'
27  states  were  running  primary
surpluses. This number increased to 21
by 2001. The primary balance of sub-
national governments  as  a  whole
improved progressively from a deficit of
0.22% of GDP in 1999 to a surplus of
0.80% of GDP in 2002 (Figure 2). While in 1998-99, only 14 states had their personnel
expenditure to net current revenue ratio below 60% as later specified in the LRF, by 2000-01,
this number increased to 20. In 2001, only five states had their debt to net current revenue ratio
above 2 as established in the Senate Resolution 43.
57.   Positive fiscal results are observed at the municipal level as well. In 2000, despite the
municipal elections, the aggregate balance for Brazilian municipalities was a positive 0.3% with
2,460 local governments (58% of the total) obtaining positive balances. The ratio of personnel
expenditures to net current revenue achieved 0.43 on average with 93% municipalities below the
ceiling of 0.6. At the same time, there was an improvement in the revenue collection efforts by
municipalities, as evidenced in the increased weight of own revenues in net current revenue. In
2001 the municipal fiscal results were even better than in 2000. The aggregate fiscal balance
reached 0.35% of GDP, with 3,375 municipalities (70% of the total) having positive outcomes.
The personnel expenditures to net current revenue ratio stabilized at 43%, with 4,657
municipalities (95.5% of the total) below the LRF ceiling. The consolidated debt of the
18



municipalities was 0.52 of the net current revenue with 4845 municipalities (more than 98% of
the total) below the limit.'16
58.    Thus it is evident that so far the new institutional arrangement introduced with the LRF
and associated legal instruments have positively influenced the fiscal behavior of sub-national
governments. These effects are complemented by efforts to strengthen fiscal management
capacities. To this end, the Government, in partnership with inter alia the Bank, BNDES, and
IDB, has been implementing an extensive fiscal management training program for sub-national
governments, especially small municipal governments.
3. Fiscal Transparency and Planning and Management of Contingent Liabilities
a. Background and Issues
59.    Fiscal transparency is a key element of good macroeconomnic management.           Fiscal
transparency fosters accountability of those who formulate and execute fiscal policies, and can
enhance credibility of fiscal management overall. In recognition of the importance of fiscal
transparency, the LRF introduced a variety of transparency and reporting requirements for all
three level of government in Brazil.
60.    Any analysis of public finance sustainability and transparency must necessarily include
the topic of contingent liabilities and the recognition of past debts that had not been incorporated
previously as public liabilities (or "skeletons" in Brazilian jargon). These types of unexpected
increases in public debt negatively affect the perception of sustainability of public finances, thus
impacting domestic interest and exchange rates, which in turn adversely affect the debt level.
61.    Between 1994-2001 public debt increased substantially as a result of these operations: the
"balance sheet adjustment variations" represent the equivalent of 25 percent of the total change
in net debt during the period (See Table 1 in the Annex on Fiscal Risk and Contingency
Liabilities). Table 7 below provides an explanation of the change in net debt during the 2001-
2002, when total net debt increased 7.2 percentage points, with debt recognitions accounting for
2.3 percentage points of GDP.
16 As a result of these measures, the stock of sub-national bank debt fell by 25% between July of 1999 and July of
2001 (Revenues, in contrast, increased by 31%.) Virtually all the growth in debt has come from increasing
obligations to the Treasury, which reflect (1) new borrowing required to recapitalize state banks prior to their
privatization and (2) the indexation of principal, capitalization of interest, and (in some cases) deferral of
amortization on existing debt owed to the Treasury. Neither source of growth was subject to controls under
Resolution 78 and Lei 9496. External debt also grew, presumably due to the disbursements of multilateral loans that
originated in the Lei 9496 agreements. In relative terms, the ratio of net consolidated debt to net current revenue
was stabilized at about 1.6 level or 16% of GDP in the last three years.
19



Table 7: Accounting for the Change in Net Debt Ratio
2001                           2002
R$ million       % GDP         R$ million      % GDP
Net Debt Stock                            660,867          52.57        881,108           55.93
Change in Net Debt                                          3.79                           3.36
Explanatory Factors                        97,703           7.77        220,241           13.98
PSBR                                       42,788            3.40        61,614            3.91
Primary balance                         -43,655           -3.47        -52,390          -3.33
Nominal interest payments                86,443            6.88        114,004           7.24
Exchange rate effect                       37,814           3.01        147,225           9.35
Domestic debt                            19,182            1.53         76,662           4.87
External debt                            18,633            1.48         70,564           4.48
External debt - other adjustment             -388          -0.03            753           0.05
Debt recognition                           18,465            1.47         14,286          0.91
Privatizations                              -980           -0.08          -3,637          -0.23
GDP growth effect                                           -3.98                        -10.62
Source: Central Bank of Brazil
b. Government Actions: Achievements and Challenges
62.    With the LRF, the annual LDO has acquired renewed importance as a medium-term (3-
year) fiscal planning tool. Expanding on the LDO's original constitutional role as an instrument
to establish the targets and priorities for the Federal Government, it now must contain the
macroeconomic assumptions underpinning the govemment's fiscal projections and establish
fiscal targets (e.g., the primary balance target), as well as key fiscal aggregates such as total
revenues and expenditures for the three-year period. These practices improve fiscal transparency
by making explicit not only the government's medium-term fiscal strategy but also the basis
upon which such a strategy is built.
63.    A broad set of fiscal data is available with a decreasing period of lag in dissemination at
the National Treasury site. Overall, Brazil's fiscal transparency is of hiph quality, and was
highly rated by the Bank's Country Financial Accountability Assessment 7 as well as by the
IMF's Fiscal Transparency Report on the Observance of Standards and Codes (ROSC).'8
64.    In fact, the frequency and the quality of fiscal reporting has consistently improved over
the last few years. All state governments and a vast majority of municipal governments have
been sending their fiscal accounts to the National Treasury Secretariat (STN) since 2001, and the
STN has published consolidated public sector accounts based on these submissions in 2000
(Portaria #239 of June 2001) and 2001 (Portaria #301 of June of 2002). These consolidations
17 The CFAA also concluded that "notwithstanding the desirable improvements discussed above, the overall
conclusion of this assessment is that the Brazilian system of public financial management provides reliable
information. Adequate systems exist to manage and track the receipt and use of funds at the national level and there
is a high level of fiscal transparency, both of which would support any program of adjustment lending. The risk to
both the Bank and country funds is low." Brazil Country Financial Accountability Assessment (draft for discussion),
June 2002. p. 11.
18 Brazil Country Financial Accountability Assessment, (June 2002). Brazil: Report on Observance of Standards
and Codes (ROSC) - Fiscal Transparency Module, December 2001. IMF Country Report No. 01/217.
20



provide for the first time, an official account of the public sector's overall consolidated revenues
and expenditures. The consolidation comprises the Union, the 27 state governments and 4,500
municipalities (85% of the total number of local governments). Given that the municipal data
includes all the state capitals and all municipalities with more than 50,000 inhabitants, this
consolidation is highly representative. 9
65.    The LRF also requires that the individual government projections from the various LDOs
should be used to generate consolidated government projections, for key fiscal variables. This
would, in turn, enable an analysis of the aggregate fiscal situation of sub-national governments.
In practice, unfortunately, accurate consolidated projections are not yet possible, mainly because
of a lack of uniform standards for reporting the projections. A Fiscal Management Council
(Conselho de Gestdo Fiscal) was to be set up to develop a set of uniform standards for this
purpose, but this has yet to happen. In the absence of a standard reporting framework, the
Government is using a system of standards developed by the Caixa Econ6mica Federal; the
coverage and quality of the consolidated accounts should improve -once the new standards
become available.
66.    With the approval of the LRF, managers are now obligated to report the possible but
uncertain impacts to the budget or public debt resulting from changes in either the
macroeconomic environment or court decisions. Moreover, the LDO contains a Fiscal Risk
Annex that explains multiple sources of risk and lays out budget and public debt sensitivities to
changes in the macro environment. It also lists the main contingent liabilities that public
finances will face in the medium term.20   Finally, a transparent payment schedule has been
established to pay, using government securities (incorporate into public debt), the major
obligations arising from a 2001 decision; labeled the Fundo de Compensa!do de Variaq5es
Salariais (FCVS), this is the biggest of the skeletons.2' (See Annex on Fiscal Risks and
Contingent Liabilities).
67.    Despite improvements to date, there continues to be room for improvement regarding the
budgeting of the risks presented in the LDO Fiscal Risk Annex. Specifically, a desirable action
in the medium term would be to achieve better integration of the fiscal risks described in the
LDO's Fiscal Risk Annex with the Annual Budget Law (LOA). Namely, the contingency fund
could be used as a stabilization fund in which every year some resources could be saved and
used in cases of contingent liabilities materializing into actual obligations.
19 Three types of information are provided by this consolidation: the consolidated asset-liability balance, the
consolidated deficit/surplus calculated through the above the line methodology, and the public sector expenditure by
function.
20 There appears to be room for further improving the comprehensiveness and the quality of fiscal risk reporting in
the LDO annex. For example, quasi-fiscal operations by certain public sector financial institutions, such as the CEF
and the Banco do Brasil, are thought to be generating contingent liabilities, which are not reported in the LDO
annex.
21 The liability arose from a court decision in 2001, which ruled that during the hyperinflation era, all housing loans
should have been indexed to the real wage instead of the consumer price index.
21



4. Public Debt Management:
a. Background and Issues
68.    A key issue confronting Brazil's public
debt management is the composition of the debt        Figure 3: Domestic Public Debt
that raises its risk profile. Particular features of  Average Matuntyand Duration of Domestic Public Debt
the public debt composition in Brazil that require  30
correction are the relatively short maturity of the  25
debt and the high degree of indexation to the                      Average remaining life
dollar and the overnight interest rate (Selic). This  20 
debt composition - biased towards securities     '
indexed to the overnight interest rate and to the  E
dollar - limits the government's ability to achieve  10t
a sustainable debt/GDP ratio because both these
relative prices are not exogenous policy variables                             Duration
(See Annex on Public Debt Management). Thus         o-
lengthening debt maturity and deindexation are        1996  1997  1998  1999 2000 2001
important policy goals in Brazil's public debt Source: Garcia (2002)22 and Central Bank of Brazil
management.
69.    Lengthening debt maturity is important for two reasons: first, to reduce exposure to short-
term interest rate fluctuations and second to reduce the rollover risk. In recent years, the
govemment managed to extend maturity and duration, but did so by issuing longer-term debt
linked to the dollar or indexed to the SELIC rate. Thus one problem of public debt composition
was replaced with another.
70.    The process of maturity and duration extension will be effectively limited by the slope of
the yield curve. Generally the yield curve becomes steeper in turbulent times. Brazilian
authorities were successful in flattening the term structure of interest rates after the contagion
from Argentina, but uncertainty arising from the electoral process again steepened it in late 2002.
The periods of flattening of the yield curve have been short and sporadic. As a consequence, a
market for long-dated Real-denominated securities does not exist beyond the 24 months horizon.
Over time, debt managers will have to gradually rebalance the relative weights of financial cost
vs. longer maturities, and accept the higher cost of issuing instruments with lesser risk for public
finances.
71.    The lengthening of maturity and duration requires building a liquid market for debt at all
maturities. The secondary market for government paper (for delivery) is very illiquid compared
to both the repo and derivatives markets. The repo market can only provide transitory liquidity,
and hence, cannot be a permanent source of liquidity for govemment securities holders.
72.    The derivatives and repo markets have drained much of the liquidity from the cash
markets (and from secondary markets for delivery), because these transactions are not subject to
22 Garcia, M. (2002) Public Debt Management, Monetary Policy and Financial Institutions. Background Paper for
World Bank Country Economic Memorandum, Brazil. Washington, D.C.
22



reserve requirements or the debit tax (Contribuiq&o Provis6ria sobre Movimentaqfo Financeira
or CPMF). Additionally, until very recently, repos, futures, and swaps were not considered fixed
income securities, and as such were subject to quarterly income or capital gains taxes as opposed
to monthly taxes as in the case of cash fixed income instruments. All of these considerations
discourage securities trading in the cash market and hence inhibit the development of a
secondary market for government debt.
73.    Improving the liquidity of the government bond market requires liquidity in money
markets, as they reduce liquidity risks for bondholders that want access to cash. Brazilian money
markets (besides the Repo one) are illiquid, and several analysts see the CPMF taxation as one of
the causes.23  Other studies find that, generally, in emerging economies, high reserve
requirements represent one of the reasons for the lack of depth of money markets.24  Higher
reserve requirements tend to make banks' demand for reserves more stable and less sensitive to
interest rate fluctuations. Hence banks cannot play an active role in smoothing market liquidity
shortages. In effect, evidence for Brazil shows that reserves do not respond to interest rates
(Central Bank of Brazil, 1998). Hence, coordination of monetary policy and public debt
management is a critical issue in developing a long term market for government bonds.
74.    Besides short maturity, another crucial feature of Brazilian debt is the high degree of
indexation. Indexation is a substitute for credibility, albeit very imperfect. In Brazil, most of the
indexation is to the Selic or to the exchange rate (Table 8). Indexation to the Selic rate runs the
risk of reducing the effectiveness of monetary policy. Indexation to the exchange rate may lead
to the reluctance on the part of the monetary authorities to let the currency float for fear of its
negative effects on the debt level.
Table 8: Level and Composition of Public Debt (1997 - 2002)
Total IExternal I Domestic    Composition of Domestic Debt
(In perce ntage pf d mestic debt)
(Percentage of GDP)           Fixed-  Selic-   Inflation-  Dollar-  Other
rate    indexed  indexed   indexed    1.1
1997      34.5     4.3       30.2       40.9    34.8     0.3       15.4      8.6
1998      43.3      6.4      36.9       3.5     69.1     0.4       21.0      6.0
1999      49.4      10.4     39.0       9.2     61.1     2.4       24.2      3.1
2000      49.7      10.0     39.7       14.8    52.2     6.0       22.3       4.7
2001      53.3      10.6     42.7       7.8     52.8     7.0       28.6       3.8
2002      55.9      14.4     41.5       3.9     55.2     11.4      20.3       2.0
The percentages of Selic-indexed and dollar indexed domestic debt change to 41.9 and 32.3 when adjusted to
incorporate the SWAP-cambial figures. Source Central Bank of Brazil
75.    The issuing of price-indexed debt would enhance the credibility of monetary policy. Not
only would this impose costs on the sovereign of generating inflation, but it may provide useful
information  to the- monetary   authorities  on  inflation  expectations.  However, this
recommendation has its practical limitations, as the amount of these type of securities in the total
23 Glaessner, T (2002) Notes on Brazilian Capital Markets. Mimeo. World Bank.
24 Mohanty, M. S. (2002) Improving liquidity in government bond markets: What can be done?. BIS. www.bis.org.
23



portfolio is bound to a certain extent by the market's demand and other institutional
characteristics.25 In most countries that issue this type of instrument, its share does not exceed 20
percent of total, with the exception of Israel, Chile and Mexico. Hence, the best solution to build
credibility is to establish an independent Central Bank in conjunction with sound macroeconomic
management. Without enough credibility, the slope of the yield curve will make the cost of
maturity extension prohibitive.
b. Government Actions: Achievements and Challenges
76.   Brazil has made good progress in the area of public debt management, particularly
extending debt maturity and duration (Figure 3) thanks to the stabilization of the economy and to
institutional developments that led to more transparent and efficient debt markets. And yet,
despite the significant accomplishments, public debt management continues to pose major
challenges related to the short debt duration and its high degree of indexation.
77.   Besides sound macroeconomic fundamentals management (i.e. primary surplus,
credibility in anti-inflationary policy), the portfolio composition transition process involves a
market development strategy. Brazil has already initiated this institution-building process by
strengthening STN operations, formulating and disseminating annual borrowing plans,
developing the auctions markets, and introducing limited repo markets. In collaboration with the
Bank, authorities are working on measures to achieve further progress in capital markets
development.
78.   Over the last few years, the Government has developed and started to implement an
agenda for institutional reform of the internal governance arrangements for federal public debt
management and for strengthening debt management capacities in the STN. Steady and
considerable progress has been achieved in building STN's debt management capacity. The
newly created Middle Office has been producing regular, high quality reports on the debt
portfolio and STN operations. It has been working to upgrade its information technology
systems, and developing its capacity to handle a new risk management model with Bank
technical assistance. The STN presently publishes annual borrowing plans, which include debt
portfolio benchmarks, as well as an internal medium-term debt strategy document.
79.   The Government was also planning to move more decisively in clarifying the respective
roles of agencies involved in public debt management. The main objective was to either unify
all debt management operations in the STN, or to develop a formal coordination mechanism
between the STN and the Central Bank so as to ensure the application of a single, coherent debt
management strategy to guide both domestic and external debt operations. However, given the
uncertainty and volatility in the external environment, the government postponed this decision to
avoid possible negative market reactions to a new arrangement whose impacts were somewhat
uncertain at least in the short run.  Thus, clarifying and strengthening the governance
arrangement remains a pending task on the institutional development front.
75 For instance, in the United States the relatively lackluster performance by Treasury Inflation-Indexed Securities
(TIIS) is explained by several factors: concentration on the TUS market, reduced liquidity of the instruments and
difficulties associated with launching a new instrument. (Sack, B. and R. Elsasser. 2002. "Treasury Inflation-
Indexed Debt: A Review of the U.S. Experience." Federal Reserve Board of Governors Discussion Paper. June.
24



80.   Although authorities succeeded in developing the debt portfolio management model and
announced strategies through their Annual Financing Plans in 2001 and 2002, debt managers, in
their desire to reduce financial costs, accepted increased exchange rate and roll-over risks. The
general direction of the debt management strategy (increasing maturity and duration, reducing
rollover risk, reducing indexation to Selic rates and to the exchange rate), as reflected in the
Annual Borrowing Plan targets (see Annex on Public Debt Management) is appropriate to reduce
Brazil's vulnerability to shocks. However, the observed debt composition still diverges from the
targets. While part of the explanation for the missed targets is due to market conditions outside
the Government's control, a remaining part of the explanation is the institutional shortcomings
that lead debt managers during turbulent periods to react "opportunistically" in the sense of
issuing what the market demands, regardless of the cost/risk tradeoff of the long term strategy.
81.   Besides developing a governance structure more conducive to maintaining a long-term
strategy even during turbulent periods (see Annex on Public Debt Management), the
Government is also working on development of a market for government securities. The
development of a market for government securities is essential to implement the desired debt
composition. The Government's action plan focuses on three key and complementary strategic
dimensions: (i) designing and implementing a more explicit short- and medium-term domestic
debt issuance strategy (necessary to enhance transparency and predictability); (ii) broadening the
institutional and retail investor base and increasing its diversity (necessary to enhance demand in
the primary market); and (iii) fostering greater liquidity in local secondary markets for
government debt.
82.   As regards the development of a more explicit and predictable debt issuance program, as
outlined in the Annual Borrowing Plans, the Government is setting target ranges explicitly aimed
at reducing the proportion of dollar-linked and SELIC-indexed debt issued. To reinforce this
strategy, the Front Office of the Debt Management Office will develop a detailed short- and
medium-term domestic debt issuance program, consistent with the debt management objectives.
The implementation of such an issuance program should lead to the gradual establishment of
more liquid benchmarks - and an associated yield curve. In particular, STN will develop a
program for the regular issuance of plain-vanilla Treasury Bills (LTNs), which would anchor the
short end of the yield curve. As the objective is also to extend the duration of government debt
in a prudent manner, STN will rely on the issuance of fixed interest rate, Reais-denominated
bonds and inflation-indexed bonds to develop the medium and longer segments of the yield
curve, respectively. As debt duration is extended, complementary actions related to money and
derivative markets and to the structure of end investors will be needed, so that the transfer of risk
from the government debt portfolio to market participants can be prudently managed.
83.   The government also aims to improve the structure and resilience of the end-investor
base, necessary to enhance the primary market for government paper and support the
development of a reliable government debt yield curve. The events of last year, where massive
redemptions of mutual funds dramatically magnified asset price volatility, highlight the need to
increase the transparency of the institutional investors (particularly mutual funds) to disclose and
manage risk. In particular, problems arose from the lack of precise definitions of different types
of funds, in terms of investment policies and risks being assumed, as many funds advertised as
money market funds (where investments are not significantly exposed to the risk of capital
25



losses) took positions in longer-duration instruments that made capital losses in the midst of
financial turbulence.
84.   Authorities plan to address this problem in the context of the recent transfer of the
mandate and powers to regulate and supervise mutual funds (equity and debt) to the CVM. To
support this process, CVM and the Central Bank subscribed a Memorandum of Understanding
designed to explicitly share supervisory resources. In this area the ideal work plan would include
the development of a new regulatory framework for equity and fixed-income funds (including
hedge funds). This will involve: (i) a better demarcation of the types of funds; (ii) a clear
specification of the rights and obligations of fund investors and managers; and (iii) improved
disclosure requirements, especially of the risks associated with individual fund investment
policies. At the same time, a robust valuation framework needs to be developed, which would
enable more reliable market valuation of securities held by funds and more meaningful fund
performance measurement.
85.   STN also intends to broaden the investor base and increase competition for savings
products by further developing the Treasury Direct system that allows retail investors to buy
government securities over the internet. To this end, STN will initiate a marketing/investor
outreach campaign, and improve the connectivity of the Treasury Direct system with the systems
of participating banks. Finally, the Government will explore avenues to allow a broader group of
institutions to distribute government securities through linkages to the Treasury Direct System.
B.    TOWARDS A MORE EFFICIENT TAx SYSTEM
a. Background and Issues
86.   Tax reform constitutes another critical area of reform for sustainability of fiscal
adjustment. The commendable achievements of the primary surplus targets so far have been
made largely via revenue enhancement rather than expenditure reduction. Both the federal and
state governments have generally been quite effective in raising tax revenues over the past few
years, and some of the gains are due to improved efficiency of tax administration thanks to
modernization efforts.
87.   However, the positive performance at both levels masks underlying problems that require
attention. At the federal level, the problem arises from the types of tax instruments used to raise
additional revenues. Given Brazil's particular fiscal federalism arrangement, which assigns the
most efficient tax revenue instrument, the Goods and Services Tax (ICMS), to the states, the
Federal Government has had to resort to a series of distortionary taxes on payroll, turnover, and
financial transactions to meet revenue targets. While empirical evidence is hard to gather, there
is broad based recognition that this has imposed a significant cost in terms of the efficiency of
the national economy.
88.   Roughly 40 percent of federal tax revenues has come from the turnover taxes PIS/PASEP
(Contribui,do para Programa de Integra,cdo Social), COFINS (Contribui,do para o
Financiamento da Seguridade Social), and CPMF (Contribui,do Provis6ria sobre
Movimenta,dcao Financeira). These indirect cascading taxes were created to make up for the
financing gap created by the entitlement expenditures in the social security and assistance
26



programs. As cumulative taxes, their burden varies across sectors and across enterprises, leading
to large distortions in relative prices and inefficiencies.
89.   Payroll taxes, including Social Security contributions (RGPS), the saldrio educa.do, and
various sector-specific taxes earmarked for apprenticeship programs and other worker benefits
capped under the S-System, account for slightly over 25 percent of federal revenue. While
important as a source of government revenue, these taxes add to the cost of labor in the formal
sector, and create an incentive to operate informally, resulting in losses in terms of scale
economies, access to credit markets, and other benefits that accompany formal sector
employment.
90.    At the state level, the issue is the lack of uniformity in regulating and administering the
ICMS and its limited base. Each state sets its own ICMS rates with its own legislation. This has
resulted in a chaotic situation with, currently, 44 disparate rates in the country. The potential for
discretion has resulted in states engaging in so-called fiscal wars, or the competitive granting of
fiscal incentives to lure private investors, with negative effects on revenue collection.26 To
compensate for the loss of revenue from the fiscal incentives conceded to attract investments,
states impose high rates on relatively immobile bases such as public utilities services, in
particular electricity and telecommunication. There is a vicious cycle between the fiscal war on
the one hand and the further concentration of the ICMS tax base, with the two sources of revenue
vulnerability reinforcing each other to prevent enhancement of the states' revenue collection
capacities.
91.    Local government taxation faces at least two problems.  The first is the under-
exploitation of the property tax base. The second is the municipal tax on services ISS (Imposto
Sobre Serviqos), which is clearly a cascading tax that adversely effects the competitiveness of
sectors where production is intensive in services and, like the state ICMS, is subject to a tax war
competition among municipalities.
b. GovernmentAction: AchievementsandChallenges
92.    Despite the general consensus on the nature of systemic weaknesses, tax reform has
encountered enormous political opposition, and progress has been disappointing. The main
reasons for the tax reform deadlock in'recent years were attributable to: (i) uncertainty regarding
the fiscal revenue effects; (ii) the dependence of tax reform on a broader fiscal reform agenda -
especially social security reform and the alleviation of expenditure rigidity; and (iii) the
constraints imposed by the complex fiscal federalism structure.
93.    Since 1995, there have only been a few minor improvements to Brazil's tax system, such
as the 1996 exemption of exports from the federal cumulative taxation and the state ICMS tax.
The evident political difficulty faced by the recent tax reform proposals reform led many
observers, including the IMF and the Bank, to judge that a prospect for a major tax reform was
low at least in the short run.
26 In some cases, these fiscal incentives appear to function as defacto industrial subsidies, sustaining firms which
might not otherwise be capable of staying alive for lack of competitiveness.
27



94.   Since then, however, the political climate surrounding this issue has changed
dramatically. In 2002, the previous government issued Presidential decree MP-66 (Medida
Provis6ria, MP-66) which was later approved as Law 10.637, and initiated a modest step to
transform the small turnover PIS/PASEP into a value-added tax. The decree also contemplated a
similar reform for the larger COFINS cumulative tax for 2004. With the arrival of the new
administration, which advocated a major reshuffling of the tax system, tax reform has become
one of two major structural reform agenda being vigorously debated in the country. After broad
consultations with key stakeholders such as state governors, the private sector, labor unions as
well as at the Social and Economic Development Council, a presidential advisory board, the
Government submitted a reform proposal in the form of the Proposal for a Constitutional
Amendment (PEC) no. 41/03. The main content of the reform proposal is as follows:
o  Creation of national legislation requiring the ICMS to be imposed in a uniform manner
(with uniform rates applied) across states to avoid fiscal "wars", although states would
continue to administer the tax. The national legislation would have 5 rates and introduce
a progressivity bias with respect to the definition of these rates (lowest rate for goods of
the basic consumption basket);
o Establishment of the origin principle for the collection of ICMS on interstate trade, but
with the sharing of revenues between origin and destination states preserved;
o  Creation of a national fund for regional development, financed with 2% of the revenue
from the Income Tax (IRPF and IRPJ) and the Industrialized Goods Tax (IPI), for
allocation in the least developed regions of the country, as defined in law;
o Gradual transformation of the COFINS tax base from turnover to value-added (already
defined in the Law 10.637 of December 2002);
o  Definition of CPMF as a permanent tax with rates varying from 0.38% to 0.08%;
o  Regulation of the Federal Tax on Fortunes (IGF) by ordinary law in order to allow
flexibility to be used in the strengthening of its progressive nature;
o  Increase in the progressive nature of the state inheritance tax (ITCD);
o  Increase in the progressive nature of the municipal real state tax (ITBI-IV);
o Transfer of the federal tax on Rural Property (ITR) to the states, with rules regarding its
distribution to municipal governments to be defined by complementary law; and
o  Partial replacement of the payroll tax, used to finance the social security system for
private workers, with a turnover or non cumulative revenue tax to be defined in law: this
measure would have a mix impact on the soundness of Brazil's public finance - on the
one hand, reduction in the weight of the payroll tax would reduce economic distortions
primarily in the labor market; on the other hand, de-linking social security contributions
from the payroll could undermine the notion of the social security as a public social
insurance scheme funded with beneficiary contributions.
28



95.   On April 30, 2003, the Government submitted to Congress a proposal including the six
points listed above. In the medium term the expected outcome would be the establishment of a
simpler tax system in Brazil, in particular ICMS legislation unified across the 27 states, with five
tax rates at the most.
96.   The tax reform proposal is expected to be revenue neutral in the medium term, while in
the longer run the efficiency gains derived from a less complex system and the end of fiscal wars
among states will lead to a less burdensome tax structure that will be conducive to growth. In
particular, in the short run, to compensate for the tax base reduction implicit in switching from a
turnover-based PIS-PASEP to a value added tax, the rate was increased from 0.65% to 1.65%.
And the COFINS tax, another turnover tax (with a current base rate of 3 %), is expected to be
increased to maintain revenue neutrality. The CPMF rate reduction will begin to be implemented
only when alternative deficit-neutral options are identified. For all of the above, the tax reform
proposal is considered compatible with the medium term objective of ensuring debt
sustainability.
97.   The tax reform is also expected to have a positive impact on income distribution through
two channels. First, the reduction in indirect cumulative taxation would reduce the tax burden of
the poor. Second, the proposal introduces additional progressivity in the system of direct
taxation with the increase in the progressive nature of the state inheritance tax (ITCD) and the
municipal real estate tax (ITBI-IV), and with the regulation of Federal Tax on Fortunes (IGF) by
ordinary law which would allow flexibility to be used in the strengthening of its progressive
nature. However, the total effects would be limited as these direct taxes account for only a small
fraction of the total tax burden.
c. Modernization of Tax Administration
98.   Clearly, improvements in tax administration efficiency were key to the impressive
increase in tax revenue. In recent years, modernization of the tax collection apparatus has had
two major effects: (i) a decrease in tax evasion; and (ii) a reduction in the administrative costs
of taxation for both government and for contributors. Given limited Bank expertise in Brazil's
tax administration, the Bank team is currently conducting an expert assessment with a view to
considering inclusion in the proposed program and the loan. The most important advances in
tax administration have centered on the income tax system. In this area, Brazil has made
important progress in employing information technology resources for tax collection (i.e.,
especially for purposes of cross-checking information from different taxes and reducing the
incentives for evasion). For example, CPMF is being used as an important anti-evasion tool
through cross-checking of bank information and income tax declarations.
99.   On the contributor side, the increased effectiveness of tax administration and the
reduction of costs associated with the declaration and payment of taxes explain the increase in
the number of contributors. The definition of a comprehensive base and streamlined rate
structure of the personal income tax, together with the elimination of the indexation mechanism,
simplified the declaration and collection procedures. Both measures led to an increase in income
tax contributors from 4.4 million in 1999 to 5.2 million in 2001.
29



100.  On the corporate side, interest income was included in the base for the corporate income
tax. A much-improved treatment of transfer pricing placing Brazil in the ranks of international
best practice, coupled with the establishment of the SIMPLES27 taxation regime for micro-
enterprises, were the most important achievements in this area.
101.  The Revenue Office also reduced the time to refund excess credits to three months in
response to business sector and exporter demands for quicker credit devolution under the federal
value-added tax (IPI).
C.    EFFICIENT AND EQUITABLE PUBLIC EXPENDITURES28
102.  Improving expenditure efficiency, reach and targeting to achieve greater social impact
with the limited resources has become a key challenge and priority of the new administration.
To achieve better quality of public expenditures in terms of efficiency and equity with which
they are allocated and executed would comprise a broad and ambitious agenda of structural and
institutional reforms to be tackled over the medium term. The previous administration initiated
bold reforms of the federal public administration (e.g., Plano Diretor da Reforma do Estado) and
developed a results-oriented federal planning framework (PPA). The new administration has
placed even greater emphasis on the quality of public spending, and the Ministry of Planning,
Budget and Management (MPOG) has been developing a program to improve expenditure
efficiency (Programa de Gestdo de Custo), with links to other ongoing initiatives such as
government procurement reform, the debureaucratization program and E-government initiatives
geared to improving administrative efficiency, and efforts to institutionalize systematic program
impact evaluations.
1. Problems of Budget Rigidity
103.  Among the most difficult structural barriers to efficient allocation of budgetary resources
in Brazil is the high degree of budget rigidity. Many of the sources of this rigidity are found in
the 1988 Constitution and other legal instruments. TWe 1998 Constitution established a revenue
sharing arrangement whereby states and municipalities would share 18% and 20%, respectively,
of the federal income and industrial products taxes, and specified that these shares should
increase to 21.5%  and 22.5%, respectively, by 1993.  The Constitution and subsequent
amendments also mandated spending on certain social expenditures (notably education and
health) at specific levels of revenue or expenditures. Other legal measures have designated
various social entitlement programs (e.g., social security, unemployment insurance) as obligatory
and not subject to downward adjustment for the purposes of fiscal adjustment or resource re-
allocations. These arrangements created a highly rigid budget. Given that Brazil's public
spending already accounts for a higher share of its GDP than in most middle-income countries,
additional increases in either primary surpluses or increased social spending would have to come
from reallocation of available total resources. However, this would require a series of difficult
structural reforms to reduce budget rigidity, and accompanying measures to improve efficiency
and targeting of these expenditures. The Government has attempted to reduce the rigidity by de-
27 SIMPLES is the Sistema Integrado de Pagamento de Impostos e Contribui,ces das Microempresas e das
Empresas de Pequeno Porte
28 This is a partial description of the Government initiatives relevant to the goal of greater efficiency and equity in
public expenditures based on the available information.
30



linking part of the earmarked federal tax revenues (equivalent to about 13% of GDP); the amount
of revenues subject to earmarking was reduced by 20% in mid 1997, in a temporary measure that
has since been extended twice. In the latest renewal, the arrangement was modified to exclude
the constitutional transfers to the states and the municipalities from de-linking of the earmarked
fiscal revenues, under the rubric of Desvinculaqao de Receitas da Unido (DRU).29
104.  Maintenance of DRU would be an important short-term measure as it gives the Federal
Government a degree of expenditure flexibility to facilitate fiscal adjustments, and eventually to
improve efficiency of public expenditures. An extension of DRU alone, however, would not
sufficient to reduce expenditure rigidity in a sustainable manner. It is thus imperative for the
government to pursue structural reforms that reduce the weight of the inefficient and/or
regressive expenditures that consume large shares of the public sector budgets.  Pension
payments, which in Brazil, have notoriously regressive impacts, are a prime example of such
expenditures.  A more fundamental review  of the revenue and expenditure earmarking
arrangements beyond DRU. would also be worth considering. If the new government fails to
tackle this reform agenda, the sustainability of the gains achieved so far could be jeopardized. A
clear example is the compliance with the LRF personnel expenditure ceiling at the sub-national
level, which, without a fundamental reform of the pension system at the Federal Constitutional
level and corresponding measures at the state level, would be threatened by the ever-increasing
weight of the social security bill.
2. The Multi-annual Plan (PPA)
105.  The Brazilian Constitution mandates each government in the federation to prepare a
multi-annual plan (PPA) for its four-year term. The PPA spans the second year of the incoming
administration - because a new PPA is prepared during the government's first year in office -
and the first year of the next administration. The Constitution requires that every budget
expenditure should be included in the PPA. The introduction of a new PPA framework by the
previous administration constituted a major advance in the Federal Government's public
expenditure management. The new framework, founded on a transparent and objectives-based
programmatic structure, was expected to induce gradual changes in federal public administration
that would promote more performance-based management. This would be achieved by: (i)
clarifying program objectives and performance indicators; (ii) intensively monitoring the
implementation of pre-selected strategic programs; and (iii) launching an annual, comprehensive
program evaluation process. The Secretariat of Planning and Strategic Investment (SPI) within
the Ministry of Planning (MPOG) has led the PPA development and implementation processes.
106.  The Government has since conducted two annual PPA evaluations, presented the formal
reports to Congress and posted them on the MPOG website. While the quality of the evaluation
improved notably by the second year, and its results are reportedly used in the annual PPA
revisions, the SPI is conscious of the need to further improve the evaluation methodologies and
encourage more systematic use of evaluation results for resource allocation and program
management decisions. The new administration is currently preparing the next PPA for 2004-
2007 with a strong emphasis on the participatory process foi its elaboration.
29 The extension in 1997 was granted under the rubric of the Fundo de Estabilizacao Fiscal.
31



3. SIIAIF 21st Century Project
107.  The previous administration launched a project (SIAFI 21St Century) to renew the
existing financial management information system (SIAFI), which was originally developed in
1987. SIAFI has enabled reliable and timely monitoring and operations of public financial
management, but its technological platform has grown obsolete over time. The need for the
upgrading has been accentuated by the recent changes in Brazil's public finance regime due to
the LRF, the new PPA, and related innovations.
108.  The implementation of the SIAFI 21st Century Project has been delayed. Besides the
ambitiousness of the initial project implementation plan, project implementation was also
delayed due to a change of project managers and temporary cuts in the project's capital budget.
In view of the implementation delay, the Government developed two new components: (i) the
Brazilian Payments System; and (ii) "Availability of Revenues from the Source," using the
existing SLAFI platform, since they need to be integrated into the existing system. Once the new
SIAFI 215' Century is ready, these will be linked to the new platform. The Government also
designed a virtual training center, which is already available on the STN website, to facilitate the
transition of operational staff to the new platform and interface. The internal administration
subsystem has yet to be implemented. The budget, financial and patrimonial subsystem has only
partially been concluded. The project implementation timetable has been re-scheduled, and the
project is unlikely to be completed before 2005. It should be noted, however, that the existing
system, though becoming obsolete vis-a-vis today's technological standard, is fully reliable in
allowing timely and accurate expenditure control, and as such, the delay in the SIAFI 215'
Century Project implementation does not create major problems for the Government's financial
accountability framework.
4. Administrative Reform
109.  Administrative reform is one of the important pending reform agenda from the previous
administration. After the I9th Constitutional Amendment opened up a more flexible public
sector personnel management regime, a pending action to regulate and operationalize
Administrative Reform is the passage of a bill for Complementary Law No.248-D/1998. This
law would regulate conditions and procedures for the dismissal of tenured civil servants in the
three spheres of government and three Government branches. It would also establish criteria for
evaluating the performance of civil servants and for their dismissal in the event that they do not
meet such criteria. The Law formed part of a broader reform agenda launched in the mid 1990s
under the Master Plan for the Reform of the State. However, the consideration of this bill has
stalled in Congress for lack of political consensus on some of the specific content.30  Some
governors, however, have advocated that administrative reform accompany the proposed social
security reform.
30 Ninety one amendments have been introduced to this bill since 1998, diluting the original content of the bill to
such an extent that the Executive chose not to press for its passage. Its last debate took place in March 2002, when
three new amendment proposals were added by the Senate, but the bill has not been approved.
32



D.     SOCIAL SECURITY REFORM
a. Background and Issues
110.  Among the items that contribute to the excessive level of budget rigidity are the
entitlement programs that are designated as obligatory expenditures (and thus not subject to
expenditure cuts or control during fiscal adjustment). These expenditures are often indexed to
the minimum wage and thus tend to grow in correspondence to either the population growth or
increases in the minimum wage (so-called vegetative growth).3' Of these entitlement programs,
social security expenditures comprise the single most serious fiscal issue facing Brazil today.
Social security expenditures already pose heavy burdens on the government budget both at the
federal and sub-national levels. Brazil spent more than 11% of GDP on social security benefits
in 2001 and registered a cash deficit of 5.2% of GDP. This deficit is projected to grow, possibly
doubling in 30 years.
111.  Particularly problematic is the current regime for retired public sector employees (Regime
32
Pr6prio de Previdencia Social, or RPPS).  In terms of distributive impact, the current system
provides exceptionally generous benefits to retired public sector employees, particularly at the
federal level, who are relatively well-off and many of whom never made social security
contributions while actively employed. In 2001, the RPPS had about 3 million each of
contributors and beneficiaries and consumed the equivalent of 4.7% of GDP in benefit payments.
This contrasts with the private sector regime (RGPS) with about 30 million contributors vs. 18
million beneficiaries, and 6.3% of GDP in benefit payments in 2001. In terms of financial
sustainability, the RPPS accounts for the bulk of the social security deficit at 4.1% of GDP in
2001, in contrast to the RGPS deficit of 1.1% of GDP.33 It is clear from these figures that the
RPPS consumes a disproportionate share of public resources financed by general revenues,
which means that a relatively well-off minority of retired public sector employees is receiving
net transfers of resources from the general public, who are on average worse off.
112.  The current RPPS system also poses a serious threat to one of the most important
achievements in Brazil's fiscal management in recent years - continued compliance with the
Law of Fiscal Responsibility (LRF). Since social security benefit payments to retired public
sector employees are considered part of the personnel expenditure subject to the 60%/net current
revenue ceiling set in the LRF, the so-called vegetative growth of this expenditure item will
eventually make many sub-national governments unable to comply with one of the key
provisions of the Law, without adequate reform.
31 "Public Finance in Brazil: Policy Issues and Projections," by Raul Velloso, a background paper for the Brazil
Stabilityfor Growth and Poverty Reduction, Report No. 25278-BR, January 2003.
32 The Bank's analyses of these and other issues related to Brazil's social security system are found in Brazil -
Critical Issues in Social Security (Report No 19641-BR, June 2000)
33 It should be noted that an important source of the RGPS deficit is the inclusion of the rural pension program,
which many experts agree should really be considered a social assistance program to be financed from general
revenues rather than a funded social insurance program.
33



b. Government Actions: Achievements and Challenges
113.  These are well-known problems, and structural reform of the social security system has
long been recognized as a priority challenge in Brazil. The previous government began to
address this problem with the 20th Constitutional Amendment.  Although this amendment
introduced important reforms to the RPPS, it was primarily focused on reforms to the public
pension system for workers in the private sector. The amendment tightened some of the
eligibility criteria for public sector workers, (i.e., requiring 10 years of service, with 5 years in
the position from which the employee is retiring; a minimum retirement age of 60 for men and
55 for women; and a years-of-contribution criterion of 35 for men and 30 for women). The new
criteria also apply to existing staff (though the minimum retirement age is lower, at 53 for men
and 48 for women). In addition, the federal government and most states have instituted
mandatory employee retirement contributions. Federal employees must now contribute 11
percent of their pay to the federal public employee pension system. A number of state
governments followed suit.   Although  some states have tried to impose. retirement
"contributions" on existing retirees, thereby reducing net benefits, the Supreme Court has ruled
this unconstitutional.34
114.  While these earlier measures will help, they will not be sufficient. The costs of financing
the generous RPPS benefits based on a 100% replacement rate for the growing population of
eligible retirees from the public sector will require a level of employee contributions that is
politically implausible or a level of government contributions that is fiscally unsustainable.
Brazil can ill-afford the regressive distributive impact of the current RPPS system.
115.  Additional reforms are clearly needed. During the 2002 presidential campaign, President
Lula (then as a candidate) clearly signaled his intention to place a top priority on social security
reform. Upon assuming power in January, the Government initiated an active process of broad
consultations to develop consensus for a government proposal. The president created the
Council for Economic and Social Development as a new institutional mechanism for
consultation and advice, and placed social security reform as the first item for its consideration.
Following this broad consultation process, the Government submitted on April 30 a proposal for
a constitutional amendment to reform the social security system for the public sector employees.
The proposal, if approved intact, will still not fully resolve all the weaknesses of the current
system. However, it is a very ambitious proposal, especially given the entrenched opposition
that has successfully deterred major reform attempts in the past. The main elements of the
reform proposal are the following:
/ Doubling the minimum period of affiliation and increasing the retirement ages;35
V  Charging current retirees a contribution of I 1% of benefits above R$1,058;
Benefit ceiling for new retirees at R$2,400, the same amount for the new benefit ceiling
for the private sector regime; retirees would have the option of complementing this
benefit with a complementary pension fund, but no retiree would be able to receive a
pension benefit higher than R$12,720;
34 The Bank supported these reform measures with a series of two sector adjustment loans in 1999-2000.
35 The current requirements are 10 years of service, 5 years in the position from which the employee is retiring. The
current retirement ages are 48 years for women and 53 years for men. The proposal would raise them to 55 and 60
years for women and men, respectively
34



/ Calculation of the public sector retiree benefits on the basis of their net average salary for
the reference period; those who have worked in the private sector would have the benefits
rules in the private sector regime applied in proportion to the time spent in private sector
employment instead of having automatic access to the full-salary pension scheme in the
public sector as is the case now; and
v Reduction of the benefit calculation ratio for the survivor pension program from 100% to
70% of the reference salary.
IV. PROPOSED SECOND PROGRAMMATIC FISCAL REFORM LOAN
116.  The proposed Second Programmatic Fiscal Reform Loan is based on three sets of
justifications.
(a)   First, there has been good progress in important institutional and structural reforms,
as set out in the First Programmatic Fiscal Reform Structural Adjustment Loan
(PFRSAL), although progress in different technical areas has not been uniform. The
most noteworthy achievement is the progress toward institutionalizing responsible fiscal
management. The initiation of key structural reforms such as tax reform also merits
Bank support within a medium-term programmatic framework. The Bank will continue
its policy dialogue and technical assistance in policy areas in which progress has been
more limited. A later section discusses in detail progress achieved since the first
PFRSAL.
(b)   Second, and beyond the specific measures taken and supported by this loan, the
responsible policy stance taken by the new Government more broadly provides a very
favorable context for the proposed operation. This favorable context includes, inter alia,
progress in social security reform, responsible monetary policies, as well as decisive
policies to address poverty and inequality directly. This context is even more important
as it shows that a broad consensus on the basic elements of sound econormic and social
policies has evolved. This will facilitate implementation of consistent policies in the
medium and long term.
(c)   Third, despite the positive recent developments, Brazil still finds itself in a fragile
position vis-a-vis international financial markets. There are clear signs that market
confidence has substantially improved since the beginning of the year when President
Lula began his four-year term, which is evidenced in the recent successful international
bond issuance, for the first time since April 2002. Nonetheless, access to international
markets is still precarious. Bank financial assistance in support of fiscal reform would
send a positive signal to the market of the Government's efforts and achievements so far
and could accelerate Brazil's transition toward regaining full market access to meet its
external financing needs and strengthening its net reserves.
35



A.    PROGRAMMATIC FRAMEWORK, LOAN DESIGN, AND POSSIBLE FUTURE LOANS
a. Programmatic Framework
117.  The proposed loan forms part of the programrmatic framework that encompasses an
ambitious reform agenda, addressing three broad objectives of fiscal reform in Brazil: (i)
institutionalization of responsible fiscal policy and risk management; (ii) improvements in
efficiency and equity in the revenue structure; and (iii) efficient and equitable public
expenditures geared toward provision of public goods for poverty reduction and growth
promotion (the first two objectives are the focus of the proposed loan). To achieve each of these
objectives, a set of relevant policy areas and specific policy actions have been identified as
comprising the overall fiscal reform program (see Annex 2). However, given the ambitious and
wide-ranging nature of the reforms, it would be unrealistic to expect simultaneous progress in all
areas within the programmatic framework. The Bank would, thus support subsets of this reform
agenda as the Government progresses in one or more of these areas. Each individual loan within
the programmatic framework would be based on the completion of a critical mass of actions
within a subset of the areas covered, as illustrated in the Figure 4 below. Specific loans will be
discussed in more detail below.
Figure 1: Programmatic Framework and Possible Fiscal Reform Loans
2001         2003        Short term  Medium term
1. Institutionalization of Responsible
Fiscal Policy and Risk Management
Macro-fiscal Planning
Sub-national fiscal discipline                                       Possible
Fiscal transparency and risk      1    PFRL-II (This               Future Loan
management                                Loan)                     on Fiscal a
Public debt management                                             Stabilxty and
governance
Public debt market development
2. Efficient Taxation: tax reform
3. Efficient and equitable public
expenditures
De-earmarking                                          Possible     Possible
Public expenditure management    .Future Loan                      Future Loan
PPA                                                   on Public     on Public
Public expenditure management PFRSAL-1               Expenditure   Expenditure
Budgeting & financial                                Management    Management
management
Administrative reform
Possible      Possible
Future Loan in Future Loan in
Other Area    Other Area
4. Other key fiscal reforms
36



118. This framework subsumes and expands on the technical areas covered in the first
PFRSAL, namely, (i) macro fiscal management; (ii) public expenditure management, and (iii)
public debt management. The expansion of the programmatic framework has its origin in the
arrival of the new government with a new and broadened agenda of fiscal reform, which required
us to revisit the scope of the overall program as well as relative priorities among its various
elements. For example, while reaffirming its strong commitment to continue with the
responsible fiscal management as a key policy priority, the new Government has also indicated
its intention to highlight the importance of the quality of public spending overall and its impact
on poverty reduction. The Bank has initiated more involved dialogue with the authorities on
these latter issues, including a proposal to conduct public expenditure reviews and program
impact evaluations with Bank assistance. As the Government's medium-term program in these
areas develop further, the Bank intends to incorporate them more fully into the programmatic
framework and support them with future operations.
b. Status of the First Programmatic Fiscal Reform SAL Benchmarks
119.   As reported in the Implementation Completion Report on the first PFRSAL, overall
outcomes of the set of policies the loan supported were satisfactory, even though some of the
expected benchmark actions were not completed. The status of the PFRSAL benchmark actions
is summarized in Table 10 and is discussed further in this section.
120. Progress in macro-fiscal planning/management, sub-national fiscal discipline, and aspects
of public debt management has been notable. As regards macro fiscal planning/management, the
first Loan envisaged as benchmark actions the meeting of the Government's fiscal targets (e.g.,
primary surplus, debt/GDP ratio), improvements in fiscal reporting and transparency (e.g.,
consolidation of public sector accounts, and consolidation and analysis of sub-national LDOs to
assess the entire public sector's fiscal prospects and risks), and enforcement of the LRF and the
state debt refinancing agreements. As detailed below, the Government met most of these
benchmark actions, especially the crucial ones: it surpassed its own primary surplus targets in
both 2001 and 2002, and obtained approval of two Senate Resolutions to regulate sub-national
indebtedness according to the requirement of the Law of Fiscal Responsibility (LRF). Good
fiscal performance is clearly demonstrated in the sub-national governments' strong record of
compliance with the LRF.
121.  Although some capacity building measures in public debt management were delayed
somewhat, the overall progress in this component was judged satisfactory. The benchmark
actions expected in the first Loan included issuance of the STN debt managers' code of conduct,
upgrade of the Middle Office's analytical capacity, and issuance of annual borrowing plans to
guide the STN operations in debt management. The Government completed these actions,
especially in strengthening the Middle Office's analytical capacity. The STN made partial
progress toward meeting other benchmarks.  For example, the STN has completed the
consolidation of domestic debt issuance responsibilities. However, the Government postponed
the earlier decision to transfer external debt management responsibilities from the Central Bank
for fear of exacerbating the market uncertainty in the midst of the volatile external environment
Brazil faced over the last two years.
37



122.  Progress was relatively slower in the public expenditure management component of the
Loan, which supported (i) the introduction of a new multi-annual plan (PPA) for 2000-2003 with
innovative results-oriented framework, (ii) the SIAFI21st Century Project to upgrade the federal
integrated financial management system; and (iii) administrative reform.
123.  In the PPA component, the first Loan envisaged development of formal program
monitoring and evaluation system; better integration of planning and evaluation with budgeting
as evidenced in adjustments to budgetary priorities on the basis of the evaluation results; and
establishment of the PPA Management Information System (SIG) with public access via internet.
The Government registered concrete progress in initiating a systematic annual PPA evaluation
process, and submitted to Congress evaluation reports in two consecutive years (2001 and 2002).
There is room for improving the evaluation methodology used, and with Bank technical
assistance, the Ministry of Planning has been exploring measures to strengthen the
methodological and procedural aspects of the PPA evaluation framework.
124.  Slippage was most significant in implementation of the SIAFI 215' Century Project, a
project to upgrade a well-functioning but increasingly obsolete integrated financial management
system to a new technological platform. The delay in project implementation was due to a
combination of the originally over-ambitious implementation plan and some budgetary
restrictions. The adequate functionality of the existing system means that the delay in the project
implementation has so far not caused major disruptions to the quality of federal financial
management.
125.  Finally, approval of the Complementary Law bill to regulate the 19'h Constitutional
Amendment on Adrninistrative Reform, which would have permitted more flexible,
performance-oriented personnel management, has been pending in Congress due to political
opposition.
126. The relatively slower progress on the last-mentioned components of the PFRSAL is
unfortunate but has not compromised the overall progress toward consolidation of fiscal reforms
in Brazil. Because of the relatively slow progress in the public expenditure management
component overall (in spite of reasonable progress in some aspects of the PPA sub-component)
but its continuing importance, it was decided that the Bank would continue policy dialogue in
this area with relevant authorities and would retain this area within the programmatic framework
but would not include this component in the proposed PFRL 2. The amount of the proposed loan
is smaller than it would have been if there had been equivalent progress in the public expenditure
management area.
38



Table 10: Status of PFRSAL Benchmarks
Policy Areas             Actions Expected for                     Status of the Actions
and Goals               Second or Third Loans
Institutionalization of Responsible Fiscal Policy and Risk Management
Macro-riscal     * Public Sector on track to meeting 2001 fiscal  * Primary balance targets met but
planning         targets (primary balance and consolidated  debt/GDP ratios worsened due to
public sector debt)                        external shocks.
Sub-national     * Public debt limits issued by Senate (Senate  * Senate Resolutions 40 and 43 issued
fiscal discipline  Resolutions)
Fiscal      -    * Issuance, consolidation, and analysis of  * LDO consolidation yet to take place
transparency     public sector fiscal prospects and risks from  * STN issued consolidated public sector
and risk         2002 LDOs (federal consolidation and analysis  accounts in 2001 and 2002.
management       of fiscal prospects from annexes in issued  * Federal registry of public debt not yet
LDOs)                                      completed.
* Disclosure, dissemination, and/or
consolidation of public sector accounts and
public sector debt (federal consolidation of
public sector accounts, federal registry of public
debt)
Public debt      * Governance: (i) Implement centralization of  * Governance. (i) Centralization of
management:      debt management at the STN; (ii) introduce  external debt management at the STN
Governance       code of conduct for STN debt managers; (iii)  postponed due to the market uncertainty
and capacity     establish written debt management guidelines  in the past few years; (ii) code of conduct
and operational procedures.               issued; (iii) debt management guidelines
* Capacity: (i) Bring Middle Office capacity  and operational procedures not yet
closer to best practice through upgrade of  issued, but the STN has completed an
human resources (training programs and new  operational mapping as a prior exercise.
hires) and purchase and development of    * Capacity. (i) Middle Office technical
analytical tools (regular middle office reports  capacity significantly strengthened -
on the debt portfolio and STN operations); (ii)  capacity building efforts continue; (it) IT
diagnose IT needs and produce action plan  action plan ready
(approved action plan to upgrade IT capacity)
* Benchmark: Issue borrowing plan and
submit initial debt portfolio benchmark and
medium-term funding strategy for review of
senior authorities (annual borrowing plan,
initial benchmark and medium-term debt
strategy established)
Public debt     Not covered in the First Loan
management:
Market
development for
government
securities
Efficient Taxation
Tax reform       Not covered in the First Loan
39



Policy Areas             Actions Expected for                   Status of the Actions
and Goals              Second or Third Loans
Efficient and Equitable Public Expenditures
De-earmarking   Not covered in the First Loan
Public          o Assess management of PPA programs and   o Annual PPA program evaluations
expenditure     improve assessment methods.               conducted with strong emphasis on
management:     o Formal monitoring and evaluation system  management improvements.
PPA              used and revised.                        o Management information system (SIG-
o Integration of planning and evaluation into  Plan) in operation.
the budget.                              o PPA programs revised yearly
following the annual program
evaluations.
Public          o SIAFI 21"' Century Project cost reviewed and  o Project implementation delayed and its
expenditure      rationalized, and implementation of (i) STN  schedule revised due to the ambitious
management:      internal administration subsystem, (ii) budget,  original design and the-budget
Budgeting and    financial and patrimonial subsystem; (iii)  constraint.
Financial        assets & liabilities management subsystem;
Management       (iv) states and municipalities oversight
subsystem.
Administrative  o Civil Service Performance Law           o Legislative approval pending in
reform                                                     Congress.
c. Loan Design
127. The proposed loan would support a series of actions already taken by the Government to
advance the two broad objectives identified above. Specifically, the loan components include:
(i) macro-fiscal planning, (ii) effective control of sub-national debt and deepening of sub-
national fiscal discipline; (iii) improvements in fiscal transparency/reporting and management of
contingent liabilities; (iv) capacity building and strengthening of internal governance
arrangements for public debt management; (v) development of secondary markets for
government securities; and (vi) initiation of a tax reform to reduce the tax system's distortionary
and regressive effects on the national economy.
Institutionalization of responsible and crediblefiscal policy and fiscal risk management
o   Strengthening of macro-fiscal planning: The overall objective is to reduce volatility and
uncertainty arising from fiscal policy decisions in a volatile external environment. Over the
past several years, the Government has been developing a credible medium-term fiscal
framework. Credibility has been enhanced by the achievements of the announced primary
surplus targets in four consecutive years. The Government is attempting to institutionalize
this credibility by improving the quality of its medium-term fiscal projection and planning,
primarily through the LDO Annex on Fiscal Targets. The proposed loan would support (i)
the achievements of the primary surplus targets in 2001-02, and (ii) adoption of annual
primary surplus targets of 4.25 of GDP for 2003-2006 in the 2004 LDO bill. These targets
40



are higher than the target agreed with the IMF in the ongoing program, which shows the
Government's commitment to prudent fiscal policies.
* Effective control of sub-national debts and sub-national fiscal discipline: The overall
objective is to maintain the fiscal effort undertaken by sub-national governments and to
promote more broad-based compliance with the LRF and associated legal norms. The
proposed loan would support (i) the passage of the Senate Resolutions 40 and 43 to regulate
sub-national\,indebtedness as required by the LRF, (ii) the National Monetary Council
Resolutions 2827 and 2920 to regulate the financial sector's credit supply to the public
sector, as well as (iii) the impressive turnaround in sub-national fiscal behavior as evidenced
in the effective compliance with key provisions of the LRF - the personnel expenditure/net
current revenue (RCL) ratio below 60% and the debt stock/RCL of 2.0 or less for states and
1.2 or less for municipalities. The resolutions have created a robust regulatory environment
to minimize the risk of excessive sub-national borrowing in the future, while the actual
performance by the majority of the sub-national governments shows that these legal
provisions have been effectively complied with.
* Improvements in fiscal transparency and reporting: The overall objective is to build on
the already solid government efforts to improve fiscal transparency as a versatile measure to
encourage fiscal discipline and public sector accountability. Even before the LRF (which
places a strong emphasis on fiscal transparency and reporting), Brazil had adequate fiscal
transparency based on the comprehensive financial management system (SIAFI) and other
instruments. Since the LRF's approval, however, Brazil has made additional progress in this
area, with most of the federal units providing regular fiscal reports.
The government's ex post recognition of contingent liabilities (or "skeletons") has
contributed to the 25% increase of federal debt between 1994 and 2001. To minimize
unrecognized growth of contingent liabilities in the future, and as required by the LRF, the
Government formally adopted a transparent method of discussing fiscal risks in an LDO
Annex. The Annex identifies multiple sources of fiscal risks and assesses sensitivities of the
budget and the public debt to different scenarios. With this new practice, the Government
achieved substantial transparency, a necessary first step for effective management of
contingent fiscal risks.
The proposed loan would support (i) the issuance since 2001 of consolidated public sector
accounts from the Union, all the state governments, and the vast majority of the municipal
governments; (ii) incorporation of a substantial amount of previously unrecognized liabilities
("skeletons") into official debt figures; (iii) official reporting of contingent liabilities in the
LDO Annex on Fiscal Risks; and (iv) the initiation of fiscal statistics reporting based on the
IMF SDSS methodology.
* Capacity building and strengthening of the internal governance arrangements for
public debt management:     Substantial progress was achieved in the institutional
development of the middle office and the Annual Borrowing Plans. The STN has already
adopted its own code of conduct in line with international best practice. The overall
objective of this set of measures is to create the governance structure necessary to implement
the benchmark developed by the middle office of the STN's Debt Management Office. It is
important that the STN centralize debt management (domestic and external) functions, to
make debt managers accountable for public debt risk levels. The centralization of the
41



domestic debt management functions has already been achieved. This would also be a
necessary step to meet the parallel objective of establishing an autonomous central bank,
accountable for monetary and exchange rate policy. The performance indicator of
achievements of this objective would be meeting the targets set in the Annual Borrowing
Plans during the 2003-2006 period. By meeting the targets, exposure to rollover, exchange
rate, and interest rate risks will be diminished. The governance structure described in the
Debt Management annex should also be established.
The proposed loan would support concrete achievements so far in terms of: (i) issuance of
Annual Borrowing Plans; (ii) consolidation of domestic debt issuance responsibilities under
the STN; (iii) the strengthening of the analytical capacity of the Middle Office as evidenced
in regular reporting of good quality debt management reports; and (iv) completion of an
exercise to map STN processes to control operational risks in debt management.
o   Market development for government securities: The -overall objective here would be to
develop a domestic market for different types of securities, to permit the implementation of
the associated benchmark (i.e., possibility of issuing long term securities, fixed rate nominal
debt, etc.). The proposed loan would support (i) initiation of the retail sales of public bonds
through the internet ("Treasury Direct"), (ii) issuance of regulations concerning new criteria
for the selection of primary dealers and specialists, (iii) improvements in methods for
issuance of government securities, (iv) transfer of regulation and supervision of collective
investment schemes in fixed income securities, and (v) establishment of formalized
cooperation between the Central Bank and CVM in market regulation.
Improvements in efficiency and equity in the revenue structure
o   Initiation of tax reform: The loan would support recent advances in tax policy changes,
including (i) the transformation of the turnover tax PIS/PASEP into a value-added tax (Law
10.637), and (ii) the submission of a tax reform bill (PEC 41/03) to Congress after broad
consultations. The main content of the tax reform proposal includes unification of the ICMS
state VAT tax rates, conversion of the COFINS tax base from turnover to value-added, and
flexibility in setting the CPMF tax rate between 0.38% and 0.08%.
Table i1: IPIFRL IUI Proposed Matrix of Actions
Actions supported by PFRIL II       |Key future actions that may be supported with
subsequent loan(s)
Federal fiscal planning
o   Achieved, and outperformed, primary surplus  o Strengthen the institutional framework for fiscal
targets during 2001-2002.                   policy, continuing to use inter alia the primary
o   Adopted annual primary surplus target for 2003-  balance as an effective tool to achieve the desired
2006 of 4.25 percent of GDP, and set a clear  medium term debt/GDP ratio.
medium term objective of debt reduction (as a  o Study the design of a fiscal framework that
share of GDP).                              combines the objectives of public debt sustainability
o   Adopted a harmonized system of fiscal statistics,  with reducing pro-cyclical bias in fiscal policy.
methodology and targets with regional partners.  o Adopt a fiscal policy framework that contemplates
the operation of automatic stabilizers (along the
business cycle), subject to the constraint of
maintaining debt sustainability.
42



Actions supported by PFRL II             Key future actions that may be supported with
subsequent loan(s)
* Senate approval of Resolution to regulate federal
indebtedness.
Sub-national fiscal discipline
*   New Senate resolutions (40 & 43) on sub-national  * Comply with LRF indicators, such as the
debt control issued                            indebtedness levels and the ratio of personnel
*   National Monetary Council resolutions 2827 and  expenditures to net current revenue.
2920 issued to limit credit supply of financial  * Comply with debt renegotiation contracts (between
sector to public sector                        federal government and states) under Law 9496 of
*   Evidence of continued compliance with key LRF  1997.
parameters (personnel expenditure/net current  * Provide technical assistance to sub-nationals as
revenue, debt/net current revenue)             mandated by LRF.
* Promote fiscal rules at sub-national level that
resemble those of the federal government.
Fiscal transparency and reporting and fiscal risk ma agement
*   Consolidated public sector accounts          * Fiscal Risk Annex quantitative debt risk indicators
*   Incorporated a substantial amount of previously  (for example budget- at-risk measures) that appear
hidden liabilities ("skeletons") into official debt  in the Annual Borrowing Plans.
figures (2.3 percent of GDP in the last two years)  * Increase the number of states in line with STN-
*   Recognized contingent liabilities in the LDO  issued reporting standard in their regular fiscal
annex on fiscal risks.                        reports
* Began reporting fiscal statistics based on IMF
SDSS methodology.
Public debt management -governance and capacity
*   Issued Annual Debt Borrowing Plans, with    * Formalize the Debt Committee (DC); and ii)
objectives that highlight importance of risk.  creating the Public Debt Council (PDC) that will
*   Completed consolidation of domestic debt      outline functions, guidelines for debt
issuance responsibilities under the STN and    management and disclosure requirements.
initiated changes in organizational arrangements  * Design and analyze the merits of using a funding
and governance.                                strategy based on one macro scenario and present it
*   Strengthened analytical capacity of Middle Office.  to the PDC in parallel to the current approach
*   Issued Debt managers' code of conduct         (which sets upper and lower limits for debt
*   Mapped processes in STN to control operational  composition based on multiple macro scenarios).
risk.                                       * Move towards transferring the external debt
issuance responsibilities from BCB to STN with
corresponding strengthening of capacity of the Front
Office.
* Create a function to verify compliance with
operational risk safeguards.
* Initiate publication of monthly report with
consolidated information on public sector internal
and external debt.
* Gradually narrow the bandwidth for debt
composition and risk indicators used in the Annual
Borrowing Plan, as market conditions allow.
* Gradually reduce, as market conditions allow,
BCB's outstanding currency swap portfolio.
* Consolidate the process of transferring the
43



Actions supported by PFRL II             Key future actions that may be supported with
I__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   subsequent loan(s)
external debt issuance responsibilities from BCB
to STN.
Public debt management - market development for government securities
o   Introduction of Treasury Direct (retail sales of  o Issue regulation introducing rights, obligations and
public bonds through the internet) in January  penalties for primary dealers and specialists.
2002.                                        o Implement the primary dealer/specialist system.
o   Regulations issued concerning new criteria for the  o Establish a regular T-Bill program as market
selection of primary dealers and specialists.  conditions allow.
o   Improved methods for issuance of government  o Establish a more uniform regulatory framework
secunties (issuance calendar published on the  for collective investment schemes.
internet; reduction in frequency of auctions;  o Issue regulation strengthening the protection of
exchange auctions used to reduce fragmentation).  investors trading government and other
o   Transferred regulation and supervision of     securities through brokers on an exchange.
collective investments schemes investing in fixed  o Broaden set of institutions distributing government
income securities (including government bonds)  securities through the Treasury Direct System
to CVM.                                     o Establish framework to evaluate performance of
o   Established formalized cooperation between    primary dealers and specialists; and monitor its
Central Bank and CVM.                          effectiveness relative to objectives
o Establish, and implement as market conditions
permit, a debt issuance strategy, including clear
definition of set of securities to be issued; targets for
size of benchmark issues; and a calendar of
auctions.
o Assess possible changes in the methodology used
for valuation of government securities.
Tax reform
o   Enacted Law 10.637 to gradually replace      o Proposed tax reform constitutional amendment
PIS/PASEP turnover tax with value-added tax.   approved by Congress.
o   Submitted Tax reform bill (constitutional    o Establish plan to reduce CPMF tax rate contingent
amendment proposal, PEC 41/03) to: i) harmonize  on identification of deficit neutral alternatives.
state ICMS legislation; ii) reduce turnover and  o Initiate replacement of COFINS tax base with value
payroll taxes; iii) increase progressivity of states'  added tax base.
inheritance tax; and iv), and allow flexibility to set  o Develop a methodology to examine the
the CPMF tax rate between 0.38% and 0.08%.     progressivity of the tax system.
o Complementary laws approved to implement the
tax reform.
o Complete COFINS tax conversion.
o Implement a system to monitor redistributive nature
of the tax structure using methodology designed in
previous stage.
d. Possible Future Loans
128.   Over the next four years, several (3-5) additional loans within this programmatic
framework could be proposed if and when a critical mass of positive reform actions or
institutional improvements is obtained (see Figure 1). This section discusses possible clusters of
such reform actions as bases for future loans to demonstrate how the programmatic framework
would translate into concrete operations. Annex 2 summarizes the program content and future
44



development actions. The triggers shown in Annex 2 and discussed below would be the core
actions supported by future loans. A critical mass of additional development actions from Annex
2 would be required to move ahead with each loan. In addition, the decision on whether to move
ahead with the next loan would be informed by an assessment whether Brazil is on track toward
the outcome indicators listed for 2006, which is the end of the program period.
(a)   A follow-up operation to support further institutionalization of fiscal responsibility and
completion of the tax reformn: There are further significant steps ahead to consolidate the
institutionalization of responsible fiscal management in Brazil. A big, positive step
would be the formal adoption of an explicit fiscal rule, or an equivalent institutional
framework, to guide setting of key fiscal targets. Strengthening of the institutional
underpinnings of responsible fiscal policy would be complemented by continued
improvements in public debt management governance and capacities. The Ministry of
Finance might consider further strengthening the Debt Management Committee and
creating a Council for Public Debt Management with an explicit accountability
arrangement. Implementation of the postponed decision to transfer external debt
management responsibilities from the Central Bank to the STN would constitute another
positive step in strengthening governance of public debt management. These actions
would constitute triggers in the debt management governance area. In the area of
government debt market development, the triggers would be the following CVM actions:
(i) establishment of a uniform regulatory framework for collective investment schemes;
and (ii) issuance of regulation to strengthen the protection of investors trading
government and other securities through brokers on an exchange.
This possible loan could be triggered by Congressional approval of the pending Senate
resolution to control federal indebtedness, and of complementary/ordinary laws to
regulate specific details of the reform proposals after the passage of the Constitutional
Amendment Proposal (PEC) 41/03. The amendment and the complementary laws will:
(i) establish a unified legal framework for the ICMS state VATs; (ii) clarify the collection
principle (origin-based vs. destination-based); and (iii) set the rate for the CPMF tax
(financial transaction tax) between 0.38% to 0.08%. By then, the conversion of COFINS
from a turnover-based to a value-added-based tax will be well on its way. The approval
of these complementary laws is expected within the next 18 months or so. Triggers in
the debt management include (i) completion of the transfer of external debt management
responsibilities from the Central Bank to the STN.
(b)   An operation to support improvements in public expenditure efficiency: Improving the
quality of public expenditures is one of the oft-mentioned goals of this Government. To
this end, the Government is currently working on a new multi-year investment plan
(PPA) for 2004-07. It is expected that many of the innovative features introduced in the
previous PPA, which PFRSAL supported, would be kept; while other features, such as
broader consultations in the plan preparation, would be added. The PPA proposal will be
submitted to Congress by August 2003, and will later be discussed and approved.
Another important measure already proposed by the Government is the extension of the
federal revenue de-earmarking arrangement (DRU), which is due to expire at the end of
2003. The legislative approval of the DRU extension and adoption of innovative features
45



in the next PPA, including enhanced prioritization of government objectives, could be
triggers for a possible public expenditure loan to support advances in related areas such
as better integration of planning and budgeting, program evaluations, development of a
medium-term expenditure framework, and implementation of the SIAFI 215' Century
Project.
To improve efficiency and targeting of its public expenditure programs, the Government
is considering adoption of annual public expenditure review exercises as part of its
annual budget process. At the initial stage, the Bank would work together with the
Government to develop capacity for robust expenditure reviews and assist in their
institutionalization over time.
(c)   An operation to support consolidation of public expenditure reform: Within the four-
year period, the Government could make important progress toward consolidating the
reform of the federal public expenditure system.  Beyond extension of the DRU
arrangement, the Government could attempt legal or constitutional reforms to mitigate
negative effects of some of the revenue earmarking arrangements that may no longer be
justified from the points of view of the Government's policy priority and expenditure
efficiency. Institutional development in the area of public expenditure management
(PEM) could advance further with institutionalization of robust program evaluations and
expenditure reviews as integral parts of the medium-term planning and budgeting
process. Other improvements in PEM could be codified in a new public finance
complementary law, as mandated by the Constitution, which would serve as a trigger.
Approval of this complementary law could serve as a trigger for a possible follow-up
loan in PEM, but this would be a medium-term agenda, for which technical preparation
and political consensus-building would be necessary. Thus, this measure will likely be
taken over the medium term (i.e., 3-4 years from now). Another possible trigger is
congressional approval of the pending Complementary Law bill 248-D/98, or equivalent,
to the define public sector career structure and other features of performance-oriented
federal personnel management.
(d)   If the Government achieves significant progress in other areas within or related to the
fiscal reform program, this could be supported either within the above mentioned or
additional separate operations.
129.  Continued implementation of a sound macroeconomic program, of which the proposed
policies and reforms are part but which extends beyond that, is a precondition for continued
lending under this programmatic framework. A disbursing program with the IMF would be
evidence of such satisfactory program.
130.  The total amount of financing that could be made available to Brazil over the next four
years through further loans within this programmnatic framework will depend on the lending
envelope to be determined in the forthcoming CAS. However, given the importance of the
structural reforms to be supported by the proposed programmatic framework, such financing for
additional loans could conceivably reach or even exceed US$2.0 billion.
46



e. Goals and Expected Outcomes
131.   The success of the program will be assessed by progress toward the program goals and
measured by the performance indicators shown below. Also, the decision to proceed to the next
phase of the program will be driven by the assessment that a critical mass of actions has been
achieved that will make a substantial contribution toward the attainment of the stated goals.
Table 12: Program Goals and Outcome Indicators
Program Area - Goals                 |Expected Outcomes for 2006
Macro-fiscal planning
* Ensure public debt sustainability                * Debt to GDP ratio around 50 percent to GDP with a
* Reduce uncertainty regarding future stance of fiscal  declining trend.
policy                                           * Achievement of yearly primary balance surplus of no
* Reduce pro-cyclical bias of fiscal policy.  *      less than 4.25 percent of GDP 2003-2006
* Reduce perceived country risk.                   * Primary fiscal balance policy decisions informed by a
rule allowing for automatic stabilizers to operate
-      ,                              along the business cycle, under the long run
constraint of ensuring debt sustainability.
Sub-national fiscal discipline
* Ensure that all governments in the federation maintain  * Aggregate Debt to Net Current Revenue Ratio for
prudent fiscal policies                            States at 1.5, and Municipalities at 0.5.
* Prevent future bailouts of sub-nationals by the federal  * Achievement at individual sub-national level of the
government.                                        Debt to Net Current Revenue Ratio rule established
by LRF, following the transition timetable.
* Reduced number of states and municipalities
exceeding the Debt -to-net revenue ratio threshold
levels of 2 and 1.2, respectively.
Fiscal transparency and risk management
* Improve accountability for fiscal management.    * Incorporation of already identified "skeletons" into
* Raise awareness of risks in fiscal process         official debt figures of no less than 0 .7 percent of
GDP per year.
* Debt risk indicators in Fiscal Risk Annex.
Public debt management: Governance and capacity
* Reduce exposure of public debt to interest, refinancing  * Enhanced public disclosure of the debt management
and exchange rate risk.                            strategy and targets.
* Increase transparency and accountability in the  * Debt targets of Annual Borrowing Plan, derived from
management of government debt.                     cost/risk tradeoff analysis conducted by the Middle
*                         Reduce operational risk    Office of the DMO, met within narrower bands.
in debt management                             I
Public debt management: Market development for go ernment securities
* Broaden access of retail investors to government  * Number of participating institutions, number of
securities.                                        accounts and share of debt sold through Treasury
* Diversify investor base to reduce costs, and mitigate  Direct increased and/or competitiveness in pricing of
risks related to concentration of debt holdings    savings products improved.
* Increase spot trading (liquidity) in the secondary  * Larger share of savings in longer duration
markets                                            instruments.
* Improve competition in the markets for government  * Enhanced disclosure of information (on their
securities.                                        investment policies and performance) from collective
47



Program Area - Goals                          Expected Outcomes for 2006
o Develop a yield curve in benchmark government    investment schemes to end-investors.
securities.                                    o Collective investment schemes regulated and
o Increase efficiency of the primary and secondary  supervised pursuant to a unified regulatory
market for government securities.                 framework.
o Increase transparency and predictability of    o Clearer demarcation of different types of funds
government securities issuance.                   according to the risk of the products they offer.
o Strengthen the final investor base.            o Consistent and comparable valuation of similar
o Increase resilience of the economy to interest rate  government securities being used across different
shocks                                            collective investment schemes.
Tax reform
o Reduce allocative distortions by eliminating    o Share of Cumulative Taxes on Federal Tax Revenue
geographical competition based on taxes and reducing  reduced to around 15 percent
different effects of taxation among firms       o ICMS legislation and tax rates unified.
o Improve sub-national revenue collection         o Progressivity of the tax system improved, as
o Improve equity of tax system.                     measured by indicators to be developed.
o Reduce labor costs and incentives for informal
employment
De-earmarking
o Improve expenditure efficiency/equity by enabling  o *Non-earmarked revenue as a share of ordinary net
more flexible budget structure that allows re-    revenue increased in relation to 2003.
allocation of budgetary resources to more efficient,
better-targeted programs, and/or fiscal adjustment via
expenditure reductions
Public expenditure management: PPA
o Improve expenditure efficiency/equity by        o Registration of program physical indicators in more
institutionalizing robust priority-setting and improved  than 80% of the government actions.
program design.                                 o Priority programs budget execution ratios better than
during PPA 2000-2003
o Priority program physical goal indicators better than
during PPA 2000-2003.
B.      COUNTRY CONTEXT AND TIMING OF BANK FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
132.   Besides the progress in the technical areas described above, there is important contextual
rationale for proceeding with the proposed loan at this point. As described in the following
paragraphs, these contextual factors are no less important for the Bank to consider timely support
for Brazil. The favorable country context described immediately below provides the Bank with a
degree of confidence that the supported reform measures will have a reasonable prospect for
success and sustainability, while the particular timing of the proposed operation could be
especially valuable for Brazil to accelerate its transition toward renewed external market access.
a. Favorable Count,y Contextfor Structural Reforms
133.   President Lula's administration arrived in the midst of heightened market uncertainty.
The market was concerned about Brazil's external financing requirements, high domestic debt
and interest rates, and inflationary pressures. In response to the market expectations, the new
48



Government has demonstrated its commitment to sound macroeconomic management through
the reassuring inaugural speeches given in January 2003 by the newly appointed economic team.
These speeches were quickly followed up with decisive measures that sent strong signals of
fiscal responsibility. First, the government announced in early February a new primary surplus
target of 4.25% of GDP. This is well above the level previously agreed in the IMF Agreement,
and higher than any previous primary surplus achievement. Second, to make this primary
surplus target viable, the Government announced drastic cuts in spending limits authorized in the
annual budget, while largely protecting social expenditures. Third, by withholding part of the
constitutional transfers to some large states for their failures to comply with certain LRF
provisions, the Government also signaled that it will enforce the fiscal obligations of states and
municipalities within the framework of the Law of Fiscal Responsibility and the State Debt
Refinancing agreements, a key issue in the sustainability of public finances in Brazil.
134. As for much-needed structural reforms, the Government announced plans to rapidly
pursue key reforms in. the areas of the pension system for public sector . employees, the
complicated tax structure, and the establishment of Central Bank autonomy. A proposal for a
Constitutional Amendment, which is a necessary condition for proceeding with the latter,
recently obtained support of an overwhelming majority (442 votes out of the total 513, as
opposed to 308 votes (60%) required for passage of a constitutional amendment) in the first
round of voting in the Lower House.36 This marked an important show of political force behind
the Government's reform program and signaled the transition from the initial phase of
Government announcements to a new phase of implementation of key reforms.
135.  The tax and social security reform proposals have been developed through broad
consultation and consensus building by the Council for Economic and Social Development, a
newly established independent organ created to deliberate on priority issues and advise the
President on policy options. In parallel, the Government has promoted and conducted broad
consultations in seminars and meetings with organized groups representing different societal
interests as well as key political actors such as governors and mayors. One tangible result of
these efforts is the so-called Letter from Brasilia signed and published in late February following
a successful consultation with the governors of all 27 states. The letter (attached as an annex)
laid out in very concrete terms agreed directions for the two key reforms, and the Government
subsequently presented to Congress to Constitutional Amendment proposals based on these prior
consultations. As detailed in the relevant annexes, the technical content of the reform proposals
consistent with what most experts have long advocated.
b. Contribution of Bank Financial Assistance at a Critical Juncture
136.  The Bank's financial assistance would help Brazil meet its external financing
requirements, which in 2003 are estimated at some US$35 billion. This estimate is based on a
US$7 billion current account deficit and on US$28 billion amortization of medium and long-
term debt (excluding IMF). The role of foreign direct investment in bridging this gap is reflected
in the forecasted flows for 2003 of US$16 billion, compared to flows of US$23 billion for 2001.
36 Senate approval is pending.
49



137.  Apart from financing balance of payments needs, the Loan would help meet the federal
government's external financing requirements of about US$9 billion in 2003 and help lengthen
the term structure of public sector debts and thus reduce vulnerability. With improved market
sentiments vis-a-vis Brazil, sovereign bond spreads have dropped below 800bps as of April
2003. Nevertheless, in the context of international economic uncertainties and the perception of
emerging market country risk, access to commercial external debt financing for Brazil remains
precarious and, if available, the cost of alternative internal and external debt financing extremely
high. Unlike IMF financial support, the loan would contribute to Net International Reserves, and
as such is expected to help further increase market confidence and thus accelerate the return to
sustained market access.
C.    DESCRIPTION OF FiNANCIAL ASSISTANCE AND CONDITIONS FOR DISBURSEMENT
138.  The Bank's financial assistance under the PFRL II would comprise a loan of US$404.04
million to be disbursed in a single tranche after loan effectiveness. With this loan, Bank lending
for Brazil in the extended CAS period FYOO-03 would remain well within the overall lending
ceiling for the base case. However, the loan would marginally exceed the notional amount for
adjustment lending indicated in the CAS within the overall CAS envelope. Bank exposure
would remain lower than if the full CAS envelope had been committed in the extended CAS
period. Going beyond the indicated amount for adjustment lending is justified based on the
resolution of uncertainty that prevailed last year about Brazil's economic policies after the
elections, the excellent performance of the new administration, and the persisting difficulties in
accessing international financial markets.
D.    COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY UPDATE
139.  The Bank's approach toward the new administration is driven by the desire to help Brazil
capture the opportunities to achieve lasting and rapid social progress while reducing
macroeconomic risks. Through strong engagement of the new government team before it took
office, through a range of instruments including the policy notes and the visits of Mr.
Wolfensohn in November 2002 and March 2003, the Bank has quickly established close and
constructive working relationships with the new administration. The opportunities and risks of
the current situation and the excellent positioning of the Bank justify a high level of Bank
engagement and support to the new Government.
140.  In this context, the Bank is preparing a series of policy-based lending operations
(programmatic loans) in areas ranging from human development (approved in February 2003),
fiscal reform (this proposed operation), reforms to improve competitiveness and the investment
climate, and financial sector reforms (the latter following two Programmatic Financial Sector
Reform Loans in recent years). These operations would complement the ongoing US$30 billion
IMF standby arrangement and support the Government's reforms for advancing social progress,
assuring economic and fiscal stability, and fostering growth. These operations would play a key
role to: (a) continue and deepen key economic and sectoral reforms; (b) finance part of the
nominal fiscal deficit and the external financing requirements of the public sector; and (c)
reinforce the markets' perception of the commitment of the new administration to sound
economic and sectoral policies. The timing of this operation is meant to send a strong and
visible signal of support during this crucial early period of the new Government.
50



141.  Building on the Policy Notes and policy discussions with the new Government, the Bank
is currently preparing the new Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Brazil. The new CAS will
focus on the five themes of the Policy Notes: investing in people, growing through productivity,
stabilizing the economy, delivering services to all, and managing Brazil's natural environment.
The CAS will also emphasize the up-scaling of successful poverty reduction approaches and the
critical role of knowledge in Brazil's development.  The four-year program of the new
Government (Plano Plurianual - PPA) will be an essential input and will drive the timing of
CAS finalization. Board presentation of the CAS is foreseen for early FY04.
E.    LINK WITH OTHER BANK SUPPORT
142.  The operations most directly relevant to the proposed loan are the Fiscal and
Administrative Reform Loan (FARL, 2000) and the Programmatic Fiscal Reform SAL (2001).
The former supported the Government's Fiscal Stability Program, fiscal reform at the state level
(the, State Debt Refinancing Law, the State Debt Refinancing Agreements, and the new Sub-
national public indebtedness regime), and administrative reform. The FARL's overall impact
was rated satisfactory in the ICR. Later, the Bank adopted an explicit programmatic framework
with the PFRSAL so as to support the Government's medium-term reform agenda in a more
explicit fashion, and prepared a TAL (Fiscal and Financial Management TAL, or Proger) to
support implementation of the agreed benchmark actions. The ICR rated the PFRSAL to be
satisfactory overall.37
143.  Proger has been a main vehicle with which the Bank has assisted the Government's
capacity building agenda especially in public debt management and training of municipal
governments in fiscal management in compliance with the LRF requirements. Proger is also
supporting capacity building in the Ministry of Planning in the area of planning and program
evaluation, a theme expected to be supported by one or more of the future programmatic loans as
illustrated above. The Bank could accommodate the Government's possible new demands for
technical assistance, especially in areas that we expect to support with future programmatic
loans. Possible areas for new technical assistance within the programmatic framework include
capacity building of the Federal Budget Secretariat in budget management and budget process
reform, development of a secondary market for government securities, among other possibilities.
144.  Together with other recent or possible future fast-disbursing loans, the proposed loan
forms a consistent and coherent program to support the new Government's policy agenda for
poverty reduction, growth and stability. The debt management and debt market development
component of this loan is closely linked with the overall capital market development strategy
supported by the financial sector reform loans. A possible future loan for competitiveness would
complement financial sector reforms in a comprehensive approach for a productivity-focused
growth agenda. The recent Human Development Programmatic Sector Reform loan supports
policies critical for poverty reduction and complements and deepens in the social sectors the
expenditure reform program outlined in this document.
37 The ICR rated the outcome as "satisfactory," sustainability as "likely," and institutional development impact as
"substantial
51



145. The recently completed Country Assistance Evaluation (CAE) concluded that the Bank
support for Brazil's fiscal reform agenda over the last few years had been "relevant and
effective." The CAE also noted as a priority "continued support for fiscal adjustment and
reform, possibly in the form of additional programmatic adjustment lending, conditional on the
generation of substantial primary fiscal surpluses and a reduction of public sector debt, the
deepening of the administrative reforms, and the implementation of the long-delayed tax
reform." The Bank's medium-term strategy for supporting Brazil's fiscal and public sector
reforms will be articulated in the next CAS that will be prepared in coming months. While
continuing lending assistance (both fast disbursing and technical assistance) with the
programmatic framework as proposed in this document, the Bank is in the process of developing
programmatic AAA to intensify policy dialogue on fiscal and public expenditure management
issues.
F.    LINK WITH OTHER PARTNER PROGRAMS
146.  The programmatic framework for Bank support links closely with support from the IMF
and the IDB. The supported program is fully consistent and mutually reinforcing with the policy
framework supported by the ongoing IMF stand-by agreement. The proposed loan supports
reforms that deepen the overall framework underlying the IMF program in several areas where
the Bank has actively collaborated with the Government, in particular public debt management
and fiscal risk management. Similarly, work for future phases of the programmatic framework
in public expenditure management and social security reform, complements and deepens the
policy framework underlying the IMF Program.
147.  In September, 2002, Brazil and the IMF agreed on a program with two main objectives:
first, to establish a clear policy framework for the medium term; and second, to facilitate an
orderly transition to the new administration taking office in January, 2003. The four pillars of
the program were: (i) maintenance of a primary fiscal surplus of 4 percent until June 2003; (ii)
commitment to a primary surplus of 3.75 percent of GDP for 2003-2005; (iii) continued
implementation of the inflation targeting framework in the context of a floating exchange rate
system: (iv) continued progress in structural reforms. The March 2003 review of the program
concluded that all performance criteria were met, though inflation exceeded the upper limit of
the program's consultation band. This was attributed to the unexpected depreciation of the
currency, of more than 50 percent, during 2002. The review also added as structural benchmarks
for reform, the tax reform and the social security reform, which are object of support of this
program. Other structural benchmarks included in the IMF program are the de-earmarking of
revenue and the reduction of the CPMF, discussed throughout this document. Hence the
proposed PFRSAL addresses the main structural reform benchmarks incorporated in the IMF
agreement, thereby making it perfectly complementary with the IMF financing package.
148.  IDB finances two large projects to support fiscal and tax administration at the sub-
national level.38 These are aimed at strengthening sub-national capacity and complement World
Bank support under the programmatic framework.
38 These projects are. the National Fiscal Administration Program for the Brazilian States (1996) and the National
Program to Support the Administrative and Fiscal Management of Brazilian Municipalities (1999).
52



G.    PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION AND SUPERVISION
149.  Regular Bank missions will review progress in the implementation of the proposed
reform program and their outcomes. Reviews will involve Bank technical teams working in
collaboration with the Ministries of Finance and Planning, and the Central Bank, in accordance
with the responsibilities of each agency described in Annex 2. The reviews will assess
compliance with conditionalities and with the fiduciary responsibilities of the Borrower. Bank
reviews will also consider the effective implementation of social programs that have been
protected under this loan.
H.    COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES
150.  The Loan complies with all applicable Bank policies.
1.    DISBURSEMENTS, AUDITING AND FIDUCIARY ENVIRONMENT
151.  The Loan would disburse under the Bank's provision for fast disbursing operations.
Disbursement will be the result of the compliance of conditionality for PEFL 2 presented in
Annex 2. The flow of funds would follow procedures now well established under prior
programmatic adjustment loans.
* The Bank deposits the proceeds in a Government's account at Banco do Brasil, New York;
* The proceeds enter into the Central Bank of Brazil's International Reserve Account,
denominated in dollars;
* The Central Bank enters the counterpart proceeds, denominated in domestic currency, into
the Government's account at the Central Bank (the Conta Unica do Tesouro). This account
earns the average yield of Treasury bills at the Central Bank;
* The Conta Unica do Tesouro has a classification of the funds by revenue source. The
domestic currency proceeds at the Government's account at the Central Bank are classified as
Resources from Foreign Credit (account item no. 148).
152.  The Bank may require audits of the account into which the proceeds of the loan will be
disbursed.
153.  As discussed in more detail in the 2002 CAS Progress Report, Brazil has a supportive
fiduciary environment for the proposed operation. Furthermore, the Government is engaged in a
process of strengthening it expenditure review, financial management, and auditing functions.
The Bank has been supporting several related initiatives.
* The Federal Government has consolidated effective and transparent expenditure planning,
budgeting, and financial management systems over the last years. These systems include
multi annual planning (Plano Plurianual - PPA), strategic budget planning, the annual law of
budget guidelines, and the budget law itself. The monitoring and evaluation system of the
PPA constitutes a framework for gradually institutionalizing public expenditure review that
are built into the regular planning and budgeting cycle.
53



o The Bank, in coordination with the Brazilian Govermment, has concluded the Country
Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) that reviews the systems and procedures used
by the GoB at the national level to budget, expend, account for, report on, and audit the use
of funds approved in the annual budget. This review concludes that the Brazilian system of
public financial management provides reliable information. Adequate systems exist to
manage and track the receipt and use of funds at the national level an there is a high level of
fiscal transparency, both of which would support any program of adjustment lending. The
risk to both Bank and country funds is low.
o  In specific areas, the Bank also supports borrowers in their procurement systems. Regarding
Bank-financed projects in general, the Brasilia-based implementation team continues to
support and underpin high standards with respect to financial management, procurement, and
accountability.
J.    ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES
154.  The proposed loan focuses on economic management issues and is classified as a SAL
without an environmental impact category. However, the broader programmatic framework
includes policy areas, such as public expenditure management, which have important
environmental linkages.  An environmental analysis of several areas covered by the
programmatic framework was therefore carried out. The main findings are that, during the fiscal
adjustment, aggregate expenditures on environmental programs apparently did not change much,
although there was significant reallocation across programs and areas, and from the Environment
Ministry to other government bodies. This - as well as some restructuring of MMA - appears to
reflect an emphasis that government bodies other than MMA should play a larger role in the
protection of the environment, since policies in many sectors have environmental impacts. The
reallocation of environmental expenditure allocations across ministries was facilitated by the
new and flexible budgeting system introduced by the government since 2000, which emphasized
the cross-cutting roles played by different government ministries. Nevertheless, the reallocation
of funds has caused a number of programs to be cut, and it is possible that the funding for more
of these programs could have been maintained without fiscal adjustment. However, cuts in
discretionary spending, including some environmental expenditures, were also a necessity of the
fiscal adjustment supported by this loan. They are a product of the structural constraint of the
Brazilian budget characterized by the excessive level of statutory rigidity and the government's
announced commitment to protect social expenditures from budget cuts.
K.    RISKS
155.  One risk of the proposed operation is that the legislation submitted to Congress, in
particular tax reform legislation, would not be approved. While this risk exists, it should be
recognized that, unlike attempts by the previous Government to introduce tax reform legislation
to Congress, the current process of consensus building on social security and tax reforms,
involving agreements with State Governors and within the new Council for Economic and Social
Development, reduces the risk substantially and makes timely approval of reforms very likely.
Also, the recent approval of the Amendment to Constitutional Article 192 demonstrates the
political support the Government currently commands in Congress.  Based on these
54



considerations, as well as the importance of the proposed reforms, and the overall progress of the
Government program, this risk is considered acceptable.
156.   A second risk is that new negative shocks could undermine debt sustainability. If in such
a downside scenario, Brazil failed to increase the primary surplus suitably, the perception that the
debt may not be sustainable would result in higher spreads and make the situation worse. To
incorporate uncertainty into the debt sustainability exercise, stress tests of the debt dynamics
were performed. The object of the stress testing exercise is to see how the net public debt path
changes when extreme, but possible, events shock the system (see Annex on Fiscal
Sustainability).
157.   The stress scenario is built upon the 10 percent confidence level shocks for most
variables.39 Under such a bleak scenario (which, with ninety percent probability, would not
materialize), the exchange rate would depreciate and lead to higher inflation, under the
assumption of a 40 percent pass-through in the following year.40 The variables were shocked in
2003 and returned to their steady state level through time: It was assumed that growth would
stabilize at about 2 percent per year, and spreads would decrease given that the debt is
permanently increasing. The real interest rate is assumed to remain at 12 percent throughout the
simulation period, and the real exchange rate is assumed to remain constant after the shock.4' In
this scenario, a 4.25 percent of GDP primary surplus would not be enough to stabilize the
debt/GDP ratio, which would increase somewhat over the next few years without further action
(see Annex on Fiscal Sustainability). Even in this bleak scenario, the worsening debt-to-GDP
ratio trend could be arrested, through decisive action by the government - for example, through
the attainment of an even higher primary surplus.
158.   Since 1999, Brazil has built a track record of quick fiscal policy responses to negative
shocks. The Government's commitment to adjusting the fiscal stance to changing circumstances
in order to stabilize the debt ratio is credible. Thus, even if the bleak scenario described in the
previous paragraph were to materialize, the country's previous track record indicates that further
adjustments would be undertaken by the government in order to control the situation. The current
fiscal stance represents a careful balance between the need for a sufficient safety margin to
accommodate negative shocks and signal to markets fiscal credibility with the need to maintain
effective public services and meet the social ambitions of the new Government, considering that
structural reforms to increase budget flexibility are aggressively pursued but will take time for
implementation.    Under these circumstances, the remaining        fiscal risks are considered
acceptable.
39 See Brazil CEM 2003 for further technical details. As a reference point, consider that financial institutions realize
the stress testing exercises with a .01 or .025 confidence level. This implies that the confidence level we are using is
not imposing extremely demanding requirements. These scenarios that consider jointly the changes in all the
variables, with changes derived from individual empirical distributions for each of the variables may be
overestimating the true likelihood of all the events happening simultaneously. However, the fact that our model
does not allow for repeated shocks in the future (since shocks in the model are uncorrelated over time) tends to
underestimate the likelihood of having a growing debt ratio in the future
40 This coefficient is in the lower bound of the estimates presented in Tables 6 and 7 of Goldfajn and Werlang
(2001); see Annex 4 which is on fiscal sustainability.
41 This assumption implies that the shocks to the real exchange rate are permanent or that are very slow to reverse.
This assumption is based on the non-rejection of the unit root hypothesis of the series, as discussed below.
Alternative exercises reported below relax this assumption.
55



159.  A final risk arises from the possibility that the central bank cannot lower interest rates
due to persistent inflationary pressures. With real interest rates in the double-digit levels, growth
will be subdued and unemployment could keep rising. Under these circumstances political
pressure could mount to change the economic strategy. In particular the discussion of Central
Bank autonomy would be difficult. Given the decisions adopted until now, it is unlikely that the
new administration will succumb to pressures to change the economic policy course, and this
risk is considered acceptable. Most importantly, the reforms supported by this loan and the
financial support provided by the loan are expected to reduce the risks discussed in this section.
56



ANNEX 1: LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Brasilia, May 2003
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
Washington, DC
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
1.    This letter of sector policy discusses progress in the economic stability program of the
Brazilian Government, especially the developments in its fiscal and debt management policy
framework. We are writing to request financial assistance from IBRD, in the form of a
programmatic adjustment loan, in support of the implementation of these policies. Brazil's Fiscal
and Federal Debt Management Reforms are central components of the Government's structural
reform program. We believe they constitute important initiatives of the Brazilian Government to
be supported by the Bank under a programmatic adjustment loan.
Macroeconomic Outlook
2.    The Brazilian economy went through intense volatility last year, especially in the second
half, as a result of the heightened risk aversion external scenario as well as of the uncertainties,
from the market perspective, regarding the Brazilian macroeconomic conditions. Such factors
were also reflected in the domestic financial market, which posed significant challenges to the
management of the public debt, and resulted in a sharp decrease in the availability of foreign
finance. The exchange rate faced heavy pressure throughout the year, resulting in a depreciation
of the real, in relation to the US dollar, of around 50%. Also, one of the most well-known
indicators of risk in the financial market almost tripled, reaching around 2,400 base points in
September last year. Although the economy successfully weathered these shocks, as reflected in
a sharp swing in the Current Account, the depreciation of the real contributed to an acceleration
of inflation which reached, as measured by the Consumer Price Index (IPCA), 12.5% per year.
The fight against inflation has, thus, been a lynchpin of the economic policy in 2003, which is
aimed at reducing inflation to the medium-term targets established by the Government.
3.    In the fiscal area, the new Government promptly announced an increase in the target for
the non-financial public sector primary surplus to 4.25% of the GDP, 0.5 percentage point above
the previous target. The strengthened fiscal effort is being made mainly through a substantial cut
in expenditures, in contrast with the adjustment made during 1999-2002, which was in large part
based on new taxes or hikes on existing taxes. The Budget Guidelines Law (Lei de Diretrizes
Or,amentarias - LDO), submitted to Congress in April 2003, strengthened the fiscal framework,
by setting the primary target for 2004-2006 at 4.25% of GDP, the same as for this year. The need
for achieving these targets is easily understood when consideration is given to the value of the
public debt in relation to GDP. The Government understands that the current high levels of this
ratio is an impediment to sustainable growth and an important constraint on the pursuit of social
policies aimed at reducing the income disparities that for far too long have marked Brazilian
57



society. The maintenance of a surplus of 4.25% of GDP will be vital for achieving a reduction in
the debt-to-GDP ratio to about 50% in 2006, permitting an important drop vis-a-vis the peak of
63% reached in the second half of 2002.
4.    Aiming at reverting the inflationary expectations, Banco Central do Brasil adopted a
restrictive monetary policy, increasing the yearly basic interest rate by 8.5 percentage points, to
26.5%, as well as increasing the reserve requirements on cash deposits starting from the third
quarter of 2002. On the other hand, in the face of last year's exceptionally adverse external
scenario, the inflation targets for 2003 and 2004 were increased to 8.5% and 5.5%, respectively.
The previous targets were 4% and 3.75%, with a 2.5-point tolerance margin above and below.
The objective of such an adjustment is to allow the convergence of inflation to the medium term
targets in the longer term.
5.    The exchange rate devaluation and the consequent adjustment of relative prices had a
noteworthy positive .impact in the balance of payments. The current accQunt deficit sharply
decreased from 4.5% of the GDP in 2001 to 1.7% in 2002, mainly as a result of the commercial
surplus, which increased to US$ 13.1 billion. For 2003, conservative official projections estimate
a surplus of US$ 16 billion, which would result in a current account deficit of 1% of the GDP. It
is noteworthy that such an important external adjustment was achieved contemporaneously to
GDP growth, reflecting a swing in external accounts resulting chiefly from changes in relative
prices rather than a compression of domestic demand. Real GDP growth in Brazil was 1.5% in
2002, with growth in 2003 projected at around 2%. With the consistency of the fiscal and
monetary policies, the adjustment in the balance of payments and the major reforms announced
by the Government, the risk perception of foreign and domestic investors fell substantially,
falling below 800 basis points. The reduction in the risk perception fostered the resumption of
foreign financing and an appreciation of the exchange rate of about 17% since the end of last
year. The inflation rate, although still high, is clearly on a downward trend. The projection of the
IPCA inflation for April is 1%, compared to 3% in November last year.
6.    The performance of the main economic indicators in the first months of this year
indicates that the Government has adopted adequate policies. The Government is also strongly
committed to a broad reform agenda, including changes in taxes, social security and capital
markets, with a view to ensure the resumption of sustainable and balanced economic growth with
more equitable social impacts. The tax reform presented to Congress, further detailed below as
part of the proposed operation, aims chiefly at improving the efficiency of the Brazilian tax
system, while promoting economic growth and job creation, and reducing inequality. To ensure
the sustainability of public finances, while improving equity in public spending, the Government
is committed to reducing the structural imbalance of the social security system for public
servants. Currently, this imbalance is of the order of 4 percent of GDP. To address this issue, a
Draft Constitutional Amendment was submitted to Congress at end-April. This Draft
Constitutional Amendment comprises, among others, proposals to double the minimum period of
affiliation entitling public servants to a pension, and to change the basis for calculating
retirement benefits from the last salary to the net average salary; it also envisages reducing the
benefit of future survivor pensions from 100 of percent to 70 percent of the reference salary.
Once approved, the social security reform will bring long-lasting benefits to the public accounts,
while providing more equity between public and private pensions. The financial market reforms
envisaged by the Government, an important element for a solid financial intermediation,
58



comprises the proposal to Congress of a Draft Bankruptcy Law, measures to enhance the
autonomy of Banco Central do Brasil, as well as a set of regulatory measures aiming at
improving credit guarantees and the functioning of lending markets.
7.    Given the hard fiscal constraints to be faced in the next years, improving the quality of
public expenditures, particularly in terms of their efficiency and targeting, has become a key
challenge and priority of the Brazilian Government. Regarding efficiency, new methods of
results-oriented management by programs are gradually spreading throughout the federal public
administration, and coordination and cooperation have improved among the key central agencies
involved in public expenditure management. The Government also recognizes that improvement
in targeting social expenditures to achieve greater social impact is an important challenge to be
tackled over the medium term. The new Pluriannual Plan - PPA for 2004-2007, now being
prepared, will constitute the guide for Brazil's public expenditure programs over the next four
years. The Plan would signal the Government's strategic priorities, to be embedded within a
consistent macroeconomic and fiscal framework, as well as in annual budgets.  The
institutionalization of the annual PPA evaluation is viewed as an important step towards
improving the quality of decision-making on public policy and expenditure choices, as well as a
better integration of the planning, budgeting and management of federal programs. The
Government is also looking into developing an institutionalized process of regular public
spending reviews as an integral part of the annual budget decision-making process. An
important medium-term agenda is to analyze options to reduce budgetary rigidities related to
expenditures and revenues. In this regard, the Government is proposing to extend the
Desvincula!do de Receitas da Uniao (DRU) and intends to explore other measures over the
medium term.
Fiscal and Federal Debt Management Reforms
8.    The Brazilian Government is fully committed to the sustainability of public finances, in
order to provide a macroeconomic environment conducive to growth and the reduction of
poverty and inequality. This is the overall objective of its fiscal policies and of the reforms that
are being openly discussed with Congress and the society. One of the main objectives of
Brazil's fiscal policy is to make public finances, and hence the economy, more resilient to
shocks. To do so, the Government's strategy is to further advance in developing institutions to
ensure a better quality of fiscal adjustment. Brazil has taken major strides already. Particularly
noteworthy is the adoption of, and consistent compliance with, the Fiscal Responsibility Law
(LRF) which, among other benefits, has helped to keep public debt growth in check and to create
a new culture of accountability among those responsible for public spending. In our determined
adherence to the principles of fiscal responsibility in addition to other important reforms referred
to above, it is our intention to further strengthen the advances in the debt management and
taxation areas, mainly along three dimensions: (i) reducing uncertainty regarding fiscal policy
decision-making; (ii) reforming the tax system; and (iii) reducing the risk profile of public debt.
i) Reducing Uncertainty in Fiscal Policy Decision-Making Process
9.    To minimize uncertainty arising from the fiscal policy decision-making process, we
intend to continue clarifying fiscal policy objectives and the instruments and indicators to
monitor progress toward the objectives. This approach is already embedded in the recent
submission to Congress of the draft law of budget guidelines (Lei de Diretrizes Orqamentarias
59



2004). Our aim is to ensure that public policy is not a contributing factor to accentuate output
fluctuations, but a means to guarantee access of the public sector to adequate financing
resources, under all circumstances, in order to allow the Government to perform its essential
activities without inefficient disruptions. In this context, it is our intention to guide fiscal policy
with the long-run objective of ensuring sustainability of the public debt.
10.   To guarantee debt sustainability, the Government has adopted an intermediate objective
of reducing the net public debt to around 50 percent of GDP by 2006. A strong primary fiscal
surplus will be the main policy tool towards achieving this end. With the announced targets of
4.25 percent of GDP for the primary surplus, we believe that the intermediate objective regarding
the debt ratio can be achieved in the next three years. However, if unforeseen circumstances lead
to deviations from the trajectory towards this objective, we would take measures to stay on
course.
11.   In order to ensure the meeting of such a debt to GDP ratio, and to set and implement new
and lower debt targets, the Government intends to continue studying, in the design of its fiscal
policy, rules that combines the long tern objective of public debt sustainability with the short
term objective of reducing pro-cyclical bias in fiscal policy. Additionally, the Government
intends to continue strengthening the institutional framework for ensuring prudent fiscal policies.
12.   Responsible fiscal management has permeated all levels of government in Brazil. At the
level of the 27 States (including the Federal District), only eight of them ran primary surpluses in
1998, but that number had risen to 21 by 2001. Our objective is to continue promoting
institutional strengthening and maintenance of fiscal responsibility at the State level, which
should lead to a greater number of States generating primary surpluses. Similarly, the current
average ratio of net debt to net revenue for States is already at 1.6, much lower than the ceiling
of 2 established though Senate Resolution 43. We believe conditions are favorable for this ratio
to stabilize or show a small decline in coming years.
ii) Reforming the Tax System
13.   To ensure sustainability of public finances, in addition to the reforms in the capital
markets and social security areas referred to above, the Government's strategy in the near-term is
to focus on reducing the burden of an overly complex tax system and the risks of damaging tax
competition among States and the Federal District. Accordingly, following an unprecedented
meeting with the States and Federal District Governors and broad consultation with society, a
Draft Law was submitted to Congress setting the backbone of a tax reform. The proposed Law,
would convert turnover taxes (such as PIS/PASEP and COFINS) into value added taxes, unify
ICMS tax legislation and rates across states, make room for substituting payroll taxes with a
value added tax, and set the path for the gradual reduction of the debit tax (CPMF) rate; these
will have an important impact on economic efficiency in the next few years.
iii) Reducing the Risk Profile of Public Debt and Fostering Development of Markets
for Government Securities.
Governance of Debt Management Process
14.   The Government intends to continue conducting its debt management within a
framework that grants an important role to diminishing risks, in addition to cost considerations. It
60



also intends to continue strengthening the governance arrangements and high standards of
transparency and accountability that have steered the decision making process in this area.
15.   The overall objective of the Government's debt management is to reduce over time the
exposure to rollover, interest rate and exchange rate risks, while ensuring-under a prudent
standard-the lowest financing costs to the Treasury. The current agenda for Government debt
management-which is underpinned by the envisioned maintenance of a strong and permanent
primary fiscal surplus-includes a number of actions with respect to organizational and
governance arrangements, as well as debt management strategy.
16.   Regarding the organizational and governance arrangements, we intend to formalize over
the next few years the organization and functions of the Debt Management Committee within the
Secretaria do Tesouro Nacional (STN). In addition, the establishment of a Public Debt Council
(PDC) is being considered. Among the functions for the PDC under consideration would be the
approval of the Govemment's debt management strategy and the associated Annual Borrowing
Plans. These new governance arrangements-and the transparency and accountability standards
they entail-will further enhance the existing process of formulation, approval, monitoring, and
evaluation of the Government's debt management strategy. Also, as envisioned under the Fiscal
Responsibility Law, the issuance and management of the Government's external debt, which at
present are handled by Banco Central do Brasil, should be moved to and consolidated at the
Secretaria do Tesouro Nacional. Improvements on the techniques used to set and implement the
strategy for managing the public debt will continue to be pursued, including those regarding how
best to incorporate the different risk dimensions influencing the annual borrowing plans.
Fostering Development of the Market for Government Debt
17.   Efforts to strengthen the governance and strategy for debt management have to be
complemented by a structured and well-sequenced approach to the development of the local
government debt markets. To this end, our action plan focuses on three key and complementary
strategic dimensions: (i) designing and implementing a more explicit short- and medium-term
domestic debt issuance strategy (necessary to enhance transparency and predictability); (ii)
broadening of the institutional and retail investor base and increasing its diversity (necessary to
enhance demand in the primary market); and (iii) fostering greater liquidity in local secondary
markets for government debt.
18.   As regards the development of a more explicit and predictable debt issuance program, as
outlined in our Annual Borrowing program and mentioned earlier, the Government is setting
target ranges consistent with reducing the proportion of dollar-linked and SELIC-indexed debt
issued. To reinforce this, the Front Office of the Debt Management Office is beginning to
develop a detailed short-term and medium-term domestic debt issuance program, consistent with
the debt management objectives. That should lead to the gradual establishment of more liquid
benchmarks and an associated yield curve. In particular, the Government is interested in
developing a program for the regular issuance of Treasury Bills (LTNs), without losing sight of
the end of the yield curve.
19.   The Government is also focusing increased attention on improving the structure and
resilience of the end-investor base. This effort would be necessary to enhance the market for
61



government securities. This strategy would also increase the ability of institutional investors to
more effectively disclose and manage risks.
20.   The Brazilian Government plans to address theses issue in several ways. Regulatory
oversight by Comissao de Valores Mobiliarios CVM (the Brazilian securities commission) will
be increasingly important. In line with this objective, the Government has developed a
Memorandum of Understanding between CVM and Banco Central do Brasil, designed to permit
explicit resource sharing. Going forward, the Government is considering the establishment of an
inter-agency team to assist CVM in developing a new regulatory framework for equity and fixed-
income funds (including hedge funds).
21.   The Government is also considering options to broaden the investor base and increase
competition for savings products by further developing the Treasury Direct, a system that allows
retail investors to buy Government securities over the internet. To this end, the Government is
exploring ways to allow a broader group of institutions to distribute Government securities
through linkages to the Treasury Direct system. To further support liquidity, to increase
competition, and improve the price-finding process of public debt, the Government is
considering the introduction, in the near term, of a new two-tiered primary dealer system
(specialists and primary dealers).
Request for Financial Assistance
22.   The Government remains firnly committed to its program of reforms as outlined above
and would welcome World Bank financial assistance. We appreciate the prompt consideration of
the second programmatic adjustment loan in the fiscal and debt management sectors, in support
of the measures that have already been enacted and are under implementation. We look forward
to working together with the Bank on other proposed future loans as further progress in these
areas takes place.
Yours sincerely,
Antonio Palocci
Minister of Finance*
Original signed version of Letter of Development Policy in Portuguese available in project files.
62



GABINETE DO      MINISTRO
Carta MF n00D3/03
Brasilla, O9 de maio de 2003
Excelentissimo Senhor
Dr. James D. Wolfensohn
Presidente
Banco Mundial
Washinglon, D.C., E.UA.
Prezado Senhor Wolfensohn,
Esta carta de poirtica setorial aborda os progressos no programa de estabilidade do
Govemo brasileiro, especialmente os desenvolvimentos no seu conjunto de politicas fiscais e de
gerenciamento da dfvida. Escrevemos para solicitar a assistencia financeira do BIRD na forma de
um emprestimo programatico de ajuste e em apoio A implementaeAo dessas politicas. As Reformas
Fiscal e do Gerenciamento da Divida brasileiras sAo componentes centrais do programa de
reformas estruturais do Govemo. Acreditamos que elas constituem iniciativas importantes do
Governo brasileiro para serem apoladas pelo Banco por intermmdio de um emprestimo
programAtico de ajuste.
Panorama Macroecon6mico
2. ' A economia brasileirataTravesou intensa volatilidade no ano passado, especialmente no
segundo semestre, como resultado de um cenario extemo de elevada aversao a risco e tamb6m
das incertezas, na perspectiva do mercado, relativas As condi9ges macroecon6micas brasileiras.
Esses fatores tamb6m se refletiram no mercado financeiro dom6stico, o que gerou importantes
desafios A gerencia da divida puiblica, e na forte redugao da disponibilidade de financiamento
extemo. A taxa de cAmblo foi fortemente pressionada durante o ano, resultando em uma
desvalorizaQAo do real, em relacao ao d6lar norte-americano, de aproximadamente 50%.
Adicionalmente, um dos mais conhecidos indicadores de risco no mercado financeiro praticamente
triplicou, atingindo a aproximadamente 2.400 pontos base em setembro do ano passado. Apesar
de a economia ter Udo sucesso em absorver esses choques, atraves de uma forte melhora na
conta corrente, a desvolorzagao do real contrbuiu para a aceleracao da inflagao, que atingiu,
conforme medido pelo Indice de Precos ao Consumidor Ampliado (IPCA), 12,5% ao ano. A luta
contra a inflagAo conslilui, porlanlo, um dos elementos centrals da politica econ6mica em 2003,
que visa A convergAncia das taxas de inflagao em direcAo As metas de medio prazo estabelecidas
pelo Govemo                  -
3.     Na 6rea fiscal, o novo Governo prontamente anunciou um aumento da meta de superAvit
primrario do setor publico nao financeiro para 4,25% do PIB, correspondendo a um incremento de
0,5 ponto percentual relatUvamente a meta anteror. 0 ampliado esforco fiscal esta sendo feito
principalmente por intermrdio de um corte substancial das despesas, contrastando com o ajuste
feito no perfodo 1999-2002, que foi em grande parte baseado em novos tributos ou no aumento de
tributos existentes. 0 Projeto de Lei de Diretrizes OrgamentArlas (LDO), submetido ao Congresso
em abril de 2003, reforcou o comprometimento do Govemo com o ajuste fiscal estabelecendo a
meta primaria para 2004-2006 tambem em 4,25% do PIB. A necessidade de atingir essas metas 6
facilmente compreendida quando se leva em consideracao o volume da divida pCwblica em rela.Ao



ao PIB. 0 Govemo entende que o atual nivel dessa rela,c3o divida/PlB diflculta o desenvolvimento
sustentavel e 6 um importante limitador na busca de politicas soclais voltadas A redu,Ao das
disparidades de renda que por tAo longo tempo tem marcado a sociedade brasileira. A manutengao
de um superavit de 4,25% do PIB sera vital para reduzir a rela,ao dividatPIB para
aproximadamente 50% em 2006, permnitindo uma importante diminuigao em rela,ao ao pico de
63% alcancado no segundo semestre de 2002.
4.     Visando reverter as expectativas inflacionarias, a Banco Central do Brasil adotou uma
polltica monetaria restritiva em relagAo ao terceiro trimestre de 2002, aumentando a taxa de juros
basica em 8,5 pontos percentuais, para 26,5% a.a., e, tambem, aumentando o dep6sito
compuls6rio para dep6sitos A vista. Por outro lado, tendo em vista o cenario extemo
excepdonalmente adverso, as metas de infla,io para 2003 e 2004 foram elevadas para 8,5% e
5,5 %, respectivamente. As metas anteriores eram 4% e 3,75%, com margem de 2,5 pontos acima
e abaixo. 0 objetivo desse ajuste fol permitir a convergencia da infla,ao As metas de medio prazo
em um periodo major.
5.    A desvalonza9Ao do real e os conseqOentes ajustes dos pregos relativos resultaram em um
impacto positivo e relevante sobre a balanca de pagamentos. 0 d6ficit de conta corrente decresceu
fortemente de 4,5% do PIB em 2001 para 1,7% em 2002, principalmente como resultado do
superivit comercial, que aumentou de US$ 2.6 bilh6es para US$ 13 bilh6es. Para 2003, projeg6es
oficlais conservadoras estimam um superavit comercial de US$ 16 bilh8es, o que resultarla em um
d6ficit de conla corrente pr6xlmo a 1% do PIB. Merece reglstro que esse importante ajuste extemo
fol alcanradp, conjuntamente ao crescimento do PIB, Indicando que a mudan,a nas contas
extemas resu,tou principalmente da altera,co nos pre,os relativos e nao da compressao da
demanda dom6slica. 0 crescimento real do PIB no Brasil fol de 1,5% em 2002, com crescimento
em 2003 projelado pars aproximadamente 2%. Com a consistAncia das politicas monetaria e
fiscal, o ajuste no balan,o de pagamentos e as principais refofmas anunciadas pelo Govemo, a
percepgao d# risco dos investidores domasticos e extemos caiu substancialmente, atingindo
menos de 800 pontos base. A redu,ao na percepiao de risco incentivou a relomada dos
financlamenlos extemos e uma valorizago da taxa de cambio de aproximadamente 17% desde o
final do ano passado. A taxa de infla,ao, apesar de iinda alta, esta claramente com uma ten,dencia
declinante. A projecAo da taxa mensal de infla,co medida pelo IPCA em abril A de 1%, comparada
a 3% em novembro do ano passado.
6.     0 desempenho dos principals indicadores econ6micos nos primeiros meses deste ano
demonstra que o Oovemo adotou as politlcas adequadas. 0 Govemo tambem esta fortemente
comprometido com uma ampla agenda de reforrnas, inclulndo mudan,as na tributa,co, previdencia
social e mercado de capitais, com vistas a assegurar a retomada sustentavel e equilibrada do
crescimento econ6mico com mais equidade social. A reforma tributaria apresentada ao Congresso,
mais detalhada abaixo como parte da operac,o proposta, objetiva principalmente melhorar a
efcidencia do sistema tributaio brasileiro enquanto promove o crescimento econ6mico, gera,co de
empregos e reduqQq da desigualdade. Para assegurar a sustentabilidade das finan,as pOblicas,
enquanto melhora a equidade nos gastos publicos, o Govemo esta comprometido em reduzir o
desequilibro estrutural do sistema de previdencia social dos funcionafos publicos. Atualmente
esse desequil(brib 6 da ordem de 4% do PIB. Para cuidar dessa questao, um Projeto de Emenda
Constitucional foa apresentado ao Congresso' no final de abril. Esse Projeto compreende, entre
outras, propostas para dobrar o perfodo de servigo para os funcionarios publicos terem direito A
pens3a, mu4ar a base de cAlculo dos benefcicos das aposentadorlas, do ultimo salario para o
salario m6dio liquido: tarnb6m pretende reduzir os beneficios futuros do ,cnjuge sobrevivente de
100% para 70% do salArio de refer6ncia. Uma vez aprovada, a refomna da previdencia trara
benefidos dur,douros as contas publicas, ao mesmo tempo permitindo maior equidade entre as
pens6es pblikas e privadas. A reforma do mercado financeiro planejada pelo Govemo, um
importante elemenlo para uma s6lida intermrediacAo financeira, compreende a proposic,o ao
Congresso de um Projeto de Lei de falenclas, medidas para aumentar a autonomia do Banco



Central do Brasil, bem como um conjunto de medidas regulat6rias visando o aperfeigoamento das
garantias de credito e o funcionamento dos mercados de emprAstlmo.
7.     Dadas as fortes restri96es fiscais a serem enfrentadas nos pr6ximos anos, melhorar a
qualidade do gasto piblico, particularmente em termos da sua eflcidncda e direcionamento, tomou-
se uma prioddade e um dos prncipais desaflos do Govemo bresileiro. No aspecto da eficiAncia,
novos metodos de gerencda orientada a resuHtados por programas estao gradualmente sendo
adotados por toda a administracao p6b]ica federal, e a coordenag,o e coopera,ao melhoraram
entre os principais 6rgr3os envolvidos no gerenciamento do gasto publico. 0 Govemo tarnbem
reconhece que o aperfei,oamento na alocagio de gastos soclals para atingir melhores resuNtados
e um importante desaflo a ser.enfrentado no medio prazo. 0 nova Plano Plurianual - PPA para
2004-20D7, agora sendo preparado, constituira o gula para os programas brasiteiros de gasto
publico nos pr6ximos quatro anos. 0 Plano sinalizara as prioridades estrategicas do Govemo, a
serem  inlegraclas em uma estrutura Macroecon6mica e fiscal consistentes, bem como nrs
oramenlos anuals. A instituclonaliza,ao da avaliapao anual do PPA e vista corno unm liportante
passo na direoao de melhorar a qualidade do processQ decis6rlo em pollticas puTblicas e da
escolha das despesas, assim como na dlre;3o de urna melhor integraoao do planejamenlo.
orpamenlagio e gerenciamenlo dos programas federals. 0 Govemo tarnbem ostA considerando
desenvolver um processo institucdonalizado de revisbes regulares das despesas publicas coma
parte Inlegral do processo decis6Aro do orgramenlo anual. Uma importante agenda para q medlo
prazo e a analise das opcoes para a reducao da rigidez orcamenlArla relacionada As despesas e
receitas~ Nesse sentildo, o Governo esta propondo prorrogar a Desvinculacao de Receitas da Unlao
(DRU) e prelende explorar outras medidas no medio prazo.
Reforrnas Fiscal e do Gerenclamento da Divida Federal
8.     0 Govemo brasileiro tem fimme compromisso com a sustentabilidade das finan9as
publicas, de maneira a oferecer um ambiente macroecon8mico que promova a crescimento e a
redu,co da pobreza e da desigualdade. Esse 6 o objetivo maior das suas politicas fiscais e das
reformas que estao sendo discutidas com o Congresso e com a sociedade de forma aberta. Um
dos principals objetivos das poifticas fiscals brasileiras e torner as finean,as pubicas, e
consequentemente a economia, mais resistente acs choques. Para esse fim, a estratbgia do
Govemo e avan,ar ainda mals no desenvolvimento das Instituic,es para assegurar um aluste fiscal
de melhor qualidade. 0 Brashi ja conqulstou avanQos importantes. Merece particular registro a
ado,co e o cumprimento consistente da Lot de Responsabilidade Fiscal (LRF) o que, entre outros
beneffcios, ajudou a manter controle sobre a divida publEca e criou uma nova cullura de
responsabilidade entre aqueles responsaveis pelas despesas publicas. Na nossa adesao
determinada aos prtnclpios da responsabilidade fiscal e adlcionalmente As Importantes refomras
referides acimna, 6 nossa lntencao aprofundar ainda mais os avan,os nas Areas de gerenclamento
da divida e trlbutacao, principalmente em trAs .dimensoes: (1) redu,co da Incerteza relativa ao
processo decis6rio da politica fiscal; (ii) reforma do sistema trlbutaino; e (Iii) redugao do perfil de
risco da divida publica.
(ij Redu;io da Incerteza no Processo Decls6rlo da Politica Fiscal
9.     Para minimizar as Incertezas decorrentes do processo decls6rlo da polftlca flscal,
pretendemos continuar a esclarecer os objetivos da politica fiscal e os Instrumentos e indicadores
para monitorar o progresso rumo aos objetivos. Essa perspectiva ja estA Incorporada na recente
proposiXo ao Congresso do Projeto de Lei de Diretrizes Orcamentarias 2004. Nosso objetivo 6
assegurar que as politicas p6iblicas nao sao um fator que contribua para acentuar flutua0oes dos
resultados, mas um melo para garantir o acesso do setor p(ublico a recursos financeiros
adequados, em todas as circunstAnclas, de forma a permltr ao Govemo desempenhar suas
atividades essencials sem interrupK6es ineficlentes. Nesse contexto, A nossa Inten,Ao orientar a
politico fiscal para o objetivo de longo prazo de assegurar a sustentabilidade da divida puiblica.



10.    Para garantir a sustentabilidade da dIvids, o Govemo adotou o objetivo intermediario de
reduzir a divida publica liquida para aproximadamente 50% do PIB ate 2006. Um forte superavit
prmaro fiscal sera a principal ferramenta de politica voltada para atingir esse fim. Com as metas
anunciadas de 4,25% do PIB para o superavit primario, acreditamos que o objetivo intermediario
relaUivo A relag,o dfvida/PIB pode ser alcangado nos pr6ximos tres anos. Entretanto, se
circunstanclas inesperadas levarem a desvios nessa trajet6ria, medidas de corre,co serAo
tomadas.
II.    De maneira a assegurar que essa relac3o divida/PIB seja atingida e que novas metas
ainda menores seJam implementadas, o Govemo pretende continuar a estudar, no desenho de
suas polfticas fiscais, regras que combinem o objetivo de longo prazo de sustentabilidade da divida
publica com a meta de curto prazo de reduzir a influencia prociclica na polftica fiscal.
Adicionalmente, o Govemo pretende continuar a reforcar a estrutura institucional encarregada de
assegurar politicas fiscais prudentes.
12.    0 gerenciamento fiscal responsavel permeou todos as esferas de govemo no Brasil. No
nivel dos 27 Estados (incluindo o Distrito Federal), apenas oito deles realizaram superAvit primrnio
emr 1998, tendo esse numero se elevado para 21 em 2001. Nosso objetivo e continuar a promover
o reforco institucional e a manutencao da responsabilidade fiscal no nivel estadual, o que levari a
um maior numero de Estados a gerar superavites primarios. Similamnente, a atual media da
relacao divida liq0ida/receita liquida para os Estados ja esta em 1,6, muito abaixo do teto de 2
estabelecido pela Resolu,ao do Senado no. 43. Acreditamos que as condic6es sao favoraveis para
que essa relacao se estabilize ou mostre algum declinlo nos pr6ximos anos.
ii) Reforma do Sistema Taibutrio
13.    Para encorajar a sustentabilidade das financas p6blicas, adicionalmente As reformas nas
Areas de mercado de capitais e previdencia mencionadas acima, a estrategia do govemo no curto
prazo esta focada em reduzir o fardo de um sistema tributario extremamente complexo e os riscos
de competig6es tributarias danosas entre os Estados e o Distrito Federal. Nesse sentido, seguindo
a uma reuniio sem precedentes com os Govemadores dos Estados e do Distrito Federal e
consultas A sociedade, um Projeto de Lel foi submetido ao Congresso estabelecendo a espinha
dorsal de uma reforma tributaria. A proposta Lei, convertendo Impostos sobre o faturamento (como
o PIS/PASEP e o COFINS) em impostos sobre o valor agregado; unificando a legislacao e as
aliquotas do ICMS para todos os Estados (incluindo o DF); abrindo a possibilidade de substituir
impostos sobre a folha de pagamentos por impostos sobre o valor agregado; e estabelecendo o
caminho para a gradual redugao da aliquota da CPMF, terA um importante impacto na eficiencia da
economia nos pr6ximos anos.
iii) Reduzindo o Perril de Risco da Divida Publica a bncentivando o Desenvolvimento
dos Mercados para os Titulos do Govemo
Governanga do processo de gerenciamento da divida
14.   0 Govemo pretende continuar a conduzir o gerenciamento da sua divida em um contexto
que incorpore explicitamente considerac6es sobre risco em adigAo a custo. Ele tambem continuara
a reforcar os arranjos de govemanra e altos padr6es de transparencia e de atribuicao de
responsabilidade que tem orientado o processo decis6rio nessa Area.
15.    0 objetivo geral do gerenciamento da divida do Govemo e reduzir progressivamente a
exposiQao aos riscos de rolagem, de taxas de juros e de taxas de cambio, ao mesmo tempo em
que assegura - seguindo padr6es prudentes - o mais baixo custo de financiamento ao Tesouro. A
atual agenda para o gerenciamento da divida do Govemo - que e apolada pela esperada
'.  d



manulencao de um forte e permanente superavit primario fiscal - inclui um conjunto de a,6es
relativas aos arranjos organizacional e de govemanca, bem como A estrat6gia de gerenciamento
da divida.
16.   Relativamente aos arranjos organizacionais e de govemanca, pretendemos formalizar nos
pr6ximos anos a organiza,co e func6es do ComReA de Gerenciamento da Divida, no Ambito da
Secretaria do Tesouro Nacional. Adiclonalmente, o estabelecimento de um Conselho da DIvida
PGblica (CDP) estA sendo considerado, Entre as func6es do CDP que estio sendo consideradas
estaria a aprovacao da estrategia do Govemo para a divida publica e os relacionados pianos
anuals de financlamento. Esses novos arranjos de govemanca - e os padr6es de transparencia e
atribuicAo de responsabilidade que eles imp6oem - aperfeicoarao ainda mais o atual processo de
formula,co, aprovacao, mon-toramento e avaliacao da estrategla do Govemo para o
gerenciamento da divida. Adicionalmente, conforrne previsto na Lei de Responsabilidade Fiscal, a
emissAo e gerencia da divida extema do Govemo, que presentemente e feita pelo Banco Central
do Brasil. devera ser consolidada e transferida A Secretaria do Tesouro Nacional.
Aperfeigoamenlos nas tecnicas usadas para definir e implementar a esirategia para o
gerenciamento da divida publica deverao continuar a ser buscados. inclusive com relacao A melhor
forma de incorporar as diferentes dimensoes de risco que influenciam os planos anuais de
financdamento.
Incentivando o Desenvolvimento do Mercado para ritulos do Govemo
17.    Esfor,os para aperfeipoar a govemanga e a estrategla para o gerenciamento da divida
devem ser complementados pelo desenvolvimento estruturado e bem seqaenciado dos mercados
para a divida dos govemos locals. Com essa finalidade, nosso piano de acao define tres
dimens6es estrategicas principais e complementares: (1) desenho e implementacAo de uma
estrategia de emissAo de divida de curto e medio prazos (necessarla para aumentar a
transparencia e previsibilidade); (ii) ampliacao da base de Investidores institucionais e de varejo e
aumento da sua diversidade (necessario para ampliar a demanda no mercado primario); e (ii)
incentivo A maior liquidez nos mercados secundarlos locais para dividas do Govemo.
18.   Relativamente ao desenvolvimento de um programa de emissao de divida mais explicito e
previsivel, conforme esbo,ado em nosso programa anual de financiamento e mencionado
anteriormente, o Govemo estA estabelecendo metas consistentes com a reduq,o da proporcAo de
emiss6es de divida indexadas ao d6lar e indexadas A SELIC. Para reforgar, o Front Office da
unidade de gerenciamento da divida esta iniciando o desenvolvimento de um detalhado programa
de emiss8es domesticas de divida de curto e medio prazo, consistente com os objetivos de
gerenciamento da divida. A implementacAo desse programa de emissao deveria levar ao
estabelecimento gradual de indicadores de malor liquidez - e uma curva de rentabilidade
associada. Particularmente, o Govemo esta interessado em desenvolver um programa para a
emlssAo regular de Titulos do Tesouro (LTNs), sem perder de vista a construcao de uma curva de
rentabilidade.
19.   0 Govemo esta tambem focalizando crescente atencao em melhorar a estrutura e
elasticidade da base de investUdores finais. Este esforco sera necessario para fortalecer o mercado
de Titulos do Govemo. Essa estrategia tambem ampliaria a capacidade dos investidores
institucionais de informar e gerenciar rsco.
20.    0 Govemo brasileiro planeja enfrentar essas quest6oes de diversas maneiras. A supervisAo
regulat6ria pela Comissao de Valores Mobiliarios - CVM sera crescentemente importante. Em linha
com esse objetivo, o Govemo desenvolveu um Memorando de Entendimentos entre a CVM e o
Banco Central do Brasil desenhado para permitir explicito intercAmblo de informa,ao. Mais alem, o
Govemo esta considerando o estabelecimento de uma equipe inter-agencias para assessorar r
I 



CVM no desenvolvimento de uma nova estrutura regulamentar para fundos de a,6es e de renda-
fixa (incluindo fundos de hedge).
21.    0 Govemo tambem estA considerando altemativas para ampliar a base de Investidores e
aumentar a concorrnncia par instrumentos de poupan,a pelo desenvolvimento adicional do
Tesouro Direto, um sistema que permite investidores no varejo comprar Titulos do Govemo pela
intemet. Com essa finalidade, o Govemo estA planejando explorar meios de permitir a um grupo
mais amplo de institul6es distribuir os Titulos do Governo por intemmedio de ligag6es com o
sistema do Tesouro Direto. Para dar ainda mais liquidez, aumentar a competl,io e melhorar o
processo de defini,co de pre,o da divida p6blica, o Govemo esta considerando a introdu,co, em
breve, de um novo sistema de distibuldores primarios em duas faixas (distribuidores especialistas
e primarios).
SolicitagAo de Assistrncia Financeira
22.    0 Govemo permanece firmiemente comprometido com seu programa de refornas
dellneado acima e apreciaria a assistencla financeira do Banco Mundial. Agradecemos a pronta
consideracao do segundo emprestimo programntico nos setores fiscal e de gerenciamento da
divida, em apoio As medidas que ja foram adotadas e As que estgo sendo implementadas.
Contamos com a oportunidade de trabalhar conjuntamente com o Banco em futuros emprestimos
conforme os progressos em outras Areas forem verificados.
Atenclosamento
ntonio Palocci
Min    da Fazenda



2:, 'o 0
r- (U
40,
tl L4      -0     4) o        7Z;0
bo    z-          Z -,= .2
'=A,  C:  0     W)      C's
C,    EL0   m  . 4..                  0
0 =         to (U .0  r-   -
In          ti 0   =    Z
o to r. o        EjEE    w,    Q = r- el
u   u u   CD      .0             cco (A
'r-O EZ 0 0
4) .0 (U
en -uCo .0            50
C= Ca     7i                       u-0-
w.
C> 0       ,
cn cq             C,3  0       0
C', C,
co              .0  cqs0 u u  (A             U (u
u                      cqs
0       C..
0             rA
75             w         (U   tu
w          n   V)
'o
r
t v            >
S o          2               0 =>
cd   C-t :,:, 0.0.0        9--0
4.  U            w
7; a: au
Zo
0   cli   0 -g                 0     -0
4 U 0       E                   (A
14
I                   75       0
U                      CZ
cd00      'O    V)
Em U>-,  Ili -CL) Ei O' -00  ta.   6   O0 =O-m -0
.0,     U       C's > .0  0   U_ m                         cts
E   .2 -0 =a         0
M   04.C  = ,       = 0 r-
0                                    04  cd ; ,, -;; c,9  >1 W 0.
Cl.U E      t. q)0-M tM = -& -,
(L)m  0-a                        0 7EL
Ei -'s=U0                                00r-
.= U-                            O      M
40.                             m         'n   0   =     .0    ciUU(L) 4.)
'; .0        'a cd -0 -00 rL    C    >-0
0                                      0r-
42 to CtS .02
cts  0                         to
Ca
m   mEi 4.m                          79
C)                      W) -0                                               U
-0>                        m   0 :3 00
En
,,  4"                                                   U  U)
0                      C,4 a= N 4"0 
Ca.              >          Ln A  o cs
V)                          ta.        R,     " 0
O              P-1         Cd
(U               w             N
M                                                                    Lh
0
CD       U                          0
CU                         C14    2                              00
P -0 .
U        tz
1-0
53
C)
U
>01                  U                                Z=    '= >
(n  6                            41 72 U O-
2     41                         0CA Z; 0.
z.                          0                            r->U
00                       >1  O
C,,              CL  U
U                  = m   .1  0.
CL. U) U  0m                    l   m
7E  5A,                       m
m                      cts
42
2
p
CZ                                  .2
0OU
:3                                0 04                               C's r-
0                               m     0. coM                        m,
fi
rA                                             'A 41  >
0   8      (U00                      (U
C>
C3
'A
m
:3             0           CA              41
V
0. 0 40.
63



cl,
In                                                                                                             (u
4                                                                                                                 t: >, iz
0          0                               0
.- C14            r- En
U      co
u      0      -   C   ,  =
Cts
0
CL                                  0      -'4                                            u              0  bD
-.: ") o
>             0          CD  >,. .,                                                   I  u
cts    Ei     =   r- '.
=       o      .0 '5  0
0   'n                                                                                          IZ
tu                &n                                                 Y) C's        0   0  Cm
tu                                 tn
0                                                  0
0
_w   u     v)      0
C*                                                            0  -  .'4=        r      U
u                                                                       to         =
4                                                                    C  r. .0          r
Cdu 10       .   -          -
 s       u .3
o c
C-1           o
C13                      co
cts
co     co
0                                                                                      CIO)m
J2
C's m
VD
44
14                  'a Us                                                                                                    ri
<           C-,
0                                                                               a
U     C'S  -0  co
ON                                      :3 (LI
L)                                                                                            U
44
LI)
ed                                            cts
0-
co     m                            0
eno                       (u         0                        m-0
0                         .0                    co ci
cq
= 'R >
C's                                 bD                           4)
0                                                                                                                   tu
E   u                 Ei Ca.
C
CZ        -    0
En     (11    (U
0                 0
m                        d                                   94 =       u
>1 0                     0                             0
co
cm                                                                                                             tu
>
0 0
-;                cqs
zi
0 r
0      u          0U      CZ
4.
EA                                                                       0
(U
o 2
0
cm
tm
64



W5
L:4 4,
0
u
E
C
u
0
a -E
;A              r
CA
0. Co L*
0
0
(U
>
tc
0
U
0
o                      o
co
C)              r. Oa                0
a                                                                             co               0      0  m             m
0            in.                 ?30
u                          0                      u             0      r-
o 0
>1                      I           'a
21.1                          co     o                   0                      M   ol 0                       u
N                   co                               V,               C: 0                                 cl
ic >,                           -0         4.'U                      u
co      5                                              4
'r               u  WI m             4i                                                                        o
r.               0  C:6                                     in
co r<  u                     >                   0      Z; 'A
S.                                                                    U
C"                                         co
40. .0   E                                    -
4)              L) 0
4.
0
Cao                 -0  0
r-        .                                                                                         .0
4.6                    0
L>
co
>                                                                                                    L4
oC-0 a)       Cd
LW
40,
Cdx
'a     IL)
rz    'a -    = '                                                                         c, 0.
tul                 EE
cd                                                                                                  Ln 06
ci
t8 co m      -a  S  m   cr                                                                                        p
u
0
.14              -   Ei
C)
0 m
o
u
CZm
v C          >
65



(A    4.                       4.   0    C.)
00     0
ct3  m            ci                cu  >1
C)             En                                                       Ei
X   2             0 o
C's r-              m    >0>                        En tl  >
o Q                    'oE0                        4.-
u                   b'D -W          0rLI]
Q               =0                   0   ,-
0r-             0m     4) CZ        0 12
.5 >
m                                 4)                  ts
u        v, cl
tzE                 .2
.P             =>
0   4m. >                cts
0                        R   w      J. 0     ta. A0I  0  u  u
41 C,3
(U      .0   0    0
0   '= .00'o        "C.)
'ao               Ei
0                        o
rn>
rm- Ei              En
ets                          LI)  = 0
a0                      00 >, 04
Cd                                      u
C'j                7U  '4  CS    4
0> >            u0 'M ,A-         0
0      0
.0             CZ            tA
U 0 C',    0
EnA'n En
04,
0             0   0      0               > (luA
ct3                                                'A
.0                                                   0
co
2 cts0                                    40 (i
ci                     0
co
'A r-    0               0 CD      .2 C             Lo 4,   r-
4                                 co -42 ;-,   0
2o
0 0          jo                            r      tn
W                                                 a)
o                                     > > >
0                             co
0        rA                        -0.= 0
0                                   0  't
cn
4) r-
cts o                  rz
-00.- V0
4. 0 In         0u
0 0                           U                              >
CW                           2 2C'S      >
eq                    'o            42)  2
>,Is                uCD      to              i 8r. 0.0 0     -0
Ei            a:
orz              '2                                  .0
M        t; t; C"
a, u     1-         0U
40                     C;
'00                              U X-
4."a,    :3 'o'                      42 .0
0                 0
co -W
'mn  t: -M '7 -2
Y=4   0   0      C
C13
Z                        ts
00                0co    0
0      co W  Ei
i .-.A  't; t;
94
C,3                          r-        M            r- r.
cn >                                   0        Q.            0 1
0 O    >                            u
Q                      v E          0
u             O        a 8 4-.      cn
C's0              'n       cn                                 0
E'O >, a,5           r
r.                           (U  Cl.                     O
0 -W
co     Ei
C',     CZ              C,  r-                  0
ci  0    U    r-       >                   E u= = 2    0
0                                      u
E >         u     0 u
Ei cr CJ  (u      >      U>       >
0               a Cl r- 0-E  Oa 4     a. U, >
ul  -    ,.-        CA
Ei         u           0 =
0        0
66



rA
VS
0
0   C
C's
CO  C
4.A                         L'i                                           00
C)
>>                                           0
to
cu                                               0
Cl. Q
C's
-= 0 1= IU   -S
IL)  v                                                 LI) r-
>                                                      0
4) in   CZ
>
x                                                    ccl
LW             C)      En CO
4) Qn                   X-,>
4a              U0
-o 0                                     (U tn
.d.-A  4a                    C'u, -0
v)  eu
4.6                  El                                             cli
0   o v     r- .                                 03
bj) oz                                 15
M
co u
c >
0 0                   Cd
C's                   ci  x
C) .0  CZ  co
4.6        co -5j-x               0.     >1                    =
'a 0
2         C,0
u ai CZ                                       C3
u   tw      u     c- 10 >                              eq     E
r
QQ.
U72 r-    u >                                    0 LZ
CO-W
8                                4
x
m     C). N  -,a)  cd
x               co  co                           -,Z3
00
O 0   en
clu               =
C: cn                                  .4  ;zi
--0 0a-=        r.m :.,>
10 .0 =
>
0T                > 7i                                     Co
u
0         71 O  tb
0LnuEi r-
0
0u
ci0
e4
ci
Pk
0ctj ce
(u
4.
CZ      C's
cts
u
M*    -0      w
Q               0C
u               cj-
Ei    4.)                              ci
Lt    0   ,
00
>
r                    0                                 4.6
Zo, r- to
tz
-0  P                                                 r
cts
E                                    C's
r
67



C13
u
-o                VI co
en
O
C)       CD
c j   C?
-0      'Z',:v    8  v .8 8,
Om bo.2 o   IZO (n 0
0    C14 0    cq
0          <   L   <
oo                   to
rlu                 r-
C's> A,
0 0
0        bo          0
VI
4.          >
to    c Z:
c     bo    O
40.
0  g             -0
4)
>
0r
.0
v                          O 03
A                          -  -        &    0 0
0
4 -c    4.
Q 0
0 m                     '5
.14
.4          La
04                                  Ei 2  --          m
>
0                         0            0  Cd
O " =
O
ft=4                                                                    0CA                  (U
rA                                                                                             -O O
Ei                              CO -Z 'm       0 r.       c/)
0              C)
oio   0              VJ 42 .     -
-0 cor-
ei >                         w IL)            (A
t;                  co                M M.-             co r- co      lu O
= 0 r-     lu
Ei          E  z
4)
A. tu
LM                          (L)       w              CZ O
2 0               O                               >
A
<
40,
ts E0.      0     bo
0     =     0 0     0
tn    - Ei0
42 -0
(U                  >
:3   N   5                                     r- co
Ei
ra                                                        5,VI
CL    0     2       "
7;         7Z
0                      u
Cd         C'sI     C-0
0
41 0
0
'c        CO    .2     2 <
>
to co m
r :3       14
co   Z   w                                  0.
> uO     squ
cj          2 =      ?:, -r
bo
20 m .0       'S lul
68



45
W
co     u
U >
.4
Oa        co
mv 'ot
r-0                    m  co
01) r-
152     -
4.0     78                        00. 0                                                                                     0   j
x        Jo,   u
>
u             r
a            E3                                                               m
CL.
ED     E     CG -.5       C4
>
W4
E 0
LV        M  >,                                                     m
C,3                          C4n              (A
W                        co                                            0            r-                   r-
U                      U                                  0
u                                                                          0
C's
>      (U                                                          Z   U'     >,
0      >                                         A
IL)a      : m   co C,4
la.                                                       U
Z 4.      2                                          Cd
-0               Ei
11.00'0             >
Ei           r,              r- Ck.                                0  V)
40,
>         0
0     4. "
LA                                                                                                   0 0.
0            -4                                                                                LI    -0  >, u
z             >                                                                                =  2   O := .2
0                                                                                             Z   m  ble to
0
0
9:)6
co                                                                        7;
40.                              v
C     40.
4.6 3 eq
'4.6                                                                                                                   75
3.1
> u 0
tz
u
O
u                       r
.0 4.1                                           0
u                0                           >
Cd                        X0        0                                            M   CO
W                         U             x      ",O r-                            C.)
m                      0      >                   0                               >
0                             0     CO                                            0
tw .                                              m  0.                              -
t; cu            V) OD                                        E  u   0
co
0                   0 7; o.      2,                                                  0  Cd
69



0~~~0i
g  S  Q C  o c _ D v~~~~~~~~~~~~~0. c 
t J'=  - to C' d 
I
0
0  ____~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 ZE
C's (u  4.)     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u,
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  E4
> 0              ~~~
0~~~~~~~-
oco
0~~~~~~~~~7



ANNEX 3: BRASILIA LETTER
In a meeting in Brasilia on February 21-22, 2003, the President, accompanied by the Vice
President, Ministers, Congressional leaders, and the 27 State Governors concurred that reforms
of the pension and tax systems were priorities in order to generate sustainable economic growth.
Thus, they signed an agreement to submit these reforms in the first semester of 2003 to
Congress, a sovereign forum for taking decisions in these areas. Aware that the debate on such
reforms should also immediately involve the society as a whole, they have decided to announce
publicly the following points of agreement reached during their meeting:
A. On tax reform
1. The new tax system shall promote fiscal fairness and increase the efficiency and
competitiveness of the economy, though the exoneration of taxes on exports and the  -
stimulation of production and investment. It will also be necessary to streamline the existing
tax system and fight fraud and tax evasion.
2. The reform shall be revenue neutral for all members of the federation and, without
increasing the overall tax burden, it should aim to broaden the tax base and improve tax
administration, to generate conditions to reduce the tax burden on the most fragile sectors of
the economy.
3. The Constitution shall define the new local value-added tax (ICMS) as a unified state tax
in the country, with identical legislation and standards, in order to reduce the number of tax
rates and eliminate the 27 different legislations overseeing this tax which exist today. The
transition rules will be defined in a Federal law, passed with a qualified majority.
4. The employer's contribution to finance social security will be levied, totally or partly, on
turnover rather than on payroll, reducing the burden on employees' wage bill and with a
view to promote the formalization of employment. This contribution will be exclusively
earmarked to finance the social security system. The transition to this new system could be
gradual.
5. The gradual reduction in the incidence of cascading social taxes shall be promoted based
on the experience with the PIS, with a view to reducing the distortionary effect of the tax
system on the economy. This reform shall also preserve the efficiency of the tax collection,
thus requiring that the transition be pursed carefully.
6. The reform shall increase the progressivity of the tax system and promote the fairness of
the tax system, though a reduction of the tax burden on basic goods, and revision of direct
taxes.
7. All levels of government should participate in a tax education campaign to engage the
population in a common effort to fight tax evasion.
71



8. A sustainable regional development policy shall be defined to reduce regional inequalities,
in particular in the Northeast, North and Center-West regions, as well as in other less
developed regions, and resolve the existing tax war between States.
9. Municipalities shall be strengthened as the main units for the develop of social inclusion
policies and for the access to services essential to the population.
10. The final report of the Lower House's Special Commission for Tax Reform shall serve as
basis for the definition of a tax reform proposal, as it shall reflect the large amount of debate
that is taking place in Congress on the matter, in particular as regards the balanced
participation of the sub national and federal government in mechanisms to stimulate
production and exports.
B. On Social Security Reform
There was agreement on the following diagnostic:
1. The urgent need to reorganize social security to ensure that the rights of the actual and
future generations are protected, and to maintain the distributive and contributive aspects
of the systems.
2. The severity of the country's social security situation across regimes.
3. The highly redistributive role of the General Social Security Regime administered by the
Instituto Nacional de Seguridade Social (INSS), which covers more than 21 million
beneficiaries and pays the minimum wage in two thirds of all cases.
4. That the general regime is more than 80 percent auto-financed (97 percent when
considering benefits and contributions in urban areas).
5. That the special regimes for public servants presents a large financial imbalance at all
levels of sub national and Federal governments, putting at risk the financing of social
policies and public investment in the short, medium, and long run.
6. That the special regimes are only 50 percent auto-financed at the Federal and State
levels, as well as in the majority of municipalities.
7. That the trend is of a deterioration in this situation during the next 10 years if no new
measures is taken, and that, in various States, the situation is already critical.
8. That the main cause for the imbalance is the eligibility criterion, which is incompatible
with the nature, remuneration, and protection of the public servant carrier.
In view of this situation, it was decided to:
72



1. Reaffirm the respect of already-acquired rights for those already retired, as set in the law;
2. Preserve the thrust of existing rules, based on direct contributions , of the General Social
Security Regime administered by the INSS, given their redistributive nature and the good
prospects for self-sustainability of this regime; promote the fight against fraud and tax
evasion; and seek the inclusion of the new generations of Brazilians in this system.
3. Seek the recovery in the value of the ceiling of the General Regime, which has been
declining relative to the minimum wage, by linking it to GDP growth; also promote a
gradual rise in the floor for benefits, in line with efforts to preserve the real value of the
minimum wage.
With respect to the Special Regimes for public servants, it was decided to:
1. Jointly prepare proposals for constitutional reform of the Special Social Security
Regimes, to revert the existing actuarial and financial imbalance and, therefore, fulfill the
mandate of Article 40 of the Constitution.
2. Propose new rule for eligibility to these regimes, in particular with respect to retirement
age and minimum length of service in the job and in the public service, in addition to new
rules for survivor benefits.
3. Promote the necessary legal changes to enabie the contribution to current retirees and
establish a minimum contribution rate for all Special Regimes.
4. Support the approval of PL-9 by Congress, in order to establish the basis for the creation
of complementary pension funds for new entrants in the public service.
5. Support the approval of measures that make viable the constitutional ceiling on public
servants pay.
6. With a view to achieving the objectives above, prepare in the next 30 days studies at the
States' level to assess the impact of these reforms on the sustainability and redistributive
features of the regimes, to prepare the technical implementation of these reforms.
Brasilia, February 22, 2003.
73



ANNEX 4:     PUBLIC DEBT SUSTAINABffLITY IfN BRAZIL42
1.    The simple cross-country comparison depicted in Figure 1 suggests that Brazil's main
problem regarding public debt sustainability is its high real interest rate rather than the size of its
debt. Indeed, Brazil's public debt, at just over half of GDP, is not high in comparison with that
observed in various high-income countries-such as Italy, Belgium, Japan and Canada. Of
course, interest rates and public debt are related because the former-especially in the long
run-reflect fiscal sustainability considerations. (In practice, short-term interest rates are largely
determined by exchange rates and expectations regarding inflation, while longer-term rates are
highly dependent on expectations regarding public-sector solvency). Note that this cross-country
comparison does not take into account the many differences between Brazil and the other
countries analyzed; in particular, a country with developed domestic financial and capital
markets is likely to be better able to handle high debt levels than one where these markets are not
developed.
Figure 1
Net Public Debt and Interest Payments in a Sample of Countries, 2001
8 -
7 -BRA C
0                                        I
5 -;                ;       * 
=   4 -              AR
E         MEX
3 -    0
O   2-        /o       CAN
(D   1-O>UK              JPN
0   i I II  I      I       I
10 20 30 40     50  60 70   80 90 100
Public Sector Debt ( % of GDP)
Source. World Bank staff calculations based on OECD data and official sources
A. The Level of Brazilian Interest Rates
2.    The negative real interest rates that characterized the financial repression era of the 1960s
and 1970s are long gone. During the decade between 1975 and 1984, real interest rates on
deposits were, on average, negative because of unexpected changes in inflation, imperfect
42 This Annex is a summary of a longer and more detailed discussion found in Brazil. Stabilityfor Growth and
Poverty Reduction, Report 25278-BR, The World Bank, 2003.
74



indexation and other interventions designed to keep the rates low (or negative). After 1983, with
increasing financial liberalization, real interest rates on time deposits rose sharply, reaching 10
percent on average between 1985 and 1989. With inflation acceleration in the mid-1980s,
indexation intervals became shorter, and a share of deposits was held in accounts linked to the
daily behavior of overnight interest rates.
3.     Brazil's success in bringing down inflation with the Real Plan in mid-1994 was also
associated with real exchange rate appreciation. This upward trend in the real exchange rate
originated in the fiscal imbalances that were occurring at the time, coupled with the use of the
nominal exchange rate as a nominal anchor, which led to capital inflows. To avoid a monetary
expansion induced by capital flows, inflows were partly sterilized. Sterilization created
significant fiscal costs that raised public sector borrowing requirements, which in turn, put
upward pressure on pressed real interest rates.
.4.    These inconsistencies undermined      the credibility  of the economic program, and
international reserves were drained away in an episode that ended in the Real crisis of 1999. By
any standard, Brazil negotiated its way through this crisis with extraordinary ease and speed.
The main reasons for this quick recovery was a policy regime that combined three elements: (1)
the floating exchange rate system, (2) the inflation targeting system that provided a clear rule for
monetary management, and (3) a strict and austere fiscal policy that led very quickly to the
generation of public sector primary surpluses of over 3 percent of GDP. This consistent policy
framework brought down average interest rates over the 1999-2001 period. However, since late
2001, real interest rates have been on the rise, eventually hovering at around 10 to 13 percent in
real terms.
5.     Two factors determine the level of Brazilian interest rates: (1) monetary policy, and the
way it affects and reacts to inflation and exchange rate expectations, and (2) term premia.
Favero and Giavazzi (2002) study the relative importance of each of these factors. According to
this study, policy rates (which are short-term rates) are mostly determined by the first of these
factors, while long term rates are mostly influenced by the second. The current level of the short
rate, though exceptionally high, is the level necessary to stabilize inflation expectations
according to a Taylor-type rule,43 which is remarkable given the absence of formal independence
of the Central Bank.
6.     The situation with long-term    interest rates, however, is different. Putting aside the
fluctuations that occurred in relation to the October 2002 elections, the levels of the Brazilian
term  premia-the main determinants of long-term      rates-reveal market concerns about the
sustainability of the public debt. This hypothesis is supported by two types of evidence, in this
paper: First, we document the existence of a stable relationship by which sovereign spreads and
43 A Taylor rule is a feedback formula designed to guide a central bank in setting short term interest rates as
economic conditions change. The rule determines the short term rate as a function of two arguments: a) the level of
actual inflation relative to the target level; and b) the level of economic activity relative to its potential or full
employment level. If inflation is high relative to its target level, interest rates should go up (and vice versa); also, if
economic activity is high relative to its potential level, interest rates should be raised (and vice versa). It is possible
that inflation is higher than its target level and economic activity is at the same time lower than its target level, or
vice versa, the rule should then provide a firm guideline as to whether interest rates should be raised or lowered See
Taylor ( 1993).
75



ratings are determined jointly by the primary fiscal balance and the public debt level, discussed
later in this annex. And second, we examine preliminary estimates of the term spread, which
show that the main determinants here are volatility and the public debt level (World Bank, 2003).
7.     Negative perceptions regarding the government's solvency create problems for monetary
management, given that the public debt is indexed to short term interest rates and linked with the
dollar. This structure could limit the ability of the Central Bank to let the Real float or to raise
interest rates, creating doubts about the viability of the anti-inflation stance. In this sense, Brazil
could suffer from a subtle form of fiscal dominance.44 To free monetary policy from this
limitation, it is crucial for Brazil to consider lengthening the maturity and duration of public
debt, so that debt mechanics and fiscal policy do not unduly constrain monetary policy.
B. A Sustainable Fiscal Regime
8.     The size and composition of Brazil's public debt contributes to its sovereign risk and
imposes a ceiling on its grade by rating agencies. The total gross domestic and external debt of
the public sector reached 72 percent of GDP by the end of 2002. If hidden liabilities were added
to this figure, estimated at about 10 percent of GDP,45 Brazil's gross debt would exceed 82
percent of GDP, which is the median public debt-to-GDP ratio for B- countries according to
Standard & Poors. B and B+ rated countries have a median public debt ratio of 51 percent of
GDP. Moody's limits for B and B+ ratings (for the debt-to-GDP ratio indicator) range between
71 percent and 54 percent.
9.     In Brazil there is evidence of a positive association between debt levels, sovereign
spreads and domestic interest rates (Kfoury, 2003, World Bank, 2003). Hence, one can
heuristically define an unsustainable fiscal policy as one in which public debt continually rises,
given the principal objective of lowering interest rates. This approach is in accordance with
some analysts' proposals (e.g. see Wyploz, 2002) whereby debt sustainability requires that: (1) at
a minimum, the debt level does not increase; and (2) where the debt is high, a decline in the debt-
to-GDP ratio may be necessary.
10.    According to baseline simulations we performed using an appropriate model for the
purpose, the Brazilian public debt-to-GDP ratio declines when the main determinants of this ratio
(growth, exchange rate, interest rates and spreads) converge to their most likely values without
uncertainty, with the public sector primary surplus remaining constant at 4.25 percent of GDP.
The key results are summarized in Table 1. This baseline scenario assumes that growth
converges to 3.8 percent, which is the potential growth rate of output according to Central Bank
estimates (Teixeira da Silva, 2001). The exchange rate in these simulations depreciates at a rate
equivalent to the difference between domestic and international inflation, starting from the
average forecasted level in 2003 of about 3.5 Reals per dollar.46 Inflation is assumed to decline
44 Tanner and Ramos (2002) examine, statistically, the fiscal dominance argument in Brazil
45 See the "Anexo de Riscos Fiscaias", in the Lei de Diretrizes Orgamentdrias (LDO). Also, See Deutche Bank
(2002) and Giacomelli (2002). These figures are not related in any way to the implicit pension debt estimated at
about 300 percent of GDP as estimated in The World Bank, 2001.
46 This is an arbitrary assumption to incorporate the possibility of reversal of the real exchange rate depreciation
experienced in 2002. Since part of the debt accumulation is due to interest payments, which are a flow, these are
valued at the average exchange rate. Stocks are valued at end-of-period exchange rates. Hence the exchange rate
76



slowly to 4 percent annually, while real interest rates converge rapidly to 8 percent per year;
sovereign spreads are assumed to decrease as the debt ratio falls. According to this baseline
scenario, if the public sector primary surplus is maintained at 4.25 percent of GDP, then the net
debt/GDP ratio declines from 57 percent (projected) in 2003 to 50 percent in 2006.47
Table 1. Public Net Debt Dynamics Without Uncertainty:
Baseline Assumptions and Resulting Public Debt/GDP Ratios
2002      2003       2004        2006     2009
Norminal Exchange Rate (RJUS) EOP     3 5      3.50        3.64       3.79      3.90
Inflation Rate (GDP deflator, percent  16.0     10.0       7.0         5.0      4.0
per year)
Normnal Basic Interest Rate (Selic)   19.0     22.0        15.0        13.0     12.0
GDP Growth Rate                       1.6       2.5         3.8        3.8      3.8
Sovereign Spreads (basis points)      1200     1000        800         650      500
Resulting Public Debt/GDP ratio       .57       .57         .55       .50       .40
assuming a continuous fiscal primary
surplus of 4.25 percent of GDP from
2003 onwards
Source- World Bank staff calculations
11.    The above baseline simulation ignores, however, the fact that the Brazilian economy is
subject to random shocks. An increase in volatility can potentially take a country from a path of
sustainable fiscal balances to one that is fiscally unsustainable. If this happens, and if the country
fails to register high enough primary surpluses, the perception that the debt may not be
sustainable will result in higher spreads and make the situation worse. We performed the above
simulations again, this time incorporating uncertainty arising from  the volatility of output,
interest rates and the exchange rate. Under these circumstances, the primary fiscal surplus
required to stabilize the debt-to-GDP ratio is higher than that suggested by the standard
computations, that often ignore the possibility of external shocks.48 The new simulations explain
why, in spite of several years of prudent fiscal policy, the debt-to-GDP ratio in Brazil has not
declined; after all, the country has indeed suffered from adverse external shocks. We now
describe in greater detail how we took external shocks into account in our simulations.
12.    To incorporate uncertainty into the debt sustainability exercise, we performed stress tests
of the debt dynamics. The object of the stress testing exercise is to see how the net public debt
path changes when extreme, but possible, events shock the system. Estimates of the sensitivities
of the debt-to-GDP ratio to changes in each of its determinants were already known at the outset;
but we had to find a way of determining the size of the probable external shocks as reflected by
we use is the mid-point between both, 3 2 Later on we further discuss the assumptions regarding the expected future
Path of the exchange rate.
7 This simulation, as well as others presented in this report, incorporates contingent liabilities ("skeletons") net of
privatizations valued at 1.0 % of GDP in 2003-2006, and 0.5% per year thereafter. If one agrees with estimates of
the present value of "skeletons" at 10% of GDP, this value, fully amortized over a 20 year period, would imply a
yearly payment of 1.2 % of GDP, using a 10 percent interest rate.
48 There are analytical developments along these lines suggested in Blanchard and Weil (2001), Favero and
Giavazzi (2002) and Xu and Ghezzi (2002).
77



unexpected changes in these variables. To do so, we considered the empirical distribution of
each of the variables affecting the trajectory of the debt-to-GDP ratio (real and nominal exchange
rates, real and norninal interest rates, sovereign spreads, and the growth rate of output) and
calculated the sizes of the probable shocks using different levels of confidence.
13.    The stress scenario is based on shocks derived using a 10 percent confidence level, for
most variables;49 the results are given in Table 2. Under this bleak scenario, the exchange rate
would depreciate and lead to higher inflation, under the assumption of a 40 percent pass-through
in the following year.50 The variables were subject to shocks in 2003 and returned to their steady
state level over time, as follows: Growth was assumed to stabilize at about 2 percent rate
annually, and spreads were assumed to not decrease, given that the debt was permanently
increasing. The real interest rate was assumed to remain at 12 percent throughout the simulation
period, and the real exchange rate remained constant after the shock.    In this bleak scenario, a
primary surplus of 4.25 percent of GDP would not be enough to stabilize the debt/GDP ratio; it
would, in fact, cause the debt/GDP ratio to increase significantly. The primary balance that
would stabilize the debt ratio at 53% of GDP over the forecasting horizon is 5.8 percent of GDP.
More specifically, if the primary balance were to be held at an average of 5.8 percent of GDP,
the debt-to-GDP ratio at the end of 2010 would be lower than 53% with a 90 percent
52
probability.  An alternative stress scenario, built around the use of shocks (to the key variables)
derived using a 15 percent confidence level, would require a primary balance of 5.3 percent of
GDP to lead to stabilization of the debt-to-GDP ratio (with an 85 percent probability). Reducing
further the confidence level, so that shocks to the main variables are smaller with a 75 percent
probability (i.e. using a 25 percent confidence level) would imply an average primary surplus of
4.6 percent of GDP to stabilize the debt-to-GDP ratio.
14.    One of the most critical assumptions in the debt sustainability simulations relates to the
path of the real exchange rate. A constant or depreciating real exchange rate scenario requires a
higher primary surplus to stabilize the debt ratio. Examination of the real exchange rate index
since the 1980s shows that in 2002 the real exchange rate index achieved its lowest level in
decades. Whether or not this fact can be interpreted as a low likelihood of having a future
appreciating trend is a matter of debate. If the real exchange rate has a tendency to fluctuate
49 See World Bank (2003) for further technical details. As a reference point, note that financial institutions typically
conduct their stress testing exercises with a .01 % or .025 % confidence level. This implies that the confidence level
we are using is not unduly stringent. The scenarios that we run, which consider joint changes in all the variables,
with changes derived from individual empirical distributions for each of the variables, may be overestimating the
true likelihood of all the events happening simultaneously (which implies also overestimating the likelihood of a
growing debt-to-GDP ratio over time). However, the fact that we do not allow for the correlation of shocks over
time may mean (if the shocks are indeed correlated over time) that we are underestimating the likelihood of having a
growing debt-to-GDP ratio over time.
 This coefficient is in the lower bound of the estimates presented in Tables 6 and 7 of the paper by Goldfajn and
Werlang (2001).
51 This assumption implies that the shocks to the real exchange rate are permanent or very slow to reverse. This
assumption is based on the non-rejection of the unit root hypothesis of the series, as discussed below. Alternative
exercises reported below relax this assumption.
52 These probabilities are merely an approximation, for several reasons: First, the shocks to each of the variables
were treated as having independent distnbutions; a multivariate approach could in principle be used to refine the
estimates. Second, the system was subject to a shock only in 2003 and not in other years; this tends to
underestimate the risk that the debt-to-GDP ratio jumps upward (hence also underestimating the pnmary surpluses
required to stabilize the ratio).
78



towards some historical average over the time (i.e. "mean-reverting property"), then the
appreciating trend hypothesis is very plausible. This is the view adopted by Goldfajn (2002),
who finds that the movement of the real exchange rate towards its 15-year historical average, by
itself, causes the debt-to-GDP ratio to fall by 25 percentage points over a 10-year horizon.
However, statistical tests did not allow us to reject the unit root hypothesis in the real exchange
rate series, implying that the "mean-reverting property" does not exist in the series. This
evidence calls for caution when assuming that an appreciating trend in the debt sustainability
exercises. In assessing the likelihood of future shocks to the real exchange rate in Brazil, it is
important to note the apparent role of capital flows in determining this variable since the 1980s.
During the 1990s, the unpredictable movements in the real exchange rates in other Latin
American countries (i.e. showing appreciating as well as depreciating trends, but with the trends
difficult to predict) highlights the role of external factors in influencing the path of this variable.
Table 2: Public Net Debt Dynamics: Stress Scenario
with Shocks to Main Variables (10 percent conridence level)
2002    2003     2004    2006     2009
Nominal Exchange Rate (R/US) EOP            3.5    4.10     4.43    5.00     5.65
Inflation Rate (GDP deflator, percent per year)  16  14      11       9       6
Nominal Basic Interest Rate (Selic)         19      24       23      21      18
GDP Growth Rate                             1.6     1.0     2.0      2.0     2.0
Sovereign Spreads (basis potnts)           1200    1600     1300    1200     1200
Resulting Public Debt ratio with primary   .57     .63      .64     .65      .66
balance at 4.25 percent of GDP
Source- World Bank staff calculations
15.    For the sake of analysis, we nevertheless considered a scenario that allowed for the full
reversal to mean of the 2003 shocks to the real exchange rate over a 3-year horizon
(acknowledging the fact that some researchers have found mean-reverting characteristics in some
real exchange rate indices for Brazil).53 The scenario is identical to the one described in Table 2,
except that the nominal exchange rate remains fixed at 4.1 Reals per dollar throughout the 2003-
2006 period; the inflation differential between Brazil and the rest of the world, at the same time,
causes the real exchange rate to revert to its mean. In this scenario of full reversal of the
simulated shocks in three.years, an average primary balance of 4.8 percent of GDP would
stabilize the debt-to-GDP ratio at 53 percent.
C. The Signaling Role of the Primary Surplus
16.   In a world of imperfect information, where investors do not know the debt issuer's true
commitment to honoring its obligations, a sovereign entity that is truly committed to pay its
obligations would like to be able to differentiate itself from other types of debt issuers. It could
do so by credibly "signaling" that it is genuine in its intentions to honor its obligations. The
recent contrasting experiences of Argentina and Brazil, as well as several highly indebted
European countries that have faced credibility problems in the recent past, may provide valuable
53 The duration of the shock is estimated by calculating the half-life of the shock in an autoregressive model for the
real exchange rate. See World Bank (2003).
79



lessons in this regard. Despite the similarity in the public indebtedness indicators in Argentina
and Brazil, Argentina suffered a major crisis while Brazil avoided one. The main sustainability
indicator distinguishing Brazil from Argentina is the primary fiscal balance. Can that variable
explain the difference between these countries' fates in the 2000-2001 period?
17.   To examine the primary surplus' role as a signaling device, the model by Drudi and Pratti
(2000) may be useful. It is based on investors' uncertainty regarding the type of government in
office. On the one hand, there are dependable governments that honor their obligations. On the
other hand, there are weak ones that default on their debt obligations. This uncertainty allows a
weak government to issue debt and pretend to be a dependable government. The model predicts
two types of equilibria. One type, a pooling equilibrium, generally prevails at low interest rates
and small debt-to-GDP ratios where, initially, both types of government run primary deficits. In
this equilibrium the dependable government's incentive to distinguish itself from a weak
government is not high, given the low debt-to-GDP ratios or low risk premiums. In the other
type of equilibrium, prevailing when debt-to-GDP ratios are large and the cost of borrowing is
high, dependable governments choose to generate a primary balance surplus to signal their true
nature. Weak governments default because the cost of mimicking the actions of dependable
governments is too high.
18.   According to this model, signaling devices can be used to affect reputation and thus
sustainability; for example, there may be a positive relationship between primary balances and
ratings, and a negative association between debt stocks and ratings. Other models of debt default
with exogenous shocks to interest rates or to government expenditure also predict similar
associations between debt ratings and fiscal variables. For example, a big enough shock to
government expenditure or to interest rates can make debt unsustainable, with a likelihood that
varies positively with the debt ratio and inversely with the primary balance. Herrera (2002)
shows how Brazil's spreads, primary balances and debt ratios show that the primary balance had
a larger impact on spreads as the debt ratio increased, supporting the hypothesis that the primary
balance is a particularly strong signaling device. Drudi and Prati show that the signaling role of
primary balances is also present in four European countries (Italy, Belgium, Denmark and
Ireland) that successfully managed to improve their credit ratings and reduce their public debt
burden.
80



Figure 2
Primary Balances and Debt Ratios in Argentina and Brazil
(Argentina, solid line; Brazil, dashed line)
Debt to GDP Ratios
56-
52 -                _ _ ___Brazd  ,
48
40  -
~~6 4A  ~~~~~   Argentna
36 
32
28
1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001
Primary Fiscal Balances
4-
Brazil
a.  2- 
0                 IIs
S~~~ 1
-1
1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001
Source: Herrera (2002)
19.   Brazil's management of its primary fiscal balance differentiated it from neighboring
Argentina in the 1999-2001 period. Most debt indicators in Argentina and Brazil were similar
until the end of 2001. And, while, primary balances had been similar for the two countnes until
early 1999, balances afterwards exhibited distinctly different trends (see Figure 2). Argentina's
small primary surpluses contrast with Brazil's significant and growing surpluses. In 1999, the
debt-to-GDP ratio increased in Brazil more than in Argentina; nevertheless, Brazil was able to
maintain a high primary balance as a signal of its commitment to adjustment.
20.    A demonstration of appropriate flexibility in fiscal policy has proved to be an important
signaling tool for investors. Ideally, if debt increases, primary balances need to go up, as a signal
to investors that the government is willing to maintain its commitment to sustainability. The
experience of OECD countries tells us that it is only after a sustained history of primary
surpluses that credibility will be established, and spreads will begin to decline. In Brazil,
sovereign spreads, the public debt-to-GDP ratio and primary balances maintained a stable
equilibrium relationship in the last decade (Herrera, 2002, Fiess, 2002), with spreads being
positively associated with the primary balance and negatively associated with the debt level.
81



This relationship implies that if debt increases, sovereign spreads tend also to rise. Similarly, if
the primary balance rises, spreads tend to fall.
21.   Given this stable relationship between the three variables (primary balance, debt ratios
and sovereign spreads), fixing two of them would determine the value of the third one. For
example, if some fixed target level is chosen for the spreads, and if the debt level is taken as
given, then there would be only one level of primary balances consistent with both. Table 3
illustrates the trade-off that policymakers will face between lowering interest rates (and the cost
of debt) and the magnitude of the fiscal sacrifice that will be required, with the magnitude of the
sacrifice increasing directly with the debt-to-GDP ratio. This present government has given
proof that it is willing to make the sacrifice needed to protect fiscal sustainability.
22.   Since the primary balance estimates in Table 3 are computed as equilibrium values, they
should be interpreted as the structural budget balance needed. That is, the observed figures must
be adjusted for the cyclical components to calculate the structural balance. Brazil had sovereign
spreads below 500 bps in 1993-1994 and in 1996-1997, and the primary balance oscillated
around a mean of 2% of GDP or even lower. However, debt levels were around 32% of GDP.
Under current circumstances, the required primary balances needed to attain similar spread levels
can be attributed to the cost of delayed stabilization, of risky debt composition, and of several
shocks that affected the Brazilian economy, that led to debt accumulation.
Table 3. Long Run Primary Balance Consistent with a Target Sovereign
Spread level for Different Debt-to-GDP Ratios (in % of GDP)
S overeign Spreais (bps)
Debt ratio      500       600          700          800          900
(% of GD)P)
45          4.5    .   3.9          3.4          2.9          2.3
50          5.2        4.7          4.2          3.6          3.1
55           6.0       5.5          5.0          4.4          3.9
60           6.8       6.3          5.8          5.2          4.7
Source: Herrera (2002).
82



References
Deutche Bank (2002) Brazil: On the Edge
Drudi, F. and A. Prati (2000), "Signaling fiscal regime sustainability," European Economic
Review, Vol. 44 pp. 1897-1930.
Fiess,N. (2002) "Capital Flows, Country Risk and Contagion", mimeo, World Bank.
Giacomelli, Drausio (2002) Brazil's Main Challenge. Emerging Markets Strategy, J.P. Morgan
Securities Inc., March 2002
Giavazzi, F. And M. Pagano (1996) "Non-Keynesian effects of fiscal policy changes:
International evidence and the Swedish experience", Swedish Economic Policy Review, May.
Giavazzi, Francesco, and Carlo Favero. 2002. "Why Are Interest Rates so High?" Background
Paper for World Bank Country Economic Memorandum, Brazil. Washington, D.C.
Goldfajn, I.(2002) Are there reasons to doubt fiscal sustainability in Brazil?. Technical Note #
25. BCB. July
Goldfajn and Werlang (2001) "The pass-through from depreciation to inflation: A panel study",
in Inflation Targeting in Brazil. Banco Central do Brasil.
Herrera, Santiago. 2002. "Signaling Effect of the Primary Surplus." Background Paper for World
Bank Country Economic Memorandum, Brazil. Washington, D.C.
Tanner, E. And A Ramos (2002) Fiscal Sustainability and Monetary versus Fiscal Dominance:
Evidence from Brazil, 1991 - 2000. IMF Working Paper WP/02/5.
Taylor, J. (1993) "Discretion Versus Policy Rules in Practice," Carnegie-Rochester Conference
Series on Public Policy, 39, pp. 195-214.
Teixeira da Silva, T.N. "Estimating Brazilian Potential Output: A Production Function Output",
in Inflation Targeting in Brazil, Bacen, 2001.
World Bank. 2003. "Brazil: Stability for Growth and Poverty Reduction." Report 25278-BR,
The World Bank, 2003.
Wyplosz, C. (2002) Fiscal Policy: Rules or Institutions?. Paper presented in the April meeting of
the Group of Economic Analysis of the Europaen Commission.
Xu, D. and P. Ghezzi (2002) From Fundamentals to Spreads-A Fair Spread Model for High
Yield EM Sovereigns. Deutsche Bank. November 15.
83



ANNEX 5:    THE BRAZILIAN FISCAL RESPONSIBILITY LAW AND SUB-
NATIONAL FISCAL TRENDS
A. Introduction
1.    During the nineties, Brazilian fiscal accounts deteriorated progressively. The end of the
inflationary period in 1994 unmasked the fact that fiscal policy was following an unsustainable
path. Sub national (state and municipal) fiscal behavior contributed to the deterioration of public
sector accounts. There was a lack of efficient control of sub national indebtedness, and the
federal government developed a reputation for frequently bailing out states and municipalities
with financial problems; unsurprisingly, sub national governments exhibited irresponsible fiscal
behavior, and sub national debt rapidly accumulated.
2.    In the course of ten years, the federal government set up three debt restructuring
operations for sub national debt. In 1989, the federal government assumed a portion of states'
external debt which totaled 2 percent of GDP. -In 1993, the federal government refinanced the
debt that states and municipalities had incurred with federal financial agencies, an amount
equivalent to 7.2 percent of GDP. Finally, in 1997, the federal government restructured states'
bonded debt, in an operation amounting to about 11.5 percent of GDP.
3.    Unlike the previous two refinancing operations, the bail-out operation of 1997 was
conditional upon state governments' compliance with fiscal adjustment and structural reform
programs; this was enforced through contracts between the federal government and the states.
Later, the fiscal constraints imposed in these contracts were written into the Fiscal Responsibility
Law (LRF), which also created the institutional framework to regulate fiscal behavior.
4.    The results were impressive and immediate. Sub national fiscal balances have improved
dramatically. State and municipal debt stabilized, despite the adverse macroeconomic
environment characterized by low growth and exchange rate devaluation, factors that ordinarily
have a negative impact on public debt. The aggregate annual primary surplus of states and
municipalities improved by 1.1 percent of GDP, or more than 15 percent of aggregate annual net
current revenue, over the period 1999 to 2002. At the same time, state compliance with the LRF
increased progressively. This report describes the evolution of sub national fiscal discipline and
the achievements of the LRF since its enactment.
B. Overview: Sub national Fiscal Behavior in the Context of the Brazilian Fiscal
Adjustment 1999-2002
5.    Since 1999, the Brazilian government has successfully undergone a period of fiscal
adjustment. In order to pull back from the path of unsustainably large fiscal deficits followed for
most of the nineties, the government embarked on a program of austere fiscal correction in 1999.
As a result, the public sector primary balance rose from a deficit of -0.2 percent of GDP in 1998
to surpluses of 3.25 percent in 1999, 3.5 percent in 2000, 3.7 percent in 2001 and 3.9 percent in
2002.
84



6.    Accompanying the fiscal adjustment effort of the federal government, states and
municipalities have also contributed to the improvement in public sector primary accounts. As
Figure 1 shows, the aggregate primary balance of state and municipal governments has increased
progressively from a deficit of -0.22 percent of GDP in 1999 to a surplus of 0.90 percent of GDP
in 2002; it has been positive for the last 3 years.
Figure 1: Primary Balance of States and Municipalities (in percent of GOP), 1997-2002
0 6
04
c. 0 2
o
-06 
-Oa~~~~~~~~~~~~-
7.    This turnaround in sub national fiscal balances can be seen as part of a broader move
towards fiscal contraction, led by the federal government, as a response to the turmoil in
international capital markets since 1998. The positive role that states and municipalities played in
the fiscal adjustment process was facilitated by two factors: (1) the individual state debt
rescheduling agreements with the federal government in 1997-98, and (2) the implementation of
the Fiscal Responsibility Law in 2000. Both of these will be discussed in further detail below.
C. The mechanisms used to induce fiscal responsibility: debt renegotiation contracts (1997)
and the Fiscal Responsibility Law (2000)
8.    In response to the state debt crisis of 1997, the federal government implemented a bail-
out operation, swapping state bonds for federal ones. In exchange for this rescue package, the
federal government negotiated agreements with 25 states in 1997 and 1998.54 Sanctioned by Lei
(Law) 9496 of September 1997, these agreements included: (i) constraints on borrowing, loan
guarantees, debt service and amortization, primary deficits and personnel expenditures; (ii) a
54 Since Tocantins and Amapa did not have any bonded debt, they did not participate in the refinancing agreements.
85



requirement that states privatize their public banks; and (iii) a requirement that states launch
reform programs using the proceeds from the privatization of other assets.
9.    In 1999, Senate Resolution No. 78 institutionalized these agreements and also imposed
fixed ceilings on new borrowing, debt servicing, and the total stock of debt. The most important
constraints imposed were: i) new credit operations could not surpass 18 percent of net current
revenue; ii) interest payments and amortizations could not surpass 13 percent of net current
revenue; iii) the revenue from credit operations could not exceed capital expenditures (the
"golden rule"); iv) the stock of state debt could not exceed 2 times net current revenue in the
period up to 2008, after which the debt stock must be less than or equal to net current revenue; v)
the rollover of the debt could not exceed 95 percent of the debt stock; vi) credit operations based
on anticipated revenues 55 ("Budgetary Revenue Anticipation" or ARO operations) could not
exceed 8 percent of net current revenue; vii) credit operations were forbidden six months before
elections; and viii) credit operations through state enterprises were forbidden.
10.   In addition to these controls on the demand for credit, the federal government also acted
to restrict the supply of credit. First, any further intergovernmental and intra-govemmental debt
refinancing operations were forbidden. In addition, limits were placed on credit operations
between public banks and sub national governments. Resolutions 2827 and 2920 of the National
Monetary Council (passed in March and November of 2001, respectively) limit bank exposure to
public sector borrowers to 45 percent of equity-a limitation that is particularly binding for the
Caixa Econ6mica Federal which constitutes the most important source of credit supply for states
and municipalities.
11.   These controls were strengthened by the Fiscal Responsibility Law (LRF), approved in
May 2000, and by the accompanying Lei de Crimes Fiscais (Law of Fiscal Crimes). The LRF
consolidates many of the restrictions and regulations listed above into one piece of strong
legislation. The three main elements of the LRF are: (i) it explicitly prohibits debt refinancing
operations between different levels of government, eliminating the moral hazard problem that
had existed previously due to the frequent federal government bailouts of the lower-level
governments; (ii) it explicitly mentions that limits are to be placed on personnel costs, credit
operations, loan guarantees and total debt, although it does not state what these specific limits
should be, leaving them to be set later by the Senate in separate resolutions; and (iii) it compels
governments to engage in fiscal planning through the use of annual budget targets.
12.   Senate Resolutions 40 and 43 of December 2001-which are complementary to the LRF
-stated that the ratio of personnel expenditure to net current revenue must be below 50 percent
for the federal government, and below 60 percent for states and municipalities (with specific
ceilings set individually for the Executive, Legislative and Judiciary branches). These Senate
resolutions also imposed a ceiling for the ratio of debt to net current revenue of 2 for states and
1.2 for municipalities; a timeframe of 15 years was set for convergence to these limits. A
comparison between the key constraints of Senate Resolution 78 of 1999 and the subsequent
Resolutions 40 and 43 of 2001, for the states and municipalities, is presented in Table 1; note
55 These are, in effect, funds borrowed by states to address cash-flow problems; they are repayable in principle
within a few months, using fiscal revenues that are anticipated at the time of borrowing to come at a later date. In
practice, these short-term loans often remain unpaid for a much long time than a few months.
86



that the restrictions imposed by Resolutions 40 and 43 are somewhat less stringent than those of
the earlier Resolution 78.
Table 1. Comparison Between Key Constraints
of Senate Resolutions in 1999 and 2001
Senate Resolution         Senate Resolutions
78 (1999)              40 andl 43 (2001)
States          States        Municipalities
New borrowing as %
revenues                   < 18%           < 16%            < 16%
Debt service as % of
revenues                   < 13%           < 11.5%          < 11.5%
Stock of debt / revenues   < I             < 2              < 1.2
Timeframe for
convergence to limits      10 years        15 years         15 years
Pnmary balance               > 0            None              None
"Revenues" means current revenues and, in the case of states, net of the constitutionally
mandated transfers to municipalities. Note that under Resolution 78, "revenues" also
exclude other legally mandated transfers. The reduction in the ceilings on new borrowing
and debt service were intended to compensate for this change in the definition of current
revenues.
Source: Dillinger (2002)-
13.    The Senate Economic Affairs Commission (CAE) is currently considering putting into
place explicit quantitative limits on the stock of total net federal debt and the amount of gross
outstanding federal securities, as another complementary resolution to the LRF. Because of
macroeconomic volatility in 2002, which adversely affected federal debt, the enactment of these
explicit limits has been delayed. It is currently envisaged that the Senate would establish a
ceiling of 3.5 for the ratio of net federal debt to net current revenue, and 6.5 and for the ratio of
gross federal debt to net current revenue. These limits, when written into a new resolution, would
help complete and consolidate the current LRF.
14.    By 2002, the federal government had already met its obligations under the LRF
Resolutions 40 and 43; expenditure on federal government personnel was 32 percent of net
current revenue in that year. In addition, the federal debt limits under discussion for further LRF
resolutions had also been met; in 2002, net federal debt was 3.14 times net current revenue, and
gross federal debt achieved 5.86 times net current revenue.
15.    Another achievement of the LRF was that it strengthened the role of the Budget
Guidelines Law (Lei de Diretrizes Orcamentarias or LDO) in the budgetary process. The LRF
made it mandatory for governments at all three levels of the Federation to present their LDOs. At
the same time, the LRF established a uniform format and content for states' LDOs; among others
requirements, these had to contain targets for fiscal results over a three-year period (including
targets for both primary and operational balances), thus restricting the possibility of sudden and
unpredictable changes in fiscal policy over that period. The LRF states that the LDO has to
provide projections for key macroeconomic variables and for the ensuing fiscal balances; these
can generate expectations for fiscal outcomes under different assumptions about the economic
87



setting. The LRF also requires that the LDO contain a Fiscal Risk Annex, in order to introduce
transparency and to be able to predict fiscal outcomes in the face of unexpected external shocks.
16.   The LRF also helps regulate longer-term fiscal balances in the following way: It requires
that new and permanent expenditures cannot be created without corresponding increases in
permanent revenue or cuts in other permanent spending items.  During electoral years,
governments are not allowed to make new spending conmmitments unless these can be executed
before the end of the incumbent's term in office. In addition, credit operations are banned in the
8 months prior to each election.
17.   With the help of the LDOs formulated by the different governments in the federation, the
LRF requires that aggregated or consolidated accounts - combining accounts from different
governments - be created. Furthermore, it states that the individual government projections from
the various LDOs should be used to generate consolidated government projections, for key fiscal
variables. This would, in turn, enable an analysis of the aggregate fiscal situation of sub national
governments.
18.   In practice, unfortunately, accurate consolidated projections are not yet possible, mainly
because of a lack of uniform standards for reporting the projections. Currently, the STN is
developing a set of uniform standards for this purpose. The federal government is also providing
training courses to state and municipal administrators on how to formulate their LDOs.
Consolidated public accounts covering most governments in the Federation for the years 2000
and 2001 are available from the National Treasury (STN), using a system of standards developed
by the Caixa Econ6mica Federal; the coverage and quality of the consolidated accounts should
improve once the new standards become available.
19.   The consolidated public accounts available from STN for 2000 and 2001 cover the
federal government, the 27 state governments and 4500 municipalities (which represents 85
percent of the total number of municipalities). As the municipal figures include data from all the
state capitals and all municipalities with more than 50,000 inhabitants, these consolidated data
are highly representative. Three types of information are provided by these consolidated
accounts: (i) the consolidated asset-liability balance, (ii) the consolidated deficit/surplus
calculated through the above-the-line methodology, and (iii) public sector expenditure by
function. 56
20.   The fact that the LRF requires the generation of high-quality consolidated public
accounts illustrates its emphasis on transparency and the dissemination of information, to
enhance credibility and accountability. In this regard, the political commitment of the federal
government and the availability of new information technology were decisive; a broad range of
fiscal data is available, with a short and decreasing period of lag in dissemination, from the
National Treasury site.
21.   The quarterly publication "Boletim  de Financas PNiblicas Estaduais e Municipais"
released by the Central Bank (and available through its website) has been published from May
56 This information is available from the website. www.tesouro.fazenda.gov.br. Individual state and municipal data
are available from the publication "Execu,ao Financeira de Estados e Financas do Brasil- Despesa e Receita dos
Municfpios", available through the same website.
88



1999 to December 2001. In 2002, the government transferred the responsibility of maintaining
this registry from the Central Bank to the STN, which also took over the role of information
dissemination to the public. A GIS-based57 software was also developed to facilitate access by
the public to data on state and municipality debt.
22.   The Federal Government was successful in obtaining public support for the LRF.
Notwithstanding the resistance it initially faced, the LRF probably represents one of the most
successful attempts to build a consensus between public administrators, political parties and
public opinion. The LRF protects governors and mayors from political pressures to raise
spending. Opposition parties are aware of the fiscal performance of current administrations, and
of the need to comply with the limits defined by the LRF. The Federal Government has played
an important role in avoiding past practices such as sub national government debt bailouts, that
undermine the controls on sub national borrowing. Public support for the LRF also was decisive
in increasing the accountability of public administrators. As an example, the run-up to the
municipal elections of 2000 and to the federal and state elections of 2002 have been
characterized by good fiscal performance; in the past, state and municipal primary balances
tended to worsen just before elections were held (Blanco, 2001).
D. The Fiscal Behavior of State Governments
23.   Aggregate data on sub national fiscal accounts reveal the improvement in the fiscal
behavior of states and municipalities during the period of fiscal adjustment. The individual sta.e
analysis presented in Table 2 shows an increasing number of states obtaining positive results
over this period. In 1998, 19 out of 27 states generated primary deficits; in the electoral year of
1998, state primary expenditures were 25 percent higher in real terms than in the previous year,
while tax revenues stagnated due to slow economic growth (of less than 1 percent in 1998). After
the enactment of the LRF, the number of states having primary deficits was reduced to 8 in 2001.
However, some states stand out with high primary deficits that appear to be having trouble in
improving their fiscal balances. These states account for a high share of total state debt, and so
their poor performance in fiscal adjustment constitutes a challenge to the credibility of the LRF.
Below, we offer an explanation for the poor performance of these three states.
57 GIS stands for Geographic Information System.
89



Table 2. State Primary Ba ances (in millions of R als)
1997     1998      1999      2000     2001
Acre                         -8       -30       -54        75       46
Alagoas                      272      179        -4        35      256
Amapd                          7       26        38       102       41
Amazonas                     191       -69      127       249     -127
Bahia                       -568    -2,267      -73       418     -331
Ceara                       -154      -359     -685       -31       45
Distrito Federal            -121       -34      127        99       61
Esprito Santo               -366      -619      -222     -143      140
Goils                       -154      -633      -506      229     -693
Maranhio                     288       287      -169      391       27
Mato Grosso do Sul          -202      -216      101        14      122
Mato Grosso                  -13      -322      232       127      266
Minas Gerais                -477     -3,864    1,196       35    -1,324
Para                         -32      -258       -83      142       61
Paraiba                       56       26        23       127      -78
Parana                     -1,205    -2,999   -5,392     -906      296
Pernambuco                    71    -1,414       -37      -518    -255
Piaui                          9        44       70       180      165
Rio de Janeiro            -2,349     -2,543   10,448      233      808
Rio Grande do Norte         -146      -492       -39       80       81
Rio Grande do Sul          -1,432    -3,534     -286      -541    -675
Rondonia                     -19      -586       29        82       98
Roraima                       -3        13        18       -26     -31
Santa Catarina                36       -36        10      -432     459
Sao Paulo                  -5,692    1,054     1,144     2,348    2,678
Sergipe                     -172      -315       -67      104       72
Tocantins                     -31       13        70       73      154
Brazil                    -12,214   -18,948    6,016     2,548    6,814
24.    For 2002, individual state annual official data are not still available. However, quarterly
information shows that in this electoral year, the fiscal behavior of states was very different from
that exhibited in 1998. States registered an aggregate surplus in 2002 of 0.9 percent of GDP,
compared to a deficit of -0.22 percent of GDP in 1998.
25.    The impact of the debt rescheduling agreements and the LRF can also be perceived in the
reduction of the ratio of debt to net current revenue, at the state level. Aggregate figures for the
states - see Table 3 - show that this ratio went from 1.7 in 2000 to 1.6 in 2001; figures for earlier
years were not available. Thus, at least on average, states are complying with the LRF and
Senate resolutions regarding the size of this ratio, which was limited to 2 (in the 2001
resolutions). The table shows that this ratio showed a falling trend for most states between 2000
and 2001. In 2000, only seven states had a ratio of debt to net current revenue that exceeded the
upper limit of 2; in 2001, this number fell to five.
90



Table 3. Ratio of State Debt to Net Current Revenue
2000     2001
Acre                               1.0      0.8
Alagoas                            2 2      1.9
Amapa                              0.1      0.1
Amazonas                           0 7      0.6
Bahia                              1.6      1.7
Ceara                              0 9      0.9
Distrito Federal                   0.4      0.3
Espirito Santo                     1.0      0.8
Goias                              3.0      2.7
Maranhio                           2.6      2.3
Mato Grosso do Sul                 3.1      2.8
Mato Grosso                        2.5      2.4
Minas Gerais                       1.4      1.2
Para                               0.6      0.5
Paraiba                            1.5      1.1
Parana                             1.3  -   1.3
Pernambuco                         0.9      1.0
Piaui                              1.7      1.8
Rio de Janeiro                     2 1      1.9
Rio Grande do Norte                0.6      0.6
Rio Grande do Sul                  2.7      2.5
Rondonia                           1.1      1.0
Roraima                            0.3      0.2
Santa Catarina                     1.8      1.5
Sao Paulo                          1.9      2.0
Sergipe                            0.9      0.8
Tocantins                          0.4      0.2
Brazil                             1 7      1.6
26.    As Table 4 shows, the limit imposed by the LRF on personnel expenditures is having
positive effects. In aggregate, the ratio of personnel expenditure to net current revenue for the
states improved by almost 10 percentage points over the period 1997 to 2001. In 1997, there
were 16 states where this ratio exceeded the limit of 0.6 established by the LRF; in 2001, there
were only 8 states with a ratio above this limit. Some states that performed particularly badly in
this regard in 2001 were the same states were identified earlier as having high primary fiscal
deficits that were not showing little improving over time. The data in Table 4 indicate that a key
explanation for this is that these states have been having difficulties controlling their personnel
expenditures. Personnel expenditures represent one of the main expenditure rigidities in
government budgets in Brazil; reforms to these structural rigidities are essential to the continuing
success of sub national fiscal reform in the country.
91



Table 4. Ratio of State Personnel Expen iture to Net Current Revenue
1997 1998   1999  2000   2001
Acre                       67 5  60.8   62.1  58.3   61.5
Alagoas                    78.9  68.2   63.7  57.1   55.7
Amapa                      57.8  55.0   58.2  50.3   44.3
Amazonas                   49.0  57.2   50.0  44.7   37.6
Bahia                      44.7  48.5   49.3  47.1   54.4
Ceara                      61.2  54 2   46 8  50.4   56.2
Distrito Federal           75 3  76.4   51.3  62.7   67.8
Espirito Santo             63.4  63.6   61.2  49.3   53.6
Goias                      62.3  67.1   68.4  65.5   50.4
Maranhao                   65.1  62.5   53.6  47.3   43.2
Mato Grosso do Sul         53.1  56.4   47.3  50.0   40.0
Mato Grosso                51.4  56.0   53.1  47.5   41.6
Minas Gerais               82.1  84.1   76.9  64.5   84.4
Para                       69.6  57.7   61.3  49.7   59.1
Paraiba                    59.0  53.9   55.2  50.9   53.4
Parana                     71.7  67.0   60.0  46.5   34.1
Pernambuco                 70.9  70.4   69.8  65.7   68.5
Piaui                      61.3  59.8   58.0  55.9   59.1
Rio de Janeiro             83.9  80.3   24.9  36.0   60.8
Rio Grande do Norte        66.7  58.9   53.9  50.3   65.5
Rio Grande do Sul          75.3  68.1   69.7  66.7   76.5
Rondonia                   83.0  79.1   80.1  58.9   45.5
Roraima                    40.1  25.7   40.9  41 5   17.0
Santa Catarina             57.2  64.9   59 1  55.8   56 1
Sao Paulo                  59.3  59.9   60.0  56.5   56.4
Sergipe                    57.0  54.7   55.9   54.3  62.0
Tocantins                  42.7  44.2    2.3  38 8   37 9
Brazil                     65.2  64.7   53.3   53.9  56.0
27.    As noted above, the general improvement shown in state fiscal indicators are the result
mainly of revenue increases. Table 5 shows that net current revenues have increased in real
terms, by 18 percent between 1997 and 2001. And, the states with large revenue increases are
exactly the same ones that exhibited the most significant improvements in fiscal balances. The
table also shows that, on average, real personnel expenditures remained approximately constant
over the last few years; thus, the improvement noted earlier in the ratio of personnel expenditures
to net current revenue resulted not just from revenue increases, but also from a leveling in key
expenditures.
92



Table 5. Real Growth in Net Current Revenue
and Personnel Expenditures, 1997 - 2001
Net Current Revenue Personnel Expenditures
Acre                      19.5                   8 8
Alagoas                   15.5                 -18.4
Amapa                      11.0                -14.9
Amazonas                  23.6                  -5.1
Bahia                      6.9                  30.1
Ceara                     34 4                  23.6
Distrito Federal           6.4                  -4.2
Espirito Santo             3.7                 -12.4
Goias                     54 0                  24 5
Maranhio                  60.8                   6.6
Mato Grosso do Sul        55.8                  25 9
Mato Grosso               31.4                  -1 0
Minas Gerais              10.4                  13.4
Para                      12.5                  -4.5
Paraiba                   12.2                   1.5
Parana                    20.4                 -42.7
Pernambuco                36.1                  31 5
Piaui                      2.7                  -0.9
Rio Grande do Norte       14.4                  12 3
Rio Grande do Sul         -5.0                  -3.4
Rio de Janeiro            57.2                  13 8
Rondonia                  51.2                 -17 2
Roraima                   26.2                 -46.5
Santa Catarina             -7.3                 -9.0
Sao Paolo                  2.3                  -2.7
Sergipe                    4.5                  13.6
Tocantins                 22.9                   9.2
Brazil                    18.2                   1.5
E. The Fiscal Behavior of Municipal Governments, 2000 - 2001
28.    Local governments also contributed to the fiscal improvement of the last three years. In
2000 and 2001, municipalities registered a primary fiscal surplus of about 0.3 percent of GDP in
2000, and about 0.4 percent of GDP in 2001.
29.    Table 6 illustrates the improvement in fiscal indicators between 2000 and 2001;
unfortunately, consolidated data for the municipalities are not available for earlier years, as noted
above. The table shows that, between the two years, there was an increase in the number of
municipalities that sent their fiscal data to STN - who compiled these consolidated data - on
time. In 2001, 78 percent of all municipalities had sent their 2000 fiscal results to STN, within
the time frame established by law. In 2002, this number reached 90 percent. In 2000, in spite of
the municipal elections in that year, the fiscal results were still favorable: the consolidated fiscal
balance for Brazilian municipalities was positive at 0.27 percent of GDP, with 2460 municipal
governments - or 58 percent of the total - registering positive balances. The consolidated ratio of
personnel expenditures to net current revenue was 0.43 in 2000, with 93% of all municipalities
93



below the LRF ceiling of 0.6. This was due mostly to an increase in net current revenue in
previous years, arising from increased tax collection efforts on the part of these governments.
30.   In 2001, the municipal fiscal results were even better than in 2000. The consolidated
fiscal balance reached 0.30 percent of GDP, with 70 percent of all municipalities registering
positive balances. The consolidated ratio of personnel expenditures to net current revenue
stabilized at 0.43, with 95.5% of all municipalities below the LRF ceiling of 0.6. The
consolidated ratio of debt to net current revenues was 0.52, with more than 98% of
municipalities below the established LRF limit of 1.2.
F. Conclusions: Achievements and ChaRlenges Ahead
31.   Compliance with LRF requirements has been impressive. The following can be regarded
as the key fiscal achievements of the last few years: the consolidation of the LRF with the
establishment of ceilings on debt and on personnel expenditures relative to net current revenues;
the increasing compliance with these ceilings; the public support for the LRF; and of course the
turnaround in sub national fiscal balances.
32.   However, the main threat to continued compliance with the LRF is the high rigidity in
sub national public expenditures, which limit the scope of cuts in current expenditures. Personnel
expenditures and especially social security benefits are the main sources of this rigidity.
Structural reforms in these areas are vital for the continuation of good sub national fiscal
performance.
33.   A number of steps remain to be taken regarding the LRF itself and the associated
budgetary process. First, the effort to consolidate the state and municipal accounts, and their
LDO projections, needs to continue. And finally, a Congressional resolution for the imposition of
ceilings on federal government debt-as required by the LRF-has yet to be approved.
Reference
Blanco. 2001. "Comportamento Fiscal dos Estados Brasileiros e seus Determinantes Politicos".
Review of the National Association of Post Graduation Courses In Economics. ANPEC I.
"Brazil: Issues in Fiscal Federalism." World Bank. Report No. 22523-BR, June 2002.
94



ANNEX 6: FISCAL RISKS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES IN BRAZIL
A. Introduction
1.         Contingent liabilities account for a significant portion of net debt growth between
1994 and 2001 (see Table 1, line "Balance Sheet Adjustment"). Unexpected increases in the
level of debt adversely affect perceptions of public debt sustainability, which in turn affect
interest rates and the exchange rate. This gives rise to a second round of adverse impacts on
the debt level, and a vicious cycle ensues of debt increments, more interest rates hikes, more
debt increases, and so on. This is one major reason why the Law of Fiscal Responsibility
(LRF)-approved                 in 2000-is crucial; it strongly emphasizes increased transparency
regarding possible unexpected future changes in the debt stock.
Table 1. Federal Debt Explanatory Factors of Growth 1994 - 2001
TABLE 1.1. FEDERAL DEBT USES: 1995 - 2001
In RS Million                             Dec'94      Dec.9'08 eC0              Des97        DacM9        DeO98       De'0         D01      Vern8ec      Pe.Use Share
Fad.,.  t Det8 t. Cwtni, ; )             6.838a21    90.40630     12B,41328    167,74182   231,26774    316,21 69    35296713     411,771 65  345,98575       6462%
,raeresi Paymerds (Fedri Gweri ,CB)                 18,727 80    22,85313     20,53719     54,40Z28    88,881 41    54,92630     66,434 53    326,78264      61 04%
P-Sa,yDOW C(Fedea4G   aMt.CB)                       -333575       Z90757      2,37456      .5,04151    -22,67211    -32.43059    -21,97978   -73.90775      -13 Be/.
Ne.a-I DeS-ct eens Net D,bt V.I cnl tho              15.68 52     214 31      3,823 79     3,402 93     ,929Z019     8.383 79    -19 984 34   -6 722 63     -1 26%.
Sates k1d lAsnpaldws
yScecaI DekOd yse4 Net Debt Varltce,n of 1hSta9te    -77334       2,65503     26,59235     5.0853     .6,51465      -3,43379    -1.39889     2313524        432%
r-t ErA.rp,,se
OacaeShordA,j.estedtVarolm                                       16,14214      704883      17,81392     43,52452     17,53727    36,714 0D    134.378 68     2016.
P-flzaonmAdpstr-ld Varei5n                                        1,14400     16,64614     1Z860Z7      a97303      20.23865      9a805       60,542 50      11 37%
Ad9arwrt rdCorroe4by theCerel Bank                   8264869       080          00           000         OOD          0OD          000 8O,20449              1 54%
A ..6,t 1888sa5s                                     147,68821    1824595S    287,34980    270,151 59   343,23899    377T,7962    46Z96312    358,40457       6t5.7%
I D,rmest.                             73,80629     97,53472     130,02931   199,14560    216.33Z3     Z78.35Z22    313,24624    379,73a869   305.9340       5715%
11 FAT                                178800D      17,72800    2z480o0      2329123      37,679 83    33.40529     51,C0751     6097725      48,177z2      9800%
12 CBscreditstooranrsca,Insthloes     20,56100     34.57700     67,64600    63,82000     48,49018     4081752      37,34100     21,57300     1,01Z00        019%.
13 Fderal Gnerds-recits(Law8727f83)    8.27627     1081153      11,48969     16s9861      3,84918      4.85106     4.754 65     1924602      10,98075       205%
14 Debt0R1naggtIatnsewhthe aSmes        000          000          000       49,48537      66,612.46   131,54025    154,83036    174.50156   17450156       3Z60Y.
1 5 OtheWs                            3,16901      35,21858     30,42562    44,45539     43,00174     07,74291     65,22B21    103,44086     71.27185       1331%
Z Fong Resenes                           3Z75226     50,35349     52,43025     5020420      53,81819 1    4,98676     84,55068    8322443      50.47Z17       943%
Othe.Debts(                            112,139.76   131,626.51   147,965.84   172,80607   178,79581    245,193.50   241,554.98   279,13669    173,141.55     3234%
1 Domashc                               48,94667     57,56168     72,85844     97,113 73   86,164 38    97,04282     91.60377     9Z65391      4Z33502        791%
1 M-o9rayRase                          17.685W0    21,681 00    19,79600     31.82600     39.22300     48,430       47,67900    53,24700     3Z03900        5986%
12 OhIs                                29,26167    35,68608     53,0244      65,28573     46094138     48,61292     4393077     39.412 91    10.29t602       192%
ZFormWn                                  85,19309    74,088683    75,10740     75,69234     92.63144    148,15058    149,94520    186.47678    130,80053      2443%
TOTAL                                   60.2f55.00  106,66600    172,907.00  252.2855     327623f50    414.36718    489.20907    595.59838    53XW343.38     100&00%
Source: Garcia (2002)5'
2.         The Annex on Fiscal Risks is published as part of the Budget Guidelines Law (Lei de
Diretrizes OrVamentdrias) or LDO, which governments at all three levels of the Federation
are obliged to produce annually under the LRF. This Annex contains a comprehensive
coverage of fiscal risks and contingent liabilities. Information on past liabilities arising from
5S See "Public Debt Management, Monetary Policy and Financial Institutions" by Garcia M., in 2000.
Background Paper for World Bank Country Economic Memorandum, Brazil. Washington, D.C
95



court decisions must be included in the annex; these liabilities must eventually be
incorporated into public debt. The Annex made by each government is available from the
Ministerio do Planejamento website www.planejamento.gov.br. The remainder of this annex
is a textual reproduction of material found in the Planning Ministry website, which allows the
reader to judge the quality and transparency of the discussion.
B. Fiscal Risks
3.    The LRF gives prominence to the identification of fiscal risks in the annexes of the
LDO. This analysis provides an indication of: (i) the medium and long-term prospects of the
fiscal situation of the federal governments, and: (ii) the magnitude of possible adjustments
that the government may make in the short-term, in response to unforeseen changes in the
macroeconomic environment or to unanticipated court decisions. The transparency regarding
risks as well as about contingent liabilities haye been a priority of the present administration,
which undertook the task of cleaning up fiscal accounts. The policy of broad disclosure of the
so-called "skeletons" has resulted in the identification of hidden liabilities equivalent to more
than 10% of GDP in recent years.
4.    The identification of several risks, including that from  lawsuits, was already
accomplished in the 2002 LDO. As had happened previously, some of the risks identified at
the time ended up being resolved in ways favorable to the government. This is the case, for
instance, with the long-lasting dispute about the tax immunity of pension funds.  A
combination of a few favorable court decisions and a special program designed by the
government resulted in the dropping of many court actions and the payment to the
government of about R$7 billion in income taxes.
5.    Similarly, the dispute over the adjustment of balances in the severance payment fund
for the private sector (FGTS)-related to economic plans in 1989 and 1990-was solved
through an agreement that has been ratified by Congress. This outcome has shielded the
government from an indirect risk once estimated at close to R$40 billion.
6.    From a conceptual standpoint, fiscal risks can be divided into two main categories:
budgetary risks and debt risks. Budgetary risks are related to deviations of revenues or
expenditures from their projected values. Debt risks are mainly related to the impact of
interest and exchange rates on the public debt, as well as the potential impacts of contingent
assets and liabilities.
Budgetary Risks:
7.    Among the main budgetary risks are those linked to unexpected changes in GDP
growth. A 50 basis points increase in GDP growth (reduction), for instance, results in a 50
basis points increase (decrease) in gross primary revenues of the central government, or
roughly R$1.6 billion.
8.    The exchange rate can also have a significant impact on the revenues from the import
tax, the Industrial Products Tax and the Income Tax on Capital Remittance. These taxes
96



account for 8.8% of the total administered revenues in 2003. For each 1% change in the
exchange rate (holding the tax base constant in US$ dollar terms), there is a change of about
R$200 million in revenues over a 12-month period.
9.    The level of   economic activity also affects some categories of expenditures.
Unemployment tends to rise when the economy slows down, while personnel expenditures
and social benefits are mainly determined by decisions related to career plans and raises in
wages. A R$1.00 increase in the minimum wage, for instance, results in a R$183.0 million
net growth of social security and social assistance expenditures in a 12-month period, while a
1% raise in federal government personnel expenditures results in R$730 million additional
outlays per year.
10.   To deal with any unanticipated changes in spending or revenue during the year, the
Fiscal Responsibility Law (Article 9) requires a bimonthly reassessment of revenues, to match
the budgetary and financial execution to the fiscal targets established by the LDO. This
bimonthly reassessment, together with the compliance review of intra annual fiscal targets
(done on a four-month basis), is one of the most powerful tools of the LRF, as it permits the
quick correction of fiscal slippages.
Debt Risks:
11.   The exchange rate is also associated with debt risks. The exchange rate is also
associated with debt risks. Given the current structure of the public debt, a 1% devaluation of
the Real increases the debt to GDP ratio by 23 basis points, while a 100 basis point increase in
the interest rate (SELIC) increases the debt to GDP ratio by 24 basis points over a 12-month
period. (See Table 2.)
12.   Another source of debt risks are contingent liabilities, which are by definition
unpredictable in their ultimate size and impact. These include court claims against the Federal
Government and the so-called "skeletons" or old debts that are now being recognized and
incorporated into the Treasury debt. The contingent liabilities can be classified by origin into
at least six classes. A large portion of the claims relates to issues surrounding the effects of
price controls or the monetary correction of liabilities that happened before the Real Plan, i.e.,
at the time of high inflation. Of course, the measurement of these potential liabilities is
difficult and often imprecise.
13.   It is important to note that the listing in the LDO Annexes of the potential liabilities
due to pending court decisions does not affect the outcome of thee cases; the Federal
government is committed to defend the legality of its actions. Rather, the listing is aimed at
reinforcing fiscal transparency and providing to society a better understanding of potential
fiscal pressures.
97



Table 2. Budgetary Risks: Sensitivity Analysis of
Econonie Variables On Central Government Accounts
Factor                             Estimated Effect
50 basis point variation in GDP   0.50% change in primary gross revenues, or R$1.6
Growth                            billion
1% change in the exchange rate    R$200 million over 12 months, due to the impact on
the imports tax, IPI and the Income Tax on Capital
Remittances.
A R$1.00 increase on the minimum  R$183 million increase in social security and social
wage.                             assistance net over a 12-month period.
A 1% increase in public employee  Additional R$730 million in Federal Government
payment                           Personnel over a year.
P___________________________ YDebt R     isks
1% change in the exchange rate    23 basis points changes in the net debt to GDP ratio
(of consolidated public sector).
100 basis point change in interest rates A change of 24 basis points in the debt to GDP ratio
over a 12 month period.
Source: Ministry of Website.
14.   Some of the liabilities listed in the Annex of Fiscal Risks are denominated in pre-1994
local currency; thus, their real value depends on the indexation system used. Examples
include the expropriations (in "Cruzados") of the Collor Plan, and the several court actions
from the sugar, alcohol and aviation industries related to price controls. The dispute over
adjustment of balances in the severance payment fund for the private sector (FGTS) centers
on liabilities of a fund that is essentially; nevertheless, the National Treasury has partial
responsibility for the solvency of this fund, and it is important to see Supplementary Law Nr.
110-passed in 2000 in an attempt to resolve this issue--will be implemented. Under this
law, two social contributions were introduced to finance the payments to be made-an
estimated R$40 billion in total. All participants will be entitled to an adjustment that is
proportional in size to the amount that they had originally invested in the fund.
15.   Other fiscal risks are associated with the closure of public enterprises, organs as well
as other administrative acts. The Federal Railroad Company (Rede Ferroviaria Federal S/A -
RFFSA) closed in 1999, but the sales of its assets has proved difficult, because of the size of
the company (75,000 non-operational assets) and because the company is burdened by more
than 37,000 court actions, from 120,000 forner employees. The potential cost of the court
cases is R$4.5 billion. Another fiscal risk arises from the R$11.4 billion set aside to cover
payments to individuals disputing tax decisions in court; so far, approximately R$1.1 of this
has been returned to tax payers.
16.   The Central Bank also has some contingent liabilities. One of the banks under
liquidation, for instance, claims that part of its losses can be ascribed to some official
agricultural credits dating back to 1988-90, and it is seeking restitution. The Bank also faces
risks associated with its R$27 billion exposure to balance sheet items inherited from other
98



financial institutions under liquidation. The housing system is the source of the most so-called
"skeletons"-about R$60 billion in total, of which a large part has already been incorporated
into the total debt.
Table 3: Estimated Schedule of Issues of Public Debt Arising from the
Restructuring of Federal Liabilities
(R$ million of Dec 2001 prices)
Origin                          Stock Dec/2002  2003       2004       2005
1. Debts from closed public entities  1,099         550        503          26
2. Unsecured debts of the Union        1,273        715        558           0
3. Fundo de Compnesacao das          49,424       13,181     13,181      13,207
Variacioes Salariasis - FCVS   I__
TOTAL                                51,796       14,446     14,242      13,207
Source. Finance Ministry and National Treasury
17.   Fiscal risks are not all negative; there are some contingent assets too. In particular, the
claims of the Treasury against others exceed R$150 billion, of which R$6 billion might be
paid in 2002 (R$ 5.3 billion were paid in 2001). The Social Security (INSS) has credits of
more than R$75 billion, of which about 25% are now being paid through installments allowed
by the REFIS (Programa de Recupera.do Fiscal) back taxes payment program.
C. Social Security Actuarial Evaluation
18.   The LRF requires the actuarial evaluation of all public pension schemes, as well the
provision of future projections, to facilitate the required risk analysis regarding the budget as a
whole. This has been carried out with increasing detail under standard assumptions used in the
profession.
CI. Executive and Judiciary Civil Servants
19.   The civil servants social security regime is a pay-as-you-go system funded by
contributions from employees and transfers from the federal budget. The actuarial projections
of civil servants' social security in the LDO indicate an increase of the annual deficit from
1.03% of the GDP in 2001, to 1.11% of the GDP in 2002. From then on there is a decreasing
trend, with the figure reaching 0.11 % of the GDP in 2076, mainly due to a projected reduction
of public servants in the wake of reform of the State.
CII. General Social Security Regime (RGPS)
20.   The RGPS is the basic social security regime for the private sector. This is a pay-as-
you-go scheme financed by employees and employers. Since 1995, with the rapid growth
of-among others-pensions to rural workers, contributions to the RGPS have not been
enough to fund its benefits, with deficits being covered by other social contributions.
99



21.   The LDO provides an analysis of the long-term prospects of the RGPS; this indicates
that the deficit of the system, after initially falling in the coming few years, will move back up
to about 1.2% of GDP and remain there in the next decades. This stabilization is related to the
social security reform measures implemented since December, 1998, in the wake of the
Constitutional Amendment Nr. 20, of 1998, as well as laws which have succeeded in
improving mechanisms of tax collection.
CIII. Financial Analysis of the Social Security Organic Law (LOAS)
22.   The analysis presents long-term projections for the social assistance benefits to the
aged and the handicapped, as established by the LOAS (Law nr. 8,742 of December 07 de
1993). These social assistance benefits are paid to people who are older than 67 or
handicapped, and who come from families with an average income below 1/4 of the minimum
wage. The benefit provided is one minimum wage.
23.   The number of beneficiaries has shown a remarkable increase in recent years. This
number will continue to grow, from 1.4 million in 2002 to more than 2.8 million in 2021.
Assuming that the minimum wage grows with inflation, projected LOAS outlays will more
than double in the next 15-20 years, according to the LDO, eventually accounting for 0.25-
0.28% of the GDP.
CIV. Financial Standing of the FAT
24.   The Fundo de Amparo aos Trabalhadores (FAT) is a fund subordinated to the
Ministry of Labor. It finances the unemployment insurance scheme and the bonus paid to
earners of wages close to the minimum wage (abono salarial). In addition, as required by the
Constitution, a portion of FAT resources is deposited at the development bank Banco
Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economic e Social (BNDES), to be lent to firms. This fund is
projected to show a surplus balance until 2005.
100



ANNEX 7: PUBLIC DEBT MANAGEMENT: GOVERNANCE, CAPACITY, AND
MARKET DEVELOPMENT
A. Introduction
1.    The Brazilian Ministry of.Finance has made substantial progress in recent years
towards establishing a sounder institutional, procedural, and technical arrangements to
manage public debt. This process-which benefited considerably from World Bank TA loan
resources and expert staff-has proceeded more or less in parallel with the strengthening of
fiscal policy and its recent institutionalization under the Fiscal Responsibility Law (approved
in May 2000).
2.    However, repeated episodes of external shocks and financial turbulence since the 1998
Russia crisis, especially hard-hitting in late-1998 to early-1999 and during 2002, created a
such a high level of systemic risk that the authorities could not ignore when pursuing debt
management and monetary policy objectives. The constraints posed by investor jitters and
macroeconomic turbulence were complicated by the limits posed by market structures and
capacity to absorb risk on the authorities' ability to implement their desired long-term debt
management strategy. Against this background, the authorities at the Ministry of Finance had
to shift towards the issuance of SELIC-indexed debt securities in order to achieve debt
rollover in a hostile environment.  (They managed, however, to avoid loosing too much
ground on the gains made in reducing rollover risk relative to pre-1998 levels.) Similarly, the
authorities at the Central Bank had to give a high priority to mitigating asset price
(particularly exchange rate) volatility, which induced them not just to sell dollars spot but also
to provide hedges against exchange-risk to the private sector. The latter took mainly the form
of placements of Central Bank-issued dollar-linked debt initially (mainly in late-1998 and
1999), and Central Bank-issued currency swaps subsequently (mainly in 2002). Turbulence-
contingent debt strategies did facilitate debt rollover when turbulence surged, and the issuance
of dollar-liked debt and currency swaps by the Central Bank did dampen exchange rate
volatility, but at the cost of a massive transfer of market (interest and exchange rate) risk to
the balance sheets of the government and the Central Bank.
3.    The legacy of such developments is that of a complicated composition of federal
liabilities-i.e., debt that unduly exposes its issuer to market risk-which might weaken the
resiliency of the fiscal process. This legacy, combined with limits to the current ability of
markets to absorb risk, concentrated market structures, and certain shortcomings in the fund
industry, constitute a challenging initial condition-one that significantly constraints the
speed at which steady progress can be made in reducing debt exposure to market risk.
4.    Notwithstanding the episodes of financial turbulence, visible progress did take place
with regard to the framework and organizational arrangements for debt management,
especially since 2000, as detailed below. And all along the government has held fast to, and
even over-performed, its fiscal objectives, with the 2003 target for the fiscal primary surplus
having been raised by the current administration to 4.25 percent of GDP. The clear progress
101



in these fronts over the past years, combined with the recent return of tranquil times in the
macroeconomic and financial spheres, opens a unique opportunity for the government to
make significant advances in public debt management and in developing more efficient
markets for public debt. If this opportunity is adequately seized by the government, a gradual,
sustainable reduction in the exposure of public debt to risk can be realistically envisioned.
5.    In what follows, this annex first examines the recent evolution in the composition of
the federal domestic debt, and extracts some implications and lesson. Subsequently, the
annex discusses the government's efforts made to date in improving public debt management
and in fostering the development the markets for such debt, as well as the government's plans
to intensify such efforts in the future.
B. Composition of the lfDomestic Federal Debt
1.    Recent Evolution
6.    Despite the shift from traditional deficits to continued and rising fiscal primary
surpluses since 1999, Brazil has been unable to significantly reduce the exposure of its
domestic federal debt to market (i.e., interest and exchange rate) risk, although it has been
able to broadly retain the gains made in reducing rollover risk after 1998. A key reason for
this outcome lies in the repeated episodes of macroeconomic financial turbulence (triggered
by external shocks) that have affected Brazil since the second half of 1998, particularly in
late-1998 to early-1999 and during 2002. Another reason related to market constraints-
particularly the limits to market capacity to absorb and manage large amounts of risk. Given
such macroeconomic turbulence and micro/market constraints, the Treasury felt compelled to
issue SELIC-indexed debt to facilitate debt rollover in the midst of a hostile environment.
And the Central Bank felt compelled to issue dollar-linked debt (mainly in late-1998 and
1999) and currency swaps (in 2002), in order to dampen asset price volatility. The legacy has
been a sovereign domestic debt that is highly exposed to market risk, more today than it was
in mid-1998, although less exposed to rollover risk.
7.    In effect, as of May 1998, more than half of the federal domestic debt held outside the
Central Bank was denominated in Reais and had a fixed interest rate, while dollar-linked and
SELIC-indexed debt constituted 28 and 17 percent of the total, respectively (Appendix Figure
1). In contrast, by March 2003 the proportion of fixed interest rate debt in the total had
collapsed to only 2 percent, while the shares of dollar-linked debt (including swaps issued by
the Central Bank) and SELIC-indexed debt (net of swaps) had risen to 35 and 50 percent,
respectively.
8.    Two phases can be identified in the evolution of debt composition between the two
points in time mentioned above. The first phase was unleashed by the contagion from the
Russia crisis, which led to the floating of the Real in early-1999, and lasted roughly until late-
2001 (when Brazil was hit by the aftermath of terrorist attack of September 11, the bursting of
the U.S. stock market bubble, and the Argentine crisis).
102



9.     The Russia crisis found Brazil with a relatively moderate exposure of Government
debt to interest and exchange rate risk, as noted in the previous paragraph, but a relatively
high exposure to rollover risk, with more than one-half of the stock of domestic debt
scheduled to fall due in the subsequent 12 months. In response, the authorities made it a
priority to reduce rollover risk by extending debt maturity, even if in doing so they had to
increase the shares of SELIC-indexed debt, thereby accepting a rise in debt exposure to
interest rate risk. At the same time, in response to confront the pressures in the exchange
market, the Central Bank issued large amounts of dollar-linked debt.
10.    The authorities were successful in their endeavor to reduce rollover risk. The average
maturity of (auctioned) debt, which had been steadily increasing since 1995, rose steeply from
about 8 months in 1998 to about 30 months by September 2001, before falling to 22 months
by March 2003, as a result of the times of distress in 2002. Similarly, the proportion of debt
falling due in the- next 12 months decreased from 53 percent at end-1999 to 26 percent at end-
2001 (Appendix Table 1). In the process, however, there was a nearly instantaneous, massive
switch from fixed interest rate debt to SELIC-indexed debt early in the period-the so-called
"scissors" effect in the Fall of 1998 and the share of dollar linked debt held outside the
Central Bank rose steadily (Appendix Figure 2).
11.    The second phase unfolded during 2002. Macroeconomic and financial turbulence
was such in that year (e.g., country risk rose to 2000 basis points by mid-year and the Real hit
a high of nearly 4 Reais per dollar in October) that the authorities felt compelled to accept a
major increase in debt exposure to risk in order to (1) facilitate debt rollover in the midst of a
hostile environment; and (ii) dampen the already high volatility in asset prices.
12.    The latter objective was pursued by the Central Bank through monetary operations
that had a feedback effect on debt composition. In particular, the Central Bank used its large
holdings of government debt to conduct debt exchanges, which shortened the maturity of
public debt held by the market, raising the share of fixed interest rate debt in the portfolio of
government debt paper held by the Central Bank.59 It also engaged in cash debt buybacks,
reducing debt in exchange for an expansion in money base. Finally, it placed (starting in May
2002) a large amount of swap contracts to enable market participant to hedge their exposure
to exchange rate risk (by swapping Reais interest income with dollar-linked interest income,
60
with daily settlement).
13.    As a result, the exposure of the government's debt portfolio (including Central Bank-
issued swap contracts) to risk, particularly market risk, increased significantly. Rollover risk
exposure increased somewhat, as measured by the fraction of debt falling due in the next 12
months, which rose from 26 percent at end-2001 to 39 percent at end-2002 (Appendix Table
1), although it remained below the high pre-1999 levels. Exchange rate risk exposure
59 As of March 2003, the amount of fixed interest rate debt held by the Central Bank was about 3 times of that
held by the market The Central Bank's holdings of dollar-linked and SELIC-indexed debt were equivalent to,
respectively, about 70 and 40 percent of the stocks held by the market (Appendix Figure 3).
60 In the swap contracts, the dollar-linked flow that the Central Bank agrees to pay is calculated in dollars but
settled in Reais, daily, at the exchange rate of the settlement date. The government's dollar-linked debt
contracts are also are settled in Reais.
103



augmented as measured by the share of dollar-linked debt (including the notional amounts of
Central Bank-issued currency swaps), which grew from 29 to 37 percent of the same period
(Appendix Figure 2). By contrast, exposure to interest rate risk shrank as measured by the
6!
share of SELIC-indexed debt (net of swaps), which declined from about 57 to 48 percent.
At the same time, the stock of currency swaps issued by the Central Bank surged to the
equivalent of US$31 billion as of March 2003 (compared to a stock of international reserves
of about US$38 billion, as defined by the Central Bank, and about US$14 billion, using the
IMF definition of liquid international reserves).
2.    Implications and Lessons
14.   There is little doubt that the structure of federal debt is a reflection of the volatile
environment in which Brazil has lived over the past 3 years or so. At the same time, such
structure raises the vulnerability of public finances and the economy in general to shocks and
to self-fulfilling attacks. The composition of federal debt can weaken the resilience of the
fiscal process-which Brazil has made commendable strides to strengthen-through at least
two channels, as illustrated by the experience of last year.
15.   First, there is a potential for a perverse feed back loop between debt composition and
concerns about debt viability. To facilitate debt rollover and mitigate volatility, the
government increases the share of shorter-duration (SELIC-indexed) debt. This can worsen
the fragility of the debt profile which, in turn, can intensify investor concerns, and so on.
16.   Second, the high exposure of domestic debt to market risk could undermine the
credibility of the inflation targeting framework. For instance, a major depreciation of the Real
induced by an external shock would, on the one hand, complicate debt dynamics because of
its impact on dollar-linked debt and currency swap exposure; on the other hand, it could raise
inflationary expectations. If the Central Bank responds by increasing the interest rate, that
would also complicate debt dynamics because of its direct impact on SELIC-indexed debt.
Complications in debt dynamics and particularly in the rollover process, could also put
pressure on the Central Bank to engage in debt buybacks, that is, in retiring debt in exchange
for an expansion of the money base which, in turn, could undermine the achievement of the
inflation target.
17.   Given the evolution of debt composition and considerations above, the authorities are
committed to raising the priority assigned to the medium-term objective of reducing the.
exposure of public debt to rollover, interest, and exchange rate risks. Such a renewed
emphasis is enhanced by the current convergence of two favorable conditions. Firstly, as
described in more detail in the next section, considerable progress has already taken place in
the implementation of the government's agenda towards establishing sounder institutional and
governance arrangements, as well as building technical capacity, for the management of debt.
Also, important actions have been taken to foster more efficient markets for government debt.
61 To simplify Appendix Figure 2, SELIC-indexed debt is defined to include the small share of floating interest
rate debt known as reference rate debt. At end-2002, such share was only 2 percent of the total.
104



18.   Secondly, the macroeconomic and financial context has substantially stabilized.
Country risk has fallen drastically, to below 800 basis points above U.S. Treasuries, and the
Real has appreciated significantly, reflecting a frank resumption of investor confidence in
response to the authorities' commitment to sound economic policies.
19.   The convergence of these two favorable conditions significantly boost the prospects of
success, and hence militates in favor of intensifying the implementation of the reform agenda
in the areas of public debt management and debt market development. In addition, the fresh
lessons learned during the turbulent last year have opened a window of opportunity for reform
in specific areas-such as the regulation of funds.
20.   However, the complexity of the initial conditions poses a major constraints on the
feasible speed at which progress can be achieved towards reducing the exposure of public
debt to risk. This is likely to be a slow, gradual process. Initial conditions are complex not
just because public debt is highly exposed to market risk, the unwinding of which is
inherently difficult. They are complex also because of concentrated market structures and
certain shortcomings in the fund industry (see Section D below), which limit the speed at
which risks can be prudently transferred from the government balance. Debt composition and
market features conspire to limit the speed at which the government can unwind the existing
moral hazard (i.e., market participants have come to expect that the government or the central
bank will provide risk-protection in times of turbulence) in ways that do not destabilize the
exchange and interest rates.
C. Debt Management: Governance and Capacity
1.    Achievements to Date
21.   There have been visible achievements in various dimensions of debt management in
recent years, aided by technical assistance from World Bank experts and the resources form a
World Bank TA loan. The process of transferring domestic debt issuance responsibilities
from the Central Bank to the National Treasury Department (STN) within the Ministry of
Finance has been completed. The Central Bank ceased issuing its own debt. The government
is moving towards transferring the responsibility for external debt issuance from the Central
Bank to STN.
22.   Concomitantly, the STN has introduced important organizational changes, including
the creation of the Debt Management Office (DMO). Also, an informal Debt Management
Committee (DMC) has been set up to discuss strategy and funding decisions. And the STN
has been making steady progress in implementing improved operational risk safeguards, in
line with the recommendations of recent reports by specialized consultants.
23.   At the same time, the technical capacity of the DMO, particularly the Middle and
Front Offices, has been strengthened considerably. The DMO has attracted highly qualified
staff using incentive systems such as financing of post-graduate studies and ample training
opportunities, as well as by the challenges presented to them. The Middle Office has built the
capacity to carry out forward looking simulation analysis and to develop a strategy based on
105



cost and risk trade-offs. Its staff has a deep understanding of various issues involved in the
analytical process and have produced high-quality published and unpublished reports to
support decision makers and to inform the public.
24.   Supported by these improvements in organizational arrangements and technical
capacity, the Ministry of Finance started issuing highly informative and technically sound
Annual Borrowing Plans in 2001. These Plans have increasingly highlighted the importance
or risk (and not just cost) in the debt management strategy, in a manner consistent with the
main objective is to minimize cost over the long term, taking into consideration the
maintenance of judicious levels of risk.
2.    Salient Elements of the Pending Reform Agenda
25.   As noted earlier, the authorities intend to seize the opportunities afforded by the
current favorable juncture to intensify the implementation of its reform agenda for debt
management, building on the major progress made to date, in order to enhance the resiliency
of the overall fiscal process to shocks. To this end, the debt management framework will
make further progress in explicitly incorporating risk (and not just cost) considerations, while
further actions will be taken to ensure that the debt management process is endowed with
improved governance arrangements and high standards of transparency and accountability.
The government sees this effort as an essential complement to the LRF in securing public debt
viability, itself a necessary condition for a permanent reduction in country risk and a sustained
path of higher output and employment growth.
26.   The government plans to significantly advance in the process of transferring the
authority for the issuance of the government's external debt from the Central bank to STN.
The Front Office capacity in the DMO will be strengthened to adequately assume these new
responsibilities.  In addition, the DMO  will continue implementing its institutional
strengthening program, through the streamlining of internal processes, the enhancement of
operational risk controls (including the creation of a Compliance Unit in the STN and the
Internal Auditor for the DMO), improving data management in the Back Office, and
enhancing the IT systems.
27.   In the governance front, the Ministry of Finance will soon formalize the Debt
Management Committee within STN. In addition, the government plans to create a Public
Debt Council (PDC) to be headed by the Minister of Finance. The PDC will, among other
things, approve the government debt management strategy and the associated Annual
Borrowing Plans.  These new  governance arrangements-and the transparency and
accountability they entail-should significantly enhance discipline in the  process of
formulation, approval, monitoring, and evaluation of the government debt management
strategy.
28.   As regards the formulation of the debt management strategy, the National Treasury
will assess the pros and cons of migrating towards a single strategy for the Annual Borrowing
Plan, with appropriate margins to accommodate volatility and provisions for revision of the
Plan when there is a fundamental change in the structural relationships between variables. (At
106



present, given uncertainty and volatility, the Annual Borrowing Plan contemplates 4 different
combinations of macro and market scenarios that set wide ranges for the debt risk indicators
to be achieved under the Plan.) To this end, the DMO plans to design a funding strategy
based on a cost/risk analysis and initiate a trial period by analyzing it in the DMC, in parallel
to the current approach. As macroeconomic volatility narrow and market development
progresses, the government intends to assess the merits of possibly moving towards a
portfolio benchmark approach, in order to gradually narrow the band-width of debt risk
indicators to be achieved under the Borrowing Plans.
29.   The specific guidelines for debt management in 2003, as stated in the Annual
Borrowing Plan, are summarized in table below. The target ranges for debt issuance are wide,
given that the guidelines are set to accommodate very different scenarios. In practice,
however, the DMO follows only one funding strategy-the one consistent with the scenario
that more closely resembles actual developments. As the funding strategy is designed to be
state-contingent, it would be modified should a radical change in macroeconomic conditions
occur.
Guidelines for Federal Domestic Debt Issuance in 2003
(Percentage Composition of Debt Stock Held Outside the Central Bank)
2002
Debt Instrument          Minimum    Maximum    Outcome
*  Nominal fixed interest rate    5          15        2.2
*  Linked to SELIC               52          60        60.8
* Linked to Inflation            12          18        12.5
* Linked to Exchange Rate        13          22        22.4
* Other                           2          4         2.1
Source. Ministry of Finance, Annual Borrowing Plan.
30.   While the Central Bank has ceased to issue its own debt paper, in line with provisions
under the LRF, it can still alter the risk composition of government debt held by the market,
As noted in Section B. It can do so through (i) the auctioning of currency-risk hedges
(swaps), as part of its operations to mitigate exchange rate volatility; and (ii) debt exchanges
(using its own large inventory of government debt paper) and debt buybacks, as part of its
operations to mitigate interest rate volatility. Given the complexity of the initial conditions
(troublesome composition of government debt outstanding, high stock of currency swap
contracts, remaining potential for macroeconomic volatility, and certain market features), the
Central Bank needs to retain the full array of monetary and exchange rate operations, even if
their use leads to deviations from the objectives regarding government debt composition in
the Annual Financial Plans, forcing a revision of the targets under such Plans.
31.   Against this background, the government plans to strengthen the coordination between
the Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank. Moreover, Central Bank policy is guided by
the medium-run objective of unwinding in an orderly fashion its currency swap book, as
macroeconomic and market conditions permit. In the shorter-term, and also as circumstances
107



permit, the Central Bank stands ready to rollover the notional principal of currency swaps
falling due, while endeavoring to avoid increasing its exposure therein.
D. Debt Management: Market lfDevelopment
32.   Efforts to strengthen the governance and strategy for debt management will need to be
complemented by a structured and well-sequenced approach to the development of the local
market for government debt. The actions to be taken by the authorities can be grouped into
three areas: (i) further refinement and development of the approach to the issuance of
government securities by STN; (ii) improvement in the size and diversity of the end investor
base; and (iii) creation of greater liquidity in the secondary market for government debt.
Actions in these three areas are mutually reinforcing and their implementation would enhance
the efficiency of primary and secondary markets for government debt and, hence, broaden the
scope for success in the government endeavors to reduce -the exposure of its debt to risk.
Actions already taken and planned in each area are described below.
1.    Reorienting the Domestic Debt Issuance Strategy
33.   The authorities have over the last couple of years revamped their strategy for the
issuance of domestic debt in significant ways. The transparency and predictability of issuance
of government securities has improved through the publication of issuance calendars, and the
mentioned consolidation of domestic debt issuance in STN. The authorities at the Ministry of
Finance have, furthermore, reduced the frequency of debt auctions and concentrated issuance
of new debt in a fewer number of securities, while applying buyback operations to further
reduce the fragmentation of outstanding issues. These initiatives are important to deepen and
increase efficiency of primary and secondary markets for government securities.
34.   As outlined in the Annual Borrowing Plan and mentioned earlier, the authorities are
setting target ranges aimed at reducing the proportion of dollar-linked and SELIC-indexed
debt issued. To strengthen the implementation of this risk reducing strategy the authorities
are already starting to  regularly issue Treasury Bills (LTNs), as a first step in the
development of an explicit, predictable and more general short- and medium-term domestic
debt issuance program. The implementation of such a general issuance program should lead
to the gradual establishment of more liquid benchmarks-and an associated yield curve. In
particular, the (plain-vanilla) Treasury Bill program could provide an anchor in the short end
of the yield curve, and would have to explicitly incorporate in its design such parameters as
target amount for the overall T-Bill program; desired maturities (e.g. 30, 90, 180 and 360
days); and amounts to be issued in each maturity; and appropriate changes in the calendar for
issues, in light of target benchmarks.
35.   Subsequently, and building on the intended development of a strategy for T-Bill
issuance, the authorities plan to gradually design a predictable issuance strategy for other
instruments which should enable the emergence of a longer-term yield curve. This issuance
strategy would provide clearer guidance to the Front Office and strengthen the Middle
Office's capacity to monitor deviations from its cost/risk targets.
108



36.    The design and speed of implementation of such a debt issuance strategy, by the
authorities, will have to take into account the previously mentioned constraints in terms of
macroeconomic conditions and market structure. The implementation of the strategy is
consequently of a medium-term nature. As debt duration is extended, complementary actions
related to money and derivative markets and to the structure of end investors will be needed,
so that the transfer of risk from the government debt portfolio to market participants can be
prudently managed.62
2.     Broadening and Diversifying the Investor Base
37.    The events of the turbulent last year highlighted the importance of complementing the
government's debt issuance strategy with efforts to simultaneously increase the ability of the
end institutional investors to measure and manage risk. In particular, last year's experience
pointed to the need to thetter delineate the types of funds and improve the disclosure by fund
administrators of the types of investment policies and products their funds can offer.
38.    The volatility in asset prices last year was magnified by the opening up of a credit
spread (desagio) for LFTs, the dominant security held by the DI funds, in the midst of the
implementation of mark-to-market regulations. The related increase in credit, market, and
liquidity risks facing funds (whose performance is measured against a deposit interest rate
index-the DI-derived from the derivatives markets) led to massive redemptions by fund
unit holders, forcing sales of securities into an illiquid secondary market. Lack of clarity in
valuation methodologies coupled with the implementation of mark-to-market rules
contributed to the contraction of liquidity in the government securities market as a whole. As
the crisis worsened with potential systemic risk implications, the Central Bank felt compelled
to undertake special debt exchange and buyback operations (as noted earlier) to permit the
orderly shortening of the duration of the asset portfolios of the funds. This contributed to the
inability of the authorities to meet their debt composition and duration targets. The legacy of
this episode is that it accentuated more hazard (i.e., the expectation by large funds and
proprietary desks of banks that the Central Bank will satisfy market demand for short duration
assets or in other contexts for hedges)
39.    The turbulent episode also highlighted how the lack of wider set of institutional and
retail investors (i.e., the concentration of buyers) can complicate debt rollover at times of
stress.63 The events of last year also demonstrated that some funds did not act in compliance
with the mark to market guidelines, while others provided preferential treatment to large
institutional investors in terms of disclosure (e.g., real time and daily reports of critical
information), while delaying disclosure and reporting to the small, retail unit holders. This
62 Experiences in other countries (e.g. Colombia) suggest that strategies that attempt to reduce refinancing risk
for the government, via issues of very long duration fixed income securities to pnvate market participants, can
run into complications if market participants have neither the capital nor the hedging instruments and
infrastructure to manage the duration gap or market risks they take.
63 Note that concentration of debt holdings in funds was in part promoted by the Brazilian tax system. The use
of exclusive funds by corporate Investors, high net worth individuals, and pension funds and insurance
companies became a way to avoid direct transactions in government debt, thereby avoiding the payment of the
debit tax (CPMF).
109



compromised the effectiveness of the mutual fund channel for the distribution of government
debt securities to retail buyers.
40.    The authorities have begun to take steps to rectify the problems highlighted by last
year's market distress. Already in 2002, changes were made in the capital markets law to
centralize all responsibilities for supervision and regulation of fixed income funds in the
Securities and Exchange Commission (CVM). This constitutes an improvement over the split
in such responsibilities with the Central Bank that had undermined consistency in regulatory
and supervisory treatment of funds.      To support this transfer of responsibilities, a
Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) has been signed between CVM and Central Bank,
designed to facilitate explicit resource sharing, including staff and information. The MOU
better defines the roles and responsibilities of the CVM and BCB in such areas as the onsite
and offsite supervision of funds, and creates a sound basis for the formulation of regulation
and supervision of fixed income funds (which largely invest in government securities).64
41.    To start to diversify distribution channels for government debt issues, the authorities
launched the Treasury direct program in January 2002. It allows retail investors to purchase
government securities at noncompetitive bids, directly from the government over the internet.
This program has not grown substantially, partly reflecting the limited diversity of existing
distribution channels. The diversification of distribution channels and broadening of the end-
investor base is not an easy task, given the concentration that exists in the institutional
investor markets and the lack of incentives for existing financial conglomerates to offer a
product to their retail clients that competes with bank deposits and investment fund units.65
(In effect, a handful of financial conglomerates (banks and their related funds) hold over 50
percent of outstanding government domestic debt.). The authorities plan to explore a number
of actions to improve the effectiveness of the Treasury Direct system.
42.    In addition, the authorities will establish in the near term  an interagency team
(consisting for example of representatives from the BCB, STN, CVM and the Tax Authority,
with participation by SPC and SUSEP where needed). Among its responsibilities, this team
will design a strategy and action plan to develop the end-investor base (institutional and retail,
foreign and domestic) for government securities.
43.    This interagency team  will also provide support and information for the CVM     to
develop a new and more uniform regulatory framework applicable to fixed income funds.
Such framework will entail: (i) a better demarcation of the types of funds;66 (ii) a clear
specification of the rights and obligations of fund investors and managers; and (iii) improved
64 MoU signed between CVM and Bacen: Convenio que entre si celebram a Comissao de Valores Mobiliarios e
o Banco Central do Brasil, com vistas ao intercambio de informacoes e outras atividades correltates, Rio de
Janeiro, 5 de julho de 2002.
65 Typical commissions charged by DI funds to small unit holders are between 400 to 600 basis points of net
asset value-and this does not include performance fees also charged by some funds. Straight deposits and
savings products pay well below the SELIC (even on an after-tax basis).
66 In Brazil this will involve differentiating between money market mutual funds, mixed funds, index funds,
closed and open ended funds and funds with limited lock in, hedge funds, and funds of funds.
110



disclosure requirements, especially of the risks associated with individual fund investment
policies.
44.    Regulations relating to performance benchmarks for funds will also be reviewed.
Today there is a proliferation of benchmark indices and rates.67   Many   benchmarks are
viewed with suspicion in local fixed income markets, both because of the lack of liquidity in
cash markets and due to large concentration of some of the underlying cash securities in the
hands of a few financial conglomerates.68 Hence, the design of fewer benchmark reference
rates with integrity is of critical importance
45.    As regards the valuation of debt securities, current regulations69 leave too much
discretion to market participants. This leads to differences in valuation of like securities and
raises questions regarding the integrity and comparability of performance comparisons across
funds. - There is thus a need to establish a more common methodology when marking
government securities to market, including using specific models and guidelines where there
is a lack of prices determined through secondary market transactions. The authorities have
committed to assessing the methodology used for valuation of government securities.
46.    The current portfolio classification methodology for accounting purposes is in need of
revision. The rules for re-classification of investment assets between "mark to market", "hold
to maturity", and "available for sale" give too much discretion to Fund Managers. What is
needed is a more standardized approach across various forms of funds before reclassification
is allowed. Here as in the case of valuation a review of existing regulations will be
conducted, in light of international practice.
47.    Actions in the areas above can have an important impact on the demand for
government securities. In particular, properly designed reforms in these areas will make
investment fund indifferent between buying a indexed versus a nominal asset.
3.     Improving Secondary Market Liquidity
48.    Liquidity in the secondary market for government debt in Brazil is very limited,
despite the very large outstanding stock of debt. Virtually all liquidity is concentrated in the
repurchase agreement (repo) market and in the derivatives markets (DI futures, and currency
swaps). The government's agenda to improving secondary market liquidity includes the
following mutually reinforcing actions: (i) further consolidating, standardizing, and
simplifying the debt securities issued; (ii) improving the primary dealing system; (iii)
examining possible revisions in the tax treatment of financial contracts; (iv) enhancing the
67 The benchmarks and indices include the derivative curve, and such reference rates as the TR, TBF, TJLP,
SELIC rate, CDI (or DI when used in measuring performance of funds), and the ANBID rates for debentures
For detail on how each of these different rates is calculated see page 63 of the Securities Markets Technical
Annex of the Brazil FSAP of March 2003.
68 Today there is nothing akin to a true Brazilian LIBOR. Local banks actively use the repurchase agreement
market, or the CDI market, as the true gauge of the marginal cost of funding. The CDI's are actually perceived
by some market participants to be less subject to influence by the authorities than the repo market through repo-
based open markets operations.
69 See CVM instgructions 365, 375, and also BCB circular 3086.
111



infrastructure for the trading, clearing, and settlement of fixed income securities, as well as
fostering the establishment of a government securities lending facility; and (v) enhancing
market integrity.
49.   The Brazilian authorities have already taken some actions to address the lack of
market liquidity. They have, as mentioned, significantly reduced the number and type of debt
issues outstanding, through a strategy of swap operations, re-openings, and debt buy backs.
50.   More recently, in March 2003, they issued regulations defining a new two-tier primary
dealer system. The regulations mainly concerned new criteria for the selection of "ordinary"
primary dealers, as well as of a new category of dealers referred to as "specialists".7o
Specialists and primary dealers will be required to make bids for a certain percentage in each
auction and account for minimum percentages of trading in selected securities. However, the
performance in the secondary market will have a greater weight in the criteria to qu.alify as a
specialist, while the requirements to bid in primary markets will be lighter. In effect, neither
the specialists nor the primary dealers will be obligated to "make markets" in government
securities in the traditional sense (by having to stand ready to buy/sell government securities
for a pre-specified amount within a certain maximum spread). The performance of the
specialists is being monitored through special reports by the market makers to the STN and
Central Bank.
51.   To bolster the new primary dealer system, the authorities plan to issue regulations on
benefits and penalties for primary dealers and specialists, so that the system can become
operational in July/August 2003. The success of the system in increasing the liquidity in the
secondary market, however, will be intrinsically linked to the achievements made in
implementation of the above mentioned debt issuance strategy. Without successful
implementation of a T-bill program and, in the medium-term, the issuance of longer duration
benchmark securities, a vibrant secondary market is not expected to materialize.
52.   Although no comprehensive action is being taken in the area of financial service
taxation, the authorities have submitted to Congress a tax reform bill that will, among other
things, give the Executive Brach the flexibility and the discretion to reduce the debit tax
(CPMF) rate from 0.38 to 0.08 percent. The speed of implementing this action will be
contingent on finding deficit-neutral alternative measures. The debit tax, combined with other
explicit and implicit taxes (e.g. reserve requirements and forced investments), likely
undermines liquidity in the secondary market for government debt, to the extent that it
encourages liquidity to move to relatively less taxed contracts (e.g., repos and derivatives). If
the CPMF rate is actually lowered, there will be a greater incentive for market participants to
trade in the secondary market for government securities. However, even a lower tax rate can
continue to create problems for secondary market liquidity, if it is not applied uniformly
across financial contracts.
53.   The authorities are supportive of the BMF plan to re-introduce an electronic secondary
market trading system for government securities (SISBEX) during the second half of 2003.
70 See the BCB and STN joint decision resolution number 14 of March 19, 2003.
112



This system and the associated regulations issued by BMF and CVM, should contribute to
greater liquidity and transparency in government securities trading. This is likely to be
especially important for the success of the envisaged STN Treasury Bill program. The
exchange (BMF) will clear and settle these transactions. This will be an order driven system
and participants will be able to see the consolidated order book and will have the option to
trade blind (i.e., not reveal identity to counter parties, which is important to large
participants). In addition, SISBEX will allow for the automatic use of call auctions when
liquidity of trading is limited in a specific security. Finally the commitments of specialists
will be tracked and monitored in this electronic trading environment.
54.   The development by the BMF of a wholly private framework for borrowing and
lending of securities over the SISBEX system can also help to improve secondary market
liquidity This would allow swaps of government securities used as collateral by clearing
members across different clearing entities. The facility would be based on marking to market
of open positions, in a way that they can be consolidated with other cash and derivative
positions. The BMF intend to introduce this facility toward the end of 2003 or early in 2004.
55.   As regards market integrity, planned actions aim  at improving reporting and
surveillance of exchange and over-the-counter trading. This should lead to enhancing the
integrity of reported asset prices and improving the detection of infraction and enforcement of
penalties. In addition, regulations regarding disclosures by intermediaries (e.g. primary
dealers and specialists) and fund managers will be reviewed to assure that disclosures and
internal compliance practices are up to international standards. Finally, enforcement capacity
at the CVM in regard to surveillance, inspections, and enforcement in government fixed
income markets will be reviewed and strengthened, partly with the help of resources from
World Bank TA loans. These initiatives will strengthen the integrity of the secondary markets
for government bonds, thereby attracting a more diversified investor base. Especially for less
well informed investors creating trust in the market, its intermediaries, and fund managers is
essential to improving participation
113



APPENDIX
Figure lA. Brazil: Composition of Domestic Federal Debt*
(as of May 1998)
Price-indexed
Selic-indexed-
Dollar-linked                        28%
, ~~~17% . ; ..\X
Fixed Interest
Rate
51%
Figure 1B. Brazil: Composition of Domestic Federal Debt*
(as of March 2003)
Price-indexed
13%
Selic-indexed
with Swaps**
Dollar-linke           |                 50%
with Swaps
35%
Fixed Interest
Rate
2%
Sources: Ministry of Finance and Central Bank of Brazil
* Figures include only domestic federal debt held outside the Central Bank. **lncludes Reference Rate. ***To ensure that
debt components add to 100%, the notional amount of Central Bank-issued currency swaps are assumed to act, in a I to I
relation, as hedges for selic indexed debt.
114



Figure 2
Brazil: Composition of Domestic Federal Debt *
70%
60%
50%                           V        ~~~~~~~~~~~Selic-indexed-
50%                                                                                                                --1 . 
Selhc-indexed with Swaps...  *
40%
Dollar-linked with Swaps  -------       - -
30% ----
Dollar-linked
20%-
Fixed Interest Rate
10% _
0%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s Pnce-mndexed
o%   I   1-  1,   r   c    r   co 0 0 o0    0) rD   *D                     0    0    0   0    0   0   0    0   0 N
B      'D3~,  b,    2 5  t   $             <        O   X   >             O   >   z        O    2 
o  en  Is  n ~~ o  n  a    ,   0    a   s             n   I       3         a   n    o   *   a    o   0    5
Z  U ~~~  ur  Z ~~ U_  2      Z    c        (   Z   U.   2        Z   1,   ~   ~    Z   U                 o
Figunes inlude only domesttc federal debt held outsne the Central Bank Inccludes Reaenance Rate T1o ensure that debt components add to 100% the nolesal armount of
Centrnal Bank-issued currency swaps aer assumed to act. in a 1 to I nelaon., as hedges for sebc indeced debt
Figure 3
Brazil. Composition of Domestic Federal Debt Held Inside and Outside the Central Bank
(as of March 2003, Billion Reals)
500
Cl Held outside Central Bank * Hald by Central Bank
400
300
200                              __
0                                                                                                             4
Selic indexed'                  Dollar-linked excluding Swaps              Fixed Interest Rate
Inciudes Releinma Rate
Sources: Central Bank of Brazil.
115



0    0CD0 O C'          sf4  00
0.o                           -~~~~~oC4  4 e   C')
C4 <
0 0
9 0~
0 )         It0     r 0  fl   C')       -~           C.)l  I
-0 0nC
o0.                     r-oe0      0   C' n        ''f
m  =00           'I'                -            00
0       t
9:  00 00     :         9   C
-  ~~~~~        r~~i C              00  ~-       t
C'J.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~          0~~~~~~~~~~~~'
C'.
o                                                                   0~~~~~r 0 0  14(1   0r
C.)                                                                   -0
0     C-00     00'~C)  ) 0   ~00  0'  -                   eq 
01  ~   -'       -u    r4       C'      C')    C-'           0
.0                                                     0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
0)                                                    0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
00
C.,
CO                                                       0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
0.)                                                        0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  01 
-)d     r~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
0                          0 .~~~~~~~~~~~ 
-                      0                                .0 0~00    C
0)~~~~~
CU~~~~~                               ~~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0  0E 0)
al      v  7s  ll~~~~  v   'o     m   Z  0.20
C  0  0    0        C 0 0  C
0 
0,  0                    '   ' 5, 
0                       .~~~~x 0  .0 0
0,  0  >0~~.0 
.0                  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0  .0-                              -       .~~~~~~~0 
-  ~~~  0              .0..   0   .
00    0    -o                    0                       0 
C  0  C         .    .
.00)   ~    ~ u          0   0                ,
.0          F.:         >      >   >0
-~  ' ~ .0  C.  0. ~ 0.  0.0)               0
u          ,0      o     <   <.             VO 0)0
.0  ~ 0.     )0)     -          ~ ~116E



ANNEX 8: THE BRAZILIAN TAX REFORM PROCESS
A. Introduction
1.     This annex discusses Brazil's tax system   and analyzes the key details of the reform
package just presented to Congress. The report is divided into three sections. Section B
describes the evolution of the Brazilian tax system, providing insights into the reasons for the
low quality of the current system. Section C looks at the main obstacles hindering the approval
and implementation of broad tax reform and identifies the common elements of the different
proposals discussed in recent years, many of which have been incorporated into the Tax Reform
package that the new administration presented on April 30th 2003. Section D describes the Tax
Reform proposal sent by the President Lula administration to the Congress. And finally, section
E examines some administrative aspects of the Brazilian tax system.
B. The Brazilian Tax System
2.     During the last decade, the quality of the Brazilian tax system has suffered a continuous
deterioration. This is attributable to three factors: i) the necessity to increase revenues to attain
fiscal equilibrium in the context of a high degree of budget rigidity; ii) the incentives generated
by the system of revenue-sharing among the different levels of government; and iii) the fact that
the tax system has lacked the flexibility to handle the economic stabilization and openness
experienced by the Brazilian economy in the 1990s.
3.     The deterioration of the tax system can be characterized by: i) an increasing tax burden,
reaching 34% of GDP in 2002 - a level that is considerably higher than in other countries at a
similar stage of development; ii) the increasing share of the total tax burden accounted for by
cumulative or cascading indirect taxes (or taxes with an incidence on intermediate as well as
final turnover or sales),7' negatively affecting the competitiveness of the Brazilian productive
sector; iii) the regressive impact of the higher degree of indirect taxation; iv) the increasing
complexity of the system, imposing high administrative costs on taxpayers and the government,
and v) excessive fiscal competition among states and municipalities, resulting from the lack of
uniformity in national legislation on sub-national taxation.
4.     To understand the current Brazilian tax system, it is important to look back at the Tax
Reforms of 1967 and 1988. In 1967, the military government implemented a reform that
promoted a huge increase in revenue, as well as the modernization of the tax system. The
political situation at the time was conducive to a sweeping reform, allowing the rationalization of
the system based on the main principles of efficient taxation, and the introduction of key
technical guidelines in the Reform. The main innovations of the 1967 Reform were the
elimination of cumulative indirect taxes, the introduction of value-added taxation for federal and
71 An efficient indirect tax is one that fits one of the following descriptions: (i) it has an incidence only on final
consumption or on final sales, and not on intermediate turnover or sales of intermediate products in the production
process; or (ii) it has an incidence on the value added at each stage in the production process. (There is some
equivalence between the two because the value of final sales or consumption should correspond to the total value
added in the production process.) Value-added taxes are thus efficient indirect taxes, as are excise taxes on final
goods such as cigarettes, alcoholic drinks and automobiles. Indirect taxes that do not fit this description can be
defined as "cumulative" or "cascading" indirect taxes, because they imply that turnover or sales at several - i.e. two
or more - stages in the production process end up being taxed.
117



state governments, the simplification of the system via a reduction in the number of taxes, the
modernization of the income taxation system and administrative improvements that increased
efficiency in tax collection.
5.    The 1967 Reform also changed the assignment of tax instruments and the distribution of
tax revenues among the different levels of government. In line with principles of efficient
taxation in a federal system, key income and value-added taxes were assigned to the federal
government, which was obliged to share the ensuing revenues with the state and local
governments. The federal taxes that had to be shared with the lower-level governments were the
personal and corporate income tax (IRPF and IRPJ, or the Imposto de Renda de Pessoa Fisica
and Imposto de Renda de Pessoa Juridica, respectively,) and the federal value-added tax on
industrial products or IPI (Imposto sobre Produtos Industrializados). At the same time, the
Reform introduced the Imposto sobre ComercializaVdo de Mercadorias (ICM), a broad value-
added state tax on goods. Municipalities were assigned the Imposto Sobre Serviqos (ISS), a tax
on services, in the Reform. For both the ICM and ISS taxes, the rates were chosen by the federal
government.
6.    Figure 1 shows that the 1967 Reform had a strong and permanent effect on the tax
burden, which rose from 17% of GDP in 1964 to 25% of GDP in 1968, and stayed stable at
around this level until the mid-1980s. However, because of an increasing tendency to reduce the
taxation of selected sectors as part of an industrial development policy, as well as the
proliferation of fiscal incentives, total revenues from federal income and value-added taxes fell
towards the end of the 1970s. This trend was exacerbated by a fall in economic growth rates in
the early 1980s. At the same time, growing deficits were appearing in the national Social
Security and Social Assistance budget, since direct contributions to this system were not
matching payments from it.
Figure 1: Brazilian Tax Burden, 1960 - 2001
400
35 0                                                   Real Stabilizabon
Tax Reormn of          z
300                                        1988
250
C, 250 /~_ J
200 D
Tax ReforM
of 1967
150
100
118



7.    As a result, the government created a number of new indirect and cumulative taxes, to
compensate for the loss in revenues from the federal income and value-added taxes (IRPF, IRPJ
and IPI), and to finance the deficits in the Social Security and Social Assistance budget. The
government created the PIS/PASEP (Contribuifao para Programa de IntegraqJo Social e
Programa para Formnaqao do Patrimonio do Servidor Publico) in 1983 and the Finsocial (Fundo
de Investimento Social) in 1985, which had incidence on the turnover of industrial firms, and
were cumulative (or cascading) in nature.  In 1988, the government created the CSLL
(Contribuifado sobre o Lucro Liquido), an additional income tax on corporate profits. (See Table
1 for a listing of the major taxes in the Brazilian system.) These new taxes had a burden that
varied considerably across different sectors and enterprises, leading to inefficiencies and large
distortions in relative prices, and negatively affecting the quality of the tax system. The result
was a deterioration in the competitiveness of the Brazilian productive sectors.
8.    The newly created taxes - especially the cascading PIS/PASEP and Finsocial - created
.significant distortions in relative prices for a number of reasons. First, they disproportionately
affected the industrial sectors (relative to the service and other sectors). Industrial sectors with
complex production processes had an especially high tax burden, since each stage in the
production process was taxed; the result was huge differentials in tax burdens across sectors.
The cascading taxes also encouraged the use of inefficient combinations of inputs, and increased
the cost of capital goods. They promoted vertical integration and industrial concentration (since
these reduced overall tax burdens for companies) which can hamper competition in the economy,
and discouraged the efficient outsourcing of non-core business activities. Given the cumulative
nature of these taxes and the fact that they are not levied on imports, they gave rise to an
excessive reliance on imports rather than domestically produced goods, to a degree that differed
across sectors because some sectors depended more on imports than others. Finally, the
imposition of taxation at each stage in the production process reduced the competitiveness of
Brazilian exports.
9.    Thus, the re-introduction of the cumulative taxes represented a backward step in the
process of modernization and rationalization of the Brazilian tax system. However, given that
these taxes had relatively low rates, and because various trade policy instruments were in place
that protected domestic industries, the negative effect of these distortionary taxes was not
apparent at the time. Also, the increasingly complex nature of the tax system made it difficult to
determine the extent to which the system had a negative impact on overall economic efficiency.
In addition to the complexities already discussed above, certain widely consumed goods began to
be exempted from the federal value-added tax (IPI).
10.   Unfortunately, the Reform of 1988 did not halt the process of deterioration in the quality
of the tax system, but it did result in an unexpected increase in the economy's total tax burden.
One of the main principles of the new Constitution of 1988 was that various government
functions such as education and health provision should be decentralized to lower levels of
government, implying a decentralization of government expenditures as well as tax revenues.
Thus, the 1988 Tax Reform changed the distribution of fiscal revenues among the three levels of
government in favor of states and municipalities. The 1967 Tax Reform had established that
35% of the revenues from the personal and corporate income tax (IRPF and IRPJ) and from the
federal value-added tax (IPI) had to be transferred to states and municipalities. Under the 1988
Reform, the share to be allocated to states and municipalities rose to 47%.
119



11.   But in practice, decentralization of expenditure responsibilities imposed by the new
Constitution was not implemented as quickly or to the same degree as decentralization of
revenues, generating a disequilibrium at the federal level. Even more dramatic, the 1988
Constitution expanded the social responsibilities of the state, guaranteed free access to social
services, established higher social security benefits, and guaranteed that all public-sector
employees would enjoy the same generous benefits that used to apply only to some categories of
public employees. In addition, the 1988 Constitution increased the degree of rigidity of public
sector budgets through the earmarking of a large portion of the fiscal revenues. All of this meant
that soon after 1988, the federal government found it necessary to find new ways of raising
additional revenue.
12.   To raise this additional revenue, the federal government turned to taxes other than the key
federal income and value-added taxes IRPF, IRPJ and IPI, so that it would not have to share the
additional funds with the states and municipalities. More precisely, the federal government
increased its revenues from cumulative indirect taxes such as the PIS/PASEP and Finsocial,
which - unlike the broad-based and efficient taxes IRPF, IRPJ and IPI - were distortionary and
of low quality. The federal government even created another indirect and low-quality tax, an
exotic tax on financial transactions called IPMF (Imposto Provis6rio sobre Movimentagao
Financeira); this was meant to finance - temporarily, for a two-year period - health
expenditures.
13.   Initially, these attempts to ensure that federal revenues kept pace with federal
expenditures worked. The main reason for this is that they occurred initially in a period of very
high inflation. The price indexation applied to revenues was higher than that applied to
expenditures; this, together with negative real interest rates that effectively made domestic
borrowing costless, meant that the federal government was able to generate primary fiscal
surpluses. Because of the high inflation, the government was able, in effect, to postpone a fiscal
crisis. Without the inflationary environment, the combination of a reduction in revenues,
increasing expenditure requirements, and a high degree of budget rigidity could have led to an
unsustainable path for fiscal accounts.
14.   In the second half of the 1990s, the Plano Real successfully brought inflation under
control, lowering it from 2,500% a year in 1994 to less than 4% annually in 1998. The end of
inflation defined a new fiscal regime in which it was no longer possible to control increases in
real expenditures through inflation. Despite the increase in the tax burden from 25% of GDP in
1993 to 30% of GDP in 1998, the fiscal situation gradually worsened. Fiscal reform was
nevertheless delayed; with the tight monetary policy of the period, public debt started to follow
an unsustainable path, threatening the stabilization process.
15.   In 1999, the Brazilian government implemented a rigorous contractionary policy that led
to a continuous improvement in the public sector primary fiscal balance, which (as a percentage
of GDP) was 3.25% in 1999, 3.5% in 2000, 3.7% in 2001, and 3.9% in 2002. These
improvements resulted mostly from revenue increases; this was necessarily so, given the
expenditure rigidities in the budget. The tax burden increased from 30% of GDP in 1998 to 34%
in 2002. As before, the federal revenue increases came not from greater use of the broad-based
and efficient federal taxes (IRPF, IRPJ and IPI), but from an increases in receipts from indirect
cascading taxes which did not need to be shared with the states and municipalities. In 1999, the
120



government increased rates of the following taxes: the indirect cascading taxes PIS/PASEP and
COFINS (formerly Finsocial), payroll taxes, CSLL and CPMF (Contribuicdo Provisoria sobre
Movimenta,co Financeira, formerly IPMF). The rate for the latter - the tax on financial
transactions - was raised from 0.10% to 0.38%.
16.   CPMF seems to have contributed to the large Brazilian bank spreads that have been
observed, and to some shift from bank deposits to investment funds. In addition, it appears to
have resulted in a decrease in the ratio of withdrawals to average balances, and in the migration
abroad of stock exchange transactions through the increase of American Depository Receipts.
On the positive side, it is worth mentioning that CPMF is being used as an important tool against
tax evasion, enabling the cross-checking of bank information and income tax declarations.
17.   Table 1 provides a listing of the major taxes in the current Brazilian system. Table 2
shows that the burden of indirect cascading taxes rose from 2.8% of GDP in 1990 to 6.3% of
GDP in 2001. The share of these indirect cascading taxes out of total revenue increased from
13% to 27%. These statistics illustrate the federal government's preference for revenue sources
that it does not need to share with the states and municipalities.
121



Table 1. Main taxes in Brazil, March 2002*
Government     Direct Taxes                 Indirect Non-         Indirect Cascading      Payroll
Level I                                      Cascading Taxes       Taxes                  Taxes
Federal        Personal and corporate income  VAT on Industrial   Turnover taxes (PIS-    Social Secunty
taxes (IRPF and IRPJ)        Products (IPI)        PASEP and COFINS)       payments, as
Rural property tax (ITR)     Tax on financial      Tax on financial        well as other
. .               ~~~~~~operations (IOF)  transactions (CPMF)    contributions
Additional tax on corporate
profits (CSLL)               Import Tax
Tax on Great Fortunes (IGF) -  New gasoline tax
Still not applied -          (CIDE)
State          Tax imposed on value of car  State value-added tax
(IPVA)                       (ICMS)
State inheritance tax (ITCD)
Municipal       Urban property tax (IPTIU)                        Service tax (ISS)
Tax on property transactions
(ITBI-IV)
* The following are the full names in Portuguese for the taxes not already mentioned in this paper Imposto sobre Operag8es
Financeiras (IOF); Contribuitdo de Intervengdo no Dominio Econ6mico (CIDE); Imposto sobre Propriedade de Veiculos
Automotores (IPVA); Imposto sobre Transferencias de Bens Imn6veis-Causa Mortis (ITCD), Imposto sobre a Proprzedade
Territorial Urbana (IPTU); Imposto sobre Transferencias de Bens Imnveis-Inter Vivos (ITBI-IV)
18.     On the other hand, the share of direct taxes and indirect taxes that are not cumulative (or
cascading) fell from 3% of GDP in 1990 to 1.7% of GDP in 2001, showing the reduced desire by
the federal government to collect taxes that it has to share with the states and municipalities.
Direct taxes maintained their share of about 26% of total revenue due to the increases in revenue
from the CSLL. Finally, the burden of payroll taxes increased from 7% of GDP to 8.5% of GDP.
19.     The increasing burden of indirect cascading taxes and contributions amplified the
distortions already introduced into the tax system before the 1988 Tax Reform. However, the
gradual increase in openness of the economy aggravated the problem, as the tax system imposed
high costs on domestic goods and production, relative to imports; these could not be
compensated for by trade policies. As imports are spared from many of the cumulative taxes in
the system, and since tariffs were significantly reduced, the negative effects of the tax system
became more evident, resulting in a broad demand for tax reform.
122



Table 2. Federal Government Revenue, 1990 - 2001
Direct Taxes    Indirect Non-       Indirect      PayroHl Taxes  Total Federal
Cascading Taxes  Casacading Taxes                   Revenue
(%of    (%of    (%of     (%of     (%of    (%of    (%of    (%of    (%of   (%of
GDP)    Total)  GDP)     Total)   GDP)    Total)  GDP)    Total)  GDP)   Total)
1990     5.4    26.5     4.4      21.3     2.8     13.7    7.9    38.5    20 5    100.0
1991     4.0    23.9     3.3      19.7     2.4     14.5    7.0     42.0   16.7    100.0
1992     4.7    27.0     3.4      19.7     2.1     12.0    7.2    41.4    17.5    100.0
1993     4.8    26.0     3.7      20.0     2.6     13.8    7.4     40.2   18 5    100.0
1994     5.0    24.6     3.4      16.6     4.6     22.5    7.4     36.3   20.5    100.0
1995     5.8    28.8     3.3      16.7     3.2     16.0    7.7     38.6   20.0    100.0
1996     5 5    28.6     2.9      14.8     3 1     16.1    7.8    40.5    19.3    100.0
1997     5.3    27.2     2.9      14.9     3.7     18.9    7.7     39.0   19.6    100.0
1998     6 0    29.4     2.9      14.0     3.6     17.6    7.9     38.9   20.4    100.0
1999     6.5    29.0     3.0      13.4     5.0     22.4    7.9     35.2   22.5    100.0
2000     6 3     27.6    2.8      12.1     5 7     24.9     8.1    35.5    23.0   100.0
2001     6.6    27.2     2.7      11.2     6.3     26.1     8.6    35.5    24.2   100.0
Means
1990 - 1994  4.8   25.6     3.6      19.4     2.9     15.3    7.4    39.7    18.7    100.0
1995 - 1998  5.7   28.5     3.0      15.1     3.4     17.2    7 8    39.2    19 9    100.0
1999 - 2001  6.5   27.9     2.8      12 2     5.7    24.5     8.2    35.4    23.2    100.0
20.    The increasing share of indirect cascading taxes in total revenue also introduced a
regressive bias in the system, as the incidence of these taxes is on various forms of consumption;
consumption typically accounts for a higher portion of the expenditure of low-income groups
than high-income groups. An IMF study on the distributional effects of the Brazilian tax system
reveals that the overall federal indirect tax system is regressive; the PIS/PASEP and COFINS
taxes are especially bad in this regard, because their incidence on essential goods such as food
and medicine is significant. Because of the heavy concentration of the federal value-added tax
(IPI) on a few groups of non-essential products such as tobacco, alcoholic beverages and cars,
this tax is relatively less regressive.
21.    There are also significant difficulties with the state tax system. As a result of the new
Constitution and Reform in 1988, changes were introduced to the state value-added tax ICM and
the municipal service tax ISS, as follows: (i) ICM was broadened to include services, and
renamed Imposto sobre Comercializa,do de Mercadorias e Servigos (ICMS); and (ii) states and
municipalities were granted autonomy over the rates of the ICMS and ISS taxes, which had
previously been determined by the central government. Considerable differences arose between
the ICMS and ISS rates in different states and municipalities, introducing complexities in the
system. The administration of the value-added tax ICMS became difficult, because production
in any one state often involves inputs made in other states. At the same time, the interaction with
federal indirect taxes introduced cumulative characteristics in the ICMS tax.   All of this
amounted to additional distortions in the system with adverse effects on competitiveness in
foreign trade.
123



22.    At the municipal level, the tax on services (ISS) is clearly a cascading tax, since its
incidence falls not just on final services but also on intermediate services in the production chain.
The result is that competitiveness suffers in sectors where production is intensive in service
inputs.
23.    The lack of uniform legislation in the sub-national tax system also results in excessive
fiscal competition among states and among municipalities. In the case of the ICMS, each of
Brazil's 27 state legislatures has the authority to set rates independently of the others; state
governments thus tend to engage in fiscal "wars", offering excessive fiscal incentives in an
attempt to attract economic activity to their regions. The same is true at the municipal level,
where each municipality has the authority to set its own ISS tax rate. At the same time, to
compensate for the ensuing loss in revenue, states raised taxes and rates on tax bases that were
relatively immobile. In particular, high taxes were imposed on public utility services; the tax
rates on electricity and telecommunication services are more than 50% above the base charge in
most states. These high utility tax rates affect the competitiveness of the industrial sector, and
make the overall tax system more regressive.
24.    With regard to the direct taxation system, it is important to recognize its progressive
nature and the fact that Brazil has made important progress in the modernization of this system
since 1995. The main achievements were: (i) the tax base has been broadened, and the personal
income tax rate structure has been streamlined; (ii) the indexation mechanism previously used
has been eliminated; (iii) corporate interest income is now taxed, unlike before, resulting in the
more uniform taxation of the returns on financial assets; (iv) there are now more disincentives in
the system against transfer pricing; and (v) the taxation of micro enterprises has been simplified.
25.    The progressive nature of the basic rate structure of the personal income tax system is
evident from the fact that the threshold below which personal incomes are not taxes is high; it is
at least two times the median value of national personal incomes. On the other hand, the
generous deductions available to personal income taxpayers benefit mainly middle and higher
income earners, weakening the progressive nature of the personal income tax.
26.    Besides the corporate income tax, corporations must also pay the CSLL tax or
"contribution"; both of these are assessed on the same tax base. The result is that corporate
income is effectively taxed more heavily than personal income, affecting the competitiveness of
the Brazilian productive sector. This heavy corporate tax burden also creates an incentive for
companies to evade taxes, or to effectively remain in the informal sector of the economy. The
payroll tax is another tax that can encourage activity in the informal sector, at the expense of the
formal sector; it also raises labor costs.
27.    Finally, property taxes are traditionally under-exploited in the Brazilian tax system. With
the exception of large state capital cities, the urban property tax is not used by most Brazilian
local governments. Even less used is the federal rural property tax, which has a miniscule tax
burden of just 0.02% of GDP.
124



C. The Difficult Process of Tax Reform in the Nineties
28.   Since the 1988 Tax Reforrn did not address the main shortcomings of the tax system,
almost immediately after its implementation in 1989/90 there was widespread dissatisfaction
with the existing system, and increasing demands for another round of reforms. During the
presidential campaign of 1994, candidates had identified tax reform as a key priority for the
country in the new environment where economic stabilization was emphasized and the economy
was becoming increasingly open.
29.   In spite of public consensus over the necessity of tax reform and the electoral promises of
the new government, the Cardoso administration delayed the launching of the discussion and
negotiation process for the reform. This was due in part to the Mexican crisis at the beginning of
1995, which complicated the macroeconomic policies being implemented during the first year of
Cardoso's administration. Also, other constitutional reforms that facilitated the privatization of
public enterprises were considered more relevant initially, and dominated the reform agenda in
the Congress. The lack of a clear tax reform proposal can be considered another factor that
delayed the reform process. In 1996 and early 1997, as the government concentrated its efforts
on the proposed Constitutional amendment to allow the reelection of Cardoso as president, tax
reform was again postponed.
30.   In the meantime, the public outcry over the existing tax system grew louder, especially
from the ranks of the business community and the industrial worker unions, which - in the
context of the increasingly open economy and the exchange rate overvaluation - were negatively
affected by the pro-import and anti-export nature of the tax system. As a partial response to
these complaints, starting from 1996, exports and capital goods were exempted from the state
ICMS tax under Lei Complementar 87/96 (or Lei Kandir).
31.   Given the lack of leadership from the Cardoso administration on the subject of tax
reform, Congress and business organizations took the initiative. At the end of 1995, the
Chamber of Deputies created the Special Committee of Tax Reform in order to launch a process
of discussion on the topic with state governors and business organizations. It was only in late
1997, as the tax reform discussion process was taking steps in an undesirable direction, that
President Cardoso decided to play a more active role in the process. He initiated another round
of discussions on the topic, announcing that his administration was preparing a tax reform
proposal with the following general guidelines: i) simplification of the tax system; ii) elimination
of indirect cumulative taxation; and iii) revamping of the existing value-added taxation system.
32.   More specifically, the federal government proposed elimination of the PIS/PASEP and
COFINS cascading taxes and the introduction of a national value-added tax which would
incorporate the state value-added tax ICMS; there was some vagueness as to the precise nature of
this national value-added tax. At the same time, the IPI would be transformed into a federal
excise tax on goods and services, and the municipal ISS would be replaced by a municipal tax on
retail sales.
33.   However, the financial turmoil generated by the Asian crisis of late 1997 and the Russian
crisis of 1998 again resulted in the postponement of tax reform negotiations between the
Executive Branch and Congress.  In particular, the necessity of a rapid and deep fiscal
125



adjustment, which demanded an increase in revenue, imposed new and tough constraints on the
federal government; tax reform became even more difficult because of the uncertainty about the
effects it would have on total revenues. This uncertainty, and the fear that reform would reduce
revenues, persisted for some time after the financial crises of 1997/98. In March 1999, President
Cardoso said explicitly that tax reform was too complex and that the country was not ready for it,
announcing that the government would postpone discussion on the subject until the environment
became more conducive to reform.
34.   However, in October 1999, pressed by Congress and by the increasing public outcry over
the lack of reform, the government again made a proposal for tax reform, though this one was
somewhat different from the previous proposal.  The new proposal centered around the
"federalization" of the state value-added tax ICMS, i.e. a system whereby the federal government
would administer a broad federal value-added tax and share a fixed portion of the proceeds with
the states (through a new revenue-sharing mechanism), which would no longer have their own
value-added tax. At the. same time, the IPI would be transformed into a state (and not federal)
excise tax on goods and services; the municipal ISS would be replaced by a municipal retail sales
tax, as in the previous 1997 proposal.
35.   The reaction of Congress and state governors to this new proposal was very negative. In
particular, the notion of "federalizing" the state value-added tax ICMS was strongly rejected.
Congress instead took the original 1997 proposal of the federal government as the basis for the
new round of discussion, initially. But finally, in March 2000, the Special Committee for Tax
Reform of the Chamber of Deputies approved a proposal very similar in certain ways to the new
proposal made by the federal government in 1999. The Special Committee agreed with the
federal government proposal on the notion that certain taxes, in particular the cascading turnover
taxes PIS/PASEP and COFINS, needed to be eliminated. But the Committee did not agree with
the federalizing of the state value-added tax; instead, it proposed a broad dual value-added tax
(i.e. coexistence of separate federal and state value-added taxes) and a municipal retail sales tax
in lieu of the ISS. To compensate for the loss in revenue from the elimination of the cascading
turnover taxes, it was recognized in the debate that the rates of the broad dual value-added taxes
may have to be high, if its total revenue was to be maintained. A variant of the Special
Committee's original proposal, defended by the Rapporteur of the Commnittee, gained
importance in the debate. In this variant proposal, the loss of revenue from the elimination of the
cascading turnover taxes would be compensated for not by higher rates of the dual valued added
taxes, but by the introduction of a non-cumulative tax on goods and services. There was some
vagueness as to the precise nature of this additional tax.
36.   The federal government expressed its strong resistance to both these options suggested by
the Special Committee, and announced that the proposal would be sent to Congress for another
round of discussion. In August 2000, the government again submitted a new proposal, with the
following key features: (i) the cascading taxes would not be eliminated; and (ii) a new
destination-based value-added tax, administered by the states but under rules that were uniform
nationally, would be introduced. Again, the proposal was strongly rejected, especially by the
governors of the states that were net exporters, since these would lose revenue as a result of the
emphasis on destination-based rather than source-based value-added taxation. Also, Congress
considered it unacceptable for the federal cascading taxes to be maintained; it publicly declared
that the proposal was a nonstarter, as it failed to address the problem of cumulative taxation.
126



This declaration by Congress put the end point to the negotiations regarding this latest proposal
by the Executive.
37.   At the end of 2002, after intense negotiation, the Law 10.637 of December 30'h of 2002
was approved. It stated that the PIS/PASEP tax or "contribution" - originally a turnover tax -
was to be converted, in effect, into a value-added tax; this was to be done by allowing firms to
obtain a refund for taxes paid on the purchase of intermediate goods. To maintain total revenues
from PIS/PASEP, the rate for this tax was increased from 0.65% to 1.65%, with further rate
adjustment allowed in December 2003 if necessary to maintain revenue neutrality. The
provision is not yet fully in effect, and it is in any case temporary; the tax reform proposals under
discussion envisage permanent legal changes to be made to the tax system. Also, the scope of
the PIS/PASEP tax is small; it generates relatively low revenue, and many sectors receive
favorable treatment under it. Nevertheless, the Law 10637 can be seen as a step towards the
improvement of the overall tax system, albeit a small one.
38.   It is important to try and understand the difficulties encountered by the government in the
1990s in its attempts to reform the tax system, since this enables an appreciation of the main
obstacles that tax reform continues to have. The main reasons for the tax reform deadlock were
essentially: i) uncertainty regarding the effects on total revenues; ii) the dependence of tax
reform on a broader fiscal reform agenda, especially social security reform and the alleviation of
expenditure rigidity; and iii) the constraints imposed by the complex fiscal federalism structure.
39.   The necessity of maintaining the current level of total revenue, at least in the short run, is
the major constraint to the elimination of the cascading taxes. Simulations by Wemeck (2001)
and IMF (2001) show that if one substitutes these cascading taxes for value-added taxes, while
maintaining revenue neutrality, value-added taxes with rates of more than 30% on average would
have to be imposed; this is likely to be politically untenable in the current context of an already
high tax burden.
40.   The constraint that total revenues need to be maintained is likely to be less binding,
however, if other fiscal reforms are implemented. In particular, a reduction in the expenditure
rigidities in the budget would ease the pressure to maintain revenues. Thus, the depth of any tax
reform is likely to be highly dependent on the implementation of other fiscal reforms. Without
these other reforms, any tax reform would have to be conservative.
41.   Lastly, the political economy of Brazil's fiscal federalism and the strong regional
disparities in fiscal tax collection capacity limit any major changes in the sub-national taxation
system. All the proposals described above have implications for the distribution of revenues
among the different levels of government, and thus affect the control of lower levels of
government over fiscal resources. In this sense, all the proposals imply the necessity of altering
the system of intergovernmental revenue-sharing. Federalizing the state value-added tax would
be the best solution for improving the indirect taxation system. But this implies a loss of taxation
power by the states, and an increased dependence on states on transfers from the federal
government; this explains why states are strongly opposed to this proposal. The question of
whether value-added taxation should be origin-based or destination-based is another hotly
debated issue, since each of these forms of taxation benefits states differently, given that the
large regional inequalities in the country.
127



42.   Despite the difficulties discussed above, there is a growing consensus regarding the main
features of the Tax Reform. Table 3 compares the proposals presented since 1997. It is clear
that, in general, they share many common elements. The diagnosis as to what is wrong with the
indirect taxation system is common among all the proposals. Thus there is broad agreement on
the particular taxes that need to be eliminated. However, there is some disagreement on the new
taxes that should be introduced in their place. At least, however, all the proposals agree on the
notion that the value-added taxation system needs to be restructured and broadened.
43.   In addition, there is a general recognition that since revenue neutrality is a necessary
condition in the current context, the substitution of cascading taxes by value-added ones needs to
be done in a gradual manner. There is also general agreement that the CPMF should be retained,
since it helps reduce tax evasion; at the same time, there is concurrence that its rate needs to be
reduced gradually. Most proposals support the notion that there should be some uniformity in
the imposition of the ICMS tax (regarding its rate, for example), but that states should continue
to be responsible for its administration. On the same issue, the idea of destination-based ICMS
taxation is beginning to gain consensus in spite of the losses implied for the more developed
states, which are net exporters in interstate trade.
128



Table 3. Comparison of Main Features of Tax-Reform Proposals
Proposal      Taxes to be eliminated               Taxes to be created
Executive's   *   All turnover and cascading taxes  *  Nationally-managed VAT
Proposal         (COFINS, PIS-PASEP), except tax on  *  Federal excise tax on goods and
October 1997     financial transactions (CPMF)         services
*  Federal tax on manufactured       *   Municipal retail sales tax (IVV)
products (IPI)
*  State VAT (ICMS)
*  Municipal tax on services (ISS)
Executive's   *   All turnover and cascading taxes  *  Federal VAT
Proposal          (COFINS, PIS-PASEP), except tax on  *  (with revenues to be shared with
October 1999     financial transactions (CPMF)         states)
*  Federal tax on manufactured        *  State excise tax on goods and
products(IPI)                         services
*  State VAT (ICMS)                   *  Municipal retail sales tax (IVV)
*  Municipal tax on services (ISS)
Special       .   All turnover and cascading taxes  .  Dual VAT (coexisting federal and
Committee's      (COFINS, PIS-PASEP, CPMF)             state VATs)
Proposal      *   Federal tax on manufactured       *  Municipal retail sales tax (IVV)
March 2000        products(IPI)
*  State VAT (ICMS)
*  Municipal tax on services (ISS)
Proposal of   .   All turnover and cascading taxes  *  Dual VAT (coexisting federal and
Special           (COFINS, PIS-PASEP, CPMF)            state VATs)
Committee's   *   Federal tax on manufactured       *  Non-cumulative excise tax
Rapporteur        products(IPI)
(not voted on)  *  State VAT (ICMS)
March 2000    *   Municipal tax on services (ISS)
Executive's   *   Federal tax on manufactured       *  Federal excise tax on goods and
Proposal          products(IPI)                        services (e.g. tobacco, alcoholic
August 2000   *   State VAT (ICMS)                     drinks, automobiles)
*  Municipal tax on services (ISS)    *  Nationally uniform state VAT
*  Municipal retail sales tax (IVV)
Source: Werneck (2001)
D. The Tax Reform Proposal of April 30'h
44.    The Constitutional Amendment Proposal presented on last April 30'h includes the main
points of the consensus that has emerged in the last few years. In order of importance, the main
points can be summarized as:
*  Creation of national legislation requiring the ICMS to be imposed in a uniform manner
(with uniform rates applied) across states to avoid fiscal "wars", although states would
continue to administer the tax. The national legislation would have 5 rates and introduce
a progressivity bias with respect to the definition of these rates (lowest rate for goods of
the basic consumption basket);
129



o Establishment of the origin principle for the collection of ICMS on interstate trade, but
with sharing of revenues between origin and destination states preserved;
o Creation of a national fund for regional development, financed with 2% of the revenue
from the Income Tax (IRPF and IRPJ) and the Industrialized Goods Tax (IPI), for
allocation in the least developed regions of the country, as defined in law;
o Gradual transformation of the COFINS tax base from turnover to value-added (already
defined in the Law 10.637 of December 2002);
o Definition of CPMF as a permanent tax with rates varying from 0.38% to 0.08%;
o Partial replacement of the payroll tax - used to finance the social security system for
private workers - with a turnover or non cumulative revenue tax to be defined in law;
o Regulation of Federal Tax on Fortunes (IGF) by ordinary law in order to allow flexibility
to be used in the strengthening of its progressive nature;
o Increase in the progressive nature of the state inheritance tax (ITCD).
o Increase in the progressive nature of the municipal real state tax (ITBI-IV)
o Transfer of the federal tax on Rural Property (ITR) to the states, with rules regarding its
distribution to municipal governments to be defined by complementary law.
45.   The main objective of the Tax Reform proposal presented by the current administration is
to reduce distortionary taxation and increase the efficiency of the tax system. It is important,
however, to mention that the reform is in some sense a timid one. The main constraint for a
deeper tax reform is the uncertainty of its effects on revenue. Given the fiscal adjustment
requirements, any reform to be implemented has to be revenue neutral and this condition makes
a broader reform unlikely.
46.   In fact, the condition of revenue neutrality was preserved in the Tax Reform proposal
sent on April 30th . The Government guaranteed that the effect on revenue would be at least
neutral if not positive in the medium term. The potential reduction in revenues derived from the
substitution of a turnover by a value-added tax base will be compensated for by the broadening
of the tax base that would result from the gain in efficiency. In the short run, the government
will increase the rates on the transformed cumulative taxes. The Government has already
increased the rates of the new PIS - PASEP tax from 0.65% on turnover to 1.65% on value added
to compensate for the reduction in the tax base, and is considering further increases in order to
prevent revenue losses. For the COFINS transformation in 2004, the same procedure would be
applied: increase in rates on the new value-added tax. The reduction in CPMF rates to be
implemented by complementary law is conditional to finding alternative sources of revenue or to
reducing expenditure so as to maintain a given level of primary surplus.
47.   Regarding the state ICMS, it is expected that the end of the fiscal war would bring
additional revenue estimated at around 1% of GDP. For poorer states the government created a
130



compensation fund for the potential losses derived from the loss of use of the tax instrument to
attract investment to their jurisdictions.
48.    The Tax Reform proposal presented by the Lula administration has a progressive nature,
as seen from: (i) the reduction of cumulative indirect taxation; (ii) the requirement that the ICMS
has to have the lowest rate on basic consumption goods: and (iii) the introduction of
progressivity bias in the direct taxes on fortunes (IGF), on inheritance (ITCD) and on real state
transactions (ITBI).72
49.    A characteristic of the Tax Reform proposal is that it leaves many issues and definitions
to be -enacted later in complementary laws, rather than writing these into a Constitutional
amendment.    This is because of the potential conflict over the definition of details of
implementation (as in the case of the question of origin or destination base for the ICMS) and the
acknowledged necessity of using infra-constitutional mechanisms instead of having a very
detailed constitution that reduces the chance for future modifications.
50.    Without doubt, the ICMS harmonization and the reduction of cumulative taxes are by far
the most important pieces of the Tax Reform. They address the most relevant shortcomings of
the current tax system which are the multiplicity legislation of the state ICMS, resulting in a high
dispersion of rates and in fiscal war incentives, and the inefficiency resulting from cumulative
taxation.
51.    Another important point is the reduction of payroll taxes that would lead to the reduction
of labor cost, and thus to a larger segment of the labor market being in the formal sector. Finally,
the tax reform would introduce greater progressivity in the system of direct taxation; however,
the taxes affected in this regard are very small, and thus the increase in progressivity would also
be small.
52.    Finally, it is worth mentioning that the new political context favors the end of the
deadlock in tax reform that has persisted until now. The Workers Party (PT) administration is
showing that it is strongly committed to structural reforms. Tax reform and social security
reform are top priorities in the current reform agenda. On the political front, President Lula is
enjoying a period of strong popularity and legitimacy, allowing his administration to propose and
openly discuss far-reaching reforms. At the same time, the PT and its allies are building
consensus and support within Congress, the public, and civil society organizations for a broad
agenda of reforms in 2003. Recently, the Socio-Economic Council was established as a forum
for the discussion of the necessary structural reforms, and President Lula met with the 27 state
governors. All these developments, together with the broadening of the political coalition that
supports the administration in Congress, indicate that the political and social support needed for
the structural reforms are in place.
72 Many studies identified the indirect taxation system as mildly regressive. As the weight of indirect taxation will
be reduced by the elimination of cumulative taxes, it is expected the improvement on the progressivity of the
system. For more details on regressivity of the current tax system see Annex 8 on the Impact of Brazilian Fiscal
Adjustment on Poverty.
131



E. Tax Adnmnistration
53.   Although proposed reform of the tax system often focuses on improvements in the types
and mix of taxes used, it is also important to find ways to improve the tax collection system
itself, i.e. to engage in administrative tax reform. In a recent assessment of the Secretaria da
Receita Federal (Secretariat of Federal Revenue or SRF) in Brazil-which collects almost 70%
of federal tax revenues-it was noted that there are no studies of tax compliance in the country,
making it difficult to monitor and evaluate changes in the tax collection system (Casanegra,
2003). Notwithstanding this caveat, the assessment covered the strengths as well as weaknesses
of the tax collection system, offering recommendations for improvement. The main findings of
the assessment are summarized below.
El. Taxpayer Identification Numbers
54.   Individuals are assigned the same taxpayer identification number for federal as well as
state taxes. This simplifies the tax collection system and reduces the potential for tax evasion.
55.   Businesses, however, have different identification numbers for federal and state taxes; if
they operate in more than one state, they use a separate number for each state. This complicates
tax administration, and encourages tax evasion.
56.   The federal government is making efforts to convince the states to use the federal
taxpayer identification number at the state level. There are two possible ways of achieving this.
The first would be to work through the Sistema Integrado de Informa,oes Sobre Opera,oes
Estaduais com Mercadorias e Servi,os (SINWEGRA), a database being developed for the states;
the drawback here is that SINTEGRA has been under development for the last four years and
may not yet be ready for some time. Another alternative would be for the federal government to
reach agreement, one by one, with each individual state on the use of the federal identification
number for state tax purposes.
Eli. Other Administrative And Monitoring Aspects Regarding Collection and Payment
57.   Modern technology is widely used by SRF, with nearly 100%    of returns filed
electronically-a remarkable achievement which was implemented gradually over the last few
years. Tax payment is made through banks, an arrangement that works satisfactorily.
58.   Despite this advance in filing methods, monitoring of tax payments and liabilities
remains inadequate, facilitating tax evasion and delay in payments. As yet, there is no single
taxpayer account system, which would show each taxpayer's credits and debits for all Federal
taxes.
59.   To improve monitoring of tax payments and liabilities, businesses have been required
since 1997 to submit a quarterly return showing taxes paid in full, those paid partially, those
unpaid, amounts refunded by the SRF, etc. (This requirement does not apply to small and
medium enterprises subject to SIMPLES73 taxes.) But this system is only partially reliable due to
73 SIMPLES stands for Sistema Integrado de Pagamento de Impostos e Contribui,o3es das Microempresas e das
Empresas de Pequeno Porte
132



a variety of problems; to date, only information regarding the unpaid balances of 1999 has been
processed and sent to the Procuradoria Geral da Fazenda Nacional (PGFN, in charge of arrears
collection) for action. The establishment of a proper and fully functional single taxpayer account
system is of fundamental importance.
60.   It is recognized that it is key to monitor and control payments by large taxpayers; about
8,500 large taxpayers (out of about 75 million registered taxpayers in the country) account for
73% of collections. A number of attempts have been made in the last few years to establish a
special system for controlling large taxpayers' filing and payment requirements (e.g. the GRACO
system); unfortunately, these have not produced the desired results one. At present a new system
(SISCOMACO) is being implemented in some parts of the country to track large taxpayers; this
initiative is still, however, in its early stages.
EIJI. Collection of Arrears
61.   SRF differs from many other tax collection agencies in that arrears collection is handled
not by SRF but by PGFN, a separate agency (although both SRF and PGFN are a part of the
Ministry of Finance). It is not clear as to what is the extent of cooperation between the two
agencies, but it is clear that PGFN does not have the resources to deal effectively with arrears
cases. It can only handle 100,000 new cases per month, while at this time the SRF has about
700,000 pending cases. The total amount of arrears owed to the federal government at the time
of the SRF assessment, without including disputed payments and agreements to pay by
installments, was R$45 billion, or about 3.4% of GDP, which is not insignificant. PGFN will
need to be strengthened to prevent further delays in arrears collection.
62.   Other solutions to this arrears collection problem, aside from strengthening PGFN, could
be considered. For example, the collection of smaller debts could be privatized. In addition, a
change in focus in termrs of arrears collection may be warranted, to reflect the generally accepted
principle that collection efforts should focus on the largest and most recent accounts in arrears.
Currently, PGFN concentrates on the largest but not the most recent accounts in arrears.
EIV Tax Audit
63.   Progress in this area during the last few years includes the following: (i) selection of
cases for audit is now done using objective criteria; (ii) the largest 5000 taxpayers are given
priority (about 20% are audited each year); and (iii) taxpayers are notified in advance that a field
audit will take place, the tax years that will be covered and the names of the SRF auditors, all of
which can be confirmed through the Internet (reducing the scope for corruption).
64.   In spite of these advances, some important problems remain. The main one is the issue of
coverage. There are currently about 17 million individuals and 2.8 million businesses subject to
taxation. Yet during the year 2002, only 17,000 field audits were performed. Coverage of field
audits should be expanded, for both individuals and enterprises.
65.   At first sight, the additional taxes assessed as a result of the field audits appear large in
number; in 2002, they amounted to 29 billion Reals (or about 2.2% of GDP), an impressive
figure. However, only 1.7% of this amount was actually paid (or included in a plan for payment
133



by installments). The rest was either put to appeal or simply not paid. Serious consideration
should be given to this problem, and to the experience of countries that have addressed it. The
remedies include a reduction in penalties in the case of prompt payment, and the requirement of
a partial deposit prior to filing an appeal.
66.   Another issue warranting further analysis is the use of customs information for selecting
which returns are to be audited. It appears that record keeping regarding foreign trade is of good
quality; however, its role in selecting businesses for the audit of domestic taxes is very limited,
since many of these do not engage in foreign trade and thereby have no customs records. It is not
clear, therefore, how much use should be made of customs records for tax audit purposes.
EV. Other Issues
67.   Training of new and existing staff at SRF seems to be adequate, and salaries remain
competitive, although more so at the entry level than at higher levels in the organization.
However, if SRF is going to direct more resources towards activities such as tax audit, as
recommended above, it will need to hire more personnel trained in those areas (including
auditors), and also provide more of its own specialized training.
68.   A welcome recent development is the establishment of an internal inspection office
(Corregedoria-Geral) in 1997 to investigate cases of corruption and other unethical behavior in
SRF. The head of this unit reports directly to the head of SFR. Over the last 5 years, as a result
of this unit's activities, 161 SRF staff have been suspended or have received formal warnings,
and 109 have been fired. There is some concern, however, about a possible lack of resources
available to the unit in recent times especially regarding travel funds, which may hamper current
and future investigations.
69.   Administrative tax reform is important because it would increase tax compliance, which
not only leads to higher revenues but also to a more equitable tax system. It is important to
devote more resources and efforts towards improving the administrative tax system, even while
changes to the tax system itself-i.e. to rates, types of taxes, etc.- are discussed. The two, in
fact, would reinforce each other, because of the following: First, reducing the complexity in the
tax mix and increasing uniformity in rates would facilitate the control and monitoring of tax
collection. But at the same time, greater efficiency in tax collection would facilitate efficiency
improvements in the tax system itself.
References
Casanegra, Milka. 2003. "Brazil: Selected Issues of Federal Tax Administration." Report to
World Bank. Brasilia. April 20.
IMF. 2001. "The Brazilian Tax System." Report Mission. Fiscal Affairs Department.
Werneck, R. 2001. "Tax Reform in Brazil: Economic Achievements and Great Challenges."
Economic Department at Pontifical Catholic University of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
134



ANNEX 9: THE IMPACT OF BRAZILIAN FISCAL ADJUSTMENT ON POVERTY
A. Introduction
1.    Since 1999, the Brazilian government has undergone a phase of significant fiscal
adjustment, aimed at correcting the unsustainable path followed by public fiscal balances in the
nineties. The public sector primary balance rose from a deficit of -0.2 percent of GDP in 1998
to a surplus of 3.9 percent of GDP in 2002, a remarkable turnaround.
2.    This paper analyzes the effect of this fiscal adjustment on the poor. First, it examines the
evolution of poverty and social indicators over the adjustment period. Next, it assesses the
evidence on both the "direct" and "indirect" impact of adjustment on poverty. The "direct"
impact is evaluated by looking at the expenditures allocated to poverty reduction as well as the
incidence of the tax burden on the poor, before and during the adjustment process. The paper
also assesses the "indirect" impact of adjustment, or its effect on macroeconomic variables such
as unemployment, income, and prices, that in turn affect poverty levels.
3.    The main finding of the paper is that there is no evidence that fiscal adjustment had an
unduly negative effect on the poor. The analysis of the direct impact of fiscal adjustment on the
poor shows that public expenditures directed to the poor actually increased during the fiscal
adjustment period; it is, however, recognized that the poor were probably hurt by the increase in
regressive indirect taxation that accompanied the adjustment. Nevertheless, the paper presents
estimates indicating that the negative impact of the increased taxation was probably far
outweighed by the beneficial impact of the increased pro-poor public expenditure.
4.    The indirect impact of the adjustment is found to have been positive for the poor,
benefiting them through price stabilization and-in the longer run-4he stimulation of economic
growth. Perhaps most significantly, available data show that poverty-related indicators either
remained constant or improved over the adjustment period.
5.    The rest of the paper is organized as follows. Section B examines the evolution of
available poverty-related indicators over time. Sections C and D evaluate the direct impact of
adjustment on the poor; the former looks at public expenditures affecting the poor, while the
latter examines how the poor were affected by changes in the taxation system. Section E
analyzes the indirect impact of the adjustment on the poor, looking at how various changes in the
macroeconomic environment affected poverty. Finally, Section F summarizes the main findings
of the paper.
B. The Evolution of Poverty-Related Indicators Over the Adjustment Period
6.    Available data show that during the period of fiscal adjustment, poverty indicators have
remained practically constant. According to measures computed using annual nationwide
household survey data by the government research organization Instituto de Pesquisa Economica
Aplicada (IPEA), depicted in Figure 1, the percentage of the population below the poverty line
stabilized at about 33% over the period 1998 and 2001. Over the same period, the percentage of
the population below the extreme poverty line remained at around 14%. These indicators
135



remained stable despite the low growth rates, macroeconomic shocks and large changes in public
as well as external accounts that occurred during this period.
Figure 1: Brazil Poverty and Extreme Poverty, 1993 - 2001
45 0
,, 40 0 
350
0
30 
25 0  ___-_
0 20 0                        ___, _    __ __-- =
t0
0
10 0
1992  1993  1995   1996  1997  1998   1999  2001
|    - Poverly  - Extreme Pom.erty  Source FEA
7.    Basic education and health indicators improved significantly over the adjustment period.
For example, according to data from the Instituto Brasileiro de Geografla e Estatistica (IBGE),
the infant mortality rate fell from 31.9 in 1998 to 28.6 in 2001. IBGE data also tell us that the
net primary school enrolment rate75 went from 91% in 1998 to 96% in 2001-2002. Both these
indicators as well as others for education and health have continued their trend of steady
improvement over the years, even during the period of fiscal adjustment. This is probably due in
part to an increased emphasis placed by the government on education and health programs for
the poor during the adjustment period.
C. Fiscal Adjustment and Federal Expenditures Directed Towards the Poor
8.    To evaluate the impact of fiscal adjustment on public expenditures directed towards the
poor, we analyze the evolution over time of two variables: (i) overall expenditure on social
sectors and programs; and (ii) the extent to which these were well-targeted and truly pro-poor.
9.    In Brazil, fiscal adjustment implemented since 1998 has largely been based on increases
in tax revenues rather than on expenditure cuts. In fact, during the adjustment period, the
primary expenditure of the federal government actually increased from 16% of GDP in 1998 to
18% of GDP in 2001-02 - an increase in real terms of 4%-with tax revenues increasing by an
even larger amount to compensate.
10.   Expenditure allocations to many social areas are protected by constitutional or legal
provisions, and so overall social expenditures have not fallen during the adjustment period; on
the contrary, they have increased. Table 1 shows that federal social expenditures grew from
74 The 2001 figure is preliminary and may be revised.
75 This covers children between the ages 7 and 14.
136



15.5% of GDP in 1998 to 18% of GDP in 2001. Real federal social expenditures (evaluated at
2002 prices) increased from R$189 billion in 1998 to R$231 billion in 2001, an increase of 22%
percent overall or 5% annually. Thus, the increase in social expenditures exceeded that of
aggregate primary expenditures, with the former accounting for an increasing share of the federal
budget over the period of adjustment.2
Table 1. Federal Social Expenditures
(in constant R$ billion evaluated at 2002 prices; and as a percentage of GDP)
1998           1999          2000           2001
R$ bn % GDP R$ bn % GDP R$ bn % GDP R$ bn % GDP
1) Social Secunty Benefits to pnvate sector  71.2  5 84  738  6.06  76.7    6.05   81 7   6.36
workers
2) Social Secunty Benefits to Federal retired  29 2  2 40  30.4  2.50  30.8  2 43  33 2   2 58
employees                                                          .
3) Administrative Expenditures of the Social  1.9  015  1 9  016     1 7    0.13    1 6   012
Security System
4) Organic Law of Social Assistance     15    012     1.8    0.15    2.3    0.18    29    0 23
5) Social Assistance                   3.1    0 25    3.3    0.27    26     0 21    43    0 33
6) Labor and Employment                100    0 82    79     0.65    79     0 63   84     0 66
7) Land Tenure Policy                  43     0.35    38     0 31    3.9    0 31    45    0 35
8) Education and Culture (exc personnel  4 6  0.38    4 6    0.38    5.7    0 45   54     0 42
expenditures)
9) Education Personnel Expenditures    5.3    0 43    5.8    0.47    5.5    0 43   5 3    0.41
1 0) Education Transfers to state and  108    0 88    11.5   0.95   131     1.03   140    1 09
municipalities
11) Health Expenditures (exc personnel  17 1  1.40    19 2   1.58   20 5    1 62   21 0   1 63
expenditures)
12) Health Transfers to state and municipalities  -  -  -     -      2 6    0 20   5 3    0 42
13) Health Personnel Expenditures      3 0    0 25    3.2    0 26    35     0 28   2 9    0 22
14) Sanitation Expenditures            0 8    0.06    0.7    0.06    0 5    0 04    1 8   0 14
15) Housing Expenditures               03     0 02    0 1    0 01    0.3    0 02   0 3    0 02
16 Benefits to active public employees  30    0 24    2.8    0.23    2.7    0 21   2 9    0 23
17) Human Resources to Institutions that  02  0 01    0.1    0 01    0 1    0.01   0 02   0.01
Execute Social Expenditures
18) Fiscal Deductions, Subsidies and S  23.1  1 89    18 1   1.49  17.955   1.65   35.1   2 73
System                                      I              I      I
FEDERAL SOCIAL EXPENDITURE            189.3  15.51   189.2  15.54  201.5   15.91  230.6   17.95
Sources. Ministnes of Treasury. Labor and Employment, Finance, and Social Security and Social Assistance, Worker
Protection Fund; Central Bank, National Bank of Economic and Social Development
11.     A   study   by   Cominetti    and   Ruis   (1998)   found    that  social   expenditures   in
Brazil-expressed     as  a  proportion   of GDP      and   with  all three   levels  of government
incorporated-were the highest in their sample of 16 Latin American countries. Other regional
studies have reached     similar conclusions. However, the performance          of Brazilian    social
indicators is no better than the performance of similar indicators in other Latin American
countries. The problem is nrot that social expenditures are low in the country; rather, it is that
they are not of high quality in terms of their efficiency and targeting towards the poor. Based on
household survey data for 1995-96, a World Bank study (2001) estimated that, on average, only
14% of the resources spend on federal social programs actually reach the poorest 20% of the
population.
12.     Benefits for retired public sector employees represent the category of federal social
expenditures that is probably the worst in terms of pro-poor targeting. These go to a very small
number of persons (about I million) who belong to the upper income quintile (i.e. the richest
20%) of the population. Private social security benefits are also very poorly targeted to the poor;
137



aside from rural workers, most eligible beneficiaries are retirees that used to work in the formal
sector and earn incomes well above the Brazilian median, rather than low-income informal-
sector workers. Overall, statistics indicate that just 7 percent of social security spending reaches
the poorest 20 percent of Brazilians, while about 70 percent goes to the accumulates to the
wealthiest 20 percent of the population.
13.    Other examples of federal social programs and policies that have little impact on poverty
reduction are: unemployment insurance; the Abono Salarial Program; personal income tax
deductions for health and education expenditures; and subsidies to income and employment
generating activities. Even expenditures on education and health contain significant elements that
help the relatively rich much more than the poor. Expenditures on tertiary education, for
example-which correspond to more than half of the total federal education budget, since the
states and municipalities play the main role in providing primary and secondary
education-mainly benefits the wealthiest 40 percent of the population.76 Entry to universities is
very competitive, and children from affluent families typically have an advantage here be-cause
their parents are often able to provide them with better guidance and to send them to high-quality
but expensive private secondary schools.
14.   Poor targeting is also very apparent in the public health sector. Two-thirds of federal
health expenditures go towards the federal health system SUS (Sistema Unico de Sdude).
Through this system, the federal government is supposed to fulfill its obligation under the 1988
Constitution to provide free health care to all Brazilians. In practice, however, a disproportionate
share of SUS funding goes towards health care consumption by higher income groups, for a
number of reasons. First, total SUS funds paid out cannot exceed ceilings established
individually for states and some municipalities; however, these ceilings are set partly based on
historical patterns, and thus the regional inequalities in health care funding in the past are
effectively perpetuated. In addition, most specialized hospitals and other higher-cost providers -
which consume a large portion of the SUS budget - tend to be located in the rich areas of the
country such as the Southeast.
15.   Quantitative estimates of the quality of targeting for each of the 18 social expenditure
categories in Table 1 are available from the World Bank (2001) study mentioned earlier, for the
year 1996. The study develops a "targeting indicator", defined as the proportion of total
spending-for an particular spending category-that goes towards the poorest 20% of the
population. The study presents estimates of this targeting indicator for each of the 18 expenditure
categories in Table 1, for the year 1996; these 18 estimates are listed in the second column of
Table 2.
76 Note, however, that prtmary and secondary education is handled largely by states and municipalities, with the
federal government handling tertiary education; thus, it is education expenditures concentrated mostly on tertiary in
education are concentrated in higher education, it is natural that they mostly benefit middle-upper classes.
138



Table 2. Federal Expenditures Directed to the Poor
(in constant R$ billion evaluated at 2002 prices; and as a perc ntage of GDP
Value of
Targeting     1998         1999        2000         2001
Indlcator
in 1996
=_________ _   R$ bn  GDP  R$ bn  GDP  R$ bn  GDP  R$ bn  GDP
1) Social Secunty Benefits to pnvate sector  0.29  15.3  1 25  15 6  1 29  16 4  1 29  18.1  1.41
workers
2) Social Secunty Benefits to Federal retired  0  0    0      0     0      0      0     0      0
employees
3) Administrative Expenditures of the Social  0  0     0      0      0     0      0     0      0
Security System                         I_I_I__
4) Organic Law of Social Assistance     0.7     1 1   0 08   1 3   0.11    1.6  0 13   2 0   0.16
5) Social Assistance                   0 78     1.9   0 15   2 0   0.16   1.6   0.13   2 6    0 2
6) Labor and Employment                0 27     2.2   0.16   1 6   0.13   1.8   0 14   1 7   0 12
7) Land Tenure Policy                   0 7     30    0 25   2.7   0 22   2 8   0 22   3 1   0.25
8) Education and Culture (exc personnel  0.19   0.6   0.05   0.5   0 04   0 7   0.05   0 6   0 05
expenditures)
9) Education Personnel Expenditures    0.19     0 6   0 06-  0 7   0 07   0.8   0 07   0.8   0 06
10) Education Transfers to state and   0.26     2.1   0 23   2.4   0 25   3 4   0 27   3.6   0 28
municipalities                                       _II
11) Health Expenditures (exc. personnel  0.21   2 7    0 3   3.2   0.33   4 3   0 34   4 4   0 34
expenditures)                                                                                  _
12) Health Transfers to state and      0 21      -     -      -      -    0 5   0.04   1.1   0 09
municipalities
13) Health Personnel Expenditures      0.21     0 5   0 05   0 5   0 05   0 7   0 06   0 6   0.05
14) Sanitation Expenditures            0.12     0.1   0 01   0.1   0.01   0 1   0 00   0 2   0 02
15) Housing Expenditures                0.3     0 1   0 01   0.04  0.00   0.1   0 01   0 1   0 01
16) Benefits to active public employees  0       0     0      0      0     0      0     0      0
17) Human Resources to Institutions that  0      0     0      0      0     0      0     0      0
Execute Social Expenditures                   I _
18) Fiscal Deductions, Subsidies and S  0        0     0      0      0     0      0     0      0
System
Total Federal Expenditure to the Poor  0.14    29.9   2.61  30.6   2.66  34.4    2.7  38.3   2.98
Total Federal Social Expenditure               189.3  15.51  189.2  15.54  201.5  15.91  230.6  17.95
*Defined as the proportion of spending that benefited the poorest 20% of the population.
Source Same as for Table 1, and also World Bank (2001)
16.     Assuming that the quality of targeting for each of the 18 expenditure categories in the
table remained constant over the period 1996-2001, we did the following: For each of the 18
categories, we took the expenditure figures (in millions of Reals) in Table 1 and we applied the
targeting indicator value to each of these. This provided estimates of the evolution over time of
real expenditures that actually reached the poorest 20% of the population, for each of the 18
categories. We listed these estimates in Table 2, in terms of total real value and also as a
percentage of GDP.
17.     The figures in Table 2 show that during adjustment, federal expenditures that benefit the
poorest 20% of the population increased from 2.6% of GDP in 1998 to 3% of GDP in 2001, or
from R$ 29.8 billion to R$ 38.2 billion (in constant Reals evaluated at 2002 prices). This
increase - of R$ 8.4 billion - amounts to a rise in real terms of 28% overall, or 6.4% annually.
18.     Dividing each of the total spending figures (R$ 29.8 billion for 1998 and R$ 38.2 billion
for 2001) by the target population (i.e. the number of people falling into the poorest 20%
139



category77), we find that the amount of real federal expenditure reaching the poorest 20% rose
from an average of $R 898 per poor person in 1998 to $R 1,107 per poor person in 2001. That is,
it rose by an average of $R 209 per poor person over the period 1998-2001.
19.   It is clearly unrealistic to assume that the quality of targeting of individual categories of
federal social spending did not change in the period after 1995-96. Certainly, during the second
term of President Cardoso's administration, there was a focus on implementing institutional and
other changes in federal policy so as to better help the poor. Access by the poor to many social
programs was improved through the use of aggressive campaigns to inform socially excluded
groups about the programs. The targeting of social programs already in existence was improved,
and new programs that strongly emphasized good targeting were introduced.
20.   One of the most important pro-poor initiatives taken by the Cardoso administration was
the Alvorada Project, launched in 2000. It consists of 15 separate programs on education, health
and income generation, among others, coordinating the actions of ten different ministries. The
Alvorada Project adopted two criteria for eligibility: a regional criterion (based on the Municipal
Human Development Index) and a household income criterion (less than one-half the minimum
wage). The use of both of these eligibility conditions guaranteed high-quality targeting.
21.   Another innovative element of the Alvorada Project is the use of conditional transfer
programs like Bolsa Escola to stimulate school enrollment, the Programa de Erradica,do do
Trabalho Infantil to reduce child labor, and Bolsa Alimenta,co to improve nutrition levels in the
poor. These programs provide short-term poverty relief through monetary transfers, as well as
long-term poverty relief by providing incentives to change behavior (e.g. by encouraging school
attendance in the case of Bolsa Escola).
22.   Decentralization was another factor leading to improvement in social expenditures.
States and municipalities are closer to their constituent communities, and have better information
on them, than the federal government. Thus they are better-placed to implement well-targeted
social programs. Decentralization has occurred throughout the nineties, especially in education
and health, where lower-level governments handle provision using transfers from the federal
government; this may help explain some of the progress in education and health indicators over
the last few years.
23.   Another challenge that has been partially addressed since 2000 is that of overlapping
social programs. The implementation of the Cadastro Unico - a centralized system containing
information on beneficiaries of the various social programs - reduces the occurrence of
duplications in benefits. In addition, the federal government has created the Ministry of Social
Assistance to coordinate the social actions of other ministries, and to evaluate the quality and
targeting of social expenditures.
24.   The fact that social indicators generally either remained constant or improved during the
adjustment period despite its adverse macroeconomic conditions - as noted in Section II -
suggests that these efforts by the federal government to improve the quality of social
expenditures probably had a significant impact. The evidence shows that total social
77 There were 33.2 million in this category in 1998 (i.e. 20% of the total national population), and 34.5 million in
2001.
140



expenditures directed towards the poor increased over this period, as did the quality of targeting
of these programs.
D. The Impact of the Increasing Federal Tax Burden on the Poor
25.   While on the expenditure side things appear favorable, on the revenue side fiscal
adjustment appears to have adversely affected poverty. A recent IMF study (2001) found that the
average federal tax burden of the poorest 20% and richest 20% of the population in were 27%
and 30% of income, respectively, in 1996. Brazilians in other income classes paid 33% of their
income, on average, in federal taxes. Since middle-income earners pay higher taxes than high-
income earners, the system is mildly regressive.
26.   Figure 2 shows that the main source of this regressivity is the prevalence of indirect taxes
in the system; the higher one's income, the higher the burden of the indirect tax. Earners in the
lowest income decile of the population (the poorest 10%) had an indirect tax burden of 24% of
income; the equivalent figure for earners in the second-lowest income decile was also about 24%
of income. By contrast, the richest 10% of the population had an indirect tax burden of only 12%
of income.
Figure 2: Incidence of Brazilian Tax System, 1996
40% --;~
35/a-
a~30/o
I-20/a-
5/0
0/0
1    2   3    4    5    6    7   8    9    10
Income Decile
* Indirect Taxes o Social Secunty Contributions o Personal Income Tax
27.   The regressive impact of indirect taxes is not surprising; it is well-known that these taxes
have an incidence on consumption goods which account for a larger portion of the budget for the
poor than for the rich. By contrast, the personal income tax is progressive, affecting only high-
income earners. Social security contributions also have a somewhat progressive impact,
significant affecting only middle-income and high-income earners. Clearly, the slight
regressivity in the system as a whole is due to the indirect taxes.
28.   Table 3 shows that total federal tax revenues increased from 20% of GDP in 1998 to 24%
of GDP in 2001; this increase in revenues-rather than any cut in expenditures-was the main
reason for the success of the fiscal adjustment. Most of the increase came from a rise in indirect
141



taxes, which went from 7.5% of GDP to 10% of GDP-or 36% to 40% of total tax
revenue-over the same period. Given the regressivity of indirect taxes, the increase in the total
tax burden-coming mostly from a rise in indirect taxes-must have disproportionately harmed
the poor.
29.    Assume for the sake of analysis, for now, that: (i) the proportion of total incomes earned
by each of the income deciles of the population remained the same throughout the period 1996 to
2001 (i.e. the income distribution was constant78); and: (ii) between 1996 and 2001, all income
deciles suffered (on average) the same proportional rise in total indirect taxes paid.79
30.    From the IMF study mentioned above-used to derive Figure 2-we have data on the
proportion of the total amount of indirect taxes that was paid by each income decile in 2001. And
from the assumptions in the previous paragraph, this proportion remained the same for each
income decile throughout the period 1996 to 2001. Under this set of assumptions, and using the
data that we have for the total amount of indirect taxes collected economy wide in 1998 and
2001, we can obtain estimates for the amount paid by the poorest 20% of the population as
indirect taxes in 1998 and 2001.
31.    Performing these calculations,80 we found that the poorest 20% of the population paid a
total of $R 6.01 billion in indirect taxes in 1998, and $R 8.66 billion in 2001 (with all figures in
constant Reals at 2002 prices); thus, their increase in total indirect taxes paid over the period
1998-2001 was $R 2.64 billion. Dividing the totals by the number of people falling into the
poorest 20% category for each year, we find that-on average-each poor person paid $R 181 in
indirect taxes in 1998, and $R 251 in 2001; this is an increase of $R 70 per person.
32.    Recall that, in Section C, we found that real federal expenditures directed towards the
poor increased by $8.4 billion-or $R 209 per poor person on average-over the period 1998-
2001. Here, we find that the total indirect taxes paid by the poor rose by a total of $R 2.6
billion-or $R 70 per poor person on average-over the same period. Admittedly, a number of
assumptions were made when making these calculations. Nevertheless, they suggest that the
"direct" impact of increased pro-poor expenditures during the fiscal adjustment period more than
compensated for the "direct" regressive impact of taxation; indeed, our figures show that the
former was much larger in magnitude than the latter.
78 This is quite plausible, at least for the lower income deciles, since - as we noted earlier - IPEA data show that the
proportion of poor, when calculated using 2 different poverty lines, remained about the same throughout this period.
9Note, we are not assuming that all income classes experienced the same rise in indirect taxes expressed as a
percentage of income; if this were the case, then the impact of the tax increase would not have been regressive. We
are assuming that the total indirect taxes paid by each income class rose by the same percentage (from any one year
to the next) for all income classes.
80 For the calculations, we needed data on the proportion of total incomes going to the poorest 20% of the
population; we obtained this from IPEA.
142



Table 3: Federal Tax Burden Composition
1998      1999     2000      2001
Tax Burden      20.4     22.5      23.0     24.2
Total
% of Total   100.0%  100.0%    100.0%    100.0%
Direct Taxes         Tax Burden       5.3      5.8       5.5      5.8
% of Total   25.9%     25.9%     24.1%    23.9%
Tax Burden      7.5       9.1       9.5     10.1
Indirect Taxes
% of Total   36.5%     40.4%     41.5%    41.6%
Social Security Taxes  Tax Burden     7.7      7.6       7.9       8.4
Social Security Taxes  % of Total   37.6%    33.7%1    34.4%1   34. 5%
E. Fiscal Adjustment, Macroeconomic Stability and Poverty Reduction
33.    Price stability and economic growth are the main macroeconomic channels that link fiscal
adjustment to poverty. Fiscal disequilibria are often blamed for the high inflation during the
1980s and early 1990s, and for the low growth rates in the second half of the 1990s - both of
which adversely affected the poor.
34.    Even under the military regime, the Brazilian public sector showed signs of financial
fragility. Although the high economic growth rates of that period eventually started to taper off,
the government continued to follow a path of ever-rising public expenditures, causing public
sector savings to fall significantly. In 1985, a return to democracy deepened the fiscal
disequilibria, as the new government set out to satisfy repressed social demands for
redistribution. In particular, the 1988 Constitution expanded the social responsibilities of the
state, guaranteed free access to social services, established higher social security benefits, and
broadened the generous regime of benefits for public sector employees.
35.    The accomplishment of these new    and larger responsibilities could have led to an
unsustainable path for public balances, but inflation postponed the collapse of this fiscal regime
during the early nineties. During this high-inflation period, price indexation of revenues
exceeded that of expenditures; that, together with the negative real interest rates that effectively
made borrowing costless, masked the problem of growing fiscal disequilibria.
36.    During this period, the poor were disproportionately affected by the "inflation tax",
which quickly eroded the real value of all cash balances. Middle-income and especially high-
income earners had access to a variety of financial instruments, and thus were better able to
protect themselves from inflation than the poor-who hold a higher proportion of their assets in
the form of money . Periods of accelerating inflation (e.g. 1991-93) coincided with periods of
low real income and high income inequality, effects that reinforced the adverse impact of
inflation on poverty.
143



37.    Price stabilization in 1994 stimulated economic growth and stimulated poverty reduction.
From 1994 to 1997, GDP growth exceeded 3% per year, after four years of near-zero growth.
The effect of price stabilization on poverty was strong and immediate; the proportion of people
below the poverty line fell from 43% in 1993 - a year before the Real Stabilization Plan - to less
than 34% in 1995.
38.    However, with inflation under control and no structural reforms to keep fiscal balances in
check, public finances took an unsustainable path. The disarray in public finances, together with
the decision to pursue tight monetary policy to sterilize capital inflows, caused real interest rates
and interest payments to rise. Public debt soared from 29% of GDP in 1994 to 42% of GDP in
1998, reaching 56% of GDP at the end of 2002. As a result, the spurt in growth during the first
few years of the Real Plan have been followed by a period of economic stagnation since 1998,
and by an interruption in the trend of falling poverty.
39.    High public debt is the most importaut obstacle hindering the resumption of growth. The
concerns about the sustainability of fiscal surpluses explain the high sovereign spreads observed
recently, which in turn explain the high domestic interest rates. Through their negative effect on
investment, high interest rates are the main factor behind the disappointing growth rates and the
lack of improvement in poverty indicators in recent times.
40.    There is in fact an empirical association between sovereign spreads and poverty in Brazil.
This is especially true for urban poverty, since urban areas tend to be affected significantly by
macroeconomic fluctuations. Data from the Pesquisa Mensal de Emprego (PME), a labor income
survey conducted monthly in six metropolitan areas in Brazil, show that the poverty gap PI81
computed using these data shows a close relationship with sovereign spreads (see Figure 3). Note
that these data-while ideal for tracking short-term fluctuations in urban poverty-are not very
useful as a measure of long-term trends in poverty. Besides covering only a subset of urban areas
in the country, they are based on labor income net of all transfers, and it is precisely the latter
that capture the impact of government social programs.
81 PI, the poverty gap, is the amount of money that would be required to eliminate poverty (in theory, if all transfers
were perfectly targeted and efficient) expressed as a percentage of total national income (or in this case the in-
sample poverty gap divided by total in-sample income).
144



Figure 3
Sovereign Spreads and Poverty Gap in Brazil*
400       S.23
Spreads
300-----------------------------------          .22
200-- -----                                    .21
10                        -----$--             .20
-0.1
92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01
*Sovereign spreads are deviations from Latin average and Poverty is
P1 poverty gap indicator Source. Thomas (2002) and Herrera(2002)
41.   In any case, the figure does illustrate the impact of high debt on poverty; high sovereign
spreads are an indicator of high debt. A reduction in public debt - through fiscal adjustment - is
likely to ultimately lead to lower interest rates, greater investment and growth, more
employment, higher income levels, and less poverty. In a quantitative model - that included
interest rates, inflation, output, exchange rates, public sector borrowing requirements, and the
poverty gap, Thomas (2002) found that higher fiscal balances lead to a lower poverty gap.
42.   In summary, fiscal adjustment indirectly leads to poverty reduction by stabilizing prices
in the short run, and by stimulating economic growth in the longer run. Price stabilization
reduces poverty by removing the adverse effects of the "inflation tax", and the positive link
between economic growth and poverty reduction is well-established.
F. Conclusions
43.   The main conclusion of this report is that there is no evidence that the fiscal adjustment
that began in 1999 adversely affected the poor. Public expenditures directed to the poor
increased during the adjustment period by about $R 8.4 billion, or $R 209 per poor person on
average, according to computations undertaken under the assumption that the quality of pro-poor
targeting remained constant over time. If one takes into account the range of new and well-
targeted programs introduced especially since 2000, the estimate for federal expenditure directed
towards the poor would probably be higher.
44.   The poor benefited from these increased expenditures, but they were negatively affected
by a significant rise in indirect taxes that occurred during the adjustment period; this rise was in
line with the government's policy of carrying out adjustment via a fiscal revenue increase rather
than an expenditure decrease. The rise in taxes disproportionately affected the poor, since it came
82 The model was estimated using the Generalized Vector Auto Regression (GVAR) technique
145



largely from a rise in regressive indirect taxation. Performing some simple computations, we
found that total indirect taxes paid by the poor rose by about $R 2.6 billion-or $R 70 per poor
person on average-over the adjustment period. This is considerably less than the estimate for
the increase in federal social expenditure over the same period, mentioned in the previous
paragraph. Thus, one can conclude that the beneficial direct impact of higher pro-poor federal
expenditures during the fiscal period more than exceeded the negative impact of the higher
regressive indirect taxation.
45.   The adjustment also had an indirect impact on the poor, benefiting them through price
stabilization and-in the longer run-the stimulation of economic growth. Perhaps most
significantly, available data show that poverty and social indicators either remained constant or
improved over the adjustment period, on a number of fronts.
References
Cominetti, R. and G. Ruiz 1998. "Evoluci6n del gasto publico social en Amdrica Latina: 1980-
1995." Cuadernos de la Cepal N80. Comisi6n Econ6mica para America Latina y el Caribe.
Santiago.
IMF. 2001. "The Brazilian Tax System." Report Mission. Fiscal Affairs Department.
World Bank. 2001. "Brazil Attacking Brazil's Poverty." Brazil Country Management Unit.
PREM Sector Management Unit. Latin American and Caribbean Region.
146



ANNEX 10: FISCAL REFORM AND THE ENVIRONMENT IN BRAZIL
A. Introduction
1.    This paper examines the impact of fiscal adjustment on the federal government's
expenditures on environmental protection. It notes the difficulty in tracking environmental
expenditures in Brazil in a consistent manner over time, because of changes in the classification
system used in the budget. Notwithstanding this caveat, the evidence shows that environmental
expenditures have not changed by much, in the aggregate, during the period of adjustment.
2.    Over the last several years, however, there appears to have been a reallocation of
environmental expenditures across different categories and items of expenditure, and also away
from the Environment Ministry (MMA) to other government bodies. Whatever the merits (or
otherwise) of this reallocation, it is unlikely that it is the result of fiscal adjustment, since
aggregate environmental expenditures have not changed much over this period. Rather, the
changes in allocation can be attributed partly to the new and more flexible system of budget
management introduced in 2000, and also to a renewed emphasis on the principle that
government bodies other than MMA - such as the ministries of agriculture and of mining and
energy - have a fundamental role to play in environmental protection.
B. Institutional and Regulatory Framework83
3.    The Brazilian Government began to implement a series of institutional reforms regarding
environmental issues after the 1972 Stockholm Conference of the United Nations on the
Environment. The Creation of the Special Secretariat for the Environment (SEMA) by the
federal government came both as a diplomatic response from the GOB and a bureaucratic need
for the coordination of environment-related policies.
4.    After the formulation of the new Constitution in 1988, agencies were created at the three
different levels of government, with specific roles assigned as follows: the federal, state and
municipal governments would take charge of the green agenda, water management and solid
waste management, respectively. Policies, norms, rules and standards were established at the
federal level. States became the main executors of the law. As a result, most issues regarding
forest, river and sea policy are under the mandate of the federal government, while pollution
control is handled mostly by states. Municipalities remained in charge of urban zoning as well as
the monitoring of beaches, noise, drainage and solid waste.
5.    The 1988 Constitution reinforced conservation. In 2000, the National System  of
Conservation Units was reformulated within a new legal framework. It established a principle
whereby firms were liable for environmental damages they cause. It stated that damages to
fauna and flora are to be considered crimes that are not subject to bail. A 1998 Environment
Penal Law was enacted, specifying that monetary sanctions and imprisonment could be imposed
on parties breaking laws related to environmental protection. Prosecutors became well-versed in
83 This section is based on "Fiscal Reform and the Environment in Brazil" by Ronaldo Seroa da Motta of the
Instituto de Pesquisa Economica Aphicada. (January 2003).
147



legal issues relating to environmental matters at the federal, state and municipal levels. The
1988 National Constitution also created the National Integrated System of Water Resources
Management, which resulted in the new Water Law. The National Water Agency (ANA) was
created in 2000. In 1990, SEMA was upgraded to a Secretariat directly linked to the President's
Cabinet. In 1992, SEMA was upgraded as the Ministry of the Environment and later to the
Ministry of the Environment, Water Resources and Legal Amazonia (MMA). Almost all states
created their own Environment Secretariat.
6.    In 1999, MMA underwent some restructuring. A portion of its responsibilities - mainly
the handling of drought relief and water-related infrastructure - was transferred to the newly
created Special Secretariats of Regional Policy, which became a part of the Ministry of National
Integration the following year. MMA was renamed the Ministry of Environment in 1999.
7.    Especially after this restructuring, MMA's main role is seen as the laying out of the
framework for the country's environmental and water policy. Thus, it is in some sense seen as
the planner more than the executor.  Other ministries are envisaged as the executors of
environmental and water policy as it relates to their sector.  As an example, the 1999
restructuring reallocated the role of management of water projects over from MMA to the
Ministry of National Integration; at the same time, MMA remains in charge of the formulation of
water policy (i.e. planning, setting guidelines, etc.).84 Below, we will show that there appears to
have been a general attempt in the last few years to broaden the number of government actors
involved in the execution of environmental and water policy; this has occurred not just through a
reallocation of functional responsibilities such as the one that occurred with MMA in 1999, but
also through a reallocation of expenditures. But first we examine the evolution of aggregate
environment-related expenditures over the period of adjustment.
C. Evolution of Aggregate Federal Expenditures on Environmental Protection Over Time
8.    The analysis in this section focuses primarily on the evolution of federal environmental
expenditures over the period 1995 to 2002. As noted above, it is not easy to track these
expenditures, because of significant changes introduced in the way the federal budget is
classified, starting in 2000. Accompanying these changes, it is well-known that the federal
government introduced a PPA in 2000 that differs in several major ways from the previous one
in both approach and substance. Before attempting to make comparisons between expenditures
before and after these changes were enacted, it is necessary to understand the classification
systems in place during both periods.
9.    For each year during the period of analysis, the Ministry of Planning provides
breakdowns of the total federal expenditure in three different ways: (i) by government body; (ii)
by function (with each function subdivided into sub-functions); and (iii) by program (with each
program subdivided into sub-programs). Each of these three classification methods results in a
breakdown into categories that are mutually exhaustive and exclusive; the totals are the same for
all three methods.
84 More specifically, the National Water Agency (ANA), created in 2000, is in charge of water policy; ANA is a part
of MMA, although it has a large degree of autonomy.
148



Table 1. Official Classification of Total Federal Government Expenditure
Type of breakdown of total  System usedfor years         System usedfor years 2000 to
expenditure 1                1995 to 1999 '1             2003 1
Breakdown by function -     Total of 17 categories,      Total of 29 categories,
including for example "Health  including "Health",
and Sanitation" and          "Sanitation", "Education" and
"Education and Culture", but  "Culture", as well as
not any category specifically  "Environmental Management"
for expenditures on the
environment or water
resources
Breakdown by program -4     Total of 59 programs,        Total of 388 programs, with
including "Preservation of   20 attributed to MMA; these, -
Natural Renewable            as well as 25 other programs
Resources", Protection of the  and sub-programs handled by
Environment" and             other government bodies, are
"Hydrological Resources"     classified as environmental
Breakdown by government     Generally the same classification used throughout the time
body -                      period 1995 to 2003. Between 46 and 51 categories each year;
each ministry and major government body (including MMA)
gets its own category every year, and there are also additional
categories such as "Special Projects" and transfers from
individual ministries, in some years. The small difference in the
number of categories each year is due to slight differences in
categorization and in the treatment of special categories such as
the transfers from individual ministries.
Source: Ministry of Planning
10.    Table 1 provides broad details on these three methods of classification, distinguishing
between the classification system used before and after the changes were introduced in the
budget system in 2000. Looking first at the classification according to government body, this
has not changed much throughout the period 1995-2002. There have been some changes due to
reorganization within or among government bodies, as well as to differences in the treatment of
categories such as "Special Projects".   But the key bodies, including MMA       and other
government ministries, have featured as separate categories in this classification system
throughout the period of analysis.
11.   It would be tempting to take the total executed budget85 of MMA over the period of
review as a measure of the total expenditure of the federal government on environmental
protection, but this would be misleading, for a number of reasons. First, MMA underwent some
restructuring in 1999, as noted above, losing a significant number of personnel to the Special
Secretariats of Regional Policy (which soon became a part of the Ministry of National
Integration). In fact, the data show a sharp drop in total MMA staff (of about 30%) and in
85 "Executed" here refers to the amount actually spent and not just the amount allocated at the start of the budgetary
period; the latter is typically reduced in size as the year goes on, through budgetary decrees.
149



personnel expenditure (of about 40%) in one year, largely due to this reorganization; at around
the same time, staff numbers and personnel expenditure rose suddenly at the Ministry of
National Integration.
12.   But there is another reason why one should look beyond MMA to get a good handle on
the scope of environmental expenditures. Environmental management differs from many other
activities in the sense that policies originating in other sectors, such as the agriculture and mining
sectors, can significantly impact the environment.  Thus, in some sense, ministries and
government bodies other than MMA, such as the Ministry of Mining and Energy, the Ministry of
Agriculture and the Special Secretariat of Urban Development, among others, have a key role to
play in environmental management. Indeed, as discussed above, one of the aims of the 1999
restructuring was to emphasize the role of MMA as the government body in charge of making
and guiding environmental and water policy, with other government bodies seen as playing
greater roles as executors of this policy.
13.   This move towards a change in roles is explicitly recognized in the new budget system
starting in 2000, as shown below, by the fact that a very significant portion of the total
expenditure on environmental protection activities in Brazil is funded directly from the budgets
of ministries other than MMA (though MMA aids in many of these activities). Thus, it is
important to look beyond the MMA budget to accurately track environmental expenditures over
time.
14.   Tuming next to the classification of the budget by function (please see Table 1 again),
there were a total of 29 categories (or functions) in the period 2000 onwards, but only 17 in the
period 1995-1999. Categories like "education" and "health" appear in some form in the
categories used for both periods, although there is slightly more desegregation in the categories
used for the post-1999 period. "Environmental Management" appears in the post-1999 period as
a separate category, but there is no spending category that explicitly covered anything simnilar to
this in the 1995-1999 period.
15.   Thus, it is difficult to use the figures for breakdown by function to compare
environmental expenditures in the 1995-1999 and post-1999 periods. (In each period, each
"function" is further sub-divided into "sub-functions", but looking at the breakdown by sub-
function is not particularly helpful either.86) On the one hand, this is a drawback; but on the other
hand, it is instructive by itself. It suggests that, from 2000 onwards, the government has more
explicitly started to treat environmental management as one of its main functions,
notwithstanding fiscal adjustment - a positive development from the standpoint of environmental
protection.
16.   As the table shows, the official classification of the total budget expenditure by program
is even more different than the classification by function, when one compares the 1995-1999 and
post-1999 periods. Indeed, one of the main innovations of the 2000-2003 PPA is that it
introduces a very different concept of "program".
86 Some of the sub-functions in the 1995-1999 period are environmentally related, but it is difficult to find a clear
correspondence between those and the ones in the 2000-2003 period. And, without such a clear correspondence, it is
not possible to make accurate comparisons of total environmental-related spending in both periods.
150



17.   In the 1995-1999 years, the total budget was broken down into 59 programs,87 with
"program" defined in a very broad sense; each program was handled by a particular ministry or
government body. (Each "program" was also further sub-divided into "sub-programs".) For
example, programs such as "Higher Education", "Special Education" and "Education for
Children Aged 0 to 6 Years" were handled by the Ministry of Education. In this period, there
were three programs that corresponded to environmental management: "Environmental
Protection", "Preservation of Renewable Natural Resources" and "Water Resources". They were
handled by MMA.
18.   But in the post-2000 period, the concept of "program" is very different; here the budget is
divided into 388 programs, defined in a manner that is much narrower and more specific than the
59 programs of the 1995-1999 period. The emphasis of the new system is on programs and
objectives, rather than on broad functions or on the government bodies enacting them. Each of
the 388 programs is further subdivided into a number of "actions", or sub-programs, and each
"action" is funded by a portion of the total budget.
19.   Because of this considerable change in the definition of a "program" between the 1995-
1999 and 2000-2003 periods, using the classification by program (or by sub-program) to
compare environmental expenditures in the two periods is very difficult. Within each of the two
periods, there is a direct correspondence between the classification by programs (and sub-
programs) and by functions (and sub-functions); but there is no clear correspondence between
the classification (by program or function) in the 1995-1999 period and that (by program or
function) in the 2000-2003 period.
20.   Thus, recognizing from the outset that any attempt to use the functional or programmatic
classification to compare environmental expenditures in the two periods is probably inaccurate,
we adopt a pragmatic approach: We conduct a separate analysis for each period, examining the
trends within each one. For the 1995-1999 period, we look at the evolution of expenditures on
the programs "Environmental Protection", "Preservation of Renewable Natural Resources" and
"Water Resources", using the budget classification by program. For the post-1999 period, we
look at the evolution of expenditures on the function "Environmental Management", using the
budget classification by function.
21.   Table 2 presents figures on environmentally-related expenditures for the period 1995-
1999, using the budget classification by program.  The figures show  that the sum  of
expenditures on the program categories "Environmental Protection", "Preservation of Renewable
Natural Resources" and "Water Resources" remains approximately constant throughout the
period, when expressed as a percentage of total GDP. This figure is 0.11% of GDP in 1995; in
1999, it accounts for about the same proportion of GDP. Analyzed on an individual basis,
expenditure on each of the three categories - expressed as a percentage of GDP - remains about
the same throughout the period, or rises. Especially notable is the fact that expenditure on
"Environmental Protection" doubles over the period, rising from 0.007% of GDP in 1995 to
0.015% of GDP in 1999.
87 Note that, for both the 1995-1999 and post-1999 periods, not all programs were funded in all years; thus,
effectively, in some cases, programs were suspended. This is why the official figures show a total of less than 59
programs for some years in the 1995-1999 period, and less than 388 programs in the post-1999 period.
151



Period 19~~ -1999--tv, using ude  vssnato  yPor
"Preservation  "4Environmental "Water    A, B and C
of Renewable  Protection" (B) Resources" (C)
Year                 Natural
Resources" (A)
1995   total in R$mn     22.3         43.3         664.6         730.2
(as % GDP)      (0.003)      (0.007)        (0.10)       (0.11)
1996   total in R$mn     24.9         111.5        554.3         690.7
(as % GDP)      (0.004)      (0.014)        (0.07)       (0.09)
1997   total in R$mn    34.6          121.3        962.6        1,118.5
(as % GDP)      (0.004)      (0.014)        (0.11)       (0.13)
1998   total in R$mn    43.3          123.2        970.3        1,136.8
(as % GDP)      (0.005)      (0.013)        (0.11)       (0.12)
1999   total in R$mn    30.7          141.9        927.0        1,099.6
(as % GDP)      (0.003)      (0.015)        (0.10)       (0.11)
Source: Expenditure figures from Ministry of Planning, GDP figures from World Bank data
Table 3. Evolution of Federal Executed Expenditures on "Environment
Manage ment", Over Period 2000-2002, using Budget Classification by Function
Year                       Expenditure on "Environmental Management"
2000      total in R$mn                         1,139
(as % GDP)                           (0.10)
2001      total in R$mn                         1,899
(as % GDP)                           (0.16)
2002      total in R$mn                         1,265
(as % GDP)                           (0.10)
Source: Expenditure figures from Ministry of Planning, GDP figures from World Bank data
22.   Using the budget classification by function, Table 3 presents figures on expenditures for
the period 2000-2002 on the functional category "Environmental Management". The figures in
this table are, in fact, similar in magnitude to those in Table 2, although the two are not strictly
comparable because they were derived using different methods of classifying the budget. The
figures show that expenditures classified as environmental by function - and expressed as
percentage of GDP - have remained approximately the same over the period 2000-2002. In both
the years 2000 and 2002, these expenditures totaled about 0.1 % of GDP.
23.   These data indicate that expenditures on environmental protection and water resource
management have remained about the same over time within both the 1995-1999 and 2000-2002
periods. Unless there was a sudden drop in expenditure between 1999 and 2000, one can
conclude that - at least in the aggregate - environment-related expenditures have not been
significantly negatively impacted by fiscal adjustment. This finding is underlined by figures
152



provided by the 2001 PPA Annual Evaluation report, which says that expenditures on "programs
related to the [environmental] sector" grew from R$522mn in 1999 to R$765mn in 2001. These
figures come from budgets classified using two different systems, and it is not clear precisely
which components of each budget are counted here as items related to environmental
management.   Nevertheless, they offer further evidence that aggregate environmental
expenditures have not suffered much due to fiscal adjustment.
D. Role of MMA in Environmental Spending
24.   Above, we argued that the role of MMA has been changing in recent years; its main role
is now seen as making environmental and water policy, and more emphasis is now placed on
other government bodies to play a role in the execution of environmental policy. This move is
helped by the new and much more flexible budgeting system that has been adopted by the
government since 2000.  In the old system before 2000, the programs "Environmental
Protection", "Preservation of Renewable Natural Resources" and "Water Resources" were
handled by MMA (except in 1999, when MMA was restructured).
25.   In the new system that started in 2000, however, there are a significant number of
programs and sub-programs corresponding to the category of "Environmental Management" (in
the by-function classification) that are not handled by MMA. As shown in Table 1, the new
budget system has 338 programs. Out of these, 20 are handled by MMA; these are classified as
environmental by function. But in addition, there are 25 other programs and sub-programs,
handled by other ministries, that are also classified as environmental. These other programs
include, for example, "Environmental Conservation of Mineral Regions" (run by the Ministry of
Mining and Energy); "Soil Conservation in Agriculture" (run by the Ministry of Science and
Technology); and "Resources for Sustainable Fishing" (run by the Ministry of Labor and
Employment).
26.   In 2002, the total amount of federal expenditure on these 45 environmental programs and
sub-programs (excluding personnel expenditure and debt payments) was $R204.7 million; of
this, just R$128.9 million went to the MMA programs. This shows clearly the key role played
by government bodies other than MMA in environmental spending in the country. It also
illustrates the flexibility of the new PPA in allowing the federal government to allocate resources
for environmental expenditures across different ministries, in a way that was not as easy to do
before.
27.   Given these indications of a changing role of MMA, it is not surprising that its total
executed-expenditure budget (excluding personnel expenditure and debt payments) fell from
1.1% of GDP in 1998 to 0.4% of GDP in 2001-despite the evidence indicating that aggregate
environmental expenditure remained about the same over this period. This was partly due, of
course, to the restructuring that took place in 1999. But it also illustrates, to some degree, other
ways in which MMA is playing a changing role.
153



E. Concluding CommenLts
28.    This paper finds that aggregate environmental expenditures have remained about the
same over the period of fiscal adjustment, in Brazil. However, there is evidence of a reallocation
of resources across different items and categories of expenditures, and away from MMA towards
other government bodies.
29.    However, it is unlikely that this reallocation is the result of fiscal adjustment, since
aggregate expenditures remained about the same over this period. Rather, the change in the
pattern of allocation is attributable to two other sources. First, there seems now to be a more
explicit recognition of the fundamental role that ministries and government bodies other than
MMA should play in environmental protection; MMA's main role now is seen as more of a
maker, and less of an executor, of environmental and water policy. And second, the new budget
classification system (and PPA) introduced in 2000 places much grater emphasis than before on
the cross-cutting roles to be played by different government bodies. These two factors are
actually related; the second allows the first to be "operationalized".
30.    Clearly, the enhanced role of ministries and government bodies other than MMA in
environmental management is welcome, and perhaps even necessary. On the other hand,
however, there have certainly been accompanying cuts in some programs, and this is likely to
have had a negative impact on environmental protection. The net impact is hard to gauge.
Certainly, the cuts that did occur in some areas led to strong objections raised by some
environmental and other groups, who did not always feel that the cuts were worth the increased
funding that occurred in other programs.88 The allocation of environmental expenditures may or
may not have worsened over the adjustment period; but in any case, aggregate expenditures
remained the same over that period.
31.    Another complaint regarding the impact of fiscal adjustment is that it has caused
executed expenditures for environmental purposes to be much lower than allocated expenditures.
Certainly, the ratio of executed to allocated expenditures for environmental spending has been
relatively low in recent times: this figure was 0.66 in 2000 and 0.77 in 2001, for example, if one
defines environmental expenditures using the same by-functional category definition as that in
Table 3. But the equivalent ratio for several other categories (though not for those considered
"strategic" like health and education) was also quite low in many cases; for "Transport", for
example, it was 0.61 in 2000 and 0.75 in 2001. Fortunately, the expenditures that were actually
executed remained about the same over the period of adjustment, according to our analysis. But
ideally, steps should nevertheless be taken to try and improve predictions regarding available
funds for executed expenditures; this would reduce the uncertainty faced by MMA and other
ministries regarding their budgeting and investment plans.
88 For example, a news article in MSN news in 1999 featured the cuts in a number of environmental programs that
were occurring in Brazil at the time, such as for example in the Panatal wetlands program. At the same time,
resources were being increased for a flood control program. The director of Environmental Analysis at the Institute
for Socio-Economic Research, a private watchdog organization, found it "incredible" that the flood program was
getting more funding while the Panatal one and some others were not, because the flood program was not
"integrated into a wider public policy". (MSN News, July 5, 1999.)
154



ANNEX 11: FUND RELATIONS NOTE
Summing Up of the Chairman of the Board of the International Monetary Fund Following
the Second Review Under Brazil's Current Stand-By Arrangement on March 14, 2003
1.    Brazil's performance under the Stand-By Arrangement approved on September 6, 2002
has been strong, and all performance criteria have been achieved. This record, and the new
administration's commitment to maintain the sound fiscal and monetary policies of recent years,
have led to a consolidation of the improvements in market sentiment experienced over the last
few months, with the currency recovering some of its lost value and risk spreads declining
markedly.
2.    Nevertheless, market conditions continue to be difficult and risks remain, due in part-to
the uncertain global environment. The new administration is moving decisively to deal with
underlying vulnerabilities, demonstrating a commitment both to sound macroeconomic policies
and to its ambitious structural reform agenda. These policies illustrate the authorities' conviction
that their mandate to promote growth and achieve fundamental social change will be fulfilled as
confidence is fully restored. A supportive external environment will also be important.
3.    The higher primary fiscal surplus target of 4.25 percent of GDP established for 2003 is a
strong signal of the authorities' resolve to keep the debt dynamics under control. Continued
healthy primary surpluses are key to reducing the debt burden over the medium term.
Maintenance of the needed surpluses would be facilitated by early action on proposed tax and
pension reforms.
4.    The central bank has responded to increased inflation and inflation expectations
proactively, tightening interest rates by 850 basis points since October. Although there are early
signs that inflation is abating, the monetary authorities should remain vigilant and stand ready to
act if and as needed.
5.    Continuation of the strong macroeconomic policies being implemented by the authorities
and further progress on the structural reform agenda will lay the foundation for sustained and
equitable economic growth. The government's initiatives in tax and pension reform are especially
crucial. In addition, measures to improve the investment climate and to boost trade will be
particularly important. The authorities' efforts to ensure more effective targeting of social
spending will also help reduce poverty.
155



ANNEX 12: ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Brazil - Key Economic Intdicators
Actual                Estimate             Projected
Indicator               1997    1998     1999    2000    2001     2002    2003     2004    2005
National accounts (as % of GDP)
Gross domestic producte                 100      100     100      100     100      100     100      100     100
Agriculture                             8        8       7        7       9        9       8        8       8
Industry                               30       29      27       28      34       32      32       31      31
Services                               62       63      65       64      57       59      60       61      62
Total Consumption                        81       81      81       80      80       80      79       79      80
Gross domestic fixed investment          19      20       19      20       19       17      18       18      18
Government investment                    2       2       2        2       2        1        1       1        1
Pnvate investment                       17      17      18       19      18       16      16       16      16
Exports(GNFS)b                            8        7      11      11       13       16      17      18       18
Imports (GNFS)                           10       10      12      12       14       14      15      16       17
Gross domestic savings                   19       19      19      20       20       20      21      21       20
Gross national savings                   17       17      16      17       16       16      18      17       16
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product               807739  787753   531145  593793   502510  456473   470595  484746   499323
(US$ million at current pnces)
GNI per capita(US$, Atlas method)      4740    4610     3880    3620     3070    2810     2680    2650     2700
Real annual growth rates (%, calculated from 1995 prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices  3.3   0.1      0 8     4.4      1 5      1 5     2 8     3 5      3 5
Gross Domestc Income                   3 7     -2 1     1 6     47      -05       1 4     27      3.5      3 5
Real annual per capita growth rates (%, calculated from 1995 prices)
Gross domesic product at narket pnces  1 9     -1 2    -0 5     3.1      0.2     0 2      1 6     2 3      2 4
Total consumption                      2 4     -0 2    -2 5      1.5    -0.2     2.1      0 6     2 4      2.5
Pnvateconsumption                      1 0     -4.6     4.7     2.4      1 3     39       1 4     2 6      2 5
Balance of Payments (US$ millions)
Exports (GNFS)b                      59870   59037    55205   64584    67545   73269    80760   86335    91669
Merchandise FOB                    52994   51140    48011   55086    58223   60400    67000   70800    74500
Imports (GNFS)b                     77269    75722   63381    72443   72652    63888   71914    77916   83721
Merchandise FOB                    59747   57714    49210   55783    55581   47200    51100   55300    59629
Resource balance                    -17399   -16685   -8176   -7859    -5107    9381     8846    8419     7947
Net current transfers                 1823     1458    1689    1521     1638    2813     2239    2582     1857
Current account balance             -30452  -33415   -25335  -24224   -23212    -7600   -5800   -10100  -12629
Net private foreign direct investment  17877  26002   26888   30498    24715    16400   16000    16400   17400
Long-term loans (net)                19871   33072    -5669    -8412  -15742   -14195   -5905  -19116    -4462
Official                            -1186    4867      411    -1779     786     -355   -2433    -1742   -1459
Pnvate                              21057   28205    -6080   -6632   -16528   -13840   -3472   -17375   -3003
Other capital (nel. nel efrors &ommmnsions)  -15547  -37422  -7725  6672  10821  4000    8500    -1500    1497
Change in reservesd                   8251    11763   11841    -4534    3418     1395  -12795    14316   -1806
Me,norandum items                                                                           17      18       18
Resource balance (% of GDP)             -2 2    -2 1     -I 5    -1 3     -1 0     2 1      1 9     1 7     1 6
Real annual growth rates ( YR95 pnces)
Merchandise exports (FOB)              4.8     10 2     -0 7     7.0     9 6      2 0     7 3      3 3     3 4
Pnmary
Manufactures                           1 6    13 7     -0.4     8 3     4.0      8.8     7.8      7 8     7 7
Merchandise imports (CIF)             -17 5     4 5     -7 2     8.6     3 0    -23 5     4 7      5 8     5 9
(Continued)
156



Brazil - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual                Estimate              Projected
Indicator                 1997     1998    1999     2000     2001    2002     2003     2004    2005
Monetary indicators
M2VGDP                                    29 3     307     312      28 9     29 7     29 4    29 4     29 4     29 4
Growth of M2 (%)                          18 4     10 0      7.4     4.3     121       8 0      8 2     8 2      8 2
Pnvate sector credit growth /             39 2     28 4  -1299 4   137 0     18.7     23 6     93 2   101 0    110 9
total credit growth (%)
Price indices( YR95 =100)
Merchandise export pnce index            109 5     95 9    90 7     97 2     93 8     95 4     98 6   100 9    102 7
Merchandise import pnce index            133 0    123 0    113 0   118 0    114.2    126 7    131 0   134 0    136 4
Merchandise terms of trade index          82 4     78 0     80 2    82 4     82 1     75 3     75 3    75 3     75 3
Real exchange rate (US$/LCU)r            118 0    120 8    140 2
Real interest rates
Consumer priceindex-pdavg (% change)       5 2      1.7      8.9     7 1      6.8      84      13 7     44       44
GDP deflator (% change)                    8 2      4 9      4 6     8 0      7 4      7 5      5S3     4 5      4 5
a GDP at factor cost
b "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services
c Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants
d Includes use of IMF resources
e Consolidated central government
f "LCU" denotes "local currency units " An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.
157



ANNEX 13: STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
Active Prolecta                                        Lost PSR                                                 Expecotd and Actual
Supervision Rating         Original Amount in USS Millions   DOlburs.mants'
Protect ID             Proict Name             Dalnopment  ImIa,neratln n  FY    IBR9 IDA GRANT CanceL   Undlob  OrIg.  Fm. R., d
P006559 (8F-R)SP TSP                                 S           S         1998     45                       4 70   4 70
P043873 AG TECH DEV                                  S           S         1997     60                      2735   27 35     27 35
P006562 BAHIA MUN DV                                 S            S        1997    100                      37 25  37 25     30 05
P035728 BAHIA WTR RESOURCES                          S           S         1998     51                      22 41  22 41      084
P006564 BELO H M TSP                                 S           S         1995     99                      12 70   12 70
P037828 BR (PR)R POVERTY                             S           S         1996    175                      6410    64 10    64.10
P006449 BRCEARAWTRMGTPROGERIRHSIM                    S           S        2000     136                     101 09   5051
P058129 BR EMER FIRE PREVENTION (ERL)                s           S         1999     15                       722     7 22     1 22
P047309 BRENERGYEFFICIENCY(GEF)                      S           S         2000                 15          1463    11,15
P006522 BR ESP SANTO WATER                           S           S         1994    154               41 5    2 94   44 44    -9 56
P073294 BR F,.cl1 & FIn Mgnt TAL                     S           S        2001    8 88                       7 23    4 54
P062819 BR INSS REF LIL                              S           U        2000     5 05                      0 36   -0 14     0 36
P006474 BR LAND MGT 3 (SAO PAULO)                    S           S         1998     65                      50 19   41 86    29 85
P057910 BR PENSION REFORM LIL                       HS           5         1998      5                       3 06    3 06     2 52
P039199 BR PROSANEAR 2                               S           5        2000    30 3                      29 39   -0 91
P043869 BR SANTA CATARINA NATURAL RESOURC POV       HS           S        2002     62 8                     61 46    4 85
P073192 BR TA Flnlnciul S-cr                         S           S         2002   1446                       930    -421
P043420 BR WATER S MOD 2                             S           S         1998    225                125   96 30  146 27   139 53
P054120 BR- AIDS & STD ComolS II                     S           S         1999    165             3 5004    7 46   10 96
P043874 BR- DISEASE SURVEILLANCE -  VIGISUS          S            S        1999    100                 25   34 89   59 89
P050763 BR F..do.s.on 2                              5           HS        1999  202 03                     22 87    4 54
P006554 BR- HEALTH SECTOR REFORMb-REFORSUS           S            5        1996    300                 10   6596    7596
P038947 BR- SC a TECH 3                              S            5        1998    155                     105 67  105 67
P059565 BR- BA BASIC EDU PROJ6CT (PHASE I)           5            S        2001    69 6                      12 90   5 64
P059566 BR- CEARA BASIC EDUCATION                    S            S        2001     90                      83 95   -6 05
P057653 BR- FUNDESCOLA IIIA                          S           S         2002    160                     179 56  -11 63
P057665 8R-FAMILY HEALTH EXTENSION PROJECT           S            S        2002     68                      67 32   26 52
P074777 BR-Mu-Icip.I Penn-- TAL                      S            5        2003      5                       5 00    0 66
P049265 BR RECIFE URBAN UPGRADING PROJECT            I            8        2003     46                      46 00
P066170 BR-RGN 2NO R.rel P1v`-y Rrduaclon            S            S        2002    22 5                     21 03    2 03
P057649 SuRMo RolI Povory R.d=clon Prn(ncl           S            S        2001   54 35                     38 62    9 77
P050875 C.am RUrI Povetty Radocllon PnnIrat          S            s        2001    37 5                     27 33    7 76
P006436 CeeraUrSnnDooeIOP-tn &WatWrRacmrro-          S            S        1995    140                  3    1497   1797      1797
P039200 ENERGY EFFICIENCY (ELETROBRAS)               S            U        2000    43 4                     42 97   33 57
P006532 FED HWY DECENTR                              S            S        1997    300                      143 09  143 09    41 74
P038895 FED WTR MGT                                  S            S        1998     198                     108 25  106 85    98 25
P060221 FORTALEZA METROPOUTAN TRANSPORT PROJECT      S            S        2002     85                       95 70  23 68
P070552 GEF BR PARANA BIODIVERSITY PROJECT           S            S        2002                  8            8 23   0 03
P006210 GEF BR NArL BIODIVERSITY                     S            S        1996                 10           2 48    3 42      4 04
P055954 GoiAS STATE HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT               S            S        2002     65                       55 40  24 83
P050772 LAND BASED POVERTY ALLEVIATION I (SIM)       S            S        2001   202 1                    209 21  14962
P051701 MARANHAO RPOVERrY                            S            S        1998     80                        2 77   2 77
P035741 NATL ENV 2                                   S           HS        2000      15                      10 70   9 20      7 47
P050776 NE M-l.lolunca D-Icl.P.mOnl                 HS            S        2000     50                       33 11  -16 89
P042565 PARAIBA R POVERTY                            S            S        1998     60                       21 44  21 44
P050881 PIAUI RURAL POVERTY REDUCTION PROJECT        s            S        2001    22 5                      17 54   7 21
P050880 P.ervnntco Rural Powny Radrrvi.n             S            S        2001    30 1                      26 16   9 98
P038882 RECIFE M TSP                                 S            U        1995     102                       9 23   9 23
P034578 RGS HWY MGT                                  S            U        1997     70                       49 34   49 34    48 01
P043868 RGS LAND MGTIPOVERTY                                      S s      1997     100                      45 41   43 11    3958
P043421 RP M TRANSIT PRJ                             S            S        1998     186             17172   128 95  146 12
P048869 SALVADOR URBAN TRANS                         S            S        1999     150                     100 71   92 38
P074085 S,rglp. RImI Po.rty RedUAtIon                S            S        2002    208                       18 19    433
P051696 SAO PAULO METRO UNE 4 PROJECT                S            S        2002    209                      206 91   68 61
Overall Result                                                                   4845 4         33 225.17 262100 1718 75     543 32
158



Brazil at a glance                                                             9/12/02
Latin   Upper.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          America   middle-
Brazil  & Carib   income       Development diamond'
2001
Populaton, mid-year (mftilons)                      172.6       524       504                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, USS)                   3,060     3,560     4,460
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                     528.7     1,862     2,248
Average annual growth, 1995-01
Population ()1.3                                                 1,5       1.3
Labor force %                                          1 8       2.2       1.8     GNI                             Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1995-01)                              capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of populatlon below national poverty line)  22
Urban population (% of totalpopulation)                82        76        77
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       68        70        71
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               30        29        24
Child malnutntion (% of children under 5)               6         9         9           Access to Improved water source
Access to an Improved water source (% of populallon)   87        85        87
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                    14         11       10             BrIWl
Gross pnrmayenrollment (%6 ofschool-agepopulatron)   154       130       127
Male                                                156       131       128              Upper-middle-income group
Female                                              152        128      126
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1981     1991      2000      2001
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ biliions)                          263 6    407.7     593 8     502 0
Gross domestic nvestment/GDP                 23 1     19.8      21 7      21 0
Exports of goods and services/GDP             9 4      8 7      10 8      134                     Tra4e
Gross domestc savingsGDP                     22 7     20.5      20 1      19 9
Gross nabonal savingslGDP                    18 6     18 6      17 2      16 4
Current account balance/GDP                  -4 5     -0 3      -4 1      -4.6     Domestic        6            n
Interest payments/GDP                         3 1      0 5       2 2       21      savings                     Investment
Total debttGDP                               30 9     29 7      39 8      45 0     sa'Ings
Total debt service/exports                   66 4     23 3      92.0      60 5
Present value ot debtGDP                                        37.7
Present value of debt/exports                                  327.4
Indebtedness
1981-91  1991-01     2000      2001   2001-05
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  29       2 9      44        1 5       28              Bral
GOP per capita                       0 9      1 5      3 1       0.2       1.6         -.---- Upper-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services       6 8       6 4     114       121        3 7
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981     1991      2000      2001      Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GOP)
Agnculture                                   10.7      7 8       7 4       9 3
Industry                                    43 7      36 2      28 3      33 9      s
Manufacturing                              329      253       174       21 0
Services                                    45 5      561       64 3      56 8      e
Private consumpton                          68 0      61 6      60.6      60 1      e10
General govemment consumpton                 93       179       19.3      19t9              -   GDI             GDP
imports of goods and services                9 8      7 9       12 4      14 4
1981-91  1991-01      2000      2001      Grow1h o1 exports and Imports 1%)
(average annual growth)
Agnculture                                   2 5       3 4       3 0       51
Industry                                     2.2      2 5        4 9      -0 6     20
Manufacturing                               1 4      1.9       6 1       0 6
Services                                     3.5       2 9       3.7       15      o
Private consumption                           1 2      5 0       3 7       26                6 r 7   98    5    0e    01
General government consumption               7 5      -1 0       0 0       48 a    20 1
Gross domestic investment                    3 9       3 5      11 2      -2 0             E---E--.tsr   -*    imports
Imports of goods and services                2 9      10 0      12 4       0 7
Note 2001 data are preliminary estimates
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with Its inoome-group average If data are missing, the diamond Vwil
be incomplete
159



Brazil
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1981    1991      2000     2001     Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                1er
(5% change)
Consumer prices                           101.7   432.8       6 0      7.7     75
ImplictGOPdeflator                        107.2   4153        80       7.4     so
Govemment finance/a                                                            25
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                             o
Current revenue                                              21.9     23.0             98    97   98    99    o    01
Current budget balance                                         1 8      1.8              -GDP delator  -CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                      ..      ..       3 2       3.8
TRADE
1981     1991     2000      2001     Export and Impo7t ievels (USS mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                          ..   31.620   55,086    58,223   rsoe.o
Coffee                                           2,870     3,048    2,932
Soybeans                                   ..    2,031     2,188    2,726    608000          J 
Manufactures                                .   20.483    41,027   41,144    40
Total imports (cdf)                              21,041    55,783    55,581                                 1
Food                                        .    1,275     1,507    1,169    20:
Fuel and energy                             .    3,371     6,362    6,276
Capital goods                              ..    5,966    13,591   14,803        o
95  98   97   98   s9  so   01
Export pnce index (1995=100)                81       81        97       94
Importpnceindex(t95=100)                   70       68       118      114               EoExpOrts     oimports
Terms of trade (1995-100)                   116     120        82       82
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1981     1991     2000      2001     Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ mllions)
Exports of goods and services            25,522  34,333    64,584   67,545     o
Imports of goods and services            27,200  26,142    72,443    72,652       [  1 i                    O    01
Resource balance            *1,678                8,191     -7,859   -5,107         1            L     L   L
Net Income                              -10,272  -11,154   -17,886  -19,743
Net current transfers                        10    1,556    1,521     1,638
Current account balance                 -11.940   -1,407  -24.224   -23,212    '4
Financing items (net)                    12,286   -3,272   31,904    19,468
Changes in net reserves                    -48    4,679     -7,680    3,744    .6
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)    6,693   8,763    33,011    35,866
Conversion rate (DEC, localVS$)        3.38E-1 1  1.48E-4      1.8      2.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981     1991     2000      2001
(US$ millions)                                                                  CompositIon of 2001 dbbt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed     81,454  121.020  236.157   226,0^o7                    A.7,963
IBAD                                    2,286   8,165     7,377     7,963          AG 299           c 86,337
IDA                                        0        0         0        0                                D29.11 . 476
Total debt service                       17.874    8,340   62,891    42,977                                  E 15
IBRD                                     317    1,917     1,351     1.362
IDA                                        0        0         0        0
Composibon of net resource flows
Official grants                            8       50        54
Official creditors                      1,230   -1.062    -1,780     786
Private creditors                       7,512   1.701     7,936     3,615
Foreign direct Investment               2,520   1,103    32,779    22,457
Portfolio equity                           0      803     3,076     2,481                F 162,416
World Bank program
Commitments                             1,039   1,348     1,290     1,609     A - IBRD                  E - Bilateral
Disbursements                            387      840     1,692     1,639     B- IDA   D - Other mulblatern  F - Pnvate
Principal repayments                     136    1,248       887      828      C - IMF                   G - Short-term
Net flows                                251     -408       805      810   ',
Interest payments                        181      669       464      533
Net transfers                             70    -1,077      341      277
The World Bank Group: This table was prepared by country unit staft figures may differ from other World Bank published data.  9/12/02
a. Data refer to central govemment
160












Repori No.:        25880  BR
Type:     PAD



