Project Information Document (PID)
Project Name:                  BRAZIL- Second Programmatic Fiscal Reform Loan
Region:                        Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector:                        Economic Management
Theme:                         Debt management and fiscal substainability (P), Public expenditure, financial mngmnt
& procurement (P), Tax Policy & Administration (P)
Project ID:                    P070641
Borrower(s):                   GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL
Implementing Agency(ies):      Ministerio da Fazenda Nacional.
Esplanada dos Ministerios, Bloco P
70048-900 Brasilia, D.F Brazil
Ministerio do Planejamnento, Orcamento e Gestao
Esplanada dos Ministerios
Bloco C 70046-900 Brasilia D.F. Brazil
Environment Category:          C (Not Required)
Date PID Prepared:             April 23, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date:           May 5, 2003
Bank Approval Date:            June 17, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Brazil stands today at a point of historic significance, with an economy poised to deliver the promise of economic growth foi
citizens, and as a nation confronting the challenge of proving its merit as a world-class global competitor The new Governi
focused on social justice, while at the same time committed to maintaining economic stability.
But Brazil's historic opportunity conies at a time of an unusually adverse external environment, which poses grave economic risi
The new government needs to quickly build a record of credibility that will enable Brazil to improve its access to international
markets Many of the reforms necessary to ensure sustainable growth require difficult decisions and compromises The new
government is uniquely positioned to enact these difficult reforms. President Lula is enjoying a period of strong popularity and
legitimacy which is allowing his administration to adopt hard cconomic measures and to propose and openly discuss deep reforr
The establishment of the Council for Economic and Social Development as a forum to discuss the structural reforms between
government and civil society representatives, and the two meetings of President Lula with the 27 state governors represented
initiatives without precedent to build political and social support needed for the structural reforms After extensive consultation:
Government is now sending consensual proposals on Social Security and Tax Reforms, which are supported by the 27 governor.
the Council.
The government's program encompasses an ambitious reform agenda, addressing four broad objectives of fiscal reform in Brazi
institutionalization of responsible fiscal policy and risk management; (n) improvements in efficiency in the revenue structure an
further strengthening of the tax administration, (ii) efficient and equitable public expenditures geared toward provision of publi
goods for poverty reduction and growth promotion, and (iv) a more equitable and sustainable social security system
2. Objectives and Description
The proposed loan addresses two of the government's own four broad objectives of fiscal reform mentioned above (i)
institutionalization of responsible and credible fiscal policy and risk management, and (ii) improvements in efficiency in the rev
structure and further strengthening of the tax administration Within the context of the first broad objective, the loan would supI



(a) strengthening of macro-fiscal planning; (b) effective control of sub-national debts and sub-national fiscal discipline; (c)
improvements in fiscal transparency and reporting, (d) capacity building in public debt management and its further institutionali
and (e) market development for government securities. With respect to the second broad objective, the loan would support (a);
reform to improve efficiency, and (b) improvements in tax administration
Regarding the first major area of the loan, namely institutionalization of responsible and credible fiscal policy and risk manag
the following are the specific objectives and measures that the loan would support in each sub-component.
Strengthenin2 of macro-fiscal planning The overall objective is to reduce volatility and potential uncertainty that could
from fiscal policy decisions The Government has moved toward developing a credible medium-term fiscal framework
Credibility has been enhanced by the achievements of the announced primary surplus targets in four consecutive years Thi
Government has begun moving toward institutionalizing this credibility by improving the quality of its medium-term fiscal
projection and planning, primarily through the LDO Annex on Fiscal Targets, in which it has announced stringent primary!
targets for the three following years. The announced target of 4 25 percent of GDP for 2004-06, higher than the target agre,
the August 2002 IMF Agreement, show the government's strong commitment to prudent fiscal policies Furthermore, the
government is considering the adoption of a fiscal rule that sets the primary balance as a target that depends on the level of
economic activity. This is a welcome advance in institutionalization especially if it is framed within a medium-term prograr
stabilizing and reducing indebtedness of the government
Effective control of sub-national debts and sub-national fiscal discipline The overall objective is to maintain the fiscal
undertaken by sub-national governments and to promote more broad-based compliance with the LRF. The proposed loan w
support (i) the passage of the Senate Resolutions 40 and 43 to regulate sub-national indebtedness as required by the Law of
Responsibility (LRF), (ii) the National Monetary Council Resolutions 2827 and 2920 to regulate the financial sector's credi
supply to the public sector, as well as (iii) the impressive turnaround in sub-national fiscal behavior as evidenced in the effe
compliance with key provisions of the LRF - the personnel expenditure/net current revenue (RCL) ratio below 0 6 and the (
stock/RCL of 2 0 or less for states and 1 2 or less for municipalities The set of resolutions have created a robust regulatory
environment to minimize the risk of excessive sub-national borrowing in the future, while the actual performance by the ma
of the sub-national governments show that these legal provisions have been effectively complied with
Improvements in fiscal transparenCV and reporting: The overall objective is to sustain marked improvements in fiscal
transparency and reporting achieved since the passage of the LRF. Notable recent achievements include establishment of a
federal registry of public debts and the consolidation of public sector accounts from the Union, all the state governments, ar
vast majority of the municipal governments With respect to the problem of contingent liabilities (so-called skeletons), the
recognition of which has contributed to the 25% increase of federal debt between 1994 and 2001, the Government formally
adopted a transparent method of discussing fiscal risks in an Annex to the Budget Guidelines Law (LDO). The Annex iden
multiple sources of fiscal risks and assesses sensitivities of the budget and the public debt to different scenarios With this r
practice, the Government achieved substantial transparency, a necessary first step for effective management of contingenit fi
risks.
Capacity building in public debt management and its further institutionalization: Substantial progress was achieved ii
institutional development of the Middle Office and the Annual Borrowing Plans. The National Treasury Secretariat (STN)
already adopted its own code ol conduct in line with the internationial best practices. The overall objective of this set of me.
is to create the governance structure necessary to implement the benchmark developed by the Middle Office of the STN De
Management Office
Market development for government securities. The overall objective here would be to develop a domestic market for di
types of securities, to permit the implementation of the associated benchmark (i e, possibility of issuing long term securitie:
fixed rate nominal debt, etc.). The STN began issuing public bonds through the internet to individual buyers. The Governn
also issued regulations on primary market dealers, and the general objective is to have a more diversified investor base
Regarding the second broad objective of the loan, namely the improvements in efficiency in the revenue structure and
strengthening of tax administration the following are the measures that the loan would support,



Initiation of a tax reform to improve efficiencv The loan would support recent advances in tax policy changes In the la
years the political climate surrounding the issue of tax reform has changed dramatically. In 2002, the previous government
Presidential decree MP-66 (Media Proviscria, MP-66 currently Law 10 637) and initiated a modest step to transform the si
turnover PIS/PASEP taxes into a value-added tax base and exempted intermediate phases of exports from the IPI tax The
also established similar reforms for the larger COFINS cumulative tax for 2004 With the arrival of the new administration
advocated a major reshuffling of the tax system, tax reform has become one of two major structural reform agenda amply be
debated in the country. The basic guidelines of thc Tax Reform that the Government is preparing have wide agreement am
government and key stakeholders, namely (i) simplification of the tax system, (n) progressive elimination of indirect cumul
taxation, and (ii) the reconstruction of value-added taxation system
Significant improvements in tax administration: Over the last several years, the federal tax administration steadily impr,
its effectiveness, for example, by expanding the coverage of electronic filing to above 90% of tax returns, use of objective c
for selecting tax audit cases, which would reduce the scope for corruption and possible abuses, and decisive actions against
corruption and other unethical behavior within the tax administration.
3. Rationale for Bank Involvement
Justifications for the proposed loan rest on three sets of considerations. First, as described above, there has been good progress 1
important institutional and structural reforms. Maintenance of a credible fiscal policy and a strong record of compliance with th
of Fiscal Responsibility at all levels of the federal system are among the strongest evidence of improved fiscal performance Se
and beyond the specific measures taken and supported by this loan, the responsible policy stance taken by the new Government
broadly provides a very favorable context for the proposed operation, including progress in social security reform, responsible
monetary policies, as well as decisive policies to address poverty and inequality directly. These developments show that a broac
consensus on the basic elements of sound economic and social policies has evolved, and would pennit implementation of consis
policies in the medium and long run Third, despite the positive turnaround, Brazil still finds itself in a fragile position vis-A-vis
international financial markets Bank financial assistance in support of fiscal reform could both send a positive signal to the mai
a validation of the Government's efforts and achievements so far and address Brazil's external financing needs and strengthenin
reserves
4. IBRD Loan Amount: The Bank's financial assistance under the PFRL 11 would comprise a loan of US$404.04 million to be
disbursed in a single tranche after loan effectiveness
5. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
The proposed loan is an structural adjustment operation. An environmental assessment, indigenous people's development plan, t
resettlement action plan are not applicable.
6. Project Benefits
The policy measures supported by this loan are intended to improve the quality of fiscal adjustment through further institutional
of the fiscal decision making process (setting primary balance surpluses, establishing benchmarks for debt composition) Wilth
institutionalization proposal, the possible volatility and uncertainty arising from fiscal policy will be mitigated The loan also su
a tax reform oriented at obtaining a less complex tax system, which will reduce the burden of the public sector on private activit
hence will contribute towards a more favorable investment climate. By reducing uncertainty and reducing the tax burden of a
complicated tax structure, there will be a more favorable environment for growth
7. Project Risks
Slippage of the proposed tax reform: In the recent past, tax reform proposals faced strong political opposition and sta
Congress  A similar risk cannot be ignored with respect to the latest Government proposal. However, the extensive con!
building process that preceded the Government's submission of the reform bill to Congress as well as the explicit endorsem.
Government has received from the state governors augur well for the reform's prospect. Based on these considerations, as well
importance of the proposed reform, the risk is considered acceptable.



Negative shock on debt sustainability As in the recent past, there is an unforeseen risk that severe negative shocks can underi
debt sustainability Under a particularly bleak scenario, the 4 25% primary surplus would be insufficient to stabilize the debt/GI
ratio However, since 1999, Brazil has demonstrated its willingness and capability to adjust its policy to unanticipated adverse
external conditions. Given the credibility of the Government's commitment to macroeconomic stability, this risk is considered
acceptable.
8. Contact Points:
Co-Task Manapers
Santiago Herrera             Yasuhiko Matsuda
The World Bank                       World Bank Office, Brasilia
1818 H Street, NW            Setor Comercial Norte, Quadra 02, Lote A - Edificio
Washington D.C. 20433        Corporate Financial Center, Conjuntos 204/303/304,603
Telephone. 202-458-8251             Brasilia, DF 70712-900, Brazil
Fax: 202-522-3134            Telephone: +55 61 329-1077  Fax: +55 61 329-1010
9. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone (202) 458-5454
Fax    (202) 522-1500
Web http // www worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily included in the final projec



