Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7179 
–
BR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Second Programmatic Fiscal Reform Loan –  
Fiscal Responsibility and Tax Reform) 
 
between 
 
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated August 11, 2003 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7179 - BR 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated August 11, 2003, between the FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC 
OF BRAZIL (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to the loan provided to the Borrower under the Loan 
Agreement dated June 5, 2001 (Loan No. 7046-BR), the Bank has provided assistance to 
the Borrower in support of the first phase of the Borrower's program of actions, 
objectives and policies for fiscal reform, covering fiscal sustainability, public expenditure 
management, and management of public liabilities (the Program), as such program was 
described in the letter, dated December 20, 2000, from the Borrower to the Bank; 
(B) 
the Bank has received a letter, dated May 9, 2003, from the Borrower: (i) 
describing its macroeconomic framework and the Program as revised since the date of the 
letter referred to in (A) above, which Program consists of actions taken under the first 
phase referred to in (A) above, actions taken as described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement (the Second Phase of the Program), and actions and policies that the Borrower 
intends to take and adopt in the future; (ii) declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the 
objectives of the Program; and (iii) requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the 
Program during the execution thereof; 
(C) 
the Borrower has maintained a macroeconomic policy framework 
satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(D) 
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in support 
of the Second Phase of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by 
making the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) as hereinafter 
provided; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. 
The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999, with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 41, is modified to read: 
“‘Project’ means the second phase of the program, referred to in the 
Preamble to the Loan Agreement, in support of which the Loan is 
made.”; 
(b) 
Section 3.08 is modified to read: 
“Each withdrawal of an amount of the Loan from the Loan Account shall 
be made in the Loan Currency of such amount.  If the Loan Currency is 
not the currency of the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 (b) of 
the Loan Agreement, the Bank, at the request and acting as an agent of 
the Borrower, shall purchase with the Loan Currency withdrawn from 
the Loan Account the currency of such deposit account as shall be 
required to deposit the withdrawn amount into such deposit account.”; 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan 
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan 
Agreement and of these General Conditions.”; 
(d) 
the last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
(e) 
Section 9.07 (c) is modified to read: 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution 
of the second phase of the program referred to in the Preamble to the 
Page  4
-
3
-
Loan Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.”; and 
(f) 
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08. 
Section 1.02. 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) “Central 
Bank” 
means 
Banco Central do Brasil
,
the Borrower’s central 
bank; 
(b) “CVM” 
means 
Comissão de Valores Mobiliários
,
the Borrower’s 
securities and exchange commission; 
(c) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(d) 
“Federal District” means 
Distrito Federal
,
the Borrower’s Federal 
District; 
(e) 
“GDP” means the Borrower’s gross domestic product; 
(f) 
“LDO Bill” means the bill of the law establishing guidelines for the 
Borrower’s budget for 2004 (
Lei de Diretrizes Orçamentárias
), submitted to the 
Borrower’s Congress on April 15, 2003 (PL 2/2003 - CN); 
(g) 
“Municipalities” means the municipalities in the States; 
(h) 
“Primary Surplus” means the difference between the Borrower’s non-
financial revenues and non-financial expenditures; 
(i) 
 “States” means the Borrower’s states; and 
(j) “STN” 
means 
Secretaria do Tesouro Nacional
,
the Secretariat of 
Treasury in the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance. 
Page  5
-
4
-
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to four hundred 
four million forty thousand Dollars ($404,040,000), as such amount may be converted 
from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.09 of this Agreement. 
Section 2.02. 
(a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the amount of three hundred ninety-
nine million nine hundred ninety-nine thousand six hundred Dollars ($399,999,600) from 
the Loan Account in support of the Second Phase of the Program. 
(b) 
Prior to furnishing to the Bank the first request for withdrawal from the 
Loan Account, the Borrower shall open and thereafter maintain in the Central Bank a 
deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  All 
withdrawals of the amount referred to in paragraph (a) above shall be deposited by the 
Bank into the Deposit Account. 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Loan 
shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:  (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an 
amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, refund 
such amount to the Bank.  Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be 
credited to the Loan Account for cancellation. 
Section 2.03. 
The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003 or such later date 
as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one per cent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of said fee. 
Section 2.05. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (a) 
Page  6
-
5
-
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (b) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. 
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period, at 
the Variable Rate; provided that, upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. 
Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on May 1 and November 1 in each year. 
Section 2.08. 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. 
(a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and  
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01 
(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
ARTICLE III 
Page  7
-
6
-
Particular Covenants 
Section 3.01. 
The Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any 
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the 
effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Second Phase of the Program, or any 
action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. 
Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(b) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four (4) months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
(c) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 4.01. 
Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
The Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework has become 
inconsistent with the objectives of the Second Phase of the Program. 
(b) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any 
action or policy under the Program, including any action listed in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, in a manner that would, in the opinion of the Bank, adversely affect the 
achievement of the objectives of the Second Phase of the Program. 
Page  8
-
7
-
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01. 
The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that this Agreement has been validly 
registered with the Central Bank. 
 
Section 5.02. 
The date October 10, 2003, is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. 
The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 6.02. 
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministério da Fazenda 
 
Procuradoria Geral da Fazenda Nacional 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco “P” - 8
°
andar 
 
70048-900 Brasília, D.F. 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (011-55-61) 412-1740 
 
With copy to: 
 
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão 
 
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco "K" - 5
°
andar 
 
70040-906 Brasília, D.F. 
 
Brazil 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
Facsimile: (011-55-61) 225-4022 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
  248423 
(MCI) 
or 
(202) 
477-
6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  10
-
9
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the city of Brasília, Brazil, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL 
 
By /s/ Sônia de Almendra Freitas Portella Nunes 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Vinod Thomas 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin American and the Caribbean 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit; 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Bank by notice to the Borrower: 
 Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112                           
- 
 
Alcoholic beverages 
 
121                           
- 
 
Tobacco, unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122                           
- 
 
Tobacco, 
manufactured  
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525                           
- 
 
Radioactive and  
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
        
Pearls, precious and 
 
semiprecious 
Page  12
-
11
-
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
718                          
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and 
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728                        
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
 
machinery  
 
897                          
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold, 
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or 
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including 
 
set gems) 
 
971                          
- 
 
Gold, non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party); 
6. 
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories, or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or 
import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
Page  13
-
12
-
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy 
the situation. 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Second Phase of the Program
 
1. 
The Primary Surplus targets for the period 1999-2002 have been met. 
2. 
The Borrower has established, in Annex III.B of the LDO Bill, an annual Primary 
Surplus target for the period 2003-2006 of 4.25 percent of GDP in each such year, and set 
a
clear medium term objective of debt reduction as a share of GDP. 
3. 
A substantial increase has occurred in the number of States which have been 
meeting the parameters established by the Borrower’s Complementary Law No. 101, of 
May 4, 2000 (Fiscal Responsibility Law) for the ratios between debt stock and net current 
revenues, and between personnel expenditures and net current revenues. 
4. 
The Borrower’s Senate has issued: (a) Resolution No. 40, of December 20, 2001, 
establishing global ceilings for the indebtedness of the States, Federal District and 
Municipalities; and (b) Resolution No. 43, of December 21, 2001, regulating the internal 
and external credit operations of the States, Federal District and Municipalities, including 
the issuance of guarantees, credit limits and other conditions. 
5. 
The Borrower’s National Monetary Council has decided, on December 26, 2001, 
as announced by the Central Bank Resolution No. 2920, of December 26, 2001, to 
establish new limits for credit operations between financial institutions and the Borrower, 
at the federal level, the States, the Federal District, the Municipalities, and the entities 
owned or controlled by any of them. 
6. 
STN has consolidated the accounts of the Borrower, at the federal level, the 
States, the Federal District and the Municipalities, and made public such consolidation 
through STN’s 
Portarias
 No. 239, of June 28, 2001, with respect to 2000, and 301, of 
June 27, 2002, with respect to 2001. 
7. 
The Borrower has incorporated a substantial amount of previously undisclosed 
liabilities (2.3 percent of GDP in the last two years) into official debt figures, as shown in 
the Central Bank’s website.  
8. 
The Borrower has included its contingent liabilities in Annex V (Fiscal Risks) of 
the LDO Bill. 
Page  15
-
14
-
9. 
The Borrower has started to report its fiscal statistics based on the methodology 
of the Special Data Dissemination Standards of the International Monetary Fund. 
10. 
STN has been issuing annual debt borrowing plans for the Borrower, at the 
federal level, which highlight the importance of risks relating to the incurrence of debt. 
11. 
The Borrower has completed the consolidation of issuance responsibilities under 
the STN of the domestic debt of the Borrower, at the federal level, and initiated changes 
in STN organizational arrangements and the governance of the Borrower’s debt 
management, at the federal level. 
12. 
The analytical capacity of the office in STN in charge of analysis and preparation 
of the Borrower’s strategy for debt management (the Middle Office) has been 
strengthened. 
13. 
A code of conduct for the managers of the Borrower’s debt, at the federal level, 
has been issued, pursuant to STN’s 
Portaria
 No. 44, of February 20, 2001. 
14. 
STN has mapped the processes and information flows that take place in STN’s 
debt management office.  
15. 
STN has issued, through 
Portaria
 No. 554, of December 12, 2001, as amended 
by 
Portaria
 No. 44, of January 23, 2002, regulations for retail sales of public bonds 
through the internet (
Tesouro Direto
). 
16. 
The Central Bank and STN have jointly issued regulations (
Ato Normativo 
Conjunto
 No. 1, dated March 20, 2003) for the selection of primary market and 
specialized dealers authorized to place public bonds in the primary market and to 
negotiate such bonds in the secondary market, respectively. 
17. 
The Borrower has adopted improved methods for issuance of its securities, 
including publication of the issuance calendar on the internet, reduction in the frequency 
of auctions, and use of exchange auctions to reduce fragmentation. 
18. 
The regulation and supervision of collective investments schemes for 
investments in fixed income securities (including public bonds) has been transferred to 
CVM, pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree No. 3995, of October 31, 2001. 
Page  16
-
15
-
19. 
The Central Bank and CVM entered into an agreement, dated July 5, 2002, 
providing, inter alia, for the sharing of information and cooperation between those 
institutions regarding regulation and supervision of exchanges and investment funds.
 
20. 
Law No. 10637, of December 30, 2002, has been enacted, providing, inter alia, 
that the contributions for the 
Programas de Integração Social (PIS) 
and 
Formação do 
Patrimônio do Servidor Público
 
(PASEP) 
are partially transformed into value-added 
taxes. 
21. 
A
bill for the amendment of provisions of the Borrower’s Constitution on the 
Borrower’s tax system was submitted to the Borrower’s Congress on April 30, 2003 
(
PEC
 No. 41/03), such amendment to include, inter alia, measures to harmonize the 
States’ legislation on the value-added tax (ICMS), reduce the payroll tax, increase 
progressivity of the States’ inheritance tax, and allow flexibility to gradually reduce the 
tax on financial transactions (CPMF). 
Page  17
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %
)
On each May 1 and November 1 
 
Beginning May 1, 2009 through  
10% 
 
November 1, 2013 
 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
Page  18
-
17
-
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
Page  19
-
18
-
WB76939 
M:\BRAZIL\Second Programmatic Fiscal Reform Loan\Second Programmatic Fiscal Reform - LA.doc 
August 12, 2003 8:50 AM
 
