Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCuIL USE ONLY
CA /_cy- CkP
1Rat Nt.P-4231 -CHA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 18.0 MILLION (US$20.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A
SECOND TECHNICAL COOPERATION PROJECT
February 11, 1986
IThE. dwosmnut hos a resnided d~ibsh. aud -y he mud by reciplefls ely In the prfsn.ace of
their efusE ditls. Its couknts may met shmwlse be disclosed without Woeld hak uh sicthoude.I



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Yuan (Y)
Calendar 1984                           December 1985
US$1  = Y 2.32                          Y 3.20
Y 1.0 = $0.43                           $0.31
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
IDA       -     International Development Association
MOF       -     Ministry of Finance
MOFERT    -     Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade
SPC       -     State Planning Commission
TCC       -     Technical Cooperation Credit
UNDP      -     United Nations Development Program



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
SECOND TECHNICAL COOPERATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Sumiary
Borrower:       People's Republic of China
Amount          SDR 18.0 million ($20.0 million equivalent)
Terms:          Standard
Project
Description: The purpose of the project is to assist the Government in
preparing projects that are expected to be financed by the Bank
or the Association and to help develop capacity for preparing
and implementing investment projects and administering techni-
cal assistance. The project will consist of technical assist-
ance and training subprojects which will be selected by
agreement between the Government and the Association. Most of
the subprojects will support project preparation. A few
subprojects will be aimed primarily at strengthening the core
agencies and other institutions involved with Bank opera-
tions. Others will provide for economic and policy studies to
be carried out by research agencies. Experience under the
first technical cooperation project has been satisfactory and
the proposed project incorporates lessons of experience. Given
the Bank's expanding lending program in China, demand for tech-
nical assistance will remain high. Project risks are therefore
minimal.
Estimated Cost:                                        Local      Foreign      Total
(US$ million) --
Consultants                                         2.0        13.0        15.0
Training                                            1.9         5.1         7.0
Equipment /a                                        0.1         0.9         1.0
National Personnel, including
Local Consultants                                4.0          -          4-0
Total                                            8.0         19.0       27.0
Financing Plan:
IDA                                                 1.0        19.0       20.0
Government                                          7.0          -          7.0
Total                                               8.0        19.0        27.0
Estimated Disbursements:       IDA FY                 1987  1988  1989  1990  1991
Annual                 2.0   5.0   6.0   5.0   2.0
Cumulative             2.0   7.0  13.0  18.0  20.0
/a  Cost includes taxes and duties on equipment estimated at 15Z.  No estimate
of total taxes and duties is given because of the uncertainty of total
amount of equipment to be financed.
TIhis document hasastcddistibutuon and may be used by reipients only in dte perfonnnceof
the oficd duts Its contens My     othrwise be dicosed wihout World Bank authoiatono



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A SECOND TECHNICAL COOPERATION PROJECT
*   1.    I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed IDA
credit to the People's Republic of China to help finance a second technical
cooperation project. The credit, for SDR 18.0 million (equivalent to US$20.0
million), would be on standard IDA terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A country economic report entitled, "China: Long-Term Issues and
Options" (No. 5206-CRA) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
May 22, 1985. Basic data on the economy are given in Annex I.
Background
3.        Since 1978, China has initiated economic reforms in both rural and
urban areas and in the external sector. Reforms have been greatest in rural
areas. Following some experiments with the abolition of collective farming in
impoverished areas, the Government implemented a comprehensive restructuring
of rural institutions based on various forms of the "production responsibility
system". By 1983 the farm household had become the fundamental unit of
management and production in agriculture, within a framework of collective or
state ownership of land and major fixed assets. Reforms have not yet
proceeded as far in the urban economy, but there have been significant changes
in enterprise management and finance. The scope for collective and individual
economic activities has been enlarged and state enterprises have been allowed
greater freedom in production, pricing and marketing above their mandatory
plan targets. State enterprises have also been allowed to retain some profits
and investment projects have increasingly been financed on a loan rather than
a grant basis.
4.        In international trade and investment, China has promoted opening up
to the rest of the world in recent years. Between 1978 and 1984, the share of
exports to GDP nearly doubled to about 10%, a ratio similar to other large
economies such as the U.S. and Brazil. Foreign investment has been encour-
aged, first through establishment of four Special Economic Zones and signing
of joint venture contracts for off-shore oil exploration, and more recently
through opening of several coastal cities to foreign investment.
Growth and Stabilization
5.        Reforms have helped stimulate rapid development of the whole
economy. Real GDP growth averaged 5% p.a. between 1978 and 1981 and 10% p.a.
between 1981 and 1984. During these six years, per capita incomes in real
terms more than doubled in rural areas and increased by more than 50% in urban



areas. Agriculture has continued its remarkably strong performance, with
gross agricultural output value (excluding rural industry and coomerce) rising
at nearly 11% p.a. between 1981 and 1984 and grain output at 8 p.a. (reaching
over 400 million tons in 1984). Cash crops and animal husbandry, stimulated
by rising demand and attractive prices, have also grown rapidly. Gross indus-
trial output value grew at over OZ p.a. over the same period, with heavy
industry growing somewhat faster than light industry (12X p.a. vs. 9X p.a.).
If rural industrial output is included, total industrial output value grew at
close to 12Z p.a. in real terms between 1981 and 1984. The energy constraint
on industrial growth was eased by rising coal output (8Z p.a. between 1981 and
1984), renewed increases in crude oil production (4Z p.a. between 1981 and
1984) and improvements in the efficiency of energy utilization (primary
commercial energy consumption grew only 60X as fast as GDP between 1981 and
1984). Manufactured exports growth at 8Z p.a. between 1981 and 1984 was
slower than during the 1978-81 period but it started from a much higher base
and in the face of worsening world market conditions.
6.        The Government continues to face difficulties in combining system
reform and rapid overall growth with maintenance of economic stability.
During 1979 and 1980, China experienced large budget and current account
deficits combined with excessive investment and inflationary pressures. In
response, a strict stabilization program was introduced in 1981 relying mainly
on administrative controls on investment spending. The program slowed growth
but also helped lower the budget deficit from about 5X of GDP in 1979 to less
than 1Z in 1981, reduce inflation to around 2Z p.a., and change China's
external position to one of current account surpluses averaging nearly
$4 billion during 1982-84. As a result, foreign debt and debt service ratios
remained at low levels ($6.4 billion and 5.5Z respectively in 1983) and
China's foreign currency reserves (excluding gold) rose to $17 billion (over
seven months' imports) by mid-1984.
7.        This comfortable balance of payments position, achieved at the cost
of drastic reductions in investment spending and some recentralization of
investment decisionmaking, disappeared rapidly during the course of 1984 and
early 1985. Partly as a result of decentralization of decisionmaking and the
lack of effeccive indirect levers, there was a rapid acceleration of invest-
ment and consumption during 1984 and the first half of 1985 causing the
economy to overheat. Real GDP grew by 14% during 1984, while average wages in
state-owned enterprises rose by 20% and domestic credit grew by 36Z. The
retail price index rose by only 3Z in 1984, but preliminary figures show an inflation
rate of 9% for 1985. Imports of capital goods increased from $4 billion in 1983 to
over $7 billion in 1984, with most of the increase occurring in the second
half of the year. There was also a rapid expansion in consumer goods
imports. These trends continued during early 1985. As a result, foreign
exchange reserves (excluding gold) had fallen to about $11 billion by
June 1985 (equivalent to 3.5 months of imports), and the current account
deficit for the year is likely to be in the range of $10 billion. The Govern-
ment has responded quickly by launching a strict stabilization program that
includes further increases in interest rates as well as a series of adminis-
trative directives governing bank credit and project approval. As a result,
aggregate credit and demand as well as new import orders have begun to slow,
though total imports will continue to rise as past orders are filled.



-3-
Recent Reforms
8.        The Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party issued a major
document on "reform of the economic structure" in October 1984. Recent reform
developments have been fully in accordance with the directions indicated in
the October decision: (a) state enterprises should be made fully independent
units which pursue profits and are responsible for losses; (b) the scope of
mandatory planning should be reduced and replaced by indicative planning while
the focus of planning should shift from annual to medium- and long-term
guidance planning; (c) a more rational price system should be introduced by
reducing the role of state-controlled prices and increasing the role of
"floating" and free market prices; and (d) the tax system should be improved,
finance and banking should be reformed and a larger role should be given to
indirect macroeconomic regulation through instruments such as tax, credit and
pricing policy.
9.        Rural reforms have continued to progress more rapidly than reforms
elsewhere in the economy. There has been a remarkable spread of nonagri-
cuLtural activities like processing, transport, and commerce. "Specialized
households" (which concentrate on cash crops, animal husbandry, or nonagri-
cultural activities) and pooling of capital by small groups of households in
various types of ventures are becoming increasingly common forms of economic
organization in China's rural areas. Wholesale markets for some agricultural
products have emerged. To encourage investment in land improvement and devel-
opment, farming contracts between collective and peasant households for the
use of land (which typically had been fixed for no more than 3-5 years) can
now be extended to as long as 15-20 years. In early 1985, the system of
agricultural procurement was changed. Previously the Government purchased
quota output of grain and other crops at relatively low prices and stood ready
to purchase all above-quota output at a higher price. Under the new system,
procurement up to a certain amount (below former quota procurement) is based
on contracts concluded voluntarily between peasants and procurement
agencies. Prices for these purchases are based on the relatively high average
price of past years. Output above the contracted amount must be sold by
peasants directly on the free market, but the Government will intervene to
purchase grain if the price falls to the original low quota procurement
price. Thus a considerably larger portion of basic crop production will be
produced for and traded on markets with flexible prices..
10.       The momentum of urban reforms has revived, with significant progress
on several fronts. In enterprise management, the focus has been on broadening
and delineating the decisionmaking authority of urban enterprises. Profit
retention now extends to virtually all state-owned industrial enterprises and
to nonindustrial sectors like transport, commerce, construction, and other
services. Urban collectives and individual enterprises, as well as a variety
of joint ventures between them and state enterprises, have grown rapidly (the
number employed in urban individual enterprises rose from 150,000 in 1978 to
2.31 million in 1983).
11.       In financial reforms, the most important new development has been
the implementation of a profit tax system to replace profit remittances by
state enterprises to the government budget. Though most enterprises have



- 4 -
switched to this system, the benefits have been limited because of the
application of a different effective tax rate for each enterprise, to offset
the impact of distorted relative prices and other factors. Similar problems
have resulted in the abandonment of an attempt to impose a fee or charge on
the fixed capi-tal provided to state enterprises by the Government, and they
have hindered the shift from grant to loan financing of new fixed
investment. Financial discipline at the enterprise level remains weak, in
spite of efforts to strengthen accounting and auditing systems and more
strictly enforce existing financial regulations.
12.       Some progress has been made with price reform.  The majority of
agriculture commodity prices were decontrolled even before the recent change
in pricing and procurement of grain. Prices of many minor consumer goods are
also set by negotiations between producers and commercial units. "Floating
prices" (up to 20% above or below official prices) are now allowed for many
industrial producer goods (either for all output or for output above the
mandatory plan target). Price adjustments for key energy products and raw
materials (which in many cases are severely underpriced) and for subsidized
basic consumer goods like grain and edible oil have proven more difficult to
implement, hindered by the potential impact of price changes on urban living
standards and on the finances of energy-using enterprises. Nevertheless, some
price rises have occurred (e.g., for coal and petroleum), and moreover the
share of free market transactions, at largely uncontrolled prices, has
increased in recent years. Gradually over time, and only partly as a result
of conscious policy. _ t-n--Ler system is emerging; a large but shrinking
share of the total supply of most important goods is subject to mandatory plan
allocation and administratively set prices, while at the margin a substantial
and growing share is allocated by the market mechanism, largely at flexible
prices.  This pattern may permit China to "grow out of the plan" in a rela-
tively smooth transition, though there are obvious threats to this strategy
arising from the strong incentive for arbitrage between planned and unplanned
realms.
13.       The Government recognizes the need to develop new tools of indirect
macroeconomic management and has taken some steps to do so. The People's Bank
of China was established as a separate central bank at the beginning of 1984,
with its commercial banking functions taken on by the newly created Industrial
and Commercial Bank of China. In 1985, new methods of credit planning and
control were introduced and lower-level and specialized banks were given
significant redeposit requirements. Interest rates (including deposit rates)
were also raised in 1985, with some move toward unification of rates and
development of a term structure resembling that in other countries. Technical
transformation loans with a maturity less than one year and loans for working
capital now carry the same 7.9Z interest rate while loans of longer maturity
carry higher rates, up to 10.8% for 10-year loans. However, interest rates on
budgetary capital construction loans (formerly grants) remain low and there
are a variety of directed credit schemes.  On the external side greater use is
now being made of the exchange rate. The old internal settlement rate was
abolished at the beginning of 1985 and between January and end-October 1985
the rate against the U.S. dollar declined by over 13%. Despite these changes
progress in developing new indirect levers of control has been slow. Recent
difficulties in securing macroeconomic balance highlight the need to



- 5 -
strengthen institutions and macroeconomic management tools (including
monetary, fiscal, and exchange rate instruments) for a decentralized and more
market-oriented economy.
Long-Term Issues and Prospects
14.       In September 1985 a national party conference adopted a proposal
which will be the basis for drafting a new Seventh Five Year Plan covering the
period 1986-90. The proposal reaffirms a political commitment to economic
reform and provides guidelines for future reform and development. One of the
main objectives of the plan will be to create a favorable environment for
reform which, in turn, will set the stage for future development. Target
growth rates (72 p.a. for industry, 62 for agriculture, a little over 7% for
CGP) are below rates of growth achieved with the Sixth Five Year Plan, invest-
ment is to be restrained .n the next few years, and emphasis is to be placed
upon quality rather than quantity of output. It is felt that slower growth
will facilitate reform.
15.       The plan proposal identifies three main areas of reform.  First,
enterprise management and incentives are to be improved by: giving enterprises
greater autonomy in production, pricing, and employment decisions; lowering
and equalizing taxes; increasing competition, increasing accountability for
performance; and reforming personnel procedures. In addition, some small
state enterprises will be turned over to collective or individual management
through contract or lease. Second, the role of the market is to be extended
and market networks strengthened. The scope of mandatory planning will be
further reduced and markets for capital, technology, and labor will gradually
be developed. Third, the emphasis of planning will shift from detailed admin-
istrative control to indirect macroeconomic control through economic policy.
To this end a series of mutually reinforcing reforms in the planning, pricing,
fiscal, banking, and labor and wage systems will be introduced during the plan
period.
16.       Implementation of the plan proposal will help foster an environment
in which fundamental reforms can be gradually implemented in a coordinated
way. But specific policy measures will take time to design and then to imple-
ment. Many of the reforms required will be difficult, particularly since
reforms in different areas are closely interrelated, and thus appropriate
sequencing and coordination are essential. For example, price reform in the
absence of improvements in enterprise financial discipline will have limited
benefits, yet the more profit-oriented behavior that would result from tighter
financial discipline would exacerbate the adverse impact of distorted
prices. Similarly, reform of the labor allocation system will be incomplete
without eliminating many of the "social responsibilities" of enterprises
(which now provide housing, medical care, and pensions for their workers and
in many cases education and jobs for workers' children) and replacing them
with Government-supported social service programs. The plan proposal suggests
moving in this direction by commercializing housing.
17.       China's objective of quadrupling the gross output value of industry
and agriculture between 1980 and 2000 (which means GDP growth of well over 6%
p.a.) will require significant improvements in efficiency as well as continued



-6-
high saving and investment rates. The plan proposal recognizes there must be
major structural changes in the economy over the nezt two decades, including a
reduction in the share of agriculture, a rise in the share of industry and
services (which at present is unusually low), and substantial urbanization.
There will also be a shift within agriculture, away from grain and basic crops
and into cash crops and animal husbandry. The new plan will emphasi-.
development of the service sector, mainly through removing restrictions on
collective and individual activity. Urban development will focus on small and
medium sized cities and towns while restrictions on growth of large urban
areas will continue.
18.       Certain physical/technical constraints will hinder the attempt to
achieve China's targets for the year 2000 and its longer-term goal of catching
up with developed countries. Despite rapid growth and substantial improve-
ments in efficiency in recent years, agriculture may again become a constraint
on overall growth, since land in China is severely limited. In energy, short-
ages of fuel (primarily coal) and electricity may continue to constrain growth
in transport and commercial infrastructure. Without large new investments and
improved efficiency, economic growth will lag. In mobilizing resources in all
these areas, China could profitably make use of foreign borrowing. Finally,
the rising share of the elderly in China's population (related to the slowdown
in population growth) means that more resources will have to be devoted to
maintaining their consumption levels, especially in the decades after 2000.
19.       Poor motivation and inefficient utilization of labor in the state
sector of the economy are major problems which can be solved only by coor-
dinated reforms in labor allocation, the wage system, enterprise management,
and social services, among other things. Reforms in the system of education
and training to develop China's "human capital" potential also are crucial.
Backward technology and inefficient use of existing technology must be
addressed by a combination of reforms, appropriately directed investment, and
transfer of advanced foreign technology. Irrational location of factories,
suboptimal scale of many plants, and poor utilization of physical capital in
general are related problems.
20.       If reforms successfully transform the economic system, with a bene-
ficial impact on growth and efficiency, a new set of issues will come to the
fore, as the plan proposal recognizes. Management of a reformed economy with
indirect fiscal, monetary, and other instruments is a major issue (see para.
13 above). In this context, maintaining an adequate saving rate (if the
Government no longer accounts for the bulk of aggregate saving) and avoiding
inflation (as well as deep cyclical downturns) will be major goals. Assuring
an adequate minimum standard of living for the population and an appropriate
level of social services will become a major challenge as enterprise and rural
communal responsibilities in these areas are reduced. The problem of poor,
backward rural areas in various parts of the country will continue to require
attention. Redistributing financial resources to these areas through the
fiscal system, easing restrictions on migration out of the poorest areas, and
lowering nonagricultural wages to make investment in them more attractive are
some options for alleviating poverty.



- 7 -
21.       In order to mobilize the external resources needed for rapid,
sustained growth the plan proposal calls for export growth of 40-50X over the
next five years, greater efforts to attract foreign investment, and increased
conmercial borrowing. If exports grow at 82 p.a. between 1984 and 1990 and
imports grow at 9% p.a., China would have a relatively modest current account
deficit of around $4-5 billion p.a. (except in 1985) during the remainder of
this decade, equivalent to about 1% of GNP. This implies that the present
debt service ratio would increase only moderateLy by 1990. If China's exports
grow more slowly imports will probably have to be cut back because a higher
borrowing target, though feasible in terms of debt service indicators, would
probably run into supply constraints as China would become one of the largest
developing country borrowers. This highlights the need for continued export
growth in order to meet other plan objectives and service greater commercial
borrowing. TLe plan proposal recognizes that greater use of exchange rate and
pricing policies will be needed to encourage export growth.
22.       Even with continued good export performance, China will have
substantial external capital requirements during the remainder of the
decade. Under the trade growth assumptions outlined above (exports growing at
8X p.a. and imports at 9% p.a. during 1984-90), the current account deficit
would be over $5 billion in 1990 and the gross borrowing requirement would be
about $6.5 billion. If export growth fell to 6% p.a. during this period and
imports continued to grow at 9% p.a., the current account deficit would reach
$14 billion by 1990. Although the plan proposal calls for increased borrowing
at conmercial rates, access to concessionary capital will play an important
role in sustaining China's growth. China also has a claim to concessionary
lending because it is still one of the poorer countries of the world. But
China's access to concessionary capital to finance development and moderniza-
tion is limited; apart from Bank Croup funds, a significant amount of conces-
sionary capital is likely to come only from Japan and a few other bilateral
donors and will probably average no more than $500-600 million p.a. during the
rest of the 1980s.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
23.       To achieve the target growth rates envisioned in proposals for the
Seventh Five-Year Plan, to increase efficiency and innovation, and to maintain
equity in distribution, China will need continuing and fundamental reforms.
Large investment will be required and China will need to import more technoi-
ogy and increase trade. In the next few years, therefore, the Bank can best
assist China by increasing its access to foreign technology and practices and
supporting the development and implementation of reforms that will help to
increase the efficiency of resource use and reduce poverty.
24.       To address China's objective to update technology, the Bank will
play the role of intermediary. In transportation, energy, industry,
agriculture and the social sectors, the Bank will contribute to technology
transfer by bringing the Bank's experience to bear on project design and by
helping China to seek appropriate technical solutions through international
competitive bidding, training, and foreign technical assistance.



25.       Bank assistance will be closely linked with the Government's reform
efforts. There are five major elements common to both rural and urban reform
in China that will be the focus of the Bank's involvement. First, institu-
tional change, involving both the separation of economic and administrative
functions and further decentralization of decisionmaking, will extend to every
sector in which the Bank is involved as well as the overall process of plan-
ning and management. Second, financial sector reform, primarily development
of financial institutions that can serve as intermediaries between the
suppliers and users ot resources, has become a focus of reform and is an area
where Bank assistance can play a useful role. Third, improving planning and
project analysis will be critical to reform in sectors such as agriculture and
industry, where decisions are now being made by households and independent
enterprises, as well as in infrastructure where direct government involvement
will be required. The Bank will therefore continue its emphasis on introduc-
ing appraisal methods and will include sector investment and financial
planning as well as analysis of intersectoral issues. Fourth, the Bank will
be involved in the Government's major program of price reform and development
of indirect levers such as control via money, credit and fiscal policies. And
finally, the Government will make institutional and policy changes to further
improve the quality of social programs. The Bank will thus support reforms in
health, education and other social services and measures in particular, to
address the problems of poor regions.
Economic and Sector Work
26.       Our economic and sector work in China aims to develop the Bank's
understanding of the structure and direction of the Chinese economy and to
introduce to the Governmert new perspectives on economic management. This
work builds a foundation for lending and for the dialogue with Government on
issues of reform and development options and policies in the various
sectors. Past work has included two major economic reports, studies on
sectoral investment analysis and planning, and collaborative research with
Chinese institutions. We have also organized seminars on macroeconomic and
sector issues.
27.       Over the next two years, the Bank will carry out a large program of
studies to follow up on issues identified in the most recent economic report
and analyze policy options. In this program, we will examine alternatives for
developing tne financial system and foreign trade and investment. We will
also analyze issues of intersectoral and interregional planning and develop-
ment of resource-poor regions. One such study is already underway in Gansu
province to review and formulate programs to increase interregional resource
flows, improve the spatial efficiency of development and reduce poverty.
Research on urban development and transport planning and finance at the
provincial level will also be initiated, and we will undertake studies of
regional industrial subsectors to form the basis for project preparation.
Collaborative studies with Chinese research institutions will continue. An
ongoing study of management and guidance of state-owned industrial enterprises
will be followed by a study of collective enterprises, which are expected to
become increasingly important industrial organizations in the reformed system.



-9-
Lending Operations
28.       Since China's change of representation in the Bank Group in May of
1980, 31 projects involving lending of $3,049.9 million to China have been
approved. Of the projects, ten have been in the agriculture sector, seven in
energy, four in transport, three in industry, three in education and one each
ia health, water supply and technical cooperation.  In FY85, IFC made its
first investment in China of US$17.02 million in automobile manufacturing.
Annex II contains a summary statement of these loans, credits and IFC invest-
ment as of October 31, 1985.
29.       In addition to the already approved second rural credit project and
the proposed project we expect to present projects to the Board this year for
provincial higher education, power infrastructure, port and railway
development, aquaculture, health and industry. For FY87 and beyond, we expect
the China lending program to continue to grow from current levels.
Infrastructure projects in energy and transport will remain priorities.
Technical renovation of enterprises, particularly in industry, will be given
greater attention and support as will the regional approach to project
development, now being used to assess the needs of Gansu province.
30.       In the energy sector, future Bank lending will be aimed at reducing
energy consumption and expanding energy production. For example, in the coal
subsector, we will assist in upgrading the facilities and operations of exist-
ing mines and in transferring improved technology for mines under construction
or in operation. In power, we will assist China in technology transfer, staff
training and institution building. Through a power tariff study, we will seek
to introduce a tariff system based on marginal cost and the need for a nation-
wide power system development program. In the gas subsector, the rationale
for project involvement will lie in the identification, packaging and transfer
of specialized technologies as well as in the strengthening of investment
planning and management capabilities.
31.       Future transport projects will both upgrade technology and
strengthen institutions. In roads, major changes in organization and
financing will be required as a result of administrative decentralization and
introduction of the production responsibility system in rural areas. In rail-
ways, we will focus on technologies to improve domestic production of railway
equipment and materials in addition to our work on line construction and
electrification. We also intend to broaden our involvement in ports to
include coastal shipping and inland water transport. For all transport
subsectors, we will support efforts to improve financial analysis and
investment planning.
32.       Agriculture lending will focus on developing institutions to provide
services to individual farmers and to monitor and stimulate change in the pace
and pattern of agricultural development. The shift from grant to loan finance
and the increased autonomy of the rural banking system will be major aspects
of change that will be supported through rural credit projects. We will
continue to assist with the training, research, extension, and other service
activities of the ministries concerned with agriculture. In addition, we
expect to finance programs for specialized agricultural development such as
livestock and fisheries, and _or irrigation and area development.



- 10 -
33.       Bank Lending in industry, as in agriculture, will focus on strength-
ening of financial intermediaries which provide credit to state and collective
enterprises. In addition, we expect that there will be large regional
projects in fertilizer, cement and machine tools and other subsector projects
concerned with upgrading technology and improving organization and management.
34.       Bank Lending in education will gradually be broadeneu beyond the
present concentration on higher education. For example, we will finance
vocational and technical education which is now being given great emphasis in
China. In view of the Government's recent decision to universalize access to
primary and lower secondary education, another major aim of education lending
will be to assist with basic education, particularly in poor rural areas. In
this context, support for teacher education will be given priority.
35.       Project preparation in the urban sector is currently concentrated in
Shanghai on efforts to improve services, especially in environmental upgrading
and housing, and development of municipal institutions. Future lending is
expected to include support for development of mediumr-size and small urban
areas in specific provinces. In addition, we expect to continue lending for
rural water supply. Bank lending in health will provide access to new medical
technologies for more efficient health care in both the lingering problems of
communicable disease, primarily in poor rural areas, and the emerging problems
of chronic disease. This will involve further support for medical training
and planning and management of service delivery systems. Projects will also
support the reform of systems for supplying and financing health services.
36.       Cofinancing with multilateral and bilateral agencies has been
arranged for projects in coal, power and rural water supply and will remain a
feature of our assistance program. We will explore options for cofinancing
with export credit agencies. Commercial bank cofinancing and the use of
B-loans also appear viable, particularly as China increases the overall volume
of its foreign borrowing. In technical assistance, we will continue to incor-
porate into projects components for training, overseas study, and access to
foreign expertise. EDI activities remain an important element of the Bank's
program and in coming years will provide an extensive program of policy
seminars for senior Chinese officials, and economic and financial management
courses and sector-specific training for officials from core and line
agencies.
Implementation
37.       Project implementation is generally proceeding well.  Most project
agencies, as well as the Ministry of Finance and the State Planning
Commission, have established and staffed offices to handle Bank projects.
Disbursement performance has also been satisfactory. Special accounts have
been established for 22 of the 30 approved projects and have helped to speed
disbursements. In October 1985, the Bank opened a resident office in Beijing
to support further expansion of the lending program, accelerate project prepa-
ration, improve project implementation and further economic and sector work.



- 11 -
PART III - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Sectoral Context
38.       Access to technical assistance for a broad range of economic sectors
and activities will continue to be essential for achieving China's economic
development objectives. China is itself working vigorously to improve access
to co_mercially held technology through the promotion of joint ventures,
licensing arrangements, service contracts and other means. However, the scope
for technical assistance is vast. In recognition of these needs, bilateral
and multilateral development agencies are expanding their support. Technical
assistance agreements have been signed with the governments of Australia,
Japan, the Federal Republic of Germany and Canada. A number of other
governments are also providing technical assistance, and substantial
assistance is made available through the United Nations Development Program
(UNDP) as well as through the World Bank Group.
IDA's Role and Strategy
39.       A key element of the Bank's program in China has been to provide
technical assistance to strengthen China's capacity to prepare and implement
investment projects. Project preparation and implementation are carried out
by the various sectoral ministries and other line agencies, and technical
assistance is often required to introduce technology and other know-how not
presently available in China. It is the Bank's policy to use UNDP and other
sources of grant financing for technical assistance whenever these are avail-
able. The Bank was the executing agency for two UNDP-financed projects in
China which were aimed specifically at preparing investment projects to be
financed by the Bank. UNDP allocated $1.8 million for this purpose during its
first China Country Program, 1982-86: $1.4 million under a Pre-investment
Umbrella Project and $400,000 for preparation of the Bank's first coal pro-
ject.  Eighteen subprojects were financed from the Umbrella Project which
provided financing for many of the early Bank Group projects in China. Among
bilateral donors, Australia has provided more than $4 million for preparation
of Bank Group projects in energy and urban development. Other donors
providing technical assistance for project preparation include the Federal
Republic of Germany, Canada, Japan, Norway and Sweden. While making a very
useful contribution to project preparation technical assistance needs, these
sources of funds have been insufficient to meet the requirements of what has
been a rapidly expanding program.
40.       The shortfall has in part been met by "piggybacking" in Bank loans
and IDA credits, that is, including the funds in one project for the
preparation of repeater projects in the same sector. The Chinese authorities,
however, prefer the flexibility of a freestanding technical assistance credit,
especially since "repeater" operations with the same project beneficiary are
likely to be relatively uncommon. Accordingly, IDA approved the Technical
Cooperation Credit (TCC) for $10 million in September 1983 with the principal
objective of providing a ready source of financing for technical assistance to
help prepare projects to be financed under the expanding Bank Group lending
program in China. The Ministry of Finance assumed responsibility for the
project and established an office to administer the TCC. The Bank provided



-12 -
training to the TCC office staff and organized a study tour financed from the
UNDP Umbrella Project to Pakistan and Bangladesh to enable the Chinese
officials to learn first-hand how other countries manage technical assistance,
and in particular how they administer freestanding technical assistance
projects financed by IDA. Simple procedures were established and a one-page
TCC subproject application form was issued to line ministries. The TCC became
effective in December 1983, and the first subproject was approved in January
1984. Twenty-three subprojects have now been approved, comitting 90Z of the
funds. A list of subprojects is attached as Annex IV. Twenty subprojects are
underway, of which five have been completed. Four of the five completed sub-
projects have resulted in investment projects supported by the Bank. Nearly
35Z of the funds have been disbursed, and the pace of disbursement is expected
to accelerate. Several subprojects have been cofinanced with other donors.
In general, the first TCC is judged by both the Government and the Bank as
successful and effective in achieving its objectives.
41.       While the main objective of the first TCC was to finance technical
assistance for project preparation, the project was also designed to streng-
then the Government's capacity to select, prepare and implement projects and
to administer technical assistance. Subprojects have been designed to ensure
transfer ox knowledge to strengthen various ministries' ability to select and
prepare projects. The Chinese have worked with Bank staff and consultants
provided under the TCC to design subprojects so that they can learn as much as
possible from the expatriates. A key part of this process is professional
study tours which provide government officials with exposure to technologies
they lack and opportunities to visit potential suppliers and meet sources of
consulting expertise. Provision was also made for institution-building
assistance to agencies involved with Bank Group operations.
42.       As stated in para. 39 above, it is the Bank's intention to continue
to use grant funds for technical assistance whenever they are available and
include technical assistance components in its loans and credits where
appropriate. UNDP has included a second pre-investment Umbrella Project in
its draft Second Country Program for China. Up to $5 million may be made
available for this project for which the Bank would be a cooperating agency.
However, these sources of financing of technical assistance are expected to be
insufficient to meet the requirements of the expanding Bank Group operations
in China. The second TCC will provide an assured and flexible means of
financing technical assistance for project preparation and other identified
technical assistance requirements, when other sources are unavailable. We
also expect that more and more subprojects will have institution building
objectives. Some subprojects may support policy studies in response to an
increasing number of requests from the senior Government officials for advice
on various policy issues, exceeding what the Bank can provide through its
regular economic and sector work. A separate UNDP project of $1 million for
policy studies to be executed in cooperation with the Bank is expected to
cover some of the needs in this area.
Administration of Technical Assistance
43.       The three main organizations dealing with administration of
technical assistance in China are the State Planning Commission (SPC), the



- 13 -
Ministry of Finance (MOF) and the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and
Trade (MOFERT). SPC is responsible for ensuring that proposals for technical
assistance are in accordance with the national development plan. MOF must
ensure that counterpart financing is available for each project and also act
as the coordinating authority for Bank activities in China, including tech-
nical assistance. MOFERT is the Government's coordinating authority for
United Nations and most bilateral technical cooperation. The line ministries
are responsible for initiating requests for technical assistance, providing
counterpart support and technical supervision, and taking follow-up action on
completed projects.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Formulation and Preparation
44.       The Bank has been discussing the possibility of a second TCC with
the Government for the past 18 months. A project preparation mission was
fielded in May 1985, and preliminary agreement was reached on processing a
second TCC. This was confirmed during the programming mission which took
place in July, and the project was included in the FY86 lending program. An
assessment of the demand for funds from a second TCC was carried out with
project divisions and with selected line ministries during the project
preparation mission. An initial illustrative list of subprojects was
prepared. An updated list is attached as Annex V. Discussions on the
proposed second TCC were held with the Ministry of Finance in Washington in
November 1985.  Negotiations were held in Washington from February 3-6,
1986. The Government of China was represented by Mr. Ku Baogen, Controller
Accountant, External Finance Department, Ministry of Finance. Supplementary
project data are provided in Annexes III, IV and V.
Project Objectives and Description
45.       The project will:
(a) provide an assured and flexible source of financing for technical
assistance for the preparation of projects to be financed by the
Bank Group;
(b) strengthen the Government's capacity to select and prepare
investment projects;
(c) strengthen institutions involved with Bank Group operations
including the core agencies;
(d) support the carrying out of economic and policy studies and
contribute to the professional development of research agencies
responsible for such study programs;
(e) strengthen the local consulting industry; and



- 14 -
(f) in selected cases finance technical assistance for preparation of
investment projects which may not be financed by the Bank Group.
46.       Items to be financed include consultants, training -  principally
study tours - and equipment. The Government's contribution to individual
subprojects would normally consist of counterpart staff, local consultants,
office space, equipment, secretarial services and vehicle operation. The
Government's contribution is expected to average about 26% of the costs of the
individual subprojects. The majority of the credit will be used to finance
feasibility studies and to assist with review of existing studies. A smaller
proportion will be used to finance other project preparation work such as
expert panels, individual specialists, study tours and some related equipment.
47.       Subprojects to support project preparation would be principally for
projects which are expected to be financed by the BaDk Group. However, in a
few cases project preparation subprojects may finance technical assistance for
preparation of investment projects to be financed by the private sector with
support from the International Finance Corporation or from other sources.
Technical assistance required during the implementation of projects already
being financed by the Bank Group, such as advisory services (where these are
not included in the project loan or credit) would also be eligible in
exceptional cases, primarily where the need for such technical assistance was
not foreseen at the outset. In addition to technical assistance for specific
investment projects, other types of subprojects would be financed if they are
of high priority. These would include subprojects to strengthen the
Government"s capacity to select and prepare investment projects. For example
under the First TCC training was provided in how to prepare master plans for
development of China's ports.
48.       A second category of subprojects is directed primarily towards
institution-building technical assistance activities to strengthen insti-
tutions involved with Bank operations. While many institution-building
technical assistance activities are already financed under Bank and IDA
project loans, there are other important activities which fall outside the
scope of Bank Group supported projects. These may include sector and sub-
sector studies. They may also include assistance to core agencies such as the
recently established Audit Administration which was supported under the First
TCC.
49.       A third category of subprojects we expect to finance under the
Second TCC are those which support the carrying out of economic and policy
studies and contribute to the development of research agencies responsible for
such study programs. The Bank has provided some assistance in this area in
response to requests from the Government. However, the Government's policy
reform program is gaining momentum and further assistance is needed, mainly in
the form of short-term, highly specialized experts. Provision has been made
for financing such expertise in the Second TCC. However, to the extent that
UNDP financing is available, the UNDP financing would be used first
(para. 42).
50.       To strengthen China's ability to prepare projects, an effort would
be made to ensure that consultants' terms of reference include appropriate



- 15 -
provision for training of counterpart staff. If the line ministry agrees,
additional man-months would be included in consultants' contracts for
training. Also, in certain cases it may be desirable to have local and
foreign consultants work in combination on specific assignments to facilitate
the transfer of technology. Consultants would be contracted in accordance
with following approval of their terms of reference by the Association.
51.       The design of subprojects under the proposed project will incorpor-
ate lessons of experience under the First TCC. For example, for large con-
sulting contracts it has proven useful for a small team of Chinese experts to
visit the home office of the consulting firm before the consultant finalizes
his report. The Bank may also send the project officer to join in these dis-
cussions. This allows for timely exchange of views on proposed recommenda-
tions. This results in an improved final report which is more likely to be
acceptable to all parties concerned. There are other advantages as well: it
is less likely that the final report will have to be reviewed, which saves
time and money; and it is less expensive for the Chinese experts to visit the
consulting firm's home office than to have the consultants return to China at
this stage. The Chinese may also combine this visit with other business
abroad, such as visits to manufacturers of equipment to be purchased under the
project or to visit other projects similar to the one they are undertaking.
Organization and Implementation
52.       The External Finance Department of MOF would be responsible for
overall coordination and subproject processing. Prior to financing any sub-
project for preinvestment studies from the TCC, MOP would first verify with
SPC the priority status of the follow-up investment project and determine
through consultation with MOFERT and UNDP that no UNDP or other bilateral
funds are available for the purpose. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that MOF would ensure that there is effective coordination among the depart-
ments and agencies involved in project implementation and that a suitably
qualified project coordinator would serve until the Closing Date, with the
assistance of other competent MOF staff as required. The MOF staff member
assigned to coordinate implementation of the first Technical Cooperation
Credit would continue to serve as project coordinator under the proposed
project. State Council approval of the Development Credit Agreement would be
a condition of effectiveness.
53.       Line ministries would present requests for TCC financing to MOF.
These requests will likely stem from discussions with line ministry staff
during project missions.  NOF would review proposals on a case-by-case basis;
proposals supported by MOF would be forwarded to the Association for
approval. The line ministry would handle all technical aspects of the sub-
projects and would contract consultants, arrange study tours and other
training and procure equipment.  MOF would provide administrative assistance
when needed and would maintain records on the status of each subproject,
documenting the elapsed time between various steps in subproject processing
and the contracting of consultants. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that the Government would maintain procedures satisfactory to the Association
for supervising the work of consultants and reviewing their reports and recow-
mendations. Assurances were also obtained that IDA could terminate with-



- 16 -
drawals for a particular subproject in cases of delays exceeding six months in
the effectiveness of contracts for consultants.
Project Cost and Financing
54.       The proposed project would cover a two-year commitment period (FY87-
88). The total project cost is estimated to be $27 million, including taxes
and duties, with a foreign exchange cost of $19 million. The proposed IDA
credit would be SDR 18 million ($20 million equivalent) and would finance the
entire foreign exchange costs. About $1 million of the local currency costs
covering the cost of local consultants and some locally procured equipment
would also be financed. The Government would finance the remaining $7 million
of local costs principally for subproject counterpart personnel drawn from
line ministries, local design institutes and local consulting firms. No
allowance has been made for physical and price contingencies as the project is
essentially a line of credit to help finance a program defined in financial
terms and for which the specific requirements are not known precisely. Cost
estimates for consultants, training, and equipment are based on experience
under the first TCC.
55.       The proposed credit amount is based on an estimate of the technical
assistance requirements for project preparation during FY87-88. This would
include any remaining technical assistance required to prepare the projects
expected to be brought forward for Board consideration in FY86, technical
assistance requirements of projects in the pipeline for FY87-88, and the
initial requirements of projects programmed after FY88, i.e., technical
assistance expected to be needed before the close of FY88 for such projects.
Sufficient funds have also been included to finance high priority institution
building subprojects and economic and policy studies. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that MOF would make credit funds available to line
ministries as grants, except when an investment project resulted, in which
case the funds would be repaid to MOF on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association. Normally the repayment would take place in the first year
after the grace period of any loan made for the investment project.
56.       Based on experience with the first project, we estimate that 30-35
subprojects or activities would be financed from the second TCC. The method
of implementation for each subproject and allocations from the credit would be
agreed between the Government and the Association. The list of proposed sub-
projects covering about 85% of the credit amount was reviewed with the
Government during negotiations (see Annex V). Processing of some of the
proposed subprojects is proceeding. IDA review and approval of initial sub-
projects will be made subject to approval of the second TCC itself.
Procurement and Disbursement
57.       Consultant services to be financed from the proposed credit would be
contracted in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consul-
tants. Equipment to be financed from the credit would be limited and the cost
of most individual items is expected to be small. Procurement of items and
groups of items estimated to cost $200,000 or more for each contract (if any)
would be through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank



- 17 -
Procurement Guidelines. Domestic manufacturers would receive a preference of
15Z or the applicable customs duty, whichever is less, in bid evaluation.
Items and groups of items estimated to cost less that $200,000 for each
contract and not exceeding an aggregate amount of $1 million may be procured
on the basis of quotations from at least three qualified suppliers. Prior
review by the Association would be required for equipment contracts estimated
to be $200,000 or more.
58.       It is estimated that about 70% of the credit would finance consul-
tant services and about 30% would finance study tours, other training and
equipment. The Association would finance {i) 100% of expenditures for consul-
tant services; (ii) 100% of expenditures for overseas study tours and other
training; (iii) for equipment, 100% of foreign expenditures for direct
imports, 100% of local ex-factory costs for locally manufactured items and 75%
of local expenditures for other items procured locally. To facilitate dis-
bursement, a Special Account to be maintained in US dollars with an authorized
allocation of US$ equivalent to SDR 1.4 million would be established in a bank
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Replenishment of the
Special Account would be made quarterly or whenever amounts withdrawn are
equal to 50% of the initial deposit. For expenditures relating to training,
overseas study tours and contracts for goods and services each valued less
than $100,000 equivalent, reimbursements would be made on the basis of
Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). Documents supporting the SOEs would be
retained at the Ministry of Finance and made available for review by IDA
supervision missions.
Monitoring and Evaluation
59.       The Ministry of Finance would be responsible for monitorino the
project and would collect, review and evaluate information regarding indivi-
dual subprojects. Semi-annual progress reports would be forwarded to the
Association. The line ministries would be responsible for monitoring the
progress of individual subprojects. Project-related accounts would be audited
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association and the audit report
would be provided to the Association within six months of the end of each
fiscal year. Assurances on reporting, accounts and audits were obtained at
negotiations. The Government intends to request the Audit Administration of
China to conduct the audits for this project.
Benefits and Risks
60.       The major benefit of the proposed project would be the development
of a pipeline of projects intended and suitable for financing by the Bank or
the Association. The project would also strengthen other institutions which
support the development and implementation of investment projects. A longer-
term benefit would be the strengthening of the Government's capability to pre-
pare projects. We expect that the domestic consulting industry would also be
strengthened through work with foreign consultants, thus reducing dependence
on expatriate consultants and advisers for preparation of repeater projects.
61.       There a-e no major risks in the implementation of the proposed
project.



- 18 -
PART V - RECOMNENDATION
62.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
February 11, 1986
Washington, D.C.



-19-
ANNEX I
Pqae 1 of 6
i9ioet     1L         TNl9 N        ASIA A PACIC          ASA & PACIFIC
au X          sq. no
TOM                              95*1.0      9561.0     9561.0
CIOCILTURAL                      3257.6      3632.0     3365.9
.w     apin C)                         ..)         ..       300.0              278.3                   1011.l
a,  maurn    a cw"va
(U4Lea  OF OI. mqoIMLvm)          202.0       259.0      S1.A               2354.                    s6.a
vopuAnou.n-uAR (tTn Au) 651000.0   115160.0  1019102.0
ulIAS POPULATION     Or TOrAL)     13.6 I       ..        21.0               223                      35.9
POIULATIIO  Pmoc
POMATYUI IN UE 2000 CHILL)                            1242.3
ssau  rauuCHI (K)                                     1571.0
POPUILATIOM  iniNmum                                     1.6
POPMATOM Omsm
PER SQ. Km.                      6.1         35.3      106.2              173.1                    386.9
PER SQ. a1. ACI. LaUD           199.8       210.0      260J.              353.3                  15-t
TPOIATIM ACE STUCTURE (Z)
0-14 US                         36.9        37A        32.0               36.3                     36.2
15-64 IRS                        56.2        57.2       63.1               5.6                      57.7
65 AND ARM                        4.7         5.0        5.0                6.3                      3.5
POMILATlOl GROWN RATE (S)
TOTAL                             1.1         2.2        1.7                2.0                      2.3
SUSIA                             ..          ..         ..                 *.1                      4.1
ant urns RATE (PER r36)            39.2 /d    35.7        13.6               27.5                     30.1
CRUDE DA1 RATZ (PU TSUl)           23.5 71      3.8        7.1               10.2                      9.4
GROSS EORODUCrIW  AT                2.8 73      2.3        1.0                1.7                      1.9
ACCTORS. AIAL (mul)                ..
DS0 CS OP HAUlED   M)             ..          ..        71.0              69.6                      56.
uIND1 OF MM PuOD. PM CAPITA
(t1971-100)                         ..        100.0      123.0              116.6                    126.6
PER CAPI  SUPPLY OF
CaIzAS (C or iqU cm)     )       96.6 Id   101.6       119.8              106.3                    115.7
oums (CaRAS  n DU)               53.0 Id    56.2        69.7               60.1                     60.3
OF WIIOI ANIML AM PULSE         12.5 d      13.3       15.9               14.4                     14.1
cHILD (CACS 1-4) DATN Uam          13.5         3.5        2.0                7.3                      7.2
glm
LP  EXPEC. AT siH  (TAM)           61.0 /a    60.9        67.1               60.5                    m0.6
INANT HOtT. RATE (PER 3005        165.0 73 H 9.0          35.0       H        9.2                     64.9
01SS TO SAlt WAltS (flOP)
TAL                               ..          ..        50.0               46.2                     46.0
AAM                               ..          ..        55.0               77.2                     57.6
RURAL                             ..          ..        *0.0               34.6                     37.1
ACSS 70 XCE  DISPOSAL
(2 OF P0PULCIOM)
TOTAL                             ..          ..         ..                 7 j                     50.1
UM                                ..          ..         ..                23.8                     52.9
RURAL                             ..          ..         ..                 5.5                    64.7
PopuLATIO  PErPHScIA             7940.0 If  3690.0 If  1740.0 If           3313.0                   7751.7
POP. Im  MUS INGC  OIM           3630.0      2760.0     1710.0            4690.7                   246.8
PoP, Pn mOnTAL an
20TL                           1060.0       760.0 4U0.0                  1039.2                   1112.1
gsm                             210.0         ..       160.0              299.1                    631.6
mURAL                         10140.0         ..      1020.0             603.2                    2596.9
AmssI as P  HOSPIaL mm              ..          ..         ..                52.3                     61.1
AVERCE SIZE OrF HSOD
TOAL                     .'          .'                  5.1
03815                             ..          ..         6.1                 ..
USUAL                             ..          ..         5.6
AVERG MO. OF PRS0USIWCK
TOTAL                             ..          ..
m                                 ..          ..         .                   ..
moL                               ..          ..         .                   ..
EOTAEO dIELSUNGS 1211 EXCT
TTL                               ..          ..         .                   ..
*                 a                                ..          ..         .                  ..
USUAL                             ..          ..



-20 -                                                    ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
s~~~RSR UMLs c amun AVM L
(HMST RICU?IN IfPATE) 
UfiOIS ~LOW                          NO       =0D
iewlb      1970Lk 3UTIHA A                AU &IPACC* I IC   ASIA  PA C
ADJUKU UUUN  ATO
FEDMUm   TMTAL                    109.0       110.0       110.0               92.6                      100.7
AULE                     ..          *         123.0               105.5                     104.4
NNAL                     ..          ..         97.0               79.3                       97.2
U MUDAiT  TOAL                     21.0        23.0        35.0               31.3                       47.8
HAL                      ..          ..         46.0               40.8                       50.6
IML!                     ..          *.         25.0               21.9                       44.8
VOCATIONAL (S or UCOUDA)              ..          ..          2.2                3.2                       18.4
1fL~-T&ACI MATIO
fIDM                                .          33.0        25.0                38.0                      30.4
U0Di~                               ..         22.0        16.0                17.4                      22.2
AU           C TDUS     P             ..          ..          0.2        /        (.9                      10.1
RM0 UIECUSIR/TMUSAID 1W               ..         1.7        210.1               129J                      172.9
TV of1                                ..          0.6        35.3                19.6                      58.5
NwDE1AP C"DZLY amD*1
7rl!") CZDaILATIOW
P   TOSAD OPULATXO                   .. *.                  33.4                25.7                      65.3
CDIAUWA L            SC               ..          ..          ..                  6.0                       3.4
Iz -
TOTAL LADI WOm  (TUOM)           32166.0   360555.0   470692.0
FAMALS  (IEC1)                     38.3        3S.0        37.3                33.2                      33.6
AO3IUI U (tE )                      ..          ..         68.9                69.6                      52.2
'SM  (C         )                   ..          ..         18.7                15.3                      17.9
TOTAL                              46.S        '5.0        46.1                41.9                      38.9
NMZI                               55.9        54.5        55.4                53.6                      50.8
1317.                              37.0        35.0        35.1                29.1                      26.8
DoKC          0 ffCr ATUIO            0.9         1.0         0.8                 1.0                       1.1
UCEIVED ST
DIGEST sx 0o EOODUDs                                       12.5
S   =  or 0      UI L               ..          ..         39.37j               ..                       48.0
LONE  20        soLo                ..          ..          6.8                 ..                        6.4
ZfluST 40 or1 i..                               ..         18.4                .,                        15.5
LEE   (     MU   CAPcA)
U                                   ..          ..          ..                133.9
tIDAL                               ..           ..         ..                111.6                     151.9
ESTIMATED IlLATIV mumB IN=Z.
LEVE  CMS  M5 CAPITA)
DA                                  ..          ..          ..                  ..                      177.9
MIEAL                               ..          ..          ..                 61.7                     164.7
ESTDIATED Po. BUM0 AUGOLUVE
109W! z.cms ziw. (Z)
II3I                                ..          ..          ..                 43d                       23.5
2EUL                                ..          ..          ..                 51.7                      37.8
Z= AVAIZAI1
NOTr AMLCAMZ
IS The grOP averoa  for leah idicator ar. population-welgted aritheetic mean. coerag  of coutrie
RMe  the Indicators dePend  cn avallabilty of dat ad is not unifor.
lb   gnlaw otbele noted. "Dsta for 1960" refer to ar yar between 1959 *ad 1961; "Data for 1970" betwee
1969 ad 1971; ed dat  for "Nbet Decant E.tLaste" betlwn 19i1 and 1983.
c   19M0 Id 195-65 averag    s 1955-64 avza;  If Sealer doctor of wtaster nmecine;  JA  DstrLbution
of peope         by housholas per  ca Income.179 data;  lb 19O.
JUNK, 1985



ANNEX I
-21-                                                                Page 3 of 6
VAi-t eea.    dtm   -  (1iiO ass-  netr Mrsf OWA es"ju   ae sa"w   a 2 SII  eaMVy GM" 'ish              Haut emess sea m  amIN a,,te  em   an
Stlenju  wea    IueupuC bqUpMl s Mi immSWIIt.e  asn.,P.*s  'MIii ftur   fetM mie,Ma -HMi.be   mu etme  tem.9 mlIuWflmgolomelsailegul
ifos iss) 4mg el. ItElami-W. ls lb ba.se ass qn 9- lb~ SIesesaf det la t. 09.talalised 5 is s IF  ems-tloy sIlo. e~, IS
asftia  Se eals,tec eat "s WI -Se itlhe  us10 at.   .....                  l s   himttOfess    isf samet It masmleeP  5M iaidate mem tileg a s a"eu  ao
.5mlen    bil;se  4etlenn.ad selee 1 .5  mestpe Smimedm.   sed.eat Seeme mesa. piWlisi West                                                       a
l mi   INS-dee.                                                                                             ftteeadtiefte,tedi-MMie  IVleS  151.  s.q eaiiei
ABIIIM"-  tis"  f tfeeeg asest .. sag esseli aek    pisaes, i                 allhi II   iis are     plteearmsee ~ml *am=.seiattsel fena  a
itle mm Fall do..u   -                                                     eIs   be  iplee.i...   es   at     
mAh m  nu    ow P.  sepu,al-ume aesall.esui    satesWaesis                      tieml   "imi -9 a.nle VaeSsshe ad  e           d al is he  m ejie
eec- s              &   Mt lOWN~ fleet,amea  cpus-. = elel                       ftmellese  ee. eal. a.Psi.S aiim   ife  e-rne.   elt  aun
itessas  9ismldett.t  Sawubaetet a  be.               be
-2 "=-. S I                - S *t liw Is slum lFll.        11a      *       Eq        WOSr-            f-de     wkk-
ON. -d lbIl  . sie  s dateslils                                             .-  n rgh   m           P. *o- B0 ieee -  I- as as p"he
age,  fe   lul  O,.5   1 - ase .                                                lb beetleIn eeelllel deIea
ter  ar       a  5a   bI enmi-lea5lmse lt                                eelllq.. tepaleip m. tuliti     wmaees m          n    se
ieasele s    Illu. sqesuma   ahnlsml,Wt  asp.psese1e.lelsgflsfIsy M"li3  -pe   .e.ana 
Inn    t   aenS  imnlis  usKt el1se bes lO             " se     mis            .1  .sess.i moe.-Insais             emto.
elele  eiS  1   Seit,t essedati soierar mesi ftaski1 sale.tammaep     mlapIeet                                                            4o-se
et estaemtees-.  be -  Ilit5. In Slisedr .me so  ste                        "EoleP. ..W                          ,V    .'             s....p
to. ess"".f-   5. aSt rag. a      e.ssstlb                           SC-ts.1el5tyealdssfle  esoafe'
dealte - f    SeqU puns9. WaseL -& mm...ssil   leefiiem.                          Ife                    am        ae           eei
a   'Sawsm    it emist teem  it akl smneet . m re aestlu. Pp-IaaluWl esee    fi    els                                               sI    e
gatu    .  l.i  .selesep inlSaSe sin aL.     ..Pcifased lt9sl   u   sty                          me t-OCON-14- st     Wea astse peesiaa St
reels megl etjso    tsOetIasel sIl    m.ellI Is. f-Stt.,Sm     .55 -Vsc   Ct.Ri- S teaS     teaS   lhld                                     efet
ma. aub u      1.4 el     ml sesslsy vi .Yl   eslea ee k.-  Wjseleu teelV.U                    N  ia tteese emem .4 ahst eftssasg leS,le
IsIs"      at di        S.tt it le c      a.  L..isi   ge-t s. esied m             mnsiestgeeni. "sasmissi.- less            NWeel  Itt.eti    t pw
*asa Pag le    t s esetalb. ea-lpspesieaes,Si   is is.mtieeeds  i                    et sei, .1.f,-  Lt 53 Is.  les, s stum Ge, enladea   sss me
Seel  mieff  lb S-J.     themadeal,  ise is tsmts aiL. itVs                                        ..    SS e               .m     sM-
t.  M  eetes,f-  ePLeft  dSS s S41_am-Cesmas- -,  M.&RefusliteW
bmitsee. sulea    eieeS          e it ,salal   N. ss. e.e Lss   0-pvmis.5t,rl  e 7v                                   .   Maseme
t..      .iststSti uSe      Lsi  a  sses    et-, las.                           smmats             eels.5m n. siimm                      eie
Sesseals, so .                _. ~        ~     ~    ~ ~ ~         a         ySee..Its-he fnS  a                ees  iessi
sittaft staid-es,mglattse e ISemt. pslleass W.IGS. p-.ssmtel.               ssn l..edtm sdefis
I"Ii.le.       lglP l O    rnt. is  1101 ,       U-   mae.                      Mukeettsfeg nir s  emsJ~VYM - mesas,efelsA.(eat.   . saesee
esse.he   eii.mlI        as     l.           le  ilsSeesS  t                      ra          MWIide5S melsm me    Sjeti                  e
______________    eP_______    P-__   11-      IO;.l o.-."     -.
ii:    -'_'   eml.ION. (hi   Iwon  met -                                           Vsse   tsee  ten (e s1W Iss    e  teslge, -iel. Okl d Semesed  .. a
memlsis slum. 10.5I Sds.                                                    seem ala         5   suI-I  et tensesqp aim    F.tees   teeas. 
FietalseClash bo  lestasm  - mete- el  .vsi  t     .-sf   tis              h1esdeel lea.stlsi slmm   tm   4lestl    es
OdlItWe  s.-  sbsmsWd       - an    I. cct   .  t.m4.   '                        em   m.sIe    s   eme C.   otl aea s, ueast                 C. ee  eel
Par                                                                                leMsesed Yea*tet,e t. Se-eIsiels del ..seats..ellei sis il-enfs..
W1..0,s.  lb., (set.. I - s-inst Imt-  pe1tsW ..se      d - .t A-s                sag     . 1-Ott  e     -Yae-   say t.elt  Ca teeee                S
051  ite  ts,oestsn  mtld I as. mqstssm t-sIssmls                              eL- C-sneu,e                     To s  us..eI -  s  it messa    t
lentil. t!W:.ami   55p            mnt. selu I IS IZS.mawinsiP,""  ldS                                   4Sy eees     L e"       t.  Clussed em etltte
se.ttssi-Pe-..-t  le..sS Itsses ss   S- m Se -let matl es-,                   -,!=     - --de1   itisspmm  CSeslet L flea.se a    em.
t4al.                                                                              .thee -sis.eted  PH1t.a lS isq d- slees. ifle-I    -.1dsed
tmll. imele- ueem (jeeess . evvli eel- tsts- s - .6 l -...ts              -Il -smi-ess..             ,ekfs,t-S,Se
1--  .1so e-l.sqsc   s  nit.. lu   t   eSeeis5
P-osSi-tsetla                                                                       Seebatlp   ei il.  lisi  ete  S lalunhees   mss-silt   i
temile s.ttteme  -e     I. -ieat   1-5 t   f t -s  e    t.... ,
esil-b-leg   -        5-.11  last*f I-S  It%..s&t.T fliini                                                                sait.  m.iseu
_________________________________________                    I.e     ~   ~tas   -.l   usm t  Sleftelets    .  .- mel e  S 1   ses  e etl te
e. i led-es   SIsal le-Isml.Vf.                  et." Seesi e                     PLe                       -L  -".raet.mewk
easese  lamed .4 ~a-t              "tb sese. Sd Vess..  -.sees 3     55.5.       Ipssnx -m l            UI -   NewstP.mI Steem. samesemflaet seasersestiw 
4515.                                                      5sttt.lntiss bin~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,:,.  (esed d-   rtall-eeds- st  1ste W- Imutmic C"
is...  (lel   ele   euts   melstas-s nst   s10.let        S   se                                               _Is en "L              reiDs mmsitelle se
"Sml.         L",s .-ta.-sa4iesae. e-   si                                sem.etlg    -ss -*-s.  sli g           iiss.            Lese , lieS seed 
ees L emle-dcetsed  s tsti.le  se  lnesee                                    kgLtsMf   baut sIdf1 psapemics, i                  Lt 51  d 0 seSmessts
mesIsty      bamS eindein.  sst eesset   t"uee.  td"'  elte                 sbe.atesm.    e1elIS.l (muesm Sib"-ID.a si-oi.
See=.  msed1 ftttiss- 5m-l.k. ~SfitL-        tsl It ...tesal tatl seine                         est---4             _
Jet  eleesuel .1  tael  baee  -e abs)  lm-  veYdmue, e   e  es                tsi-e-L      7s fsse fist IS petp             -ftied   is bsed  he ttit 
qin*msem,  let s5 muesltL-  sasi  lplieepSmS. I-v  -sLim..                         tssms,mlde
-                    silsesesd.    it aleAleta-el tekat.messe. metd, e  San  s- stels
al_  _mI.mic, it  -aIl ltlpeuseupaa I aYal                                                                                                    byetls. itsS
eintdseim me bet the tue.. SIPS etimeel seisi meteS.oIP- ss
Z _de  ine.1- -  eet  llet it8 l sitU  mnsms.t,am. it                              slest I-s.Iutn si   let.ess
tat   esis.e.eemk   m sie  In     shals a ss -6- tesei  seSSt                        t.e.at, -eie
aetna  I   eseSe  d eels-I. Iee    lo.  - =s111. Sil e   hIP               sstss.t?edes aese -. sp-essam  sa-ISC tel-s Ree. sl
Sth  (.atP-5  -65Pa  Pe.I-W s.e  -1d sesles..masssseed Is 9                       seusest tutemem oesj Imsee -ia  ele ess.j.smm ,          .
9Cae.m 5m   -.L. f-sn   m e    me einlsm  mIs. ft s. usp, Ceeeu                     tes  ems
eaIts-   sealsel Sed tns Itt seaIl. 110  Cu: 141101 eeO.. mIVYi'   eefitet &ea sIS aethee les fe tled fmliea s L. asee
selegrg-d-   ..      -   -at     mst41-3" I. sese  114 tei-sg  b- te.m D. gtsmerleta  lmist                       -   9. Seti tldf mesisIel
em..                                      me~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  t. m  itat  -mme-as  ILq  .sls
imses se se105e, lte ts.. at sn.alla - -Lswlt. el e f-W.  tsdi-
Pi tmsesIest    t le   .      tl  s  nese,leset-  I.-I                                                              eai5im.abmUse
as.. sseei (Iebefte, tsIS  st   se   t5.med        is _   .                                                     Gesemisk Islr.le Sd t-jsomttum. ie
testily nib)    tmee esss as Iiteetsasi  aeteSLtess.  tess d                                                                   se 
-statea ep  ecime - veq.timp aOlege,es pt. .es-a 1.1 
it i  IsIfi seeSatdalmd ese sd   e ".  -     b. -
Z. - VessesI t  eat - as 0.1 as-eL
,SS              t u SoSeIseI,a e  el e ee      hteresessfem.  Pl.e So.
age s-fLeet, das mpsi.Wi -Is e WitiesmIe, 51 lea see,
lsees"Sie he ais-s e itese            S ee eff pim pt.5.. a
slellat tustlesIe.



-22 -                                                      AruX I
W;rrf 6
?opulatioa    *  1&019 oillie. (mId-193)
03 per capitas $300 (1963)
CHINA - 1C0O3USC KNDICATOIS
Amount - 1964                             Annual arouth trate  (I)
(aillion 388 at                Actual                                      Prolocc d
Indicatcr                  curraut pricea)f  L980  1981   198i   1983   9I4WL    1955       19M6    1987      1988     1989     1990
WATIOia ACCOUU /o
Gross doemetw product          261,260       6.6   4.9    7.8    9.6   14.0      10.4      6.8      6.6       6.8    6.6       6.8
Agriculture                  100.430      -1.7    6.4   11.2    9.0   13.9      6.0      4.9      4.9       4.9      4.9      4.9
Zadmatry                     125,010      12.3   2.3   7.3   11.4   16.6       14.0      7.7      7.7       7.7    7.7       7.7
Sorvwice                      53.820       8.2   8.9    3.3    6.3    7.7      10.0      7.9      7.9       7.9    7.9        7.9
coammiptten1 195.10                          9.1    5.2   5.9    9.0   12.5      12.5      8.9      7.4       7.4    7.4       7.1
Grom oin va.ant                 83.100       1.3  -1.8   10.9   15.2  20.7       11.0      2.3      4.8       4.8     5.1       5.7
Orportt of GMlS /a              26,720      17.6  16.7   0.6    9.5   13.0        3.0      8.9      8.6       8.8    6.8       8.8
luperte of CG   A               26.750      16.1  -6.7  -5.7   28.1   25.9    43.1         0.0      3.6       5.9    6.0       6.2
Gross national aavtJp           65.870      -0.2    3.6   17.0   12.0   17.0      5.0      2.4      5.1       5.1     5.6      6.2
LUICUS
GDP deflator (1980 - 100)                  100.0  101.8  101.7  102.9  107.6    113.1   118.7   124.7    131.0    137.5    144.4
tuchaeg rate (Yuan/Ug)                      1.50   1.70   1.89   1.98   2.32     2.84     2.84     2.84      2.84    2.84     2.64
Sbre of CGP at market prie a  (2)                 Average aauual tecreaa  (C)
1960   1970   1973   19t    1985   1990                 t 1967 9  197381 I908   198449  1989-94
Grome dometic product /a       100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0        6.1      5.2      6.6      9.0      7.3      6.6
griculturo                    23.0   35.0  32.8  32.0  34.2   31.3           6.7      3.4      3.3     10.1      5.0      4.8
Industry                      45.0   41.0  45.8  4B.0  47.9  49.9            7.8      7.5      9.9      9.4      8.6      7.4
Services                      29.0   24.0  21.4  20.0  17.9   16.8           3.4      4.5      5.4      6.6      8.2      7.5
OonsaiuCon                      62.4  70.8  69.1  71.3  66.7  69.3             6.1      4.7      6.4      8.1      8.4      6.8
Croas  navo   t                 37.8   29.2  31.1  30.0  34.4  30.9            9.5      6.9      9.7     11.3      5.1      6.1
tuporta of GM11                  4.8    2.8    5.3   7.1    7.7    8.5        -1.5     10.8      5.7     12.3      8.0      7.7
rIportt of CUPS                  5.0    2.7    5.5   8.4   8.8    8.6          1.2    13.9    13.0    12.2         8.4      7.4
Croam natioDl savinga           37.7   29.2  30.9  28.9  33.6  30.7            9.1      6.7      7.2     14.0      4.8      6.2
as Z of CDP
1957           1970     = 180                1983 -8
Fmrc rIANZ
crrant rav nma                                     28.7           29.6           30.6           27.8           26.7
rraen  expendlta                                   15.1           15.7           23.1           21.6           20.1
Surpin   (+) or deficit (-)                       +13.6          43.9            +7.5           +6.2           *4.6
CaLptal expeditue                                  13.7           13.3           11.0            7.8            8.2
Foresn  financing                                   0.7            n.&.           0.5            0.2            0.3
1960-70    1970-75      1975-80     1980-84     198489      1989-94
OT1R DUICA2mRS
GoQ growth rate (C)                                6.1         5.1         6.4          9.2        7.2         6.6
Gia per caita growth rate (Z)                      3.5         2.9         5.2          7.9        6.1         3.5
nargmy consption growth rate (Z)                  -0.3         9.2         5.8          4.1        5.3         4.8
ICoi                                               3.3         t.7         5.1          3.8        4.0         4.6
argtinl  *a-ig rate                                0.4         0.4         0.3          0.3        0.2         0.3
Import elasticity                                  0.2         2.7         2.0          1.4        1.1         1.2
/a  Dgeo for 1981 and 1982 a   from different sources; data for 1982 exluda re-exports.
aat Asia and Ptacfic  goonal Offleo
Februry 7, 1985



-23 -                                                 ANNRM  I
Wg5 f 6
Fopl atioa        1,019 million (.1l-1983)
CGP per capltas $300 (1983)
CRN -M L T
Amount - 1984                Annual growth rate. (Z) (at conetant prices)
(million US at                             tlProjctd
current price)         1960     1981      1982     1983     1984   i7i5    1990
ZKIL TU /A
NorchasdLee exports                     O25020              14.8     17.3      5.5      10.1     10.4      2.8      8.7
prlinry                                11,410               1.5    -1.4       3.9     14.6      9.6      3.3       6.8
waufactura                             13,610              32.2     36.2      6.6      7.0      11.1      2.4     10.4
Nlbrcbndie  .iports                      26.740               6.8      7.2      0.2     29.7     22.3    47.1        6.2
road                                    2,330               9.1     68.3     42.9    -30.9   -24.9       14.4      7.1
lFtrole.m                                 130              52.6    -65.5    130.0    -43.5     30.8      0.0      35.5
achlaery and equip_mt                   8,420              16.4     19.0   -41.7      34.7     82.3      58.2      5.1
Othere                                 15,860               0.9   -13.5       7.1     71.7     16.8      19.9      6.3
PUMCu
--7t price Index (L9800-Lo)                                 100.0    102.7     98.7     86.8    90.5    U8.0    126.0
Import price index (1960-100)                               100.0    104.5     89.2     76.7    78.4    77.3    112.0
eram of trade index (1980-100)                              100.0     98.3    110.7    115.8    115.4    113.8    112.5
Coupoeition of uerebandisa trad  (Z)                 Average annual increase (S)
(at current price.)                             (at const nt pric-e)
158         1981        1984       199O      1980-g             1984-r9            1989-g4
--ort.                         100.0       100.0        100.0      100.0       10.8               7.9                 7.6
PEluary                       53.4        46.6        45.6        42.1        6.7               6.4                 6.1
)haufacture               46.6        53.4        54.4        57.9       15.2               9.4                8.2
Imports                        100.0       100.0        100.0      100.0       14.9               8.5                 7.5
Food                          12.8        17.4         8.7         9.7       13.9               8.9                 8.5
Fetrolem                       0.5         0.4         0.5         0.9       13.0              17.2                16.1
Fochlnery and equlpmnnt       18.9        29.2         31.5       33.3       23.6              12.0                 6.8
others                        67.9        53.0         59.3       56.1       20.5               6.7                 7.5
Share of trede with        Share of trade wlth        Share of trade with
industrial                 delopling                 the USSR and
countrim (Z>_          co etri s CZ)          FEstern DurOP  (K)
1977     L980    ilg3      L977f   Ii90      1983     1977     1980      1983
Dl ZCTIOE OF 23*AE
xorts                                     36.4       4.7    42.1      46.8     48.7     53.2     16.8      6.6      4.7
import                                    63.1     73.6    69.0       20.7     19.7     24.5     16.2      6.7      6.5
/a Doed on cnstom statistics. Exports. f.o.b., lporte. c.l.f.
East Aia, and Pacific Reg8oal Office
No wber 22. 1985



ARME I
-24 -                                              AUU   I o  S
Population    S  1,019 million (mid-1983)
CNP per capitas  5300 (1983)
CHINk - sALANC  o  PA  D   . EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBS
Nilliona oe US, at current prieee)
AmtualPrjce
Indicator                                    1978    1979    1980    1981       1982       1983      1984 6ec d
DALANCE OF PAYIHNIS
Exports of goods cad nonfactor servlces  10,370  14,983  20,324  24,423    23,637    23,186    26,716        26,840   58,590
Of Yibch:  lhrcbandise f.o.b. /a         9,607  13,658  18,492  22,027    21,125    20,707    23,905       23.900   52,130
Imports of goods and nonfactor s-rvices  11,668  17,759  24,058  23,446    18,900    20,711    26,748        38,290   63,180
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b. A         10.745  16,212  22,049  21.047    16.876    18,717    23,890       35,150   56.950
Net factor income from abroad                 -8     -77    -117    -200         452     1,253     1,620      1,140      -850
Net tranufers                                597     656      640     464        530       436       304        300       300
Current account balance                     -709  -2,197  -3,211   1,241      5,719      4,164     1,892    -10,010   -5,140
Private direct investment (net)                -       -       57     265       430        636     1.100      1.650    1,950
Official grant aid (net)                       -       -       21     156       -44         75       137         140      140
ILT loans (oat)                              549   3,815   1,069      310        301       927      -145           0    4,450
Disbursemets                               549   3,895   1,670   1,659      2,481      1,600       718        950    S,390
Amortization                                 -      80      601   1,348     2,180        673       863        950    1,940
Other capital /b                            -628  -1.021   2,455      -47      -115    -1,672    -2,889       2,330         -
Change In reserves
('-" Indicating increase)                  788    -597    -391  -1,925    -6,291    -4,130         -95      5.890   -1,400
International reserves                     6,677   7,274   7,665   9,590    15,681    20,011    20.106       14,220   23,500
Of which:  Gold /c                       5,120   5,120   5,120   5.120      5.120      5,120     5,120      5,120    5,120
Rearves as months of laporte                 6.2     4.5      3.5     4.8       10.1      11.7       9.1        4.5       4.2
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT /d
Gross dlsbursement                            ..       ..      ..      ..         ..
OfficiAl grants                             ..      ..       .
Coucessional loans                          ..      ..       ..      ..
MC                                        ..      ..       ..      .....
Otber                                     ..      ..       ..      ..
Nonconceelonal loans                         .       .       ..
Official export credits                   ..       .
Other multilateral                        ..      ..       ..
Private                                   ..      ..       ..      ..
External debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed             549   4.364   5,433   5.261      5.562     6,397      6,340
Official                                  ..      ..       ..      ..
Private                                   ..      ..       ..      ..        ..         ..
& disbure-d debt                            ..      ..       ..      ..         .
Debt service
Total service payments                      ..      ..       ..      ..        ..
Interest                                  ..      ..       ..      ..        ..        ..
Payments as Z of exports                   0.4     2.7      6.3     9.0      11.4       4.9        5.0
Average interest rate of now loans (Z)         -       -        -       -         -          -         -
Average maturity of new loans (years)          -       -            -        -         -          -                  -
/a Data for 1978-81 are not comparable with those of 1982-85 because of a difference in their sources. The latter exclude
re-exports.
i Includes net nm of DIH credit and net flow of short-term capital.
Valued at US$402/troy ounce.
Emciludes rhort-term loan. (one year or less).
East Asia and Pacifie Ragional Office
November 22, 1985



-25-                                                 NiuII
fATUS OP RLK CR0? OPSTAOIN ID IKE FROM'S ReLIC OF CInA
A.  STATMENT OF DK WU        AND IDA CREDXTS
(as of reptmber 30. 1935)
Loan or                                                                             Us $iiIL.o
Credit                                                                        _n (les cancel1atlom)
Umber   Ye-r Dorrwver                      Purpe                             trak     IDA    Dbdisba
2021/1167    1981  People'. RepublSc of Ohina  Univeralty Developmnt            100.0   100.0        24.6
1261    1982 PeopLe's _public of Oi_io   Worth China Plain Agilelture         -      60.0       16.6
2207    1982 People'e Umpublic of OCina Three Porte                         69.0      -         44.0
1297    1962 PeopLe's PApublIc of Cina  Agrie. dunation* & Research          -       75.4       18.1
222611313    1962  People'o Republic of OiCsl  Indttrial Credit                  40.6    30.0        37.8
2231    1983 People's Republic of Chiss Usqing Petrolom                    162.4       -        91.8
2252   1983 People's Republic of Chias  Zbonu n-Ibnliu Petrolmon           100.8      -         79.1
226111347    1963 People's UApublic of China  R3llomgJiaug Lend Reclamation      23.3    35.0        30.8
1411    1983 PeopLe'. -opublic of Oim  P techoie/SV Uniwereity                -      35.0       76.9
1412   1983 People'. -Apablic of Ois. Twchnical Cooperation                   -      10.0       7.S
1417   1984 Peop.'. Repubtlic of Oil.. Rubber Development                     -     100.0      32.8
2382    1904 People's Republic of Oina  labuge lydroelactric               145.4       -       139.4
2394    19"  people's Republic of CinL ftaIry                              220.0      -        126.1
1482   1984 People's Republi of Oila  bwal Credit                             -      50.0       34.2
1472   1984  People's lepublic of Oinl.n  Fral keith A Usilcl l edac.         -      85.0      67.1
2426    1964 People's n public of Ctlna  Kareuy fttrolXm                    99.5       -        94.6
2431/1491    1984 People's Republic of Oilm   Second Ilatrinl Credit            103.0    70.0       158.7
2448/1500    1984  People'. Republic of Oil.  Second Agricultural Education      45.3    23.5        54.6
1318    1984  people's Republic of Ciln. Second AVricultural Raesereh         -      25.0       19.1
1331    1983  People's Rapublic of OiCns  Second gnversity Development        -     145.0      140.3
2493    1985 People's Ropublic of Chmi  Second Power                       117.0       -       117.0
250     1985 People'. Republic of Oilon  Oiangcu  (loan) Coal lninig       126.0       -       126.0
15S111  1985 People'. RepubiLe of Chion  Seed                              . -      40.0       40.0
I5"7; 1985 People's Republic of Oin.  hard  Vater Supply                      -      80.0       80.0
25391159471  1983 People'. Republic of Oil.. UL1bw_y                             42.6    30.0        72.6
25407  193 Peopla'. Republic of Oil.  Second Railway                       235.0      -        235.0
254fl   3985  People'. Republic of CbOi   Pertiter Dehabilitetion and      97.0      -         97.0
Etergy Saving
I 0St  1983  People'. Republc of Chian  PoreEtly Development                  -      47.3       47.3
2579/160:   1985 People's Republic of Otil   PLSbibag-Chabohu Area Davelop_ot  17.0    75.0          92.0
258071  1983  People'. Republtc of Chia  oLmyuon Com Fleld Technical        25.0       -        25.0
Astinse
Total                                                                         1,772.9  1.176.2    2,26o.3
Total no   eld by lRek and IDA                                                1,772.9  1.176.2
Total Undisbured                                                              1,452.3   794.0
B. STATUiN  OF IFC IDVEMENTS
(a of September 30. 1985)
Aount In OS$ millon
Year   Obligor                                   Type of busineso              Loan     Equty      Total
1985/i Ouaboo and Pegeot Autoeobile Co.          Autoeobtle                      15.0      2.0      17.0
Total Gross Comlcsuteo                                                           15.0      2.0       17.0
tmes canceLlatiooo, termitntions,
repaymet and sales
Total Commiteente now held by IFC                                                15.0      2.0       17.0
Total Undisburned                                                                15.0      2.0       17.0
/a  em  effective on October 31, 1985.
7jb Dec.. effective on October 24, 1985.
7Tg l_com effective on woaembeg 13, 1965.
7t Seem. rffective on Deo_mber A, 19JS.
7   Seems effective on November 22. 1985.
7r Income effecrive on Dec ebr 1iS 1985.
7j R _com effective on November 26. 1985.
7N Not yet effective.
r SIgned on October 16, 1985.
notes: (1)  Subsequet to the above date of Part A, a crodit of SM 84.0 dillion (890 millio  equivalent)
for the Second loral Credit Project wae approved December 17, 1985 and *atned January 3, 1966.
(2) The status of the project Ilated In Part A is described in a separate report on all lank/IDA
finaScil projects In * scetion. which iL updated twice yearly and eirculated to the Emecutive
Dtreto  on Aprll 30 and October 31.



- 26 -
ANNEX III
CHINA
SECOND TECHNIICAL COOPERATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:                    Six months
(b)  Project prepared by:                              Ministry of Finance
(c)  First mission:                                    Nay 1985
(d)  First Presentation to IDA                         September 1984
(e)  Completion of negotiations                        February 1986
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:                    July 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)  A suitably qualified iroject coordinator would serve until the
Closing Date, with the assistance of other conpetent MOF staff as
required (para. 52);
(b)  IDA could terminate withdrawals for a particular subproject in cases
of delays exceeding six months in the effectiveness of contracts for
consultants (para. 53); and
(c)  MOF would make credit funds available to line ministries as grants,
except when an investment project resulted, in which case the funds
would be repaid to MOF on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association (para. 55).



- 27 -
ANM  IV
CHINA: (FIRST) TECHNICAL COOPERATION CREDIT
Allocation     Disbursed
Subprojects approved/no.                                    SDR
(thru 1/30/86)
Revolving Fund                                           -       500,000
Dalian Bulk Crain Terminal (1412-1)               144,000         83,722
Karamay Oil Project Preparation (1412-2) /a              0             0
Rural Health & Medical Education (1412-3)         202,000        163,071
Water Supply Project Preparation (1412-4)          131,454       111,454
Motorway from Beijing to Tanggu via
Tianjin (1412-5)                                246,000         28,803
Machine Toole Project Preparation (1412-6)        846,000        489,827
Special Board of Consultants (1412-7)             220,000        138,872
Transmission Project Preparation (1412-8)         590,000        327,828
Forestry Project Preparation (1412-9)              86,000              0
Second Railway Project Preparation (1412-10)      149,000         95,136
Seed Project Preparation (1412-11)                 79,000         49,683
Audit Seminar (1412-12)                            66,000         57,777
Port Master Plan of Dalian Port
Project (1412-13)                               197,000         87,141
Port Terminal Control Systems Training
(1412-14)                                       120,000         37,768
Fertilizer Rehabilitation and Energy
Saving Prcject Preparation (1412-15)            354,000        136,566
Phosphate Project Preparation (1412-16)         1,543,000              0
TA for First Phase of Xinsha Terminal in
Huangpu Port (1412-17)                          240,000              0
Beilungang Thermal Power Project (1412-18)      1,864,000        873,428
Missing Links Road (1412-19)                       155,000             0
Pishihang-Chaohu Area Project Preparation
(1412-20)                                        14,000              0
Tianjin Port East Pier Development (1412-21)      603,000         28,147



- 28 -
ANNEx rv
Allocation     Disbursed
Subprojects approved/no.                           ----  SDR
(thru 12/10/85)
Sbuikou Hydroelectric Project Preparation
(1412-22)                                        426,000         66,189
Yantan Special Board of Consultants (1412-23)       99,000
Unallocated                                      1,025,546
Total Disbursed                                            3,275,412
Total Undisbaread                                          6,124,588
MRAND TOTAL (Credit Amount)                 9,400,000      9,400,000
/a   Cancelled



- 29 -
ANNX V
Page 1
SECOND TECICAL CWOPZTIOW PROJECT
Illustrative List of Subgroieets
Amount
Subprojects                                       US$
Dalian Port Project Preparation (Dayso Wan)                          500,000
Shanghai Port Project Preparation (Guangang)                         500,000
Port Sector Management Information System                            900,000
Ports V (Ningbo) Preparation                                         500,000
Development of Managusent Information System
for Ports and Waterways                                            600,000
Site Selection Study for New Shanghai Port                           800,000
Strengthening of Institute of Port and Harbor Development            500,000
Waterway Project Preparation                                         500,000
Roads III Preparation                                                500,000
Roads IV Preparation                                                 500,000
Provincial Transport Study (Comprehensive Transport Institute)       500,000
Highway Finance and User Costs Study                                 500,000
Management Information System for Highways                           300,000
Railvays IV Preparation                                              2D0,O0
Railways V Preparation                                               8D0,0OO
Procurement Training for Railways                                    100,000
Development of Management Information System for Railways            500,000
Fertilizer II Preparation                                            500,000
Potash Industry Development Study                                    250,000
Sources of Sulfur Study                                              250,000
Phosphate Subsector Study                                             50,WO
Coal III Project Preparation                                         500,000
Yantan Project Preparation (Pover IV)                                100,000
Shuikou - Second Stage Services (Power V)                            400,000
Power VI (Trasmission) Preparation                                   500,000



- 30 -
ANNEX V
Page 2
Amount
Subprojects                                        US$
Power VII Hydro (high dam) Preparation                               2,000,000
Power Tariff Study                                                     200,000
Red Sols  Preparation                                                   80,000
Aquaculture Project Preparation                                         80,000
External Debt Nanagement Training                                      100,000
Second Rural Water Supply Project Preparation                          200,000
Shanghai Urban Housing                                                 100,000
Zhejiang Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation
Project Preparation                                                  200,000
Health III Project Preparation                                         400,000
Cemnt Study                                                            400,000
Feasibility Study for Cement Machinery Manufacturing                   400,000
China Financial and Economic Publishing House - Printing House         470,000
Education and Training Project Preparation                             250,000
Bulk Distribution Project Preparation (IFC)                            600,000
Strengthening Policies on Foreign Direct Investment (IFC)              150,000
Forestry - Future Project Preparation                                        -
Assistance to Audit Administration of China                                  -
Development of Accounting Standards and Systeas for Central Agencies         -
Assistance to Central Agencies in Economic Planning and Coordination         -
Training for International Tendering Company
and Other Procurement Agencies                                             -
Note:  Selected subprojects will be financed from remaining TCC I uncolmitted
funds ($1 million).






