Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.13912-CHA
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PEOPLES'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
SECOND TECHNICAL COOPERATION PROJECT
(CPR 1664-CHA)
JANUARY 23, 1995
Private/Public Sector &
Technology Development Division
Asia Technical Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Yuan (Y)
December 1985                   November 1994
US$1 = Y3.20                    US$1 = Y8.519
Y1  = US$0.31                   Y1  = US$0.117
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CRISPP   -    China Reform, Institutional Support and Preinvestment Project
JGF       -    Japan Grant Facility
MOF       -    Ministry of Finance
PSSSP     -    Planning Support and Special Studies Project
TCC       -    Technical Cooperation Credit
UNDP      -    United Nations Development Programme



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
SECOND TECHNICAL COOPERATION CREDIT
(CREDIT 1664 - CHA)
Table of Contents
Preface      .       ..................................  i
Evaluation summary  .................................  ii
Part I      Project implementation assessment
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives.                                  1
B. Achievement of Objectives.                                           2
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project.                                4
D. Project Sustainability .                                            5
E. Bank Performance.                                                   5
F. Borrower Performance . .........................  6
G. Assessment of Outcome ...............                               7
H. Future Operations ................                                   8
I. Key Lessons Learned   ...........................  8
Part II     Statistical annexes
Table 1: Summary of Assessment . .................... 10
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits   .................. 11
Table 3: Project Timetable  ......................... 14
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual  . 15
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation  ....       ...... 15
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation  ....         ......... 15
Table 7: Studies included in Project .................... 15
Table 8a: Project Costs ................          I   ........... 16
Table 8b: Project Financing  ......................... 16
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits . ................. 16
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants  ................... 17
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements  ..... 17
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .................. 18
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions   ................... 19
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Appendixes:
A. Mission's aide-memoire (August 16, 1994)  ....            ......... 2()
B. Ministry of Finance's contribution to the ICR  ............ 23
C. Description of subprojects . ........          ............... 32



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
SECOND TECHNICAL COOPERATION CREDIT
(CREDIT 1664 - CHA)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Technical
Cooperation Credit in the People's Republic of China, for which Credit 1664-CHA in the
amount of SDR 18.0 million (US$20 million equivalent) was approved on March 13, 1986
and made effective on July 30, 1986. The Credit was closed on June 30, 1994, after two
years of extension. Final disbursement was made on October 30, 1994, at which time a
balance of SDR 459,049 was canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Keiko Sato, Private/Public Sector & Technology
Development Division, Asia Techiical Department and reviewed by Zafer Ecevit, Chief,
Country Operations Division, and Yo Kimura, Project Advisor, China and Mongolia
Department. The borrower provided comments that are included as an appendix to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR started in July 1994 during the Association's final
supervision/completion mission. It is based on material in the Project file. The borrower
contributed to preparation of the ICR by providing views reflected in the mission's aide-
memoire (Appendix A), preparing its own evaluation of the Project's execution and initial
preparation (Appendix B), and commenting on the draft ICR.






- 11 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SECOND TECHNICAL COOPERATION CREDIT
(Cpr. 1664 - CHA)
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.        The Second Technical Cooperation Credit (TCCII) was approved in 1986 to
assist the People's Republic of China with preparation of investment projects and
development of institutions. As an important element of the assistance strategy for the
country's economic reform and modernization process, the Bank has provided technical
assistance and training to the country since 1980. Prior to the Credit, a First Technical
Cooperation Credit, amounting to US$10 million, had financed preinvestment studies for
over 24 Bank-supported projects, and implementation of the project was generally
satisfactory.
Objectives
2.        The Project's major objectives were to provide an assured and flexible source of
financing for the preparation of projects to be financed by the Bank and to develop the
capacity of the Government as well as institutions involved with Bank operations to select
and prepare investment projects. The Project also aimed at reinforcing the local consulting
industry (see para. 3). The objectives were important for the development of the country as
well as the Bank's country assistance strategy (see para. 4 and 5).
Implementation Experience and Results
3.        The objectives were achieved satisfactorily. The Project financed 32 subprojects,
which led to 26 investment projects later financed by the Bank, and to development of four
key public institutions. The Project was also instrumental in expanding the Government's as
well as project implementing agencies' capacity to select and prepare investment projects.
The local consulting industry gained experience, especially in the fields of managing
international procurement processes and supervising civil works (see para. 7 - 9).
4.        Two major factors helped the Government achieve the objectives. The first is
the flexibility and simplicity of the Project design and the institutional arrangements to
implement the Project. The second factor is the country's commitment to prepare projects to
be financed by the Bank to support its rapid growth and economic reform. The performance
of the Bank, the borrower and implementing agencies during Project preparation and



- Ill -
implementation was satisfactory, which also helped the Government achieve the Project's
objectives (see para. 12 - 13).
5.         The outcome of the Project is satisfactory and substantial. The major outcome is
the development of a pipeline of investment projects suitable for financing by the Bank. In
addition, the capacity of the Government and implementing agencies to prepare and imple-
ment projects was significantly reinforced. Furthermore, the Project was instrumental in
making the Chinese Government, which at the early stage of Bank operations was reluctant
to use IDA credits for technical assistance, more receptive to using foreign technical
assistance for project design and technology transfer (see para. 24).
6.        Implementation was delayed, however, because of several factors including: the
Government's macroeconomic stabilization measures during 1988-91, which depressed
investment demand; and the limited capacity of the Government and implementing agencies
at the outset of the Project; and establishment of the Japan Grant Facility, which syphoned
off demand for Project funds (see para. 14 - 15).
7.         The Project cost estimate and implementation schedule at the time of appraisal
proved to be optimistic. At appraisal, it was expected that the Project would finance
preparation of projects in the FY87 and FY88 lending program and be fully disbursed in five
years. The Project, however, financed preparation of projects in FY87 to FY94 and took
eight years to be fully disbursed because of the factors mentioned above (see para 20).
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
8.         The Project proved to be an effective means of financing technical assistance
necessary for investment project preparation activities and capacity building in the country.
Several important requirements for future technical assistance activities in China emerge from
the experience under the Project (see para. 29 - 33). They are:
a) completion of detailed preparation and design of individual subprojects, especially
those for institutional development, at the appraisal stage;
b) establishment of appropriate mechanisms and processes for coordination and
periodic monitoring of subproject implementation;
c) a thorough understanding of Bank procedures for technical assistance by the
implementing agencies; and
d) assessment of training needs and careful design of training programs.
9.         Technical assistance for project preparation and further institutional development
is being provided to the country through two subsequent technical assistance projects, namely
Planning Support and Special Studies Credit (Cpr. 1835) and China Reform, Institutional
Support and Preinvestment Project (Cpr. 2447). The lessons learned from the Project have
been incorporated into these follow up projects.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
SECOND TECHNICAL COOPERATION CREDIT
(Cpr. 1664 - CHA)
Background
1.        The Second Technical Cooperation Credit (TCCII), approved in 1986 to succeed
the Technical Cooperation Credit I (TCCI), was designed to assist the People's Republic of
China with preparation of investment projects and development of institutions as the country
strived to deepen its economic reforms. The country's need for technical assistance at the
time of the credit approval was, and continues to be, massive as the country invested heavily
in physical infrastructure and production capacity to develop and expand its economy. The
demand for assistance for institutional development and policy advice also expanded as the
country moved further in the reforms of critical areas such as enterprise management, public
finance and financial intermediation.
2.        The experience from the previous operation, TCCI, was taken into the design of
TCCII. The flexibility and simplicity of the Project design and the institutional
arrangements, which were the major factors behind the satisfactory implementation of TCCI,
were applied to TCCII. While the borrower and Bank benefitted from the experience under
TCCI, given the nature of the Project most of the beneficiaries under TCCII, unlike other
repeater projects, were new. The lessons from TCCI could not be easily applied in this
regard.
A.  Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
3.        Objectives The objectives of the Technical Cooperation Credit II as defined in
the President's Report and Recommendation (P-4231-CHA) were:
a) To provide an assured and flexible source of financing for technical assistance for
the preparation of projects to be financed by the Bank Group;
b) To strengthen the Government's capacity to select and prepare investment projects;
c) To strengthen institutions involved with Bank Group operations, including the core
agencies;
d) To support the carrying out of economic and policy studies and contribute to the
professional development research agencies responsible for such study programs;
e) To strengthen the local consulting industry; and
f) To finance, in selected cases, technical assistance for preparation of investment
projects which may not be financed by the Bank Group.



-2 -
4.         Evaluation of Objectives  The primary objective of providing an assured and
flexible source of financing for technical assistance was recognized, by both the borrower
and Bank, as a key to the development of the country. When the Project was prepared and
appraised, the country had limited access to such financing for technical assistance. While
there were other sources of funds available such as the United Nations Development
Programme (UNDP), and other bilateral donors', these sources of funds were insufficient to
meet the requirements of what had become a rapidly expanding program.
5.         The other objectives were also important to both the borrower and the Bank.
The capacity of the Government and other agencies was not sufficient to manage as many
Bank-financed projects as the country needed at the time of Project appraisal, and it was
critical that the Project address the issue. From the Bank's point of view, these objectives
were essential since Bank-supported projects would not have been implemented satisfactorily
if the Government and agencies lacked the skills and capability to prepare, and manage
implementation of the projects.
6.         Because the Project was designed to provide a line of credit for a substantial
number of subprojects, Project management was demanding and staff-time intensive for both
the borrower and the Bank. The Ministry of Finance (MOF), which coordinated Project
activities, provided a significant amount of staff-time input to: (a) coordinate the activities of
32 subprojects; (b) monitor expenditures and a Special Account for the Project; and (c)
advise on the use of funds for would-be subproject agencies. The Bank staff input for
supervision was also substantial because of the number of subprojects involved.
B.   Achievement of Objectives
7.         Preparation of investment projects The primary objective of TCCII was well
achieved. The Project provided financing for 32 subprojects with total disbursements of
about US$19.5 million equivalent. This resulted in the preparation of 26 IBRD and/or IDA
financed investment projects2, with total investment financing of US$5.0 billion. Sectoral
distribution of these 26 projects is as follows: 8 energy sector, 8 environment, 2 industrial
development, 3 urban development, 3 transport and 2 agriculture development.
' UNDP provided US$1.8 million for preparation of Bank Group projects from 1982 to 1986
through a pre-investment Umbrella Project 1, US$3.2 million through the Umbrella Project II in 1986
to 1993 and about US$4.8 million through other free-standing technical assistance projects. Among
bilateral donors, Australia provided more than US$4 million for preparation of Bank Group projects
in energy and urban development during the first half of the 1980s. Other donors providing technical
assistance for project preparation include Canada, Germany, Japan, Norway, Sweden, the UK and the
U.S.
2 Two follow-up investment projects were canceled after the subprojects were implemented.



- 3 -
8.         Development of the Government capacity The Project was also instrumental in
developing the Government's capacity to select and prepare investment projects. Staff of
MOF and implementing agencies now rely less on foreign consultants for basic project
preparation activities such as simple bidding document preparation and management of civil
works. The Project provided a number of opportunities for MOF staff to work closely with
the Bank staff in identifying the need for TA for preparation of investment projects.
Furthermore, the staff were often involved in discussions on preinvestment studies among the
subproject agencies, international consultants and the Bank staff. Those opportunities
provided useful input to them in identifying issues in designing Project components,
procuring consultants, and training. For the subproject implementing agencies, substantial
transfer of knowledge was achieved through on-the-job training provided by foreign
consultants and training sessions, including study tours. Many subproject agencies evaluated
the expansion of the local capability as the major benefit of the Project.
9.         Enhancement of local consulting industry The Project was also valuable in
enhancing the capacity of the local consulting industry. The local consulting industry gained
experience, especially in the areas of procurement management and supervision of civil
works, through working closely with the foreign consultants retained by the subproject
implementing agencies. One local consulting firm who worked under the Shanghai Sewerage
Project Preparation acquired skills in preparing bidding documents for civil works and
equipment by working under the supervision of an international consultant team. The firm
was recognized as having such relevant expertise that it was retained for another subproject,
Medium Cities Development Project Preparation, financed under the Project. Local
consultants were also used to assist international consultant teams in appraising economic and
institutional aspects of project preparation. The exposure was quite relevant as economic and
institutional appraisal was a new exercise for local consultants. Recognizing the importance
of having local consultants gain more experience, the Government encouraged subproject
agencies to have a team of international and local consultants work on project preparation
and implementation.
10.       Development of the professional capacity of research agencies Assistance to the
Government in carrying out its economic and policy studies and development of the
professional capacity of research agencies was limited and the achievement of this particular
objective was partial. Only four subprojects addressed the issue3, because another technical
assistance project (Planning Support and Special Studies Project - PSSSP) was prepared to
respond to the Government's request for assistance to finance planning studies as inputs to
the Eighth Five-Year Plan (1991-95) and to provide support for research agencies' capacity
building and TCCII, in turn, was used to focus more on specific project preparation
activities.
3The four subprojects were: Subproject No. 10 - Henan Pharmaceutical Quality Control Center;
Subproject No. 12 - Strengthening Chemical Planning Institute's Planning Capacity; Subproject No.
30 - Development of Construction Industry; and Subproject No. 35 - Study on Stock Exchange
Executive Council's STAQ System.



- 4 -
11.        In view of the basic nature of this Project, neither an economic rate of return nor
net present value was calculated.
C.   Major Factors Affecting the Project
12.        Flexibility and simplicity of the Project design The flexibility and simplicity of
the Project design and the institutional arrangement helped the Government achieve the major
objective of preparing projects to be financed by the Bank. The Project was designed to
serve as a flexible source of financing, whereby the approval of the overall credit did not
depend on a prior determination of each discrete study to be financed by the credit, and the
proceeds from the credit were not pre-allocated. This permitted the Government to request
allocations for individual subprojects as the need arose. The institutional arrangement also
suited the effective implementation of the Project. MOF was designated as the sole entity
with the responsibility of overall coordination and subproject processing. This arrangement
worked well.
13.        Commitment of the borrower  The country's commitment to prepare projects to
be financed by the Bank to further its development and reform, coupled with its favorable
economic conditions, was another major factor behind the Project's success. Construction of
physical infrastructure, investment in production capacity, and provision of better public
utilities were necessary to support and augment the country's rapid growth and development.
It was essential for the Government to utilize the Project proceeds to respond to growing
demand for these investments. The favorable economic conditions during Project
implementation, except for several years, promoted and necessitated the preparation of these
investment projects as well.
14.        Economic stabilization and other adverse factors There were factors that
adversely affected Project implementation: i.e. (a) the Government's austere measures to
stabilize the economy from 1988 to 1991; (b) the limited capacity of MOF as coordinator at
the outset of the Project; and (c) the subproject implementing agencies' limited capacity to
undertake preparation activities (the last two factors will be discussed under the subtitle
Borrower Performance). Project implementation was affected by the serious economic
stabilization initiatives taken by the Government in 1988 to 1991. The period witnessed the
authorities' preoccupation with macroeconomic stabilization and caused a slow-down in
project preparation activities. The project preparation activities were delayed and little was
committed and disbursed during 1989 and 1990. Project implementation would also have
been accelerated had some subprojects been prepared before Project start-up, rather than all
subproject being identified and prepared during implementation.
4This did not prove to be a problem during TCCI implementation since there was an extensive
effort to identify subprojects at the start-up of the project.



- 5 -
15.       Establishment of JGF  The establishment of JGF in 1987 affected Project
implementation as well, as some implementing agencies opted for JGF grants over more
expensive TCCII funds. China started using the Facility in 1988 and was successful in
receiving 35 grants, amounting to Yen 5.6 billion (about US$40 million), during the Project
implementation period. Two subproject agencies cancelled their application for TCCII
funding after they received JGF grants for project preparation. This delayed Project progress
as the funds allocated to these subprojects had to be redistributed to other subprojects at a
later stage. Nonetheless, even with JGF funding of 5 to 6 project preparation activities per
year, TCCII funds were used as the country's need for technical assistance funding grew
rapidly.
D.   Project Sustainability
16.       The sustainability of the Project, defined as the commitment of the borrower to
further economic development by acquiring appropriate technology and international
experience, is likely to be maintained. First, the Project had significant impact on the
capacity of the Chinese Government as well as the implementing agencies to prepare and
implement projects. Second, they have recognized the need for appropriate design of
investment projects, including selection of relevant technology, and appraisal of economic,
financial and institutional options. This perception has led the Government to borrow two
subsequent IDA credits for project preparation and institutional building (PSSSP and China
Reform, Institutional Support and Preinvestment Project - CRISPP) and two other sectoral
technical assistance credits, the Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project (Cpr.2423) and
the Environment Technical Assistance Project (Cpr.2522). In addition, an Economic Law
Reform Project was recently approved by the Board (Cpr.2654) and a Fiscal and Tax Reform
Technical Assistance Project is being prepared currently.
E.   Bank Performance
17.       The Bank's performance in identifying the needs and preparing and supervising
the Project was, in general, satisfactory. The Project was identified in May 1985 and
appraised in December 1985. Bank staff resources leading to appraisal totaled 11.2 staff-
weeks, and 6.7 staff weeks of supervision were spent per year for the life of the Projects.
18.       Bank initiatives during implementation  Bank supervision missions met with
MOF regularly to review the progress and identify problems arising from Project
implementation. Measures to remedy the problems such as slow disbursement and sporadic
and inappropriate reporting on subprojects' progress were suggested by Bank and undertaken
5 The staff-weeks include only the work of the managing division and do not include
time spent by sector divisions for subprojects' supervision which were charged directly to
subsequent projects' preparation and appraisal activities.



- 6 -
by the borrower. For example, a format for reporting subprojects' progress was prepared by
Bank to assist MOF monitor the Project implementation. Bank also assisted the borrower
and the implementing agencies in raising the quality of subprojects' design. In addition to
the supervision missions, biannual Country Implementation Review Meetings provided good
fora to review the overall performance of technical assistance activities and identify measures
to deal with problems such as procurement of international consultants. Bank supervision,
however, could have provided more support to training implementing agencies' staff
understand the Bank procedures on procuring consultants.
19.       Project supervision was staff-time intensive as the Project provided support to 32
subprojects. Coordination of Bank staff supervising subprojects took much time since staff
from several divisions of two Departments in the Region were involved.
20.        The Project cost estimate and implementation schedule at the time of appraisal
proved to be optimistic. At appraisal, it was expected that the Project would mainly finance
preparation of projects in FY87 and FY88 and be fully disbursed in five years. The Project,
however, financed preparation of projects in FY87 to FY94 and took eight years to be fully
disbursed.
F.   Borrower Performance
21.        Performance of the borrower MOF, responsible for coordinating Project
activities and monitoring disbursement, managed the Project well, although its contribution
was limited at the early stage of implementation. In 1989, MOF established a division
within its World Bank Department to oversee all Bank-supported technical assistance
activities. Establishment of the division together with the training provided to the division by
Bank staff helped improve Project coordination significantly. For example, the division
organized a technical assistance seminar inviting all agencies involved in Bank projects to
share experiences. It further prepared procurement documents for consultancy assignments
and a standard Letter of Invitation for subproject agencies, and issued a guideline for
overseas study tours.  However, the division's role in advising the agencies of identifying
the needs for technical assistance and designing better subprojects was rather limited. The
division could have played a much more significant role if the staff had been trained to
provide such advice.
22.        Performance of implementing agencies Despite the fact that there were over 30
subproject implementing agencies and that most of them were new to Bank procedures in
managing technical assistance, the agencies' performance was satisfactory. The agencies,
with substantial assistance from Bank and MOF staff, implemented planned activities with
minor problems. The difficulty in training all the agencies thoroughly in Bank procedures,
including preparation of Terms of Reference and contracting out assignments, resulted in a
delay of implementation at the outset of the Project, however. It also led to dissatisfaction
over the work of consultants in several cases, which is discussed in para. 30 below.



23.        Lack of progress reporting Monitoring and reporting of subproject progress by
MOF and the implementing agencies were not regularly undertaken. The semi-annual
progress reports were provided only occasionally for the first six years of Project
implementation. The issue was taken up several times during supervision missions, but it
was not until Bank took the initiative to prepare a format for reporting that MOF
systematically collected progress reports from implementing agencies.
G.   Assessment of Outcome
24.        Development of a pipeline of projects and long-term benefit The major outcome
of the Project was the development of a pipeline of projects suitable for financing by IBRD
and/or IDA. In addition, the strengthening of capacity of MOF and the implementing
agencies to prepare and implement projects was noteworthy. The Project's long-term benefit
was that the Chinese Government, which was reluctant to use IDA credits for technical
assistance at the early stage of Bank operations, has appreciated the benefit of foreign
technical assistance for Project design and technology transfer as a result of the Project and
has now become more receptive to the use of Bank funds for technical assistance. One case
study conducted by the (then) Ministry of Water Resources and Electric Power, a recipient of
TCCI, concluded that hiring foreign consultants resulted in a significant saving of investment
and better technical design of a hydroelectric power station, well compensating for the funds
used to hire foreign consultants. The domestic consulting industry's capacity was also
expanded through a number of assignments with foreign consultants.
25.        Use of foreign consultants  Two problems limited productive use of Project
funds. The major problem relates to the use of foreign consultants specifically for
economic/sector and institutional development studies. In several cases, the need for such
consultancy assignments was not carefully assessed and the necessity to undertake such
studies was not well understood by the subproject agencies. The agencies were not strongly
committed to the assignment. Furthermore, these subproject agencies had little experience in
selecting experienced consultants and managing the complex assignments. These cases
resulted in subproject agencies' dissatisfaction with the work of consultants and protracted
negotiations over the rewriting of final reports and provision of final payments.
26.        This dissatisfaction contrasts sharply with a number of technology-related
transfers of knowledge appreciated by other subproject agencies. The difference in
perception of consultants' contribution stems from the fact that: (a) economic/sector and
institutional development studies bring in totally new concepts, the benefits of which are
difficult to measure by Chinese institutions; and (b) expertise necessary to conduct such
studies needs far more understanding of specific Chinese conditions than engineering related
and/or procurement management consulting services.
27.        Design of training components Another problem relates to the design of training
components under the Project. The assessment of needs was not carefully undertaken for a



number of training components. The design of training components for several subprojects
was poorly done and resulted in costly and unfocused training activities, including overseas
study tours. Recognizing the problem, MOF issued a guideline for the use of funds for
overseas study tours for subproject agencies. Since the guideline was limited to procedural
matters, it did not have much impact on raising the quality of training programs.
H.   Future Operations
28.        Technical assistance for project preparation and further institutional development
is being provided to the country through PSSSP and CRISPP.
I.    Key Lessons Learned
29.        The experiences under the Project suggest several important criteria for effective
implementation of technical assistance activities in China. They are: (a) detailed preparation
and design of individual subprojects, especially for subprojects intended for institutional
development, at the appraisal stage; (b) appropriate mechanisms and processes for
coordination and periodic monitoring of subproject implementation; (c) a thorough
understanding of Bank procedures for technical assistance on the part of implementing
agencies; and (d) assessment of training needs and careful design of training programs.
a) Preparation of subprojects at the time of appraisal
30.        While the flexibility in the Project design was a major reason for satisfactory
implementation by allowing funds to be allocated for new subprojects during implementation,
the lack of any subprojects identified at the appraisal stage delayed project start-up. Only
seven subprojects had been approved almost two years after credit effectiveness. The
flexibility also resulted in approval of less well designed subprojects, especially for
institutional building, since the Government and Bank tried to expedite the allocation of the
credit during implementation. The flexibility and simplicity of technical assistance project
design should not mean that less effort is required in designing subprojects. It is
recommended that, while keeping flexibility in the design of an overall project, a pipeline of
well defined and designed subprojects be prepared at the appraisal, covering at least the first
year or two of implementation. Subprojects designed for institutional building, in particular,
need to be carefully designed to address clearly the identified needs of recipients.
b) Appropriate coordination and monitoring mechanism
31.        Coordination and monitoring of subproject implementation are critical for the
success of this type of investment-support technical assistance project. The coordination
work needs to be undertaken by a Government agency which can effectively work closely
with various government agencies and assign qualified staff for the activity. The quality of
staff should be strengthened by training if deemed necessary, as was the case of TCCII. For



- 9 -
monitoring of subproject implementation, provision of a simple report format and/or a check-
list designed to identify problems in implementation proved to be useful.
c) Understanding of Bank procedures
32.        A thorough understanding of the use of consultants and the procurement process
benefits implementing agencies. Such training should be undertaken at the time of project
launch workshops and not as late as when agencies utilize funds to prepare projects. The
Bank and the coordinating agency need to pay greater attention to familiarizing staff of
implementing agencies with the Bank's procurement procedures, especially those for
consultants, in assisting them with project preparation. For consultancy assignments for
policy advice and/or institutional development studies, implementing agencies should be
encouraged strongly to assess their problems and define the expected consultancy assignment
themselves. The Bank should supervise the procurement of these consultants more
intensively than others to ensure quality of services.
d) Training needs assessment
33.        Training activities will have much greater impact if identified needs are
incorporated into the design of projects. Design of training activities should start with a
careful review of the implementing agency's set-up and need for training. New institutions
in China tend to think training alone will help solve many of their problems. Professional
support for the review of institutional set-up and design of appropriate programs should be
provided by the coordinating agency or the Bank.



- 10 -
PART It
Page 1 o 10
CHINA
TECHNICAL COOPERATION CREDIT II
(CREDIT 1664-CHA)
TABLE 1: Summary of Assessments
A Achievement of objectives         Substantial          Partial               Negligible             Not applicabte
Macro policies
Sector policies                                                                                             4
Financial objectives                                                                                        4
Institutional development               V
Physical objectives                     V
Poverty reduction                                                                                           /
Gender issues                                                                                               J
Other social objectives                                                                                     V
Environmental objectives
Public sector management                                     4
Private sector development                                                                                  J
Other                                                                                                       S
B. Project sustainability              Likely              Unlikely              Uncertain
Ii
C Bank performance                    Highly
satisfactory         Satisfactory           Deficient
Identification
Preparation assistance                                       V
Appraisal                                                    4
Supervision                                                  4
D Borrower performance
Preparation                                                  V
Implementation                                               4
Covenant compliance                                           J
E. Assessment of outcome,             Highly                                                             HIghly
satisfactory         Satisfactory         Unsatisfactory          unsatishfctory
'I



- 11 -
PART II
.Tdls 2 o10
CHINA
TECHNICAL COOPERATION CREDIT II
(CREDIT 1664-CHA)
TABLE 2 Relied Bank Lo/a1Cnedlt
LonCredit Te                           Purpose                  Year of approval      Stats
Precedin Opeatons
1. Techical Coop on             Fhincig of pdaeinv e  stds                        1983    Cld
Credit - TCC I (Cr. 1412)
Folowhn Operaiom
1. Cement Prced (Ln. 3443)      Support of Chnme cemnt ndustry                    1987    Acdl
though: regioral cnt producton &
dsd Albon schem; rehabilitation of
p- ntr engdtng   cement industry
h ies; study of operaofflency
prom    of pring rform.
2. Power Vl (Wuing) (Ln. 2852)   Reducio in por consumption and                   1967    Acte
sxnded  arwyp moH  throgh
techodg rbanser, aff trabing and
inOAblon .t
3. Shnghal Sewage (Ln. 2794)    Impvmet of Shanhai envIro        t                1967    Acte
tugh        g h edae facil
for th remowul and dsposal Of
w_tewr and to atea and develop
t  Institions for prvdin sweag
evice, managi  watr resource and
1  protcn th envInront.
4. Dalian Port (Ln. 2907)        Improvemnt of ports adm*niaon and                1988    Acde
enrgent Of it capacity to handle
cup flow.
5. Ertan Hydro (Ln. 3387)       Prvs    additional geration                       1991    Acdve
capaity Introdction of moden
tchnokog  and efficient dwm con-
sbucton methde.
S. Shanga Port Resortion         Ronalztlon of ongem devlpmnt                     1993    AclIe
and Development (Ln. 3562)       of the port and ailties; provding
adoIW  capwAi Incroeasi  effickwn
wih modrn technkqe
7. MedIum Sied Cite Develop-     Imp_rovet of ng conditions In 3                  1991    Acte
mint (Ln. 3286)                 ci  by llnkg cmprheniv panrig
with ntrodution of. eforms to kVrov
u  of ddting facili  and pv4de
more approprdi Mancin  mehwanims.
8. Yanshl Therml (Ln. 3433)      Constuction of nww adterson of                   1992    Acte
aidg       ; monitoring fbr
enIonmwnW proecton;  hing.



- 12 -
PART II
Tabile 3 of 10
Loan/Cre  Toe                         Purpoe                   Y"r of approval      Ststus
9. TIaIn Ugtt Indusby (Cr. 3022)   Assstnc hI kuplemetilon of                   1969    ActI
devslopment program by system renon
modernization and redVuct   of
erises.
10. Deguangbahnan (Ln. 3412)   Promion of econoic growth wnd                    1991    AcdI
alviation of povty though  r d
developmeont o cost-effecbte hydCPWr
hcsed agdculbx  produci; Impd
wnvrwmt qly and pubic heat.
11 .Ioning Urban Inha0sucur   Improvement of uilzat  and mange                 1991    Actdho
(Cr. 2219)                      mard owater resouroes and mnage-
mwrt of urban trnport.
12. Zouxian Thewl Powr          Contuction of gnerag unis,                      1992    Actv
Ston (Ln. 3462)                 rnsmision lines and substao  and
develpmret of plan for Imp
tarff sntrcture.
13. Xaangdl Multipurpose Dam    Proison of flood protecon, gerate               1994    Active
(Ln. 3727)                      hydropowr and supply Irrigaton watr
and more stasN water supple.
14 Jisu Provincial              Upgradin of kiland waways and                   1991    Actve
Tranport (Ln. 3316)             highvays which prvide accass to
80% of all Industrial protion
hI soutn Jngsu.
15. BeiIn Erwironment (Ln. 3415)   Strengthening enironmt planning              1991    Actv
and maagent capabiles and plan
and carry out spefic polon abate-
mawt efforts.
1S. How Agrcuure (Cr. 2242)    Support deelopmet pian which aIm                 1991    Acthve
to aevIae poty and increase
farmer ucomes in 20 of poorest are.
17. Zhejan Muli-Cities          Strengtherng of panni  and dery                 1993    Actie
D      _velpmert (Cr. 2475)     of urban services to four mr cities.
18. Tlarhuingplng Hydro (Ln. 3606) Allviation of pwr sotge thrugh               1993    Actv
constructon of new plant; and hmpve
mnagemet and organizaion.
19. Sldn Gas Development        Restructuring, hnvesbener and Inituion          1994    Acdv
and Consvaton (Ln. 3716)         uIldig.
20. South Jbngpu Environment    Reduction of th widening gap betwen             1993    Actv
(Ln. 3582)                      economic development and enion-
menta proecton .
21. Tarnng Industry II (Ln. 3572)    RestrctrIg o the ndustrI sector.           1993    Actv
22. Chwnchun Water Supply      lrprovert of watr spply to urban                 1993    Actve
and Enviorwnrt (Cr. 2457)       popuAtion and Industry, reduction of
xdustal and domestic water
polldo and reaton of a demonstIon
project to be shared wth ohr
municiales.



PART II
Tabl 4 of d10
LoanlCredltTie                        Purpos                  Yea of apprv          Stabus
23. Shaghai Envormt (Ln. 3711) Inverment rogram of environvnelly                1994    Acde
oriented capibl works and rmke
hsiona steghnn tDo proide
sf drin watr.
24. Grain Dstbion (Ln. 3624)    Support of grain sector rform; assisntea        1993    Acde
In Institutional and infrastwe develop-
maw in ommoity marits and kpve
efficiny of domesic and hWamaioni
grain trba
25. Uaonirn Ervironment (Ln. 3781) Protecton of main water reaouce h Linonin    1994    Acdh
Provnce to aIow sustaind economic and
safe use; stranghan   of pridcg poicie
and hdin ional arangemt for evfrn-
maw  protec;on and instituting of air polluion
contro measures and cuural hetag
_mamgemet.
26. Environmental T.A. (Cr. 2522)   Support of aeed environmental               1967    Acte
o,,d      throgh the prvision of T.A. to
srnte the capacities and seiected
polcies and programs o NEPA and CAS.
Reltd Operations
1. Planning Support and Special  Strengt       of the Governnrts ovel           1987    Acde
Studies (Cr. 1835)              devWment poicy and plan    capabl
Iderificaton and mpWnwertaton of T.A.
actvitis and Oe program of economIc,
financial and Institutional reform
reform.
2. Reform, Instirul Support     Support f overall economic reform and           1992   Actve
and Preirheetment (CRISP)       modernrzation effort and help strngt
(Cr. 2447)                      selcted key insttion responsie for
polcy, resach, taining and honrmeao.
3. Fnancal Sector T.A.          Support of development of effcint and           1993   Active
(Cr. 2423)                      stable financia sector by engthening key
financrl sector horu Irnmprovmnt
of efficiency in resoure ndoila  and
alocation.
4. Economic Law Reform          Supporting economic reforn by assisting In      1994    Approed
(Cr. 2654)                      prpatn o  conmic lWgion In
pi woyae  training law teachers, 
pnAtioners, and egai and otiw
peronl In Govemmwt depwbnt in
th tueoy and practce of me new lea
frtmewor strengthng of key bocal
inuons resposible fr legisbion and
innffwtation of economic law.
Proposed Lendhg Operation
1. Fical and Tax Reform TA.     Supporbtng Government In knplementlng fiscal            In
and tax reform, and In design of future reforms.        prpation



- 14 -
PART II
Page 5 of 10
CHINA
TECHNICAL COOPERATION CREDIT II
(CREDIT 1664-CHA)
TABLE 3: Prod Terable
Stp n p d cycle                     Doee plwnned                     Dab
laee eabmata
kderification                     May 1986                         May 19865
Prepaion                          July 1985                        July 1985
Appraied                          N/A                               December 1985
NegoabRors                        Febuary 1986                      Febxary 1986
Board pwenton                     3/4/86                            Mach 1986
Sognin                            N/A                               April 1986
Effldivena                        July 1986                        July 1986
Proiectao  x                      12131i91                         June 1994
Lown ckorg                        &M3                    I         Jun 1994



- 15 -
PART 11
CHINA                                                  Pgp6 ado 10
TECHNICAL COOPERATION CREDIT II
(CREDIT 1S64-CHA)
TABLE 4: LownCruat DIbuew.mts:
CumuIv E  rd nid A1
(USS Voinxd)
FY87      FY8       FY89     FY10      FY91      FY92       FY3       FY94
Appridl o th                      2,000.0   5,000.0   6,000.0   5,000.0   2,000.0
AckmI                             1,890.8   1,236.4   1396.4         0   3.532.0   3,170.2   4,82.2   7.030.8
Acim _ % dofmg                      94.5      24.6      23.3         0     176.0
De of firml dlb bsemwt        October 1994
TABLE 5: Key IndIcktom for Pro.d Implmetation
Aot applabe
TABLE 6: Key Indkrs for Pq Opraon
Not appcable
TABLE 7: Studb. Inckuded In Projed
Reer to Appwnk C



- 16 -
PART II
Page 7 of 10
CHINA
TECHNICAL COOPERATION CREDIT II
(CREDIT 1684-CHA)
TABLE &A Project Costs
Appraisl Estimate (USSM)                 Actual atest Estimate (USSM)
Local       Foreign                      Locl         Foreign
Codts        Cods           Totbl        Coo           Costs          Totl
Roem
Cor_it              2.0          13.0          15.0           4.9          21.2          26.1
Trainirg            1.9           5.1           7.0           1.4           1.9           3.3
Equipment           0.1           0.9           1.0           0.7           1.0           1.7
National            4.0              -          4.0
personnel
TOTAL               8.0          19.0          27.0           7.0          24.1          31.1
TABLE 88: Project Financing
Apraisal Estimate (USSM)                 Actual Aatest Estimate (USSM)
Local       Foreign                      Local        Foreign
Costs        Costs          Total        Costs         Costs         Total
Source
IBRDtlDA            1.0          19.0          20.0                        24.1          24.1
Cofinancing
insWons
Other extemal
sources
Domestic            7.0                         7.0           7.0                         7.0
contribubon
TOTAL               8.0          19.0          27.0           7.0          24.1          31.1
TABLE 9: Economic CostS and Benefits
Not applicable



- 17 -
PART H
Pap 8 of 10
CHN
TECHNICAL COOPERATION CREWT I
(CM  1U4CA
TAE 10: Staue of Lega Cownat
O0wid        Rwvied
Co_*ww       P reeei     FuIlImet    Fulmwt    Decpo of
Aarewnwt      Secion      Type         Sbe           Dde          Dde         Covenat        Cotmmet
C&dt        4.01      Financ       C            WWi 6 M.                   Sbndard
schwo                     finacia
TABLE 11: Compiance w, Opeatona Manua Stbmeeia
N:otapa



- 18 -
PART II
Page 9 of 10
CHINA
TECHNICAL COOPERATION CREDIT II
(Credit 1664-CHA)
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of              Planned             Revised               Actual
project cycle     Weeks      USS      Weeks       USS      Weeks       USS
Through appraisal                                                    3.0
Appraisal-Board                                                      8.2
Board-effectiveness
Supervision                                                         53.5
Completion
TOTAL              N/A                  N/A                       64.7



- 19 -
PART II
Pop 10 Of 10
CHINA
TECHNICAL COOPERATION CREDIT II
(Cred 1064-CHA)
Table 13: Ber* Resouroes: MIsson
P. 3           anc ' r m-
Number               SpecIzed    Implemer-   Develop-
Stage Of       MonttV      Of      Days in    saff skiAs      taHo          n       Types of
Prplc Cycle       Yew      persons     fied     reprserted      stdts      oPbc       poW
Through apprai
Appra" mrough    5/85                1
Bowd approval
Bwd  Wva
ftrogh effecivne
Supevion
2187              1         1 7
4/88              2         10
2A89              2          8
8/8a              2                                      1          1
3/90              2                                      2          1
7/90              2                                      2          1
11/90             1         10                           2          1
7/92              2                                      2          1
3193              2         1 1                          2          1
11/93             1         20                           2          1
8194              1         16
Completion



- 20 -                         APPENDIX A
Page 1 of 3
Aide Memoire
Technical Cooperation Credit II
August 16, 1994
Introduction
1.     A World Bank mission' visited Beijing and Tianjin, China from July 26 to August 1 for the final
supervision of Technical Cooperation Credit II (TCCII). The mission had meetings with the Deputy Director of
the World Bank Department and staff of Technical Assistance and Training Division (TATD), World Bank
Department, the Ministry of Finance. The mission also held meetings with six subproject agencies including the
Chinese Academy of Science, Ministry of Construction, the Beijing Finance Bureau, Chemical Planning
Institute, Tianjin Finance Bureau and Tianjin World Bank Project Office. The meetings were to review the
implementation of subproject activities and to assess the outcome. The mission expresses its appreciation to
TATD for the cooperation and kind hospitality extended.
2.     TCCII, which provided financing for 32 subprojects2 to prepare for Bank investment projects and to
strengthen institutions involved in Bank operations, was completed in June 1994. All the subprojects, except for
a couple, were completed and 93% of total credit (SDR18 million) had been disbursed as of July 1994.
Remaining subprojects entities are expected to complete review of final reports submitted by consultants soon
and the remaining fund will be disbursed by the end of October 94.
3.     The following sections record the views of the Bank, the Ministry of Finance and implementing
agencies on the project implementation and the Ministry of Finance's plan to improve technical assistance
activities.
The World Bank View of the Proiect Implementation
4.     The Bank expressed that the overall project implementation had been satisfactory. The project achieved
the major objectives as set forth in the President Report and Recommendation. The objectives of the project
were to:
a) provide an assured and flexible source of financing for technical assistance for the preparation of
projects to be financed by the Bank Group;
b) strengthen the Government's capacity to select and prepare investment projects;
c) strengthen institutions involved in Bank operations;
d) support the carrying out of economic and policy studies and contribute to the professional
development of research agencies; and
e) strengthen the local consulting industry.
5.     Clearly, the Chinese government could not have prepared as many projects as the Bank now finances
without TCCII. Other sources of financing for technical assistance such as UNDP and bilateral grants were
limited in volume and were not readily available.
6.     The project's achievement was more than the preparation of investment projects to be financed by the
Bank. Through TCCII, a number of project entities gained experience in managing project preparation such as
identifying the needs, managing the bidding process and contracting out consultancy activities. The project
entities also benefitted much from expanded contacts with international engineering and consulting firms through
TCCII. Also, the local consulting industry's capacity was strengthened as staff worked jointly with international
'The missions comprised of Keiko Sato, TA/Operations Officer, ASTTP.
2A11 the subprojects and their follow-up investment projects are listed in Attachment I.



- 21 -                           APPENDIX  A
Page 2 of 3
experts. The project also supported a number of training activities in China and overseas; most training proved
to be useful for project office staff though the activities could have benefitted from better designing.
7.     The review of subprojects' implementation and discussions with subproject entities, however, indicate
that there were several problems that limited productive use of TCCII. The major problem relates to the use of
foreign consultants. For a number of subprojects, especially for those who used international consultants for
economic/sector and institutional development studies, the need for such consultants was not carefully assessed
by the subproject entities. There were cases where such assignment was not clearly committed and owned by
the subproject entities. These cases resulted in subproject entities' dissatisfaction with the work of consultants
and protracted negotiations over the rewriting of final reports and last payment.
8.     The needs assessment was not carefully undertaken for many training components as well. The
designing of training components for several subprojects was poorly done and they resulted in costly and
unfocused study tours. Other problems relate to implementation arrangement for the overall project. Reporting
of subprojects by project entities was not regularly undertaken. TATD's role at the early stage of TCCII was
limited just to financial recording and the division was not able to provide an effective coordination role, though
it has strengthened its capacity later on. With regard to the Bank's role, communication among the Bank staff
in managing the project was not systematic and needed some improvement.
The Ministry of Finance's View as Proiect Coordinator
9.      The Ministry of Finance expressed its satisfaction with the project's overall implemenzation. It agrees
with the Bank that TCCII provided readily available funding for project preparation and was instrumental in
promoting economic reform. The use of international consultants through TCCII was valuable for China to
acquire new technology and management practice. Also, the local consulting industry's capacity was
strengthened through TCCII.
10.    MOF pointed out three problems encountered by the subproject entities during the implementation of
TCCII. MOF recognizes the problems related to hiring of international consultants, especially in the field of
strategic plans and sectoral studies. In MOF's view, several consultants retained for such studies had limited
knowledge of the Chinese situation, ignored fundamental conditions of the country, and came up with
recommendations which were impractical. Subprojects entities should have been better trained to select
qualified consultants and to utilize them more effectively. MOF also expressed its concern over the use of local
consultants through TCCII. Local consultants were not utilized fully and appropriately and there was not much
effort to identify the qualified local consultants either by subproject entities or by the Bank.
lI.    The effectiveness of overseas training and investigation tours financed by TCCII was questioned by
MOF. While MOF attaches importance to training in general, overseas training and tours should be considered
as a supplement to local training. TCCII subproject entities should have been discouraged from undertaking
unfocused overseas training/investigation.
Proiect Implementinz Agencies' View
12.    While the mission was able to meet with only six subproject entities, it reviewed all the subproject
entities' reports on their implementation. In general, subproject entities have expressed their satisfaction with
using TCCII. The project clearly helped institutions prepare critical components of the follow-up investment
projects. In many cases, transfer of technology and know-how from international consultants to subproject
entities' staff helped to strengthen local capacity. As for training provided through TCCII, most subproject
entities noted the effectiveness and usefulness of such a component.
13.    A few subproject entities expressed their dissatisfaction with consultants' work. The dissatisfaction
resulteca from four reasons: a) the need for such consultancy assignments was not clearly understood or
appreciated by the subproject entities; b) the subproject entities did not have much choice on the selection of
consultants as they did not have much information; c) some consultants had little knowledge of the Chinese



APPENDIX A
- 22 -                           Page 3 of 3
situation and project entities had to spend much time teaching them; and d) consultants did not meet the
subproject entities' expectation because of the lack of capacity and understanding of the assignment. These
subproject entities expressed their willingness to share their experience with others and learn from others. They
also asked the mission to for more detailed training on consultant's selection and evaluation procedures.
Preparation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
14.    The mission and TATD agreed to take following four steps for preparation of ICR for the project:
a) TATD will request all subproject entities to prepare their subproject completion report, taking into
consideration comments made by the mission and receive such reports by mid-September;
b) TATD will prepare by end-November
i) overall project account,
ii) expenditures by categories, i.e. consultants, equipment and training, and
iii) an estimate of local costs;
c) the Bank will prepare a draft ICR and send the draft to TATD for its comments by the first week of
November; and
d) TATD will review the draft ICR and send its own contribution by the end of November.
15.    Since TCCII is not an investment project, an operational plan will not be prepared.
MOF's Plan for Improving Technical Assistance Activities
16.    MOF proposed several measures to improve MOF's as well as the project entities' capacity to manage
technical assistance activities. These measures include: identifying and listing of local experts qualified to work
on the World Bank projects, periodical recording of technical assistance activities financed through the World
Bank free-standing TA credits and grants (such as IDF and JGF), strengthening of TATD's coordinating role
for all TA activities, screening of overseas study tour proposals by the World Bank Department and organizing
a seminar on TA management. As for the seminar on TA management, it is proposed to be a forum for all the
project entities who utilized the Bank TA fund to exchange their experience and to learn better management of
TA activities. The Bank staff will also be invited. The mission proposed using the opportunity to train project
staff on consultancy appointment process in detail. It was agreed that MOF and the mission will exchange ideas
on the proposed seminar to make the best use of such an opportunity.



- 23 -
APPETDIX B
Page 1 of 9
Project Objective and Design from the Borrower's Perspective
A. Formation of Project
2.01  While the bulk of Bank-financed technical assistance to China has been included as
components of larger investment projects in various sectors, the Bank has also provided IDA
credits specifically tailored to meet the needs of technical assistance in China.  The First
Technical Cooperation Project was considered by both the Government and IDA as a successful
and effective vehicle in achieving its objectives, particularly to support preparation of projpcts
financed by the IBRD and IDA. With the increasing number of Bank-financed projects,jthere
was a strong need for a more flexible financial source of technical assistance to help preparation
of the projects.
2.02  In light of the expanding Bank program in China, and the need to supplement the existing
financial sources of technical assistance, it was agreed in 1986 to pursue Second Technical
Cooperation Project in China. Negotiations on the proposed credit equivalent to SDR 18.0
million were held in Washington, D.C. from February 3 to February 6, 1986. The Government
and IDA agreed that the project should be designed in line with the TCC I, the first freestanding
technical assistance project effectively operated in China, i.e. a project mainly composed by
discrete subproejcts each one of them was for project preparation or review of the feasibility of
an investment project. It was understood that subprojects financed under the Project must be
discussed and mutually agreed by both IDA and the Government. The Development Credit
Agreement was signed on April 16, 1986 and the project became effective on July 30, 1986.
B.     Project Obiectives and Description



- 24 -                         APPE1TDIX B
-age 2 of 9
2.03 The principal objective of the Second Technical Cooperation Project was to provide an
assured and flexible source of financing for the preparation of high priority projects to be
financed by the Bank Group.  Other objectives comprised strengthening capacity of the
Government and capacity of institutions involved in Bank operations in China; selecting and
preparing investment projects; supporting the economic and policy studies and the professional
development of research institutes; as well as strengthening local consulting industry.
2.04 TCC II has financed 37 subprojects for preparation of the Bank investment projects and
for strengthening of institutions with high-priority technical assistance needs. The Government
could not have prepared so many projects for the Bank Financing without TCC II. Other
sources of financing for the technical assistance such as UNDP and bilateral grants were limited
in volume and were not readily available. The implementation method and credit allocation for
individual subprojects would be determined on a case-by-case basis following a detailed
discussion between the line ministries and the Ministry of Finance. It was understood that
subprojects should be firmed up by both the Government and IDA accordingly. Accoretng to
the Credit Agreement (Section 3.01), the subproject should be of high priority in the
Government's economic development plan and consistent with the Bank Group's lending strategy
for China. Subprojects or activities financed by the Credit included inputs for feasibility studies
of large projects, assisting or reviewing other feasibility and prefeasibility studies and other
preparation work such as arranging expert panels, hiring individual specialists and carrying out
study tours as well as other activities designed for strengthening institutions responsible for
project preparation and implementation.
2.05 It was estimated at the preparation stage that the project would cover a seven year period
(FY 86-92), six years for commitment and a seventh year to complete disbursement. The
closing Date for disbursement was established as of June 30, 1992.
C.     Proiect Design and Organization
2.06  Based on the main objectives mentioned above, the Project was prepared on the basis of
the understanding between the Government and IDA that no adequate funds for preparation of



APPENDIX B
- 25 -                        Page 3 of 9
projects to be financed by the Bank Group were available from other sources, and such
preparation fund had to be provided under TCC II on a case-by-case basis. There was also a
clear understanding between the Government and IDA, however, that the Government would
continue to utilize grant from UNDP and bilateral sources whenever it was suitable and readily
available. The TCC II would fill the need for an assured and flexible means of financing only
when other sources were not available.
2.07 The TCC II was designed to serve as a flexible line of credit, the approval of the overall
Credit did not depend on a prior determination of each discrete study to be financed by the
Credit. Since all of the subprojects could not be identified at the time of preparation, the
proceeds of the Credit were not fully preallocated. This allowed the Government to have credit
new subprojects when there was a need. The simplicity and flexibility of the procedures for
commitment and disbursements of credit funds was, in turn, permitted the credit proceeds.be
used to meet urgent needs which often could not be foreseen well in advance. The timinf of
the Project was appropriate for providing an assured source of foreign exchange to technical
assistance activities at that time.
2.08  During project design, considerable attention was paid -to the close coordination by both
IDA and the Government. The large number of subprojects, with different contents and
objectives, made the coordination a crucial concern in monitoring the project as a whole.
During the project appraisal, the overall responsibility for the implementation of the entire credit
was given to the External Finance Department (EFD) of the Ministry of Finance (MOF). As
a general rule, MOF would not agree to proceed subprojects for project preparation until such
project had been approved for Bank Group financing by the State Planning Commission. Within
EFD, a Technical Assistance Coordinator was designated to ensure management of the overall
Credit and to coordinate between subproject entities and IDA. For individual subprojects, the
line ministries were responsible for submitting applications for TCC II financing to MOF. After
approval by MOF, the subproject applications were forwarded to IDA for approval. Subprojects
were approved by IDA according to the recommendation of the respective division of the former
East Asia Project Department, while overall supervision and coordination of the TCC II was
carried out by the Technical Assistance Unit of the former East Asia and Pacific Regional



APPENDIX R
- 26 -                          Page 4 of 9
Office. Prior to approval, the subprojects were cleared by the Country, Legal and Loan
Departments. Since the reorganization of the Bank in 1987, most of the subprojects have been
supervised by the Sector Operations Divisions in the China Department. Supervision of the
remaining subprojects had been delegated to a staff member in the Technical Department by the
China Country Operations Division. Overall supervision of the TCC was the responsibility of
the Technical Assistance Unit of the Technical Department, Asia Region, with the help of a
country officer. The line ministries handled all technical aspects of the subprojects, contracted
consultants, arranged study tour and other training activities, and procured equipments. The
subproject beneficiaries were responsible for repayment of the TCC funds to MOF in the first
year after the grace period for the follow-up Bank loan or credit. Repayment of the principal,
together with a I % service charge was normally required when the subproject was approved.
D.    Proiect Costs and Financing
2.09  The credit amount -- US$20 million equivalent -- was calculated on the basis-tif an
estimate of the technical assistance requirements expected for project preparation during FY86-
92. The total project cost was estimated at US$27 million, with a foreign exchange cost of
US$20.00 million. The IDA credit for SDR18 million ( US$ 20 million ) would finance all
foreign exchange costs, as well as a portion of the local costs. The Government would finance
the remaining US$7 million of local costs. No allowance was made for physical and price
contingencies since the project was a line of credit to help financing a program defined in
financial terms and for which the specific requirements were not known at the outset.
2. 10 Generally Speaking, the mutual agreement was strictly followed in the course of project
implementation and the credit was used according to the Bank's guidelines and requirements.
It was estimated at appraisal that about 70% of the project funds would finance consultant
services and the remaining 30% would finance study tours, other training and equipments. Out
of the total disbursements of US$24,132,147.48 as of Oct. 31, 1994, the expenses on foreign
consultants was approximately amounted to USD21,223,614.05 which was about 88% of total
project funds. Study tours and training was accounted slightly over 8% of total project funds
while computers and other equipments accounted for slightly less than 4% of total project funds.



APPENDIX B
- 27 -                      PaRe 5 of 9
In addition, the credit financed foreign expenditures for equipments and materials, and for study
tours and other training programs associated with project preparation or implementation. The
credit also financed 100% of local ex-factory costs for equipments made locally and 75% of
local expenditures for imported items procured locally. The Government's contribution to
individual subproject costs included the financing of counterpart staff, local consultants and
support facilities---the provision of which was an explicit condition for subproject approval by
IDA.
2.11  TCC II was implemented over a period of eight years and was closed on June 30, 1994
after two extensions (each for one year). Thirty-seven subprojects were approved under the
Project (of which five subprojects were cancelled) which committed 100% Project funds. Out
of the total credit amount of SDR 18,000,000.00, an amount of SDR 185,124.55 was cancelled.
This indicated that about 98.97% of the credit amount was disbursed and the remaining 1.03 %
of the credit was cancelled due to slow disbursement. The main reason for slow disbursement
was that the subprojects were progressed at the different speed because some subprojects were
approved very late by using the case-by-case approval method. The second reason was the
procedures and formalities required to be followed for processing and approval of the subprojects
at the early stage of project implementation were too complicated and time consuming. The
third reason was the delay or cancellation of the follow-up loan project. The last reason was
the appreciation of SDR against USD during prbject implementation period which resulted in
more US dollars than it was estimated at the beginning of 1986.
E.    Conclusion
2.12  The project provided a readily available source of funding for project preparation and
capacity building and economic studies which contributed greatly to economic reform. It is quite
clear that without TCCII, the Government could not have prepared so many projects as the Bank
is now financing. Since other sources of financing for technical assistance such as UNDP and
bilateral grants were limited in volume and were not available at all times.
2.13 The achievement of the Project was far exceeded providing project preparation facilities



APPEDMIX B
_ 28 -                       Page 6 of 9
for investment project to be financed by the Bank. Through TCC II, a number of project
angencies have gained experience in managing project preparation such as identifying the needs
of TA, managing bidding process and consulting activities. The project angencies have also
benefitted a lot from the expanded contacts with international engineering and consulting firms
financed by TCC II. The capacity of local consulting industry has been strengthened through
joint-conducting of studies with international experts. The project also supported a number of
training activities in China and overseas. Most of training proved to be very useful. The Some
Bank projects were benefited from better designing done by the staff who received training.
These staff have played an important role in the follow-up Bank projects and overall economic
reform and development in China.
2.14  With the experiences gained from this project, we feel strongly that it is necessary to
simplify the processing procedures for subprojects under CRISPP. We understand that TA
guidelines were formulated ir February 1, 1993 in consultation with the donors and the pew
guidelines are in place. With the revised and simplified TA guidelines, it is expected tat the
overall efficiency in processing, approving and implementing of the TA subprojects under the
ongoing CRISPP and future TA project will be greatly improved.
F.    Evaluation
2.15  The first part of the PCR for this Project drafted by the Bank is very comprehensive.
All the major items of the project executed are covered and most of the analysis provided are
correct and tally with the actual situations except those under the topic F regarding "Borrower
Performance", "Performance of implementing agencies" and "Assessment of Outcome" on Page
10.
On those views, MOF would like to make following comments:
a) The Technical Assistance & Training Division (TA & T Division) in the World Bank
Department, since its establishment in early 1989, lias played an very active role in the
management of TA projects, including advising the project entities to identify the needs
for technical assistance designing and approving subprojects in the most effective way.
It organizes training courses and advanced seminars concerning procurement and



APPENDIX B
- 29 -                        Page 7 of 9
disbursement on a regular basis of twice or three-times a year. The Bank officials and
the local experts are invited by this division frequently to discuss these special subjects.
The staff of the Division have visited subproject sites and assisted project angencies in
solving the problems arison from the implementation of the project. This division has
also issued several documents, In particular, guiding the use of consulting firms and
procurement of equipments and goods, etc. The model procurement documents including
standard letter of invitation and consultancy contract prepared by the division and
published by MOF in early 1992, which have facilitated implementation of Bank
fainanced projects.
b)  In order to ensure the sound implementation of projects, MOF and IDA approved some
subprojects with components of comprehensive training in forms of inviting foreign
consultants (to conduct training) and overseas study tours and project site visit to learn
technique of construction design and supervision. These activities widened the visiop of
the project management staff and enabled them to learn advanced technologies and
management skills from other countries and to get familiar with the relevant experience
and knowledge. Through all of these training activities, a large number of well-trained
and qualified staff, which are the most valuable property of the project agencies, were
built up.
c)  In a number of subprojects, such as Tianjin Industrial project, the needs for TA were not
clearly committed and assessed by the subproject angencies. These angencies were urged
by the Bank to conduct sector investigation and study as conditions to follow-up loan
project.  Obviously, several consultants recruited for such studies had very limited
knowledge of the complicated situation in China and were not fully and appropriately
utilized. This situation should be changed and lesson should be drawn from this case for
the future projects. The better cooperation and mutual understanding need to be reached
between the Bank and the Borrower.
2.16  We noticed that the real situation of each subproject has been accurately reflected in the
data sheet in Part III of the draft PCR.



APPENDIX B
- 30 -                      Page 8 of 9
2.17  The main project activities were achieved with the efforts made by the Bank during the
implementation period. The Government appreciates all these efforts made by officials and
experts from the World Bank. From the project appraisal to the Closing Date of loan account,
a close cooperation and mutual respect were established and maintained between MOF and the
Asia Technical Assistance Unit, Asia Disbursement Division and other relative units of the Bank.
For instance, a great effort has been made by the supervision missions from the World Bank for
project execution. The Bank missions kept in touch with the coordinator of MOF to discuss
progress of each subproject, collect actual information, resolve problems in the process.
Mutual respect and trust were strengthened through these activities which made it easier to
reached understanding or agreement. The Bank mission provided MOF with great support and
assistance in frequent reallocation and adjustment of credit proceeds especially in the later stage
of implementation period. In most cases, the quick responses to our application by the Bank
officials have greatly facilitated project implementation.
2.18  In the past eight years, the successful processing, supervision and management of TCC
II was partially attributed the close relationship and good coordination between MOF ,nd
subproject angencies. In TA & T Division of MOF, two staff were specially assigned for
administration of the project. They prepared procedures for project management and subproject
approval, helped the subproject entities to prepare their applications and review those
applications and held a launch workshop for subproject units at the beginning of this project.
They also participated in the negotiations for large consulting contracts under the project,
managed the funds available to every subprojects.  Financial staternents were periodically
submitted to the related agencies and audit reviews were successfully carried out at the end of
each year. Cooperation and administrative coordination between the MOF and the line agencies
had been generally smooth, although several subproject angencies did not maintain regular
records and could not report on implementation progress. In the future, MOF will ensure the
line agencies to prepare timely reports for subprojects.
G. Problems encountered
2.19   MOF recognized that the main problem encountered in implementation of TCC II was
related to hiring of international consultants, especially in the field of strategic planning and
sectoral studies. The need for such assignment was not carefully assessed by the subproject
angencies. There were cases where such assignment was not clearly committed and owned by
the subproject angencies. The lack of commitment and ownership resulted in protracted



APPENTDIX B
- 31 -                        Page 9 of 9
negotiations over TOR for the assignment, time schedule for drafting reports and making
payments, as well as the poor cooperation between subproject angencies andconsultants. In our
view, several consultants hired for such studies had limited knowledge on Chinese situation,
ignored fundamental conditions of the country and came up with impractical recommendations.
Of course, subproject entities should have been better trained to select qualified consultants and
to utilize them more effectively.
2.20   In many cases, subproject entities' capacity was strengthened through transfer of
technology and know-how from international consultants by using TCC II. The capacity of local
consulting industry was also strengthened through TCC II. However, local consultants were not
fully and appropriately utilized, effort has not been fully made to identify qualified local
consultants by the Bank. Most subproject angencies expressed their willingness to use consultant
servises jointly provided by foreign and local experts in this project and other Bank financed
projects.
2.21 The effectiveness of overseas training and study tours in some subprojects under TCC2 II
was not cost effective due to poor design and uncleared focus. Although most training poved
to be useful, overseas training and study tours should be considered as a supplement to local
training.
2.22   From September 1, 1996, the project will enter into repayment period. The principal
and interest of US$ 668,925.00 need to be repaid each year. This figure will be become US$
1,204,065.00 from September 1, 2006 according to the prevailing exchange rate between SDR
and USD. In recent years, the exchange rate between USD and RMB has changed significantly,
i.e. from 3.74 to 8.53. The exchange rate between SDR and USD had also changed from 1:
1.1111  to 1: 1.4865. The repayment to the Government by thr subproject agencies very
pressing issue. MOF has paid more attention to this matter and would like to seek more technical
assistance from the Bank in the near furture.



- 32 -                           APPENDIX C
CHINA
TECHNICAL COOPERATION CREDIT II
(Credit 1664 - CHA)
SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION AND PERFORMANCE
Subproiect No. 1
Title: Three Gorges Expert Panel
Government Implementing Agency             The Ministry of Water Resources
Date of IDA Approval                     : August 1986
Contract Signed                          : Not applicable
Project Completed                        : November 1991
Allocation                               : SDR 627,000
Final Disbursement                       : SDR 68,427
Description
Financing of a panel of experts to discuss an inception report of the
proposed Three Gorges Project, to firm up Terms of Reference for the
investment study and subsequently to supervise and review the findings of
consultants undertaking the investment study.
Implementation
A panel of experts including specialists in dam construction,
navigation, river sedimentation hydraulics, geology and geo-technic and
environment were recruited to discuss an inception report and to study issues
in the investment study which was undertaken by Chinese engineers. The issues
studied were: technical viability, potential impact of the project on the
environment, navigation, and expected benefits of flood control. The panel
produced a report on the review of the inception report and the Terms of
Reference. The planned supervision activities were not undertaken as the
follow-up investment project was dropped from the pipeline of World Bank
projects.
Follow-up Activities
N.A.
Evaluation
The subproject provided useful inputs to the government's preparatory
activities for the project. The panel of experts assisted the Chinese
authorities evaluate the technical and economic viability of the project. The
subproject was a continuation from the previous TA project, Technical
Cooperation Credit I (TCCI). More than a half of the amount originally
committed was disbursed but charged back to TCCI.



- 33 -                            APPENDIX C
CHINA
TECHNICAL COOPERATION CREDIT II
(Credit 1664 - CHA)
SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION AND PERFORMANCE
Subproject No. 2
Title: Regional Cement Project Preparation
Government Implementing Agency            :  State Administration of Building
Materials Industry
Date of IDA Approval                      :  August 1986
Contract Signed                           :  September 1986
Project Completed                         :  November 1991
Allocation                                :  SDR 401,000
Final Disbursement                        :  SDR 419,631
Description
Financing of consulting firms to assist local design institutes undertake
feasibility studies and to prepare technical specification for two
subcomponents, namely Zhongguo Cement Plant and Tong Ling Cement Plant, of the
follow-up investment project.
Implementation
Two international firms were hired and worked from October 1986 to June
1990 to work with local design institutes undertake feasibility studies and to
prepare technical specification for the bidding documents for two
subcomponents of the project. For the Zhongguo Cement Plant, a review of the
feasibility study on technical reform was conducted by a firm and bidding
documents were reviewed by another firm. The same arrangement was made for
the Tong Ling Cement Plant.
Follow-up Activities
Regional Cement Industry Project (Ln 3443 - $82.7 million) was approved
in 1992 and became effective in January 1993.
Evaluation
The use of foreign consultants was considered valuable not only for the
project preparation but for building local capacity. The transfer of
technology and know-how from the foreign consultants to the project entity as
well as to local design institutes was highly appreciated. The consultants'
in-depth knowledge of the cement industry and its world market benefitted the
implementing agency and was highly appreciated.



- 34 -                           APPENDIX C
CHINA
TECHNICAL COOPERATION CREDIT II
(Credit 1664 - CHA)
SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION AND PERFORMANCE
Subproject No. 3
Title: Wujing Thermal Power Project Preparation
Government Implementing Agency            :  Shanghai Municipal Electric Power
Bureau
Date of IDA Approval                      .  December 1987
Contract Signed                           :  January 1987
Project Completed                         :  November 1991
Allocation                                :  SDR 815,000
Final Disbursement                        :  SDR 731,364
Description
To assist the subproject implementing agency in preparation of bidding
documents, evaluation of proposals, negotiations with a winning bidder and
review of conceptual designs and drawings.
Implementation
A contract was signed with an international consulting firm in February
1987 to carry out the work. Most of the work was completed in November 1991
but the supervision of the construction work was extended to October 1993.
The firm reviewed and amended bid documents, provided assistance in bid
evaluation and contract negotiations. They also reviewed design drawings and
provided assistance in reporting requirements to the Bank.
Follow-up Activities
Power VI Project (Ln. 2852 - $190 million) was approved in 1987.
Evaluation
The subproject enabled the project preparation without a delay and the
contract under the project was awarded without much problem. The assistance
provided by the consultants for the bidding process was valuable. The work on
the review of conceptual designs and drawings, however, took much time and the
was considered not effectively handled.



- 35 -                           APPENDIX C
CHINA
TECHNICAL COOPERATION CREDIT II
(Credit 1664 - CHA)
SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION AND PERFORMANCE
Subproject No. 4
Title: Shanghai Sewerage Project Preparation
Government Implementing Agency           :  Shanghai Sewerage Project
Construction Company
Date of IDA Approval                     :  February 1987
Contract Signed                          :  Not applicable
Project Completed                        :  November 1991
Allocation                               :  SDR 168,000
Final Disbursement                       :  SDR 136,429
Description
To provide assistance to the project entity in project design, managing
contracts and financial resources, and drafting technical standards and
documents.
Implementation
Three long-term consultants and several short-term consultants were
hired for various tasks. The consultants worked on advising on design
options, assisting the project office in the review of the design requirements
for tendering and specifications, providing technical standards of other
countries, reviewing the drawings and alternative design options provided,
assisting the preparation and evaluation of bidding documents of technical
parts and supervising contracts.
Follow-up Activities
Shanghai Sewerage Project Ln. 2794 ($45.0 mil.) was approved in 1987.
Evaluation
The consultants provided useful input to project management, comparison
of technical options, design drawings, economic analysis and contract
documents. One suggestion made by the foreign consultants and appreciated
much by the implementing agency was the plan to reduce a midway pumping
station which resulted in a significant cost saving. Preparation of bidding
documents for civil works was also valuable to the project entity.



- 36 -                           APPENDIX C
CHINA
TECHNICAL COOPERATION CREDIT II
(Credit 1664 - CHA)
SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION AND PERFORMANCE
Subproiect No. 5
Title: Dalian Port Project Preparation
Government Implementing Agency             Dalian Port Construction Authorities
Date of IDA Approval                       March 1987
Contract Signed                            April, 1987
Project Completed                          1990
Allocation                                : SDR 239,000
Final Disbursement                         SDR 244,604
Description
To assist the Port Authorities undertake the following tasks:
(a) Review of project design (communication components) and preparation
of bid documents for a microwave communication equipment, telephone
stations, and a computer management system;
(b) evaluation of pre-qualifications and bids; and
(c) preparation of evaluation reports on civil works and equipment.
Implementation
Dalian Port Construction Authorities hired an international consulting
company to provide the following services:
(a) review of preliminary design, detailed design and construction
drawings and of the computer system for the Dayao Bay project;
(b) preparation of bidding documents for ICB for civil works, harbor
handling equipment, navigation equipment and communications, and a
computer system; and
(c) advise on pre-qualification documents and assistance for evaluation
of bids as well as preparation evaluation report.
Follow-up Activities
Dalian Port Project (Loan 2907 - $96 million) was approved in 1988.
Evaluation
The tasks were all performed satisfactorily. This subproject provided a
critical input to the Dayao Bay Project in that it supported the Port
Authorities adopt an international competitive bidding process. The
subproject was useful not only in expediting the evaluation process of
international competitive bidding but also in strengthening the capacity of
senior managerial staff of the Port Authorities handle the process.



- 37 -                           APPENDIX C
CHINA
TECHNICAL COOPERATION CREDIT II
(Credit 1664 - CHA)
SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION AND PERFORMANCE
Subproject No. 6
Title: Ertan Hydroelectric Project Preparation
Government Implementing Agency            :  Ertan Hydroelectric Development
Corporation
Date of IDA Approval                      :  July 1987
Contract Signed                          :  October 1987
Project Completed                        :  June 30, 1994
Allocation                                :  SDR 2,409,000
Final Disbursement                       :  SDR 1,049,866
Description
To assist the project entity with the following tasks:
a) Finalize dam and power house design features by the Panel of Experts;
b) Prepare bid documents for ICB of main civil works and Electro-
Mechanical equipment;
c) Study unique problems such as log-handling at the dam site;
d) Revise cost estimates to reflect ICB for main works; and
e) Train staff of the project entity.
Implementation
A contract was signed with an international consulting company to
provide the following services: (a) preparation of bidding documents and
specifications for computer systems; (b) evaluation of bidding and preparation
of evaluation reports; (c) providing assistance in negotiating contracts with
contractors; (d) providing relevant documents, technical standards; and (e)
estimating costs. The work was extended to cover some implementation
supervision and completed in June 1994.
Study tours were also conducted to Canada (to examine mechanical and
electrical equipment, design, and power house arrangements) and to Austria (to
study design and construction of a high arch dam). Another trip was
undertaken to the U.S. to discuss revision of tender documents for the civil
works.
Follow-up Activities
Ertan Hydroelectric Project (Loan 3387 - $380 million) was approved in
1991.
Evaluation
The subproject was the main source of foreign cost financing for the
project preparation. The fund was utilized effectively for the project
preparation as well as for training the officials of the project entity. The
consultants' assistance was valuable in the following area: drafting of
bidding documents, providing reference materials and experience from other
countries, and advising on the use of local manufacturers for the project.
The study tours were considered very useful for local engineers.



- 38 -                           APPENDIX C
CHINA
TECHNICAL COOPERATION CREDIT II
(Credit 1664 - CHA)
SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION AND PERFORMANCE
Subproiect No. 7
Title:    Phosphate Development Project Preparation
Subsequently cancelled.
Government Implementing Agency           : The Phosphate Company of Guizhou
Province
Date of IDA Approval                     . September 1987
Contract Signed
Project Completed
Allocation
Final Disbursement
Objectives
Implementation
Subproject was cancelled after the project entity completed utilizing
the fund made available through TCCI.
Follow-up Activities
Evaluation



- 39 -                            APPENDIX C
CHINA
TECHNICAL COOPERATION CREDIT II
(Credit 1664 - CHA)
SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION AND PERFORMANCE
Subproiect No. 8
Title:    Shanghai Industrial Development Project Preparation
Government Implementing Agency
Date of IDA Approval                       .  1988
Contract Signed
Project Completed
Allocation                                 .  SDR451,000
Final Disbursement
Obiectives
Implementation
Subproject was cancelled after the project entity received financing
from the Japan Grant Facility.
Follow-up Activities
Evaluation



- 40 -                            APPENDIX C
CHINA
TECHNICAL COOPERATION CREDIT II
(Credit 1664 - CHA)
SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION AND PERFORMANCE
Subproject No. 9
Title: Shanghai Port Master Plan Review
Government Implementing Agency            : Shanghai Harbor Bureau
Date of IDA Approval                      : July 1988
Contract Signed                           : Not applicable
Project Completed                         : November 1991
Allocation                                   SDR460,000
Final Disbursement                        . SDR146,517
Description
To establish an expert panel for a review of the master plan of the Port
of Shanghai prepared by the Shanghai Harbor Bureau.
Implementation
A panel of experts from China and outside was established to review the
master plan. Five international individual consultants were retained by the
Bureau to work as panelists. The panel reviewed the following issues of the
master plan: demand of the port by the year 2000, urban and regional
development plans which may affect the Port development, economic and
technical aspects, environmental aspect, links between the port and hinterland
facilities, position and function of the Shanghai Port in the world container
transportation business.
Follow-up Activities
Shanghai Port Restructuring and Development Project (Loan 3552 - $140
million) was approved in 1992.
Evaluation
The use of both local and international experts as panelists proved to
be very useful. As the panel's terms of reference was to review the master
plan prepared by the Shanghai Harbor Bureau and they were specific about the
scope of work, the panel was able to provide recommendation realistic and in
conformity with the development objectives of the Harbor.



- 41 -                           APPENDIX C
CHINA
TECHNICAL COOPERATION CREDIT II
(Credit 1664 - CHA)
SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION AND PERFORMANCE
Subproiect No. 10
Title: Henan Pharmaceutical Quality Control
Government Implementing Agency            :  Henan Pharmaceutical Industry
Corporation
Date of IDA Approval                      :  August 1988
Contract Signed                          :  Not applicable
Project Completed                        :  September 1992
Allocation                                :  SDR 771,000
Final Disbursement                       :  SDR 576,958
Description
To improve the capacity of the Henan Quality Control Center through
procurement of precision analytical instruments and training.
Implementation
Funds were used to purchase precision instruments, sample collecting
vehicle, current stabilizers, computers and other lab equipments. Training
for use of the instruments to the staff of the Center was also provided by the
manufacturers.
Follow-up Activities
The fund was provided as a technical assistance component of China
Pharmaceutical Project (Loan 2943 - $127 million) approved in 1988.
Evaluation
The procurement of equipments as well as training provided to the Center
enhanced the professional capability of the Center. This is one of the few
subprojects under the project used to complement the investment project.



- 42 -                           APPENDIX C
CHINA
TECHNICAL COOPERATION CREDIT II
(Credit 1664 - CHA)
SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION AND PERFORMANCE
Subproiect No. 11
Title: Jiangsu Provincial Industry Project Preparation
Government Implementing Agency            :  Chemical Industry Department,
Jiangsu Province
Date of IDA Approval                      .  August 1988
Contract Signed                           :  1989
Project Completed                         .  December 1990
Allocation                                :  SDR 77,400
Final Disbursement                        .  SDR 57,953
Description
To provide consulting services which would assist the Jiangsu Provincial
Chemical Industry Department in researching the proper technology for 16
chemical industrial projects.
Implementation
A contract was signed with an international company. The firm completed
the work in December 1990.
Follow-up Activities
The follow-up investment project originally planned was cancelled.
However, several of the studies dealt with preparation of chemical sector
projects which had been included in the Industrial Pollution Control Credit
Line of the Southern Jiangsu Environment Project.
Evaluation
Due to the macroeconomic stabilization effort in 1989 to 1990, the
project originally planned was cancelled and the consultants' work, which
would have led to the acquisition of appropriate technology for 16 chemical
projects, did not materialize. The project office, however, evaluated the
consultants' work useful. Several of studies were used for a subsequent
project, the Southern Jiangsu Environment Project, and therefore, the
consultants' work was not entirely wasted.



- 43 -                           APPENDIX C
CHINA
TECHNICAL COOPERATION CREDIT II
(Credit 1664 - CHA)
SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION AND PERFORMANCE
Subproiect No. 12
Title: Strengthening CPI's Planning Capabilities
Government Implementing Agency            :  Chemical Planning Institute
Date of IDA Approval                      :  September 1988
Contract Signed                           :  Not applicable
Project Completed                         :  September 1992
Allocation                                :  SDR309,000
Final Disbursement                        :  SDR234,345
Description
The subproject is to build planning capacity for Chemical Planning
Institute through acquisition of computers and training in subjects such as
industrial planning models, economic and financial analysis, data base
management.
Implementation
A Data General computer system was procured and put into operation. In
addition, Chinese and English terminals interfacing with the original
computers were procured and through the system one small communication network
was established. The Institute also developed an application program and data
base.
Follow-up Activities
The subproject was a stand alone project for institutional building and
there was no follow up investment activities.
Evaluation
While the Institute's intention was to set up a data base system for
chemical enterprises and management programs in order to initiate a chemical
sector planning model, the Institute did not obtain an appropriate software
because of the compatibility problem. It is planning to acquire a software
which can be run by personal computers now and the Bank is trying to find a
way to train staff in its usage. The procured computers are now being used
for other office work. The subproject could have benefitted much more from a
better needs assessment and design of the program.



- 44 -                            APPENDIX C
CHINA
TECHNICAL COOPERATION CREDIT II
(Credit 1664 - CHA)
SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION AND PERFORMANCE
Subproiect No. 13
Title: Medium Cities Project Preparation
Government Implementing Agency            :  Municipal governments in Luoyang
Changzhou and Shashi
Date of IDA Approval                      :  October 1988
Contract Signed                               Not applicable
Project Completed                         :  December 1993
Allocation                                :  SDR267,000
Final Disbursement                        :  SDR265,730
Description
To support the project entities' capacity building in three fields:
urban planning and management, pollution and waste control, and education and
health care systems, through provision of equipments and training.
Implementation
Three municipal governments received funding to purchase equipments and
software and to receive training. The focuses of attention of training were:
better utilization of existing urban facilities, waste management and water
pollution control, financing mechanism for urban development, provision of
urban education and health. Municipal government officials made study visits
to Japan, the US and Canada for the purposes.
Follow-up Activities
Medium-sized Cities Development Project (Loan/Credit 3286 - $168.4
million) was approved in 1991.
Evaluation
The subproject contributed to the setting up of the three project
management entities. Some of the study tours proved to be useful in
redesigning urban construction projects. Changzhou has installed an appraisal
system for urban investment projects which proved to be effective to the
government as well as overseas investors.



- 45 -                            APPENDIX C
CHINA
TECHNICAL COOPERATION CREDIT II
(Credit 1664 - CHA)
SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION AND PERFORMANCE
Subproject No. 14
Title: Yanshi Power Project Preparation
Government Implementing Agency             :  Henan Provincial Electric Power
Bureau
Date of IDA Approval                       :  October 1988
Contract Signed                           :  August 1989
Project Completed                         :  September 1992
Allocation                                 :  SDR451,000
Final Disbursement                        :  SDR301,698
Description
Review of bidding documents for the boiler island and turbine generator
island; bid evaluation and evaluation report preparation; contract
negotiations; preparation and review of "project interface manual"; review
interface drawings/documents; coordinate interfacing.
Implementation
An international company was hired in 1988 to work on the above tasks.
During the subproject implementation, on-the-job training on procurement was
provided by the staff of the firm.
Follow-up Activities
Yanshi Thermal Power Project (Loan 3433 - $180 million) was approved in
1992.
Evaluation
The consultants work was indispensable to the preparation of the
project. The procurement process followed the Bank guidelines and the staff
of the implementing agency learned how to handle the process. The Interface
Manual produced by the consultant for each of major island contractors proved
to be practical and useful for coordination.



- 46 -                            APPENDIX C
CHINA
TECHNICAL COOPERATION CREDIT II
(Credit 1664 - CHA)
SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION AND PERFORMANCE
Subproiect No. 15
Title: Tianjin Provincial Loan Preparation
Government Implementing Agency                Tianjin Finance Bureau
Date of IDA Approval                      :  March 1989
Contract Signed                           .  1989
Project Completed                         :  August 1994
Allocation                                :  SDR1,511,000
Final Disbursement                        .  SDR1,387,931
Description
The subproject is to provide direct assistance to selected industrial
subsectors and to strengthen the capacity of design institutes, research
centers and training schools which provide support to the project preparation.
Implementation
Two contracts were signed between the Tianjin Planning Commission and
international consulting firms to carry out a study of development programs in
machine tools, construction machinery, electric motors, auto parts, office
automation equipment and electronic components and parts sectors. Consultants
examined product technology, use of inputs, structure of production costs,
cost minimization, sales conditions and capacity for international competition
in order to assist in the development of industrial strategy plans for the
five subsectors. Several reports were produced for the municipal government's
review.
Follow-up Activities
The subproject is a technical assistance component of the Tianjin Light
Industry Project (Cr. 3022 - $US 154 million) which was approved in 1989.
Evaluation
The technical assistance provided through this subproject brought about
mixed results. The project office evaluated the work of one firm to be
unsatisfactory while that of the other firm to be acceptable. The strategy
report developed by the first firm had little analysis of its own on the
subsectors studied and little information on the international market for the
subsectors. The firm also changed staff from the original proposal and those
retained for the assignment turned out to be less qualified for the work,
according to the project office. The problem resulted from several factors
such as the project office's inexperience in managing bidding process, limited
response to the letter of invitation, and limited time available for the
assignment.



- 47 -                            APPENDIX C
CHINA
TECHNICAL COOPERATION CREDIT II
(Credit 1664 - CHA)
SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION AND PERFORMANCE
Subproject No. 16
Title: Daguanba Hydropower Irrigation Project
Government Implementing Agency                Hainan Electrical Power Company
Date of IDA Approval                      :  August 1989
Contract Signed                           :  Not applicable
Project Completed                         :  March 1993
Allocation                                :  SDR265,000
Final Disbursement                        :  SDR118,742
Description
The subproject is to assist preparation for hydropower and irrigation
development on the Changhua River in Guangdon Province through provision of
consulting services, training and equipments.
Implementation
There were three activities undertaken under the subproject: review of
equipments to be procured for data acquisition and processing; training of the
Chinese engineers in the areas of computer assisted power plant control and
construction method of rolled compacted concrete; and review of the civil
works design. Consultants were hired to undertake the first and the third
assignments and two study tours (US, France and Sweden) were organized for the
second activity.
Follow-up Activities
Daguanba Multipurpose Project (Loan 3412 - $67.0 million) was approved
in 1991.
Evaluation
The two study tours provided useful inputs to the design and
construction method of the project. They were also helpful in preparation of
bidding documents. While only less than a fifth of the allocated fund was
used for the overseas investigation, the project entity felt that the impact
on the engineers and the project was significant. The Special Board of
Consultants served to oversee the quality of civil works design and electric
equipments.



- 48 -                           APPENDIX C
CHINA
TECHNICAL COOPERATION CREDIT II
(Credit 1664 - CHA)
SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION AND PERFORMANCE
Subprolect No. 17
Title: Liaoning Urban Infrastructure Project
Government Implementing Agency               Liaoning Urban Construction and
Renewal Project Office
Date of IDA Approval                      :  March 1989
Contract Signed                           :  June 1993
Project Completed                         :  June 1994
Allocation                                .  SDR347,000
Final Disbursement                        :  SDR281,093
Description
To support the project entity prepare detailed design and bid documents
for wastewater components and urban traffic systems to strengthen institutions
responsible for provision of urban services.
Implementation
An international consulting company was retained to: (a) review the
design of Shenyang, Fuxin and Yingdou water supply schemes, including
transmission pipelines, treatment works and headwork, and intake structure;
(b) prepare bidding documents for the three water supply schemes including
civil works; and (c) provide on-the-job training in urban water supply
management. Another firm was retained to work on preparation of bidding
documents for public bus maintenance equipments and specification for road
maintenance equipment and improving evaluation of traffic systems.
Follow-up Activities
Liaoning Urban Infrastructure Project (Credit 2219 - $77.8 million) was
approved in 1991.
Evaluation
The consultants retained for the subproject and the Project Office
worked well. The Project Office staff gained useful experience for project
management through working with the consultants. With the assistance of the
consultants, the ICB and LCB processes were undertaken without much problems.
The subproject entity noted that the payment procedure to the consultants was
lengthy and it felt a need to streamline the process.



- 49 -                            APPENDIX C
CHINA
TECHNICAL COOPERATION CREDIT II
(Credit 1664 - CHA)
SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION AND PERFORMANCE
Subproiect No. 18
Title: Zouxian Thermal Power Project Preparation
Government Implementing Agency            :  Shandong Provincial Electric Power
Bureau
Date of IDA Approval                      :     July 1989
Contract Signed                               August 1989
Project Completed                         :  June 1994
Allocation                                :  SDR 1,174,000 - reduced later on
to SDR 575,130
Final Disbursement                            SDR 498,872
Description
To assist the project entity undertake the following tasks:
(a) Phase I - preparation and finalization of bid documents, evaluation
and contract negotiations for boiler island, turbine auxiliaries
package, condensate polishing system, instrumentation and control
island; assist in prebid meeting, evaluation and preparation of bid
evaluation report. Assist in contract negotiations.
(b) Phase II - interface coordination between islands, including
compiling and reviewing interface manual. Review of drawings, technical
documents and calculations. Assistance in design liaison meetings.
Provide training in construction management.
Implementation
An international firm was retained to undertake the above tasks. All
the tasks in Phase I were completed satisfactorily, except for contract
negotiations of instrumentation and control island, which will be completed
with the follow-up investment loan. The tasks planned under Phase II were
completed only partially. The rest of the work will be completed under the
project.
Follow-up Activities
Zouxian Thermal Power Project (Loan 3462 - $310 million) was approved in
1990 .
Evaluation
The activities started slow because of a lack of experience on the side
of implementing agency in managing technical assistance and the project entity
was not able to utilize the fund fully. TCCII funded only a portion of the
activities planned. Since this was the first Bank supported project for the
implementing agency, the agency staff needed more on-the-job training on bid
document review and evaluation from the consulting firm.



- 50 -                           APPENDIX C
CHINA
TECHNICAL COOPERATION CREDIT II
(Credit 1664 - CHA)
SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION AND PERFORMANCE
Subproject No. 19
Title: Xiaolangdi Multipurpose Dam Project
Government Implementing Agency                Yellow River Water & Hydroelectric
Power Development Corporation
Date of IDA Approval                      :  March 1990
Contract Signed                           .  April 1991
Project Completed                         :  June 1994
Allocation                                .  SDR 2,204,600
Final Disbursement                        :  SDR 2,087,920
Description
The subproject is to assist the project office prepare the project
through the following:
a) Recruitment of a Panel of Experts to assist in preparation and review
of all technical and economic evaluation documents.
b) Recruitment of a consulting company to assist in preparation of
reports and materials for pre-qualification and tender documents for
ICB.
c) Procurement of materials and computer software.
d) Training for technical staff of YRWHDC in contract management,
financial/accounting management, including overseas study tours to
construction sites and manufacturers of equipment.
Implementation
Recruitment of the Panel of Experts started under TCC I. The panel
meetings were organized twice for review of all technical and economic aspects
of the Project. As for consultancy services, a contract with an international
firm was signed in April 1991. The firm undertook a review of project design
prepared by the implementing agency, prepared the Project Brief, and assisted
the agency in preparing procurement documents for major civil works. The firm
further assisted the implementing agency in pre-qualification of bidders,
selection and contract award.
Two engineers were sent to the World Bank to work with Bank staff and
for training on computer programs for project scheduling and cost analysis. A
study tour to Canada for financial management was also undertaken.
Follow-up Activities
Xiaolangdi Multipurpose Dam Project (Loan 3727 - $460 million) was
approved in 1994.
Evaluation
All objectives were achieved and the subproject was completed in June
1994. The suggestions made by the Panel of Experts were extremely useful in
reducing the investment costs and improving the safety measures. The
consultants' work was valuable in procurement process for civil works and
turbine and technical aspects of the construction. The consultants'
experience in other dam projects were especially beneficial to the project.



- 51 -                           APPENDIX C
CHINA
TECHNICAL COOPERATION CREDIT II
(Credit 1664 - CHA)
SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION AND PERFORMANCE
Subproject No. 20
Title: Jiangsu Provincial Transport Project Preparation
Government Implementing Agency            :  Jiangsu Provincial Communications
Bureau
Date of IDA Approval                      :  May 1990
Contract Signed
Project Completed                         :  December 1990
Allocation                                :  SDR 192,000
Final Disbursement                        :  SDR 175,108
Description
To assist the project entity prepare bidding documents for project
design and economic analysis for Nantong Shiplock which involves the
rehabilitation and improvement of two sections of the Grand Canal, and to
supervise upgrading of Janjig-Shanghai road to Class II standard.
Implementation
Contracts were signed with four international companies: one each for
preparation of bidding documents and review; for supervision training; for
review of drawings of Suzhou section and Shanghai Nanjing Class II Road; for
construction supervision of two ICB contracts of Suzhou section and Shanghai-
Nanjing Class II Road.
Follow-up Activities
Jiangsu Provincial Transport Project (Loan 3316 - $100 million) was
approved in 1991.
Evaluation
TCCII provided timely assistance to prepare for the project and the
tasks were successful completed. The assistance in preparation of bidding
documents was especially valuable.



- 52 -                            APPENDIX C
CHINA
TECHNICAL COOPERATION CREDIT II
(Credit 1664 - CHA)
SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION AND PERFORMANCE
Subproiect No. 21
Title: Beijing Environmental Project Preparation
Government Implementing Agency            :  Beijing Municipal Finance Bureau
Date of IDA Approval                      :  June 1990
Contract Signed                              August 1990
Project Completed                         .  1990
Allocation                                :  SDR378,610
Final Disbursement                           S SDR262,368
Description
To assist Beijing Municipality in the preparation of the following
subcomponents for appraisal; the industrial hazardous waste management
component, the PCB disposal component, and the Beijing organic chemistry plant
component. It also supports the project entity develop an environmental
master plan. In addition, an overseas investigation tour to familiarize the
environment staff on waste management is to be undertaken.
Implementation
Four consulting firms were hired to undertake the assignments. They
provided following services:
- preparing detailed terms of reference for individual studies;
- preparing an initial work program and schedule;
- developing project management and staffing arrangements;
- making suggestions on institutional set up for hazardous waste
management center, organic chemistry plant center and PCB center
- advising on study tours to USA and Canada for the project staff
The study tour was not undertaken during the subproject implementation.
Follow-up Activities
Beijing Environmental Project (Loan/Credit 3415 - $125 million) was
approved in 1991.
Evaluation
The four components were fully implemented and completed in 1990. It
was the first time for the project staff to hire international consultants and
the Bank support in identifying consultants and drafting the TOR was
indispensable. A good working relationship was established between the
international consultants and the project office staff. The technology and
management concept acquired through the international consultants were
valuable.



- 53 -                           APPENDIX C
CHINA
TECHNICAL COOPERATION CREDIT II
(Credit 1664 - CHA)
SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION AND PERFORMANCE
Subproject No. 22
Title: Henan Agricultural Development Project Preparation
Government Implementing Agency            :  Henan Financial Bureau
Date of IDA Approval                      :  February 1991
Contract Signed                           :  1991
Project Completed                         :  December 1993
Allocation                                :  SDR172,000
Final Disbursement                        :  SDR 46,077
Description
The subproject is to provide (a) technical and evaluation training for
the project entity staff in irrigation, agro-industry, environment protection
and animal husbandry, (b) assistance in reviewing technical documents, and (c)
office equipment, for the project office.
Implementation
Study tours were undertaken to observe World Bank agriculture project
management in Thailand. A tour to Indonesia for agriculture technology
extension was cancelled because of the delay in arrangement. A training in
monitoring and evaluation of projects was completed.
Individual consultants were retained to develop an operation and
maintenance plan for the irrigation project and water resources management.
The work planned under the subproject on irrigation, however, was not
completed because of the delay in procurement process. Agro-industry
consultants assisted and inspected the final designs of agro-industry
projects.
Follow-up Activities
Henan Agricultural Development Project (Credit 2242 - $110 million) was
approved in 1991.
Evaluation
Technical documents for four agro-industry subprojects reviewed for the
projects were critical in preparing the follow-up investment project. The
consultants retained for the work contributed to the work. The investigation
tour to Thailand was considered especially useful for project management staff
in obtaining the agriculture project management skills. Because of the lack
of experience in utilizing the credit, the implementing agency was not able to
undertake all the activities planned under the subproject during TCCII
implementation period. The procurement procedures of the Bank were totally
new to the agency and the staff needed a thorough understanding in order to
fully utilize the fund.



- 54 -                            APPENDIX C
CHINA
TECHNICAL COOPERATION CREDIT II
(Credit 1664 - CHA)
SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION AND PERFORMANCE
Subproject No. 23
Title: Zhejiang Multi Cities Development Project Preparation
Government Implementing Agency            :  Zhejiang Urban Development
Project Office
Date of IDA Approval                      :  May 1991
Contract Signed                           :  1991
Project Completed                         :  June 1993
Allocation                                    S SDR258,000
Final Disbursement                        :  SDR277,482
Description
To augment the project preparation activities undertaken with the
assistance of Japan Grant Facility, specifically in the area of wastewater
management, pollution control, and traffic management plan.
Implementation
Two international consulting companies were contracted to produce a
wastewater management plan and to assist in the Ningbo sewage interceptor plan
and urban infrastructure upgrading project.
Follow-up Activities
Zhejiang Multi-Cities Development Project (Credit 2475 - $110 million)
was approved in 1993.
Evaluation
The pollution control methods to be used for the pulp paper-making
subproject and Zhejiang sewage works were approved by the Bank. The urban
sewage management and treatment techniques learnt through the international
consultants provided valuable inputs for this project. Staff in Jiangsu and
four other cities learnt evaluation methods and environmental protection
measures. All the work and reports were satisfactorily completed and met the
subproject objectives. The working relationship between the consultants and
project offices staff enabled significant transfer of know-how. The project
offices, however, did not have enough experience to handle the Bank
procurement process and encountered several problems including disbursement
delays.



- 55 -                           APPENDIX C
CHINA
TECHNICAL COOPERATION CREDIT II
(Credit 1664 - CHA)
SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION AND PERFORMANCE
Subproject No. 24
Title: Xinjinag Tarim Basin Irrigation Project Preparation
subsequently cancelled
Government Implementing Agency
Date of IDA Approval
Contract Singed
Project Completed
Allocation
Final Disbursement
Obiectives
Implementation
The subproject was cancelled as the fund became available from the
follow-up investment project.
Follow-up Activities
Evaluation



- 56 -                            APPENDIX C
CHINA
TECHNICAL COOPERATION CREDIT II
(Credit 1664 - CHA)
SUEPROJECT DESCRIPTION AND PERFORMANCE
Subproiect No. 25
Title: Liaoning Environment Project Preparation
Government Implementing Agency                Liaoning Urban Construction and
Renewal Construction Project
Office
Date of IDA Approval                      .  October 1991
Contract Signed                           .  May 1992
Project Completed                         .  June 1994
Allocation                                .  SDR734,290
Final Disbursement                        :  SDR711,660
Description
To assist the project office prepare design of project works and bid
document, and manage bidding process. To train the staff on wastewater
management and solid waste management techniques.
Implementation
Two international companies were hired to undertake the following: (a)
review of the design of wastewater schemes in Anshan, Benxi, Dalian, Fushun
and Jinzhou prepared locally, (b) review of engineering design of Benxi air
pollution abatement program prepared locally, (c) preparation of bidding
documents for civil service and equipment for Dalian solid waste disposal
scheme and Benxi air pollution abatement program, and (d) preparation of
summary environment impact assessment report for the project. All the work,
except for a part of bidding documents, were completed. The project office
staff visited the U.S. and Canada in December 1993 to study waste water
management and solid waste management techniques.
Follow-up Activities
Liaoning Environment Project (Ln. 3781 - $110 mil.) was approved in
1994.
Evaluation
The project office was able to utilize the fund from this subproject
much more effectively as the staff had gained experience from the previous
subproject for the Liaoning Urban Infrastructure Project. In order to utilize
the international consultants more efficiently, the project office and local
engineering institutes worked on technical aspects of the project and limited
the work of consultants on the review of designs prepared locally.   One
problem that the project office and the consultants encountered was the slow
disbursement of the fund.



- 57 -                           APPENDIX C
CHINA
TECHNICAL COOPERATION CREDIT II
(Credit 1664 - CHA)
SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION AND PERFORMANCE
Subproject No. 26
Title: Jiangsu Chemicals Project Preparation
Government Implementing Agency            :  Jiangsu Provincial Finance Bureau
Date of IDA Approval
Contract Singed
Project Completed
Allocation
Final Disbursement
Objectives
Implementation
This subproject was cancelled after the project entity received a grant
from the Japan Grant Facility.
Follow-up Activities
Evaluation



- 58 -                            APPENDIX C
CHINA
TECHNICAL COOPERATION CREDIT II
(Credit 1664 - CHA)
SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION AND PERFORMANCE
Subproiect No. 27
Title: Tianhuangping Hydroelectric Project Preparation
Government Implementing Agency                East China Electric Power
United Corporation
Date of IDA Approval                      .  December 1991
Contract Signed                           :  April 1992 and May 1992
Project Completed                         :  June 1994
Allocation                                .  SDR2,066,000
Final Disbursement                        .  SDR2,596,444
Description
To assist the project office prepare several components of the project;
and to strengthen the office's management capability.
Implementation
Two international consulting firms were engaged. One was engaged to
advise on the following: ICB for pump-turbine, generator motor units and other
equipment; design and ICB for plant supervisory control system; design of fire
prevention and ventilation; approval of plant drawings and technical
documents; model tests of pumps/turbines; commissioning, testing and trial
operation of station units; assistance on preparation of bidding documents and
bid evaluation.
The second was contracted to provide the following services:
for Phase I, design of asphalt concrete anti-seepage lining for upper
reservoir; ICB for construction work; construction methods for high-pressure
waste conveyance system; ICB for upper stream conveyance system construction.
For Phase II, contract management, quality assurance management, cost control
are included.
Also included, outside the above contracts, were visits to various sites
outside the country to study design and construction techniques of: anti-
seepage measures for reservoirs; conveyance penstocks in pumped storage
stations; manufacturing capacity of pump storage station equipment suppliers;
management and operation experience of pumped storage station facilities;
management of large electric power networks.
Training in financial management and management of large electric power
networks was also undertaken.
Follow-up Activities
Tianghuangping Hydroelectric Project (Loan 3606 - $300 million) was
approved in 1993.
Evaluation
The subproject was critical to the project preparation since it was the
only foreign exchange resource available for the preparation. The
international consultants retained for the activities enabled the project
office to optimize the station design, to select appropriate equipment and to
undertake international competitive bidding of the construction work.   The
overseas site visits were considered quite relevant to the project management.



- 59 -                           APPENDIX C
CHINA
TECHNICAL COOPERATION CREDIT II
(Credit 1664 - CHA)
SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION AND PERFORMANCE
Subproiect No. 28
Title: Sichuan Gas Development Project Preparation
Government Implementing Agency           :  Sichuan Petroleum Agency
Date of IDA Approval                     :  January 1992
Contract Signed                          :  August 1992
Project Completed                        :  November 1993
Allocation                               :  SDR1,326,000
Final Disbursement                       :  SDR1,204,643
Description
To study the environmental impact of Sichuan Gas Development project.
Implementation
Two international consulting companies were hired:
One to implement environmental evaluation standards; train project staff
on environmental evaluation and computer software applications; analyze
industrial hazards and risk evaluation; study existing problems and recommend
corrective action; review data for environmental evaluation.
The second to: study 20 gas reservoir reserves; complete a numerical
simulation study of 3 gas fields; prepare a development plan and economic
evaluation for 13 gas fields. Stimulation techniques for two low permeable
gas field were also examined and recommendations for future stimulations were
made.
Both consultants performed the tasks as were planned.
Training courses on an environmental assessment including the quality
evaluation of air, water and noise for project personnel were held and a
computer was installed in SPA's offices.
Follow-up Activities
Sichuan Gas Development Project (Loan 3716 - $255 million) was approved
in 1994.
Evaluation
The environmental impact evaluation report was of good quality and was
well received by the Sichuan Petroleum Administration. The recommendations
for pollution prevention measures during project implementation are viewed as
feasible and met the requirements of both the country and the World Bank.
The training courses achieved the major objective of familiarizing the project
staff on the basic concept and evaluation method.



- 60 -                           APPENDIX C
CHINA
TECHNICAL COOPERATION CREDIT II
(Credit 1664 - CHA)
SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION AND PERFORMANCE
Subproject No. 29
Title: Jiangsu Environmental Protection Project Preparation
Government Implementing Agency               Jiangsu Environmental Protection
Project Preparation
Date of IDA Approval                     :  January 1992
Contract Signed                          :  Not applicable
Project Completed                        :  June 1994
Allocation                                :  SDR296,770
Final Disbursement                           S SDR245,177
Description
To assist the project entity improve the technical method of controlling
pollution of sewage and pulp and paper-making and to improve the project
feasibility study. To train the China Investment Bank Jiangsu Provincial
Office on project appraisal method and to train Water Sewage Companies staff
on managing urban water supply and sewage facilities.
Implementation
Consultants were hired to optimize technical designs and improve pre-
feasibility studies on the urban wastewater management component and pulp
making pollution control component of the project. The consultants also
worked on techniques to control pollution from sewage & pup-making.
The project staff visited Australia and Singapore to study sewage
treatment and wastewater management techniques. Staff of China Investment
Bank Jiangsu Branch were trained in an ADB training base in the Philippines on
industrial project appraisal.
Follow-up Activities
Jiangsu Environmental Protection Project (Loan 3582 - $250 million) was
approved in 1993.
Evaluation
The objectives for this subproject have been met and the preparation of
the project was satisfactory. The pollution control methods selected for the
pulp-paper making subproject and sewage work component were relevant for the
project design. Staff of Jiangsu Provincial China Investment Bank and 4 other
cities have learnt evaluation methods for environmental protection and
techniques for construction of sewage treatment plants and management.



- 61 -                           APPENDIX C
CHINA
TECHNICAL COOPERATION CREDIT II
(Credit 1664 - CHA)
SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION AND PERFORMANCE
Subproiect No. 30
Title: Development of Construction Industry
Government Implementing Agency            :  Construction Management Department
Ministry of Construction
Date of IDA Approval                      :  April 1992
Contract Signed                           :  Not applicable
Project Completed                         :  November 1993
Allocation                                :  SDR366,000
Final Disbursement                        :  SDR351,697
Description
To strengthen the Chinese construction industry, by training engineers
in international project management and construction practices in South East
Asia.
Implementation
A training program jointly run by the Construction Industry Department
of China Construction Ministry and the Construction Industry Development Board
in Singapore has started in April 1993 and is progressing satisfactorily. The
training program consists of an intensive English language training in China
(3 months), a Construction Management Engineering Training Course (3 months)
at Nanyang Technological University Center in Singapore and a on-the-job
training program in Singapore companies for several months.
Follow-up Activities
The subproject is a free standing project for institutional development
and no follow-up investment activities are planned.
Evaluation
The subproject has provided a mechanism for the Ministry of Construction
to train construction engineers systematically. The working relationship that
the Ministry of Construction established with the Construction Industry
Development Board of Singapore may benefit the Chinese construction industry
in the future. However, the training program could have been strengthened
further if a thorough assessment of the program including that of costing was
undertaken and the program was designed to address the needs before the
implementation of the program. One major problem is that it is not designed
to become self-reliant in the future that financial assistance from outside is
necessary to carry on the program.



- 62 -                           APPENDIX C
CHINA
TECHNICAL COOPERATION CREDIT II
(Credit 1664 - CHA)
SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION AND PERFORMANCE
Subproiect No. 31
Title: Regional Cement Project Preparation
Government Implementing Agency
Date of IDA Approval
Contract Singed
Project Completed
Allocation
Final Disbursement
Obiectives
Implementation
This subproject, which was an additional allocation for Subproject No.
2, was cancelled after the follow-up investment project became effective.
Follow-up Activities
Evaluation



- 63 -                           APPENDIX C
CHINA
TECHNICAL COOPERATION CREDIT II
(Credit 1664 - CHA)
SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION AND PERFORMANCE
Subproiect No. 32
Title: Tianjin Industry Development Project Preparation
Government Implementing Agency           :  Tianjin Finance Bureau
Date of IDA Approval                     :  July 1992
Contract Signed                          :  May 1993
Project Completed                        :  July 1994
Allocation                                :  SDR685,560
Final Disbursement                       : SDR577,930
Description
To undertake studies on development strategies for nine industrial
sectors in Tianjin and hold training seminars for the staff of the municipal
government. The studies include the following:
(a) survey of industrial sectors
(b) global trends
(c) prospects for expanding exports in particular products
(d) industrial enterprises and sector analysis
(e) environmental controls
(f) financial and resource analysis
(g) building industrial database.
Implementation
The Tianjin Planning Commission retained an international consulting
company who undertook a study on the nine industrial sectors which include
automobile and auto parts, telecommunication, computer, household electric and
electronic equipment, steel, petro-chemical, fine chemical, and pharmaceutical
industries. The firm has completed the study and developed strategy for the
nine industrial sub-sectors. Both the domestic and overseas training were
conducted.
Follow-up Activities
Tianjin Industry II ($150 million) was approved in 1994.
Evaluation
Some of the sectoral strategy papers produced by the consulting firm
were not appreciated by the project office. Those reports lack information on
the latest international condition of the subsectors and the strategies
developed are not tailored to the municipality. The project entity needed
some more guidance from the Bank on procurement and managing of consultants.
The overseas and local training was useful to the municipal government
officials. The component was designed carefully by the consultants and the
project office so that the fund was utilized effectively.



- 64 -                           APPENDIX C
CHINA
TECHNICAL COOPERATION CREDIT II
(Credit 1664 - CHA)
SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION AND PERFORMANCE
Subproiect No. 33
Title: Changchun Water Supply and Environmental Project Preparation
Government Implementing Agency            :  Changchun Water Supply &
Environmental Project Office
Date of IDA Approval                          July 1992
Contract Signed                               July 1992
Project Completed                         :  June 1994
Allocation                                    S SDR603,290
Final Disbursement                        .  SDR657,675
Description
The subproject is designed to achieve the following:
a) review of existing data, studies and preliminary design of water
supply;
b) assisting in supervision of the project implementation;
c) providing technology and training of counterpart personnel; and
d) purchase of office equipment.
Implementation
A contract was signed with an international company to carry out
feasibility studies, to assist the project office in supervising preliminary
engineering studies of identified priority investment including a waste water
treatment plant, to review and establish appropriate design criteria,
technical specifications and bid documents for pipelines and other equipments,
and to transfer technology and train counter-part personnel. While the
contract is for 1995, the fund from TCCII covered the work only up to June
1994.
Follow-up Activities
Changchun Water Supply and Environmental Project (Credit 2457 - $120
million) was approved in March 1993.
Evaluation
The technical assistance was critical for the project preparation as
well as for the implementation. The consultants retained for supervision of
the implementation of the project and training of the project office staff
worked well. The project office staff gained not only water supply management
technology but also experience in managing international competitive bidding
process.
The scope of the subproject was expanded significantly after the fund
allocation was approved. The project office signed a contract which far
exceeded the approved amount and later requested for an additional allocation
which was only partially met. This situation could have been avoided if a
careful assessment of need was undertaken before a proposal for funding was
processed.



- 65 -                           APPENDIX C
CHINA
TECHNICAL COOPERATION CREDIT II
(Credit 1664 - CHA)
SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION AND PERFORMANCE
Subproject No. 34
Title: Chinese Ecological Research Network Project
Government Implementing Agency           :  The Bureau of Natural Resources
Chinese Academy of Science
Date of IDA Approval                     :  September 1992
Contract Signed                          :  Not applicable
Project Completed                        :  December 1993
Allocation                               :  SDR67,850
Final Disbursement                       :  SDR49,261
Description
The subproject is to improve the information systems of the Chinese
Ecological Research Network (CERN) and the Biodiversity Research and
Information Management System (BRIM).
Implementation
Five individual consultants were retained to assist Chinese Academy of
Science in the preparation of the project proposal of CERN and biodiversity
components of the project.
Follow-up Activities
Environment Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 2522 - US$50 million) was
approved in June 1993.
Evaluation
The reports on CERN and BRIM were both considered acceptable to the
Chinese Academy of Science (CAS) and the Bank. CAS, however, experienced
difficulties in recruiting and supervising the consultants because of
misunderstandings on terms and conditions of the assignments among the three
parties involved (CAS, the Bank and the consultants). The problems resulted
in lengthy discussions on consultants' fees and per diem and much time had
been wasted. CAS feels that it should carefully review consultants'
qualification and prepare clearly drafted contracts with detailed terms of
reference before agreeing to hire any consultants.



- 66 -                            APPENDIX C
CHINA
TECHNICAL COOPERATION CREDIT II
(Credit 1664 - CHA)
SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION AND PERFORMANCE
Subproject No. 35
Title: Study on the Development of Securities Trading Automated Quotations
System of Stock Exchange Executive Council
Government Implementing Agency            :  Stock Exchange Executive Council
Date of IDA Approval                      :  October 1992
Contract Signed                           :  1993
Project Completed                         :  June 1994
Allocation                                    S SDR136,536
Final Disbursement                        . SDR141,856
Description
The subproject is to assist the Stock Exchange Executive Council
strengthen its capacity through:
- Examination of the need for the development of STAQ system
- Assessment of short-term improvements to be made in the system
- Training the staff
Implementation
A team from American NASDAQ Inc. conducted a study from late March to
early April, 1993. The team submitted a final report on the study in
September 1993.
The team visited MOF, China Securities Regulatory Commission, State
Commission for Economic Systems Restructuring, Civil Aviation Administration
of China, the World Bank Resident Mission and some STAQ system member firms.
They held detailed discussions with SEEC and STAQ staff, viewed the operations
of STAQ and researched and studied materials and regulations relating to
operation of the STAQ system.
The team also addressed training sessions on the subject of American
securities market, securities law and regulation and market surveillance and
the technical environment in the U.S. In their report recommendations were
made on STAQ System's environment, network, communications, technical support,
development plan, organization, business development and legal environment.
Follow-up Activities
The subproject is a stand-alone project and no follow-up activities are
planned.
Evaluation
The study contributed significantly to the improvement of the trading
mechanism in STAQ. This resulted in increased stock listings and member firms
and the subproject, though small in amount, contributed to the strengthening
of the Council's capacity. The Bank staff's assistance in identifying needs,
drafting the terms of reference and contracting out the assignment was
invaluable to the successful implementation of the subproject.



- 67 -                           APPENDIX C
CHINA
TECHNICAL COOPERATION CREDIT II
(Credit 1664 - CHA)
SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION AND PERFORMANCE
Subproiect No. 36
Title: Shanghai Environmental Project Preparation
Government Implementing Agency               Shanghai Environment Project
Office
Date of IDA Approval                     :  November 1992
Contract Signed                          :  Not applicable
Project Completed                        :  June 1994
Allocation                               :  SDR158,780
Final Disbursement                       :  SDR 43,602
Description
Organizing overseas training and study tours to help key staff from
agencies and departments involved in the Shanghai Environment project to
acquire necessary skills and knowledge required for implementation of the
project.
Implementation
The following training was conducted:
- Senior Manager Study Tour to the U.K.
- Urban Environment Planning & River Basin Management study tour to the
US
The following four study tours/training were not undertaken because of a
delay in preparing the activities and the close of TCCII.
- Industrial and Hazardous Waste Management (Canada, Japan)
- Urban Water Supply and Solid Waste Management (UK, Denmark)
- Sewerage Collection, Treatment, Disposal and Management (UK, Denmark)
- Project Management and Financial Training (Hong Kong, US)
Follow-up Activities
Shanghai Environment Project (Loan 3711 - US$160 million) was approved
in 1994.
Evaluation
The two study tours were conducted and assessed by the project office
useful. However, the entire program was not well thought through and not
well sequenced that the office was unable to utilize the fund allocated for
the program. Overseas study tours should be designed carefully with due
attention to the needs assessment.



- 68 -                           APPENDIX C
CHINA
TECHNICAL COOPERATION CREDIT II
(Credit 1664 - CHA)
SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION AND PERFORMANCE
Subproiect No. 37
Title: Grain Distribution and Marketing Project Preparation
Government Implementing Agency           :  Ministry of Internal Trade
Date of IDA Approval                     :    October 1993
Contract Signed                          :    May and June 1993
Project Completed                        .    May 1994
Allocation                               :    SDR2,125,872
Final Disbursement                       :      SDR2,111,519
Description
Preparation of guidelines for the preliminary design work, development
of options, developing complete equipment lists, developing technical
specifications for key equipment and subsystems, operational cost
estimates.
Investigation tours to USA, Canada and Japan to study technical and
management aspects of grain terminal handling facilities.
Implementation
Contracts were signed with four contractors:
(1) to provide consulting services for the preliminary design of Dayao
Bay Grain Terminal in Dalian, Fancheng Grain Terminal in Guangxi Region,
Intermediate and Primary depots in Heilongjiang and Inner Mongolia, and
Beijing Central Supply Depot.
(2) to provide preliminary design assistance for Intermediate and
primary depots in Liaoning and Jilin provinces.
(3) to provide assistance in design of Zhangjigang Grain terminal, Wuhan
Grain Depot and terminal and Chenglingji Grain depot and inland depots
in Hunan province.
(4) to act as Chief Advisors to assist in overall coordination and
management of preliminary design of the Grain Distribution and Marketing
Project, including guidelines for costs and operations, components
design, review of depot design, and developing an outline program and
progress monitoring system to form basis for future project control.
Follow-up Activities
Grain Distribution and Marketing Project (Loan 3624 - $490 million) was
approved in 1993.
Evaluation
All the consultancy contracts were completed satisfactorily. The
project benefitted significantly from the preliminary design work undertaken
by the consulting firms. Several minor problems, however, resulting from
ineffective coordination among the consultants were experienced which resulted
in some delay in producing reports.
The investigation tour on grain ports and inland facilities was useful
for the project management staff in acquiring the technology, logistic system
and management technic necessary for the project.



