CREDIT NUMBER 1664 CHA
OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Technical Cooperation Project)
between
PEOPLE' S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                              , 1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1664 CRA
DEVELOPMEW CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                                 , 1986, between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Section
3.01 (a) of this Agreement, has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02.   Unless the  context otherwise requires, the
several  terms  defined   in  the  General  Conditions  have   the
respective  meanings   therein   set  forth  and   the   following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Sub-project" means a particular study or project of
technical assistance selected by agreement between the Borrower
and the Asgociation pursuant to Section 3.01 of this Agreement;
and
(b) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in


﻿-2-
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent   to   eighteen   million   Special   Drawing   Rights
(SDR 18,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project described in Section 3.01
(a) of this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in a bank and on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1992 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed 'by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rat? of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.


﻿-3-
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 1
and September 1 commencing September 1, 1996, and ending March 1,
2036. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on March 1, 2006 shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The objectives of the Project are to
assist the Borrower: (i) in the preparation of investment
projects for which Association or Bank financing has been or is
expected to be requested and, in exceptional cases, in the
preparation of other investment projects; and (ii) in the overall
development of its capacity for preparation and implementation of
investment projects, administration of technical assistance and
other economic development activities. The Project consists of
the carrying out of high priority Sub-projects, selected by
agreement between the Borrower and the Association, which are
designed to meet these objectives and have been selected in
accordance with the criteria set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
(b) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth above, and, to this end, shall carry
out the Project, and shall cause each Sub-project to be carried
out, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate financial, technical and administrative practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
(c) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (b)
of this Section, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in


﻿-4-
acco-dance with the Implementation Program set forth in Sched-
ule 4 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association chall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause the External Finance
Department of its Ministry of Finance to ensure: (i) the
effective coordination among the departments and agencies of the
Borrower concerned in the implementation of the Project; and (ii)
that, at all times until the Closing Date, a suitably qualified
officer of such Department shall be designated to serve as
Project Coordinator in order to assist in achieving such
czoordination and shall be assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
Section 3.04. Except as the Borrower and the Association may
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall make funds available out of
the proceeds of the Credit for Sub-projects on a grant basis,
except that whenever an investment is subsequently made in res-
pect of a Sub-project under paragraphs 1 (a) or 1 (c) of Sched-
ule 2 to this Agreement, the funds shall be repaid to the Bor-
rower on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section, including the Special Account, for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently


﻿-5 -
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the said accounts and the audit thereof
and said records as the Association shall from
time to tme reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until    at   least  one  year  after   the
completion of the audit for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was   made,   all  records   (contracts,   orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable    the  Association's   representatives  to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of
such expenditures were used for the purposes for
which they were provided.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE V
Additional Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Without in any way restricting or limiting any
other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower, terminate in whole or in part the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account on account
of any Sub-project if any of the following events shall have
occurred and be continuing:
(a) the Borrower shall have failed to perform any covenant,
agreement or obligation under this Agreement in respect of such
Sub-project;
(b) the contract for the employment of consultants to
assist in the carrying out of such Sub-project shall not have
come into force and effect within six months from the date of the
Association's approval of such Sub-project pursuant to the
provisions of paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(c) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that such Sub-project can be carried out
in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower's State Council
shall have approved the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing
People's Republic of China
Cable address:                      Telex:
FINANMIN                            22486 MFPRC
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit                 % of
k-Expressed in        Expenditures
Category             SDR Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1) Goods                                       100% of foreign
expenditures,
100%   of   local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 75%
of local ex-
penditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(2) Consultants'                                100%
services,
training
programs and
overseas study
tours
TOTAL              18,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.


﻿- 10 -
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Criteria for Sub-project Eligibility
1.   A Sub-project shall be one of the following:
(a) a   feasibility  study or   other  technical assistance
required for preparing: (i) projects for which financ-
ing by the Association or the Bank has been or is
expected to be requested; and (ii) in exceptional
cases, other investment projects;
(b) a program to strengthen the capacity and capability of
institutions   in  China   for  project   planning  and
implementation and economic development, including,
inter alia, training and overseas study tours;
(c) a study to provide information required for the selec-
tion of specific projects for implementation or an
economic or policy study;
(d) a program for overall development of the administration
of technical assistance; or
(e) in exceptional cases, consultancy services or other
technical assistance required for the implementation of
projects of which other components are already being
financed by the Association or the Bank.
2.   A Sub-project shall be mutually agreed       to be of high
priority in the Borrower's development efforts.
3.   A  Sub-project shall have no equally suitable financing
available from the United Nations Development Program or other
external financing agencies.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A. International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B. Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procirement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in China may
be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
Part D. Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished
to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.


﻿- 13 -
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information re-
quired to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
For the purpose of carrying out each Sub-project which
requires the employment of consultants, the Borrower shall cause
its department or agency responsible for the execution of the
Sub-project to employ consultants whose qualifications, experi-
ence and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory
to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accord-
ance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Associa-
tion on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.   The purpose and scope of each Sub-project, the method of
implementation thereof and the specific allocation thereto of
proceeds of the Credit shall be determined by agreement between
the Borrower and the Association.
2.   Sub-project  proposals.  Except   as  the  Association  may
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall submit, for each Sub-project,
the following to the Association for its approval:
(a) a   description   of  the   studies  and   work  to   be
carried out in connection with the proposed Sub-project, includ-
ing a time schedule for, the purposes and objectives of, and the
benefits expected from such Sub-project;
(b) the proposed selection procedures, qualifications,
terms of reference and duration of service for any consultants to
be engaged for the purposes of the proposed Sub-project;
(c) a description of the role of the department or agency
or personnel of the Borrower to be responsible for the execution
of the proposed Sub-project and counterpart staff, if any, to be
supplied by the Borrower;
(d) a general description of the arrangements to be made
by the executing agencies for the provision of office space,
secretarial facilities, transportation and other operational
facilities required for the Sub-project to proceed efficiently;
(e) estimated foreign and local costs of the proposed
Sub-project broken down by major items and showing amounts to be
financed by the Borrower and out of the proceeds of the Credit,
respectively, and an estimated disbursement schedule; and
(f) measures to be taken to comply with paragraphs 3 (b)
and (c) below.
3.   Consultants
(a) Consultants shall be employed as provided in Section II
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿- 15 -
(b) The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all
reasonable measures to facilitate the work of consultants in the
performance of their services for the Project and make available
to them all information relevant to the Sub-project concerned.
(c) The Borrower shall not permit the amendment or waiver
of any of the terms and conditions of employment of consultants
employed for any Sub-project, or the grant of any material exten-
sion of time or any approval of sub-contracts or modifications
thereof, or the agreement to substitute personnel of such
consultants, without prior agreement between the Borrower and the
Association. The Borrower shall promptly inform the Association
if it proposes to suspend payments under or terminate any
contract with such consultants.
(d) The Borrower shall cause the Consultants employed for
the Project promptly to furnish to the Association copies of the
documents prepared by them for the Project, including reports and
drafts thereof, in such number as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(e) The    Borrower   shall   establish   arrangements   and
procedures, satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association, for
supervising and directing the work of any consultants employed
for Sub-projects and reviewing the reports and recommendations of
such consultants.
4.   The Borrower shall furnish to the Association the informa-
tion required under Section 9.06 (a) (iii) of the General Condi-
tions in semi-annual progress reports, to be provided to the
Association by March 31 and September 30 in each year, for the
periods ending December 31 and June 30, respectively.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the   term  "Authorized  Allocation"  means  an   amount
equivalent to SDR 1,400,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account  and  deposited  in  the  Special Account    pursuant  to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible


﻿- 17 -
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories, minus the amount
of any outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible   Categories  shall  follow  such   procedures  as   the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice have been or will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any


﻿- 18 -
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   1k6      day of
198F                          SC    T
FOR SECRETARY


