DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
FILE COPY
Report No. 102a-UV
APPRAISAL OF
AN EDUCATION PROJECT
UPPER VOLTA
June 5, 1973
Education Division
Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may n
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not acce,
accuracy or completeness of the report.



J                            OURRENCY BQUIVALENTS
(Official Rate of Exchange as of March 12, 1973)
US $           = CFAF  230.20
CFAF 1         = US$ 0,004
CFAF 2 million = US$ 4,344
Measures
meter (m)                =  3.28 feet
square meter (m2)          10.76 square feet
kilometer (km)           =  0.62 mile
square kilometer (km2)  =  0.38 square mile
hectare (ha)                2.47 acres



GLOSSARY
ATA          Agent Technique d'Agriculture   Agricultural Agent
CER          Centre d'Education Rurale         Rural Education Center
RDF          Fonds de Développement Rural    Rural Development Fund
CFMER        Centre de Formation des           Rural Education Teachers
Maîtres (ou Monitrices)           Training Center (male
d'Education Rurale                or female)
CPR          Centre de Promotion Rurale         Rural Development
Training Center
DUEL         Diplôme Universitaire En-         University Diploma in Arts
seignement Lettres                (in a 2-year common
course)
DUES         Dipl8me Universitaire En-         University Diploma in
seignement Scientifique           Sciences (in a 2-year
common course)
FAC          Fonds d'Aide et de Coopé-          (French) Fund for Aid and
ration                            Cooperation
FED          Fonds Européen de Dévelop-         European (2ommunity) Develop-
pement                            ment Fund
GPS           Groupement Post-Scolaire          Post School Cooperative
Group
MER          Maître (ou Monitrice)              Rural Education Teacher
dtEducation Rurale                (male or female)
ORD           Organisme Régional de             Regional Development
Développement                     Organization
Formal Education:  Structured, conventional system of education and
training under the guidelines of a Ministry of
Education; it implies regular years of schooling
with standardized courses at different levels
and examina tions.
Non-Formal          Education and training activities outside the
Education:         structured conventional system.
Fiscal Year:        January 1 - December 31
School Year:        Rural Education Center - May 1 - February 28
All other schools          October - June 30



b
1



UPPER VOLTA
APPRAISAL OF AN EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
SUMM'ARY AND CONCLUSIONS ...........................i
I. INTRODUCTION .
II.   SOCIO-ECONOMIC BACKGROUND- - TPIE RURAL SETTING .......            1
The Country, People aind Economv ....          .................  1
Manpower .................................  .9
Economic Development Strategy.                                    3
III.  THE EDUCATION AND TRPAINING SYSTEM.                                 3
General.                                                          3
The Formal System .4
The Non-Formal System - Rural Edtucation.                         5
Education Budgets and External Aid.                               8
IV.   EDUCATION DEVELOPPNTST              .......................10
General ..........,. , .,........  "O
Conclusion .......................... ........   , 1
V. THE PROJECT .1
Secondarv Education ......................                       13
Rural Education Centers (CER) ...................             1s
Post-School Cooperative Groups (GPS) .....            .          15
Rural Development Training Centers (CPR) ............    17
Regional and Headquarters Facilities.                            17
Technical Assistance .18
Cost of the Project ...........................                  19
Additional Operating Costs Generated bv
the Project.                                                   22
VI.  IYTLE¶ENTATTON ANn DISBIJRS5EMENT .23
VIT.   AGREE?IENTS REACPEED AND RECOÉMENDATION                   .



ik



APPENDICES, ANNEXES, CHARTS, MAPS
APPENDICES
I    Characteristics of the Rural Education Institutions under
the Project
II    Rural Education in the Five-Year Plan.1972/1976
III    GPS:  Objectives and Budgets
ANNEXES
1.       Comparative Education Indicators
2.       Manpower Needs and the Output of the Educational System
3.       Enrollment in Public and Private Institutions, 1970/71 and 1971/72
4.       Education Operating Budgets and Exteriial Aid (1964-1972)
5.       Public Secondary Schools included in the Project
6.(a)&(b)Rural Education Centers Eligible for Reconstruction and/or Equipment
7.(a)&(b)Annual Phasing of the Project CER and GPS
8.       Needs for "Encadreurs/Animateurs" in GPS
9.       Technical Assistance
10.       Summary of Estimated Costs
il.       Comparative Capital Costs in New Project Institutions
12.       Contingencies Allowances
13.(a)(b) Additional Recurrent Costs of the Project - Rural Education Scheme
14.       Implementation Schedule
15.       Proposed Financing
16.       Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
CHARTS
1.       Structure of the Education System
2.       Educational Pyramid, 1969/1970
3.       Channels of Rural Education
MAPS
1.       Secondary Schools and Science Facilities
2.       Regional Development Organizations (ORD)
3.       Rural Education in Dedougou
4.       Rural tducation in Koudougou
5.       Rural Education in Kaya
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Upper Volta in May 1972. The mission consisted of Messrs. T. Terrefe (gen-
eral Educator), U. Fontana (PM, Agriculture Specialist), A. Kinawy (Architect),
Loewen (PNWA, General Educator) and G. Devernois (Education Specialist, Con-
sultant); J. Crosnier (Agriculture Education Specialist) also contributed to
the report.






UPPER VCLTA
BASIC DATA: Education (1971-72)
Public Education Expenditure per Capita              US$ 2
Public Education Expenditure
- as percentage of total budget                   28%
- as percentage of GDP                             4%
Distribution of Enrollment and Expenditures
Distribution by Level
Level of Education     Distribution of Enroll-    Distribution of
ment by Level             Recurrent Public
Expenditure on
Education
( Primary                 90.0%                        65%
Formal  ( Secondary                 9.5%                        20%
( Post secondary           0.5%                         6%
100-
Non-Formal Rural Education         22.0%
Final Enrollment (as percentage of total enrollment)
Primary                36%
Secondary              28%
Enrollment in Public Schools (as percentage of total enrollment)
Primary                98%
Secondary               42%
BASIC DATA: Nutrition (1964-66)
Source: FAO - Food Balance Sheets
Calories intake per day per capita         2,060
Protein intake per day per capita           70.3 gr
Rate animal protei ntotal Protein            8%
Fat intake per day per capita               36.6 gr






SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Although almost 28% of its operating budget is spent for education,
of which 65% is for primary education, Upper Volta enrolls only about 10% of
the children of primary school age. This situation, not uncommon in this part
of Africa, results from Upper Volta's pervasive poverty and the high costs of
formal education relative to per capita income levels. Furthermore, the
highly selective formal education system is geared exclusively to development
of the skills required by the small modern sector of the economy, ignoring
the needs of the predominantly rural masses.  Therefore, change is needed.
ii.       About ten years ago an attempt was made to develop an alternative:
this was the three-year rural school, addressed to illiterate adolescents
about 15 years of age who had lost hope of entering primary school, to pro-
vide them with basic literacy plus more productive agricultural skills and
attitudes. The school would be closely related to village lîfe, and the rural
communities would partly finance rural teacher salaries, which are one-third
those of primary teachers. France, UNICEF and the European Development Fund
(FED) supported the initiative. But the program ran into two major diffi-
culties, especially because the admission age was lowered: (a) rural educa-
tion tended to become a less desirable system parallel to the formal education
system; and (b) the increasing gap between the rural school-leaving age and
community-recognized adulthood reduced the likelihood that youngsters would
settle in the rural areas and/or bring about modernization.
iii.      Nevertheless, the Bank Group and other agencies are now convinced
that the original approach was the right one, provided that the schooling
would have been directly followed by employment or alternative training oppor-
tunities to bridge the interval between adolescence and adulthood. This led
to the development of the post-school cooperative concept, grouping 15 rural
school leavers into small cooperatives, assisted financially and professionally
by the Ministry of Agriculture Regional Development Organizations (ORD) operat-
ing in the field.  It also led to the decision to create a small number of
centers to bring selected students to the Primary School Certificate level
equivalent, giving them access to further training as rural teachers or other
rural development agents.
iv.       The project aims to support these objectives and would be one of the
Bank Group's first attempts at integrating rural education with agricultural
credit and employment creation. At the same time, the evaluation built into
the project would continue the Bank's research efforts started with a world-
wide study of non-formal education for rural development, which is about to be
completed. Based on this experiment, similar projects might be generated in
other countries or regions which are among the least developed.
v.        The proposed IDA credit of US$2.85 million would help finance the fo
following:
(a)  In the non-formal, rural education and training system:



- ii -
i.   reconstruction and equipping of 40 and equipping
of 80 rural education centers (CER);
ii. organizatîon, equipping and servicing of 150 coopera-
tive groups of 15 former CER students each as the
pilot phase of a scheme to create 510 such groups
over a five-year period;
iii. creation of three rural development training centers;
iv. related technical assistance including an evaluation
of the rural education program; and
v.   a feasibility study of an appropriate system to train
managers for rural development projects.
(b)  In the formal education system:  science facilities and equipment
for 21 secondary schools to improve the standards of science edu-
cation, which is a prerequisite for further training in agricul-
ture, technology and other scientific fields.
vi.       The project would cost US$3.6 million equivalent, including contin-
gencîes.  The foreign exchange component îs estimated at US$2.3 million.
Contracts would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding
except for the procurement of equipment related to the rural development cen-
ters and of items which cannot be grouped in packages of at least $5000, for
which local competitive bidding would be allowed up to a maximum of $150,000.
viiî      The Directorate of Rural Education, and the three Regional Develop-
ment Organizations (ORD) concerned, would împlement the project under the
direction of the Mînistry of Agriculture. The latter agencies are already
responsible for the RDF project (IDA Credit 317 UV, June 26, 1972) and would
therefore coordinate all aspects common to both. For the secondary education
part of the project a coordinator within the Ministrv of Education would be
designated.
viii.     The project is suitable as a basis for an IDA credit of US$2.85
million equivalent, correspondlng to about 90% of total costs net of taxes
and to about 78% of total project cost, and equal to the estimated foreign
exchange component plus 40% of local currency expenditures.



UPPER VOLTA
APPRAISAL OF AN EDUCATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      During the last eleven years, several bilateral and international
agencies have studied Upper Volta's rural education system (FAC 1965, UNESCO
1968, FIDES 1969, FED 1970 and 1972, and the Bank (report No. AW-19a Volume IV,
November 27, 1970). Two Bank/IDA reconnaissance missions followed in June/
July 1971 and February 1972 to identify prioritv education projects for Bank/
IDA financing.  They also benefitted from preliminarv findings of the Bank-
financed worldwide research project on rural education, carried out by the
International Council for Educational Development (ICED), which included an
analysis of the rural education program in Upper Volta. On the basis of
these studios a project was identified that would give high priority to the
reform and expansion of the country's rural education system. The project was
prepared and appraised in May 1972 by a mission composed of Messrs. T. Terrefe
(mission leader, general educator), U. Fontana (PM4WA, specialist in agricul-
ture), A. Kinawy (architect), M. Loewen (PM;A, general educator) and
G. Devernois (consultant, specialist in rural education). J. Crosnier (agri-
culture education specialist) also contributed to this project.
1.02      The non-formal part of the project would be coordinated with and
complement FED assistance for rural education (June 1972 grant of CFAF 600
million (US$2.3 million) and the June 26, 1972, IDA Credit 317 UV of US$2.2
million for the Rural Development Fund (RDF).
11.  SOCIO-ECONOMIC BACKGROIJND--THE RURAL SETTINO
The Country, People and Economy
2.01      Upper Volta, a landlocked country of 274,000 km 2ocated on the
southern border of the Sahara desert, is one of the poorest countries in
the world. Over 90% of the present population of 5.4 milllon, which is
growing at an estimated 2% p.a., live and work in rural areas; and about 97%
of the active population are engaged in agriculture and livestock raising.
Although French is the official language and French administrative patterns
are followed, many local languages are spoken and local customs are adhered
to in many areas of lîfe. There are, however, three main national languages:
More (spoken by the Mossi people), Dioula, and Peuhl.
2.02      The country is handicapped by a pauctty of natural resources.  Ex-
cept for 20% of its territory in the southwest, where alluvial deposits are
found in river valleys, the country has poor soils. Endemic diseases impair
labor productivity in the rural communities. An estimated 400,000 people are
infected by onchocerciasis (river blindness), which has a debilitating effect



-2-
and has kept people from settling in the more fertile valleys. The climate
is erratic and the rainy seasons are often too short to produce adequate food
crops. Mineral deposits have been found but the high cost of transportation
south to the coast precludes exploitation in the immediate future.
2.03      Nevertheless, agriculture and livestock are the mainstays of the
economy and together they contribute about 44% of GDP (industry 21%, ser-
vices 35%). /Subsistence production accounts for about 35% of total GDP at
market prices. Among cash crops, increase in cotton production during the
past few years has been the most significant.  Over the last ten years per
capîta GDP increased at the rate of 1-1/2% p.a. to reach US$64 in 1970 at
the exchange rate of US$=255,79 cFAF.
2.04      Agricultural land, according to tradition, is communally owned.
Parcels of land for cultivation, livestock raising or tree growing are
distributed to the head of the family by the "Chef de Terre," who also ensures
that they are recovered when members leave the community. Heads of families
will in turn allocate the use of land to family and/or individual members
on an annual basis. Children as young as ten years old participate in the
work of the family farm and continue living with the family well into adult-
hood and often even after marriage. Adolescent members of the family are
allowed to work on individual plots of land which are allocated to them by
the "Chef de Terre" or lxn some cases by the heads of the families. In certain
parts of the country individual land tenure is possible, particularly in the
lowland areas where irrigated farming is practicable. Work such as clearing,
weeding and ridging is often done in groups.
2,05      Many young men leave the farm and migrate to the towns or neighboring
countries because of the poor soil and climatic conditions, the hardship of
rural life and the limitations of traditional society. However, Ouagadougou
anid Bobo-Dîoulasso, the main urban areas offer little wage employment.  In 1972,
an estimated half million Voltaic nationals lived ïn the Ivory Coast and
Ghana.  Although the f inancial remit tances from these migrants are consider-
able, the loss of the country's prime labor force is felt particularly during
the growing season. Some of the young migrants stay away for a year or two,
until they have accumulated savings for clothes, a bîcycle and part of the
dowry, before they return to theïr home village.  A consideraXle nr-uaber of
them settle abroad permanently.
MannoL er
2.0.5     Outside agriculture, the ,ain sources if employment are the public
and the industrial sectors.  Recent survevs -niicate that wage-earners number
33,500 (1.3% of the 2.5 million aged 15-60 in 1970), 60% of whom work in pub-
lic administration; of the remaining 40% working in industry, commerce and
related services, 3,600 people are engaged in manufacturing and about 2,500
in construction. An additional 60,000 people work in traditional professions
as artisans, small businessmen and transporters of goods.



-3-
2.07      It is anticipated that the major manpower needs will be in agricul-
ture for the foreseeable future, but estimates of total manpower requirements
for the period 1971-85 indicate that there is a small but important need for
additional manpower in the industrial and services sectors. At present, 35%
of the high, middle level and technician positions in governnent services are
filled by expatriates. The corresponding percentages for the private sector
are 68%, 58% and 48% respectively (Annex 2). About 1,000 Voltaic trained at
these levels would be needed annually for growth and replacement - which is
in line with the projected output capacity at Baccalaureat level (Annex 2, C),
although many would.require from the formal education system a scientific
base which it does not now provide.
Economic Develop.ent Strategy
2.08      A major economic objective of the Second Five-Yea' Plan (1972-76) is
to develop agricultural resources through commercial farming, food crop pro-
duction and livestock raising. This requires water resources development
and other rural community development programs.  The development of human
resources and the creation of an administrative infrastructure are essential
prerequisites for implementation of development projects to achieve this major
economic objective.
2.09      Plans are to increase agricultural productivity through widespread
use of extension services and improved health and nutrition programs, includ-
ing, for example, campaigns to eradicate river blindness.  Implementing these
plans will require (a) reinforcement of the country's eleven Regional Devel-
opment Organizations (ORD), which are responsible for providing agricultural
extension, credit and marketing services (Appendix 1); ar.d (b) avaiLability
of various types of "project managers," combining professional knowledge with
administrative and organizational skills. Emphasis on rural education and
training will also be required to provide farmers and their families with
basic literacy, hygiene and nutritional instruction in addition to agricul-
tural training.
III. THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM
General
3.01      The Ministry of Education has overall responsibility for both
formal and non-formal education and provides subsidies to private schools.
The Ministries of Agriculture, Health, Commerce, and Post and Telegraph oper-
ate some specialized secondary schools. At the regional level Ministry of
Education representatives supervise the operation of all schools. Education
is free at all levels and boarding facilities are provided for the majority
of secondary school students coming from the rural areas. Private education
accounts for less than 4% of primary but more than 40% of secondary enroll-
ments. Most secondary teachers are expatriates provided by French technical
assistance (FAC), which also finances part of the operating expenses of these
schools. The European Development Fund (FED) has provided considerable assist-
ance (capital and recurrent) to rural and technical education.



-4-
The Formal System
3.02      The formal education system of Upper Volta is based upon the
traditional French pattern. Most of the senior officials in the government
services have received their education and training under this system and
many of them have had their post-secondary schooling in France. The system
ls highly selective and favors those coming from the towns, the majority of
,nom expect to find clerical and administrative jobs when they finish secondary
school. But with less than 4% of the active population working in the modern
and non-rural sector (which corresponds to an annual manpower absorption
capacity of about 4-5,000), theîr opportunities for such employment are be-
cc^zing more and more limited.
3.03      Structure.  Following a primary course of six years, secondary
education is divided into a first cycle of four years and a second cycle of
three years. Two years' post-secondary courses are offered in arts, sciences,
business, public administration, pedagogy and technology. The nucleus of a
University is being formed through regrouping some of these post-secondary
courses; the structure is showr. in Chart I.
3.04      Primary Education.  Enrollment has increased by 60% during the
last ten years to about 112,000 in 1972 (Annex 3) but still represents only
10% of the estimated'age group 6-11. Government plans are to increase the
participation rate to ab-ut 12.5% by the end of the Second Five-Year Plan
(1972-76). Primary school is inefficient; repeaters are 16% of each grade
on average, and only about 18% of those who enter the primary cycle obtain
the primary school certificate (C.E.P.E.).  About 40% drop out of school after
they have achieved some degree of literacy and the remaining 42% drop out
without even attaining the minimum of schooling to achieve permanent literacy
(4 years). There is little hope for early improvement: most of the teachers
lack both adequate preparation -- especially in view of the high pupil/teacher
ratio (45:1) -- and materials to make primary education interesting and rele-
vant. The feasibility of using radio broadcasts is yet to be studied.
3.05      Secondary Education.  Enrollment has increased nearly iourfold in
the last ten years ta about 12,000 in 1972 (Annex 3), but admission is re-
stricted (Chart 2) and represents only 2% of the estimated age group 12-18.
Repeater and dropout rates are high. The secondary curriculum is limited to
academic subjects leading to university and other post-secondary studies.
About 15% of the secondary school students specialize in science and technical
courses, but the teaching is too theoretical and the science facilities are
inîadequate for individual experiments.
3QC6      Over half of the secondary school teachers are expatriates.  The
student/teacher ratio is 23:1 and the average teaching load is only 18 hours
per week. Government policy for the immediate future is to (a) împrove the
quality of science teaching \which is a prerequisite for further studies
in the priority areas of agriculture, medicine and technology) by upgrading
the standards of science facilities; (b) recruit better qualified staff
unde~- French technical assistance; and (c) utilize more fullv the existing



-5-
staff. By 1977 an estimated 280 appropriately trained secondary school
science graduates (against the present 200-250) will be available for further
training.
3.07      Teacher training.  A two-year training course for assistant prim-
ary school teachers is provided for some 600 students in three training col-
leges. Completion of first-cycle secondary school is required for admission.
Fully qualified primary teachers (Instituteurs) are trained in a one-year
post-secondary teacher training course enrolling 150 students at Ouagadougou.
The latter level of training represents relatively high educational require-
ments (compared with those in a country such as the Ivory Coast) which, to-
gether with the relatively high civil service salary scales, help explain the
high teacher costs.
3.08      Agricultural training.  The agrieultural center at Matourkou, the
veterinary assistant school at Ouagadougou, the forestry training school at
Dinderesso, and two post-secondary institutions provide adequate facilities
for training agricultural technicians and field assistants needed for region-
al development programs.
3.09      Technical education and training.  The technical lycee at Ouagadougou
is the only institution that offers secondary technical courses. The curriculum
is not vell adapted to Voltaic needs, though the theoretical part of the course
is well taught by qualified expatriate teachers. There are too many narrow
specializations, resulting in a too low student/teacher ratio. With the aid
of the European Development Fund, a reorganization and further expansion of
technical education is under way.
3.10      Vocational training has been much improved by the opening of a new
school at Ouagadougou staffed by Austrian teachers. Entrants must have the
Primary School Certificate (CEPE) and pass an examination. Training is given
in general mechanics, auto mechanics, electricity and electronics. The school
will eventually enroll 200 pupils (160 in 1971/72) and will graduate 30 crafts-
men per year. The Austrian aid agency is committed to supply teaching person-
nel for a ten-year period.
3.11      Post-secondary and higher education.  The Government has been operat-
ing a Center for Righer Education at Ouagadougou since 1968. Enrollments in
higher education have increased threefold in the last ten years and are ex-
pected to go from the present 450 to 800 students by 1976. French and FED
technical assistance for higher education planning is expected to help control
enrollment growth and orient the planning towards priority developmental needs.
The Non-Formal System - Rural Education
3.12      For the last eleven years, Upper Volta has been conducting an ex-
periment in non-formal rural training through the establishment of Rural
Education Centers (CER), wîth the objective of providing rural youths with
basic literacy combined with knowledge-of handicraft and practical agricul-
ture.



- 6-
3.13      In 1969/70, 337 CER's had under cultivation a total of 435 hectares
of land. Crops included cotton, groundnuts, sorghum and rice. Productivity
per worker in the CER's compared favorably with that of the traditional farms.
3.14      The rural education scheme, first started with FAC technical as-
sistance in 1961, provides three years of education equally divided between
practical training (includîng improved farm methods with special courses in
health and home economics for girls) and basic general education in French.
The general courses are approxîmately equivalent to the first three years of
primnary school.  No certificate is issued at the end of the course.  Between
1965 and 1966 FED reconstructed 225 centers which had been established in
non-durable materials. In 1971/72 the total scheme involved 783 centers (88
for girls) with a total enrollment of 27,000. Most of the centers are built
by conmunity contributions using local labor and material. Part of the op-
erating costs is also supported by the community. In principle, a rural
education center recruits 40 village youths, aged about 15, who have had no
prior education. After three years a new group is recruited.
3.15      Rural teacher training.  Teachers for the CER's are trained in
three centers (CFMER) which provîde a one-year course in general education,
agriculture, field work and workshop (or home economics for girls) activi-
ties, and pedagogy and teaching methods for students who have completed the
first cycle of secondary education. The teaching staff is quantitatively
adequate but the training programs are not sufficiently adapted to the needs
of rural education and are currently being reorganized. Recruitment of rural
education teachers is based on academic attainments which have been recently
raised despite the fact that higher academic qualifications are not conducive
to working in rural communities. Rural education teachers do not form part
of the Civil Service and they earn contractual salaries of US$660 per year
as compared with the graduated scale of up to US$1,930 for a fully qualified
primary teacher (i.e. about 30 times the GDP per capita). For budgetary rea-
sons, a more generous statute regulating the conditions of service of rural
education teachers cannot be implemented for the time being. An improved
system for the training and recruitment of rural education teachers is needed,
however and would be supported by the project.
3.16      Objectives.  The rural education system, as originally conceived,
is more responsive to Upper Voltats environment than the formal primary school
system for these reasons:
(a)  the curriculum of the CER's devotes 50% of the time to
practical agriculture and thus prepares the student for
a productive rural life, whereas traditional primary
education is purely academic, divorces the child from
his environment, and leads him towards the ever more limited
opportunities of white collar employment;



-7-
(b) the system is a more economical means to provide basic education:
(i) teacher salaries are lower, resulting in an annual cost
per student of CFAF 5,000 against about CPAF 12,000 in primary
school; (ii) the shorter course reduces the dropout and repeater
rates so that, the total cost per output from the CER is five
times than that of a primary school leaver (with or
without certificate); and (iii) in view of their age and
training, the students are less likely to exert pressure
for access to further formal schooling.
3.17      Issues.  The potential benefits from the rural education scheme,
however, have not yet been fully realized:
(a) The scheme vas launched without a systematic study
of the envîronment and sufficient knowledge of the
attitudes and motivations of the students, their
parents, and the teaching profession;
(b) Contrary to the original concept, younger students
were admitted who were merely looking for an alter-
native to primary education and now more than 50% of
CER students are age 13 or under. Since they laek
the physical strength of the older students, their
practical progress and contribution to the work of
the school farm has been less effective than expec-
ted. Because of lower age and different aspi-
rations, integration of these young people into farm
life after completion of the CER courses has like-
wise been difficult;
(c) The content of the program turned out to be ill-suited
to the rural environment of Upper Volta. I'n addition,
use of French (hardly understood by the students and
without practical use in the daily activities of the
rural communities) as the medium of instruction proved
to be ineffective;
(d) Physical facilities were likewise inadequate. Apart
from a lack of equipment and draft animals, most of the
rural education centers are still in provisional build-
ings; the average size and the quality of the agricul-
tural plot provided for each center are often inadequate
and there is a general shortage of water supply;
(e) As in many other countries which have attempted to intro-
duce a dual education system, after a decade of experience
the separate rural education system is still firmly
resisted, particularly by civil servants who themselves
came up through the conventional system and also by the
general public, who realize that civil service salaries
are closely tied to the level of general education.



- 8 -
3.18      An improved approach: the Post-School Cooperative Groups.  In
order to overcome the relative isolation of the CER from organized farm
life and to bridge the age gap towards adulthood, enterprising former CER
students have organized themselves into "Groupements Post Scolaires" (GPS).
These associations, based on the economic and social structure of the vil-
lage community, are both production units and further learning centers
providing a technical support to follow up the CER training. The GPS mem-
ber plays an important role of propagating farming and marketing techniques
and innovative attitudes among the villagers. Managed by the members of the
group, patronized by village elders and provided with technical, credit and
marketing services by an instructor/extension worker (encadreur-animateur
itinerant), the GPS is a most innovative and realistic instrument to bring
about gradual rural transformation. At this stage it is not a permanent
cooperative society with a definite status, but it could gradually evolve
into such an institution as its members acquire more skill and experience
in the management of commercial farming.
3.19      Another approach to improving the rural education system would con-
sist of providing a channel to CER leavers tovards more technically sophisti-
cated jobs. This is the purpose of the proposed Centres de Promotion Rurale
(CPR) which would admit selected candidates from the CER courses with particu-
lar inclination towards rural development services for a further two years of
general education and agricultural training leading to a Certificate of
Elementary Rural Studiet (CERE). Graduates from these centers would fînd
easier access to the rural education teacher training institutes and the
agricultural schools (Appendix 1 and Charts 1 and 3). Rural teachers with
this background would be more effective than the present recruits from the
general education system.
Education Budgets and External Aid
3.20      Recurrent education expenditures over the last eight years have
grown from about 18% of the Government operating budget in 1964 to almost
28% in 1972 (Annex 4). During the last five years the total Government
operating budget grew in current terms at an average annual rate of 5% but
the education budget increased at twice that rate, or 10%. The formal edu-
cation system absorbed most of these increases. Expenditure on primary
education accounts for 65% of the Ministry of Education budget (excluding
general expenditures) and increased by 17% annually for the past five years
while rural education receives only 9% of the budget and has grown by less
than 10% per year during the same period.
3.21      External capital aid for education amounted to approximately
US$12.4 million during 1960-71. Most external aid is granted on concessionary
terms. Technical assistance and fellowships amounted to $5.4 million in
1970/71 and represented an additional 60% to the Government operating budget
for education. France and iÊD have in recent years supplied 56% and 23%,
respectively, of total aid.



-9
3.22      France is the largest contributor of personnel and funds for the
education sector. It supplies most of the teachers for the secondary schools
and the research staff at the National Pedagogy Center. It also supplies half
of the operating budget of the University institutes and the Pedagogy Center-
and continues to grant scholarships for overseas studies.
3.23      Other donors have contributed with a variety of programs.  UNICEF
has been associated in the design and operation of the rural education scheme
since its origin.  The European Development Fund (FED) spent over US$5 mil-
lion during the 1960's on construction of rural education centers (CER) and
the national school of administration (ENA). It also spent some US$250,000
on post-secondary scholarships. Austria has built a vocational training
school for $310,000 and continues to provide annual operating funds. The
UNDP annually spends US$375,000 for specialists in education and agricul-
ture. The United States has 45 Peace Corps volunteers in the country, of
whom 10 are teachers.  Canada has recently begun offering scholarships and
teachers.
3.24      Prospects for a significant increase in national resources avail-
able for education are not favorable. With about 4% of GDP and 28% of the
national operating budget devoted to education, this sector is already claim-
ing a substantial part of the country's resources, which are unlikely to in-
crease rapidly in the immediate future.
3.25      Under these circumstances, the prospects for expanding the relatively
expensive, conventional forms of education are poor; even in the long run formal
education will remain beyond the reach of the majority of the population.  The
most practical strategy would thereforé be to design and expand projects in
the field of non-formal education, where operating costs are much lower and
where more people can be reached in a shorter period. Miajor objectives of
such projects should be the rapid development of the country's human resources
and, in view of the country's predominantly rural character, improve-ment in
the quality of rural life. At the same time, use of radio to improve and
supplement the one-teacher/one-classroom traditional delivery system of formal
primary education must be further explored.
3.26      This strategy would require a reallocation of financial resources
to reflect the new priorities. If one assumes a 5% annual growth of the nation-
al budget versus a 6% growth of education expenditures, total education expend-
itures by 1977 would still reach the high level of 29% of the national oper-
ating budget. Rural education could grow at the desirable rate of 10% annually
(from the present CFAF 167 million to about CFAF 270 million by 1977) only if
expansion of expenditures on conventional education were controlled to about
5.5% p.a. This, in turn, would require that expansion of formal education
enrollments be kept at a moderate pace over the period. During negotiations
the Government confirmed that it will endeavour to ensure such moderate enroll-
ment growth as provided in its development plan objectives.



- 10 -
IV. EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY
General
4.01      Upper Volta's system of formal education, characterized by a
unit cost of US$53 per pupil at the primary level against a GDP per capita
of US$70, bears little relationship to its present and future economic poten-
tial. If all children of primary school age were to be enrolled today in
such a system, it would cost the country about 15% of the 1970 GDP. Even
under the most optimistic fiscal projections, conventional education vill
not serve more than a very small part of the school-age population in the
coming decades, while contributing little to economic development because of
the lack of employment opportunitîes for its students and also because of its
lack of relevance to the living and working conditions of the majority of the
population.
4.02      A redirection of the education development policy is necessary
and in principle approved by the Government. It would imply, over the next
few years:
(a) completion within three years of a review of the structure
and content of the education system, with a view to providing
a basic education for a larger proportion of the population
(UNESCO/UNICEF assistance is being made available for such a
review);
(b) while the review takes place, control of the expansion
of the formal education system (para 3.26);
(c) emphasis on science teaching at secondary level, which is
a common base for further study or training în agriculture,
medicine and technology at the technician and professional
levels (para. 3.06); and
(d) improvement and expansion of non-formal rural e&.-
tion and related training (paras. 3.16 - 3.19)
4.03      More specifically, with regard to rural education and training,
between 1972 and 1976 large-scale expansion of the rural education system
would await the consolidation of          ac hieved so far and improvement of
the structure and contents of the system (Appendix 2).
(a) average enrollment in the 696 rural education centers
(CER) for boys would increase from the present 34.6 to
40, thus increasing enrollment from 24,100 to 27,800;
(b) existing centers would be surveyed on the basis of which
their facilities and equipment would be improved;



- il -
(c)  an additional 37 centers would be built (with FED assist-
ance) bringing total enrollment to 29,320 (Appendix 2);
the total numiber of centers for girls, together with
their enrollments, would increase by 50% to 140 and 4,700,
respectively;
(d) the present 64 post-school cooperative groups (GPS), with
a membership of 820, would be brought to about 800 and
12,000, respectively, to improve the direct absorption
of CER graduates into agricultural employment;
(e)  five centers for the further training of CER graduates (CPR)
with an enrollment of 300 would also be created.
4.04      As discussed in paras. 3.17 and 3.19, major improvements in the
operations of the CER's would be required; specifically,
(a) entrance age would be at least 15 years of age for boys.
This could only occur if a systematic information cam-
paign is mounted to explain the rationale for the rural
education concept. A later age is.not advisable; it
would create major complications because adulthood is
reached at age 18;
(b) 15 centers would initiate an experimental program in the
national languages using teaching and follow-up materials pro-
vided by the Bureau of Pedagogy; if the experiment is suc-
cessful, teaching in French in the other centers would be
gradually discontinued;
(c)  revised curricula would be prepared, allowing more time for
practical farming and placing more emphasis on the teaching
of health and hygiene, rural handicrafts, practical arithmetic
and bookkeeping. During the rainy season, no more than one-
third of the weekly timietable would be devoted to classroom
instruction as against two-thirds (about 22 hours per week) to
practical field and shop instruction, it would be half for
both during the dry season,
(d) in-service training would be provided for teachers already
in service, and candidates for the rural education teacher
training program would be recruited on the basis of maturity
and rural experience, without excluding CER leavers.
4.05      Finally, management of the rural education system must also be
improved through a closer coordination with the rural development and extension
services of the Ministry of Agriculture at the national, regional and local
levels:



- 12 
(a)  at the national level the present Directorate of Rural
Education should be transferred from the Ministry of
Education to the Ministry of Agriculture, which is re-
sponsible for rural development. This decision has been
aiready taken by the Government, in view of the importance
of such transfer for the success of the changes in the
rural education policies described in para. 4.04 and
(b) hereunder.
(b)  at the regional and local levels rural education and
agricultural development should be coordinated by the
Regional Development Organizations (ORD); assurances have
been obtained from the Government to that effect. Since
the rural education teacher (MER) and extension agent
(encadreur-animateu r ) are both working on programs of
rural production, both would be placed under the
supervision of ORD. Under such circumstances the rural
education supervisors (conseillers d'education rurale)
would also be integrated into the ORD structure and would
supervise both the CER instruction and the cooperative
activities (GPS) of the former CER students. The ORD
office would also administer the credits for the coopera-
tive activities performed in the Post-School Cooperative
Groups (GPS).
Conclusion
4.06      The above strategy is imaginative and sound.  It is not, however,
without rîsks, one being its dependence on a sufficient degree of acceptance
by the rural population. The last ten years have revealed a number of weak-
nesses in the earlier experiment which the proposed plan intends to correct.
IDA assistance for implementing such a plan, which was mutually agreed at
negotiations, would be justified and could consist of:
(a)  support for the improvement of science teaching;
(b)  upgrading of the facilities in selected existing
rural education centers;
(c)  support for the gradual establishment of post-school
cooperative groups and post-CER training centers; and
(d)  an evaluation of the impact of such a plan.
Such assistance would be directed towards three of the ORD's, with FED assist-
ing in parallel another two ORD's.



- 13 -
V. THE PROJECT
5.01      The project would help finance (i) construction, furniture
and equipment for new and existing facilities, as,shown below; and (ii) 18
man-years of,related technical assistance, including an evaluation of the
impact of the rural development part of the project.
Student/Trainee
Places       Boarding Housing
Project Items                 Level      No.  Additional Total  Places   Units
A. Secondary Education
Improvement
Grades
Science Laboratories            7
Construction and/or          through   21       -        6,150             -
equipment                     13
B. Rural Education and Follow-Up
1. Rural Education Centers   (age 15+;
(CER) Construction and/   3-yr.    120        -       4,800    -       40
or equipment               course
2. Post-School Coop.Groups   (age
(GPS)                       18+)    150      2,010    2,250    -       25
3. Rural Development          (age 18+;
Training Centers (CPR)      2-yr.      3       120       180   120       7
course)
4. Support Facilities
(încl. water supply);         -        3                                6
Regional and HQ Office
Facilities
TOTAL                               2,130   13,380   120      78
Secondary Education
5.02      The project would assist 21 public secondary schools (Map) in the
improvement of their science facilities through construction and furniture of
science laboratories in 10 secondary schools, completion of existing labora-
tories in two others, and provision of science equipment to all of them.
The new facilities would benefit all 6,150 students presently enrolled in
these schools and especially the 950 enrolled in science streams (Annex 5),
but it would also increase the efficiency of the teaching often given by high-



- 14 -
cost expatriate teachers.  The majority of the graduates would enter agricul-
tural schools, veterinary assistant and agricultural engineering courses or
the DUES and technology Institutes of the University (paras. 3.06, 3.08).
Rural Education Centers (CER)
3.03      This item consists of 120 centers principally selected out of the
303 with an enrollment of 9,500 young men now operating in the ORD's of
Dedougou, Koudougou, and Kaya (Maps); however, some would also be selected
out of the 55 centers for girls.  Of the 285 centers in operation for at
least 5 years, 40 out of about 115 now in temporary buildings would be
e1igible for reconstruction and equipment, and 80 out of the other 170 (mostly
built of durable materials with FED assistance) for equipment only (Annexes
6A and 6B).  Construction would be limited to a classroom, multipurpose room,
and staff house.
5.04      The individual centers, however, still need to be selected through
a survey of rural education in the above three regions. It is being carried
out by Voltaic nationals, acceptable to IDA, and already employed by the Rural
Education Directorate, with assistance, as needed, of foreign specialists also
acceptable to IDA. The following criteria, agreed with Government during
negotiations, would be applied to select the appropriate centers:
(a)  The CER must -ave been in operation for at least five
years (corresponding to the second cohort enrolled) and
have a present enrollment of at least 30 students, of
which 15 are at least 15 years old (for boys) or 13
years old (for girls);
(b) in addition, it must have (i) cultivated a reasonable
acreage of land during the past two successive years,
and (ii) developed an adequate plot of land for any of
the following: vegetable garden, fruit trees, afforesta-
tion, animal husbandry, draft animals, handicrafts or
farm buildings.
The survey of all 350 centers and selection of the best 120 centers to be
acceptable to IDA should be completed within one year of the date of the
credit agreement according to a phasing allowing early implementation of the
project. To that end the Government started the survey in January, 1973.
Before presentation of the credit to the Executive Directors, about 30 centers
fulfilling the above minimum conditions had been surveyed.
5.05      Each CER would develop at least four hectares of land jointly and
individually, using Lhe equipment provided under the project. Part of the
farm income would be accumulated to help establish post-CER cooperative
activities. Supervisory services would be provided by one of the rural
education supervisors (conseillers d'education rurale) in each ORD, working
in close cooperation with the agricultural instructor (encadreur-animateur),
bo-i of whom would be under the Régional Development Office (ORD).  In 15 of



- 15 -
the project CER's, teaching would be in the More or other national languages
on an experimental basis. The proposed curriculum, entrance requirements
and teacher qualifications would be revised by May 1, 1975 -- i.e., by the
time of the opening of the first group of CER's equipped/reconstructed under
the project -- according to mutually agreeable criteria and objectives (para.
4.04). Improvement of the management of rural education (para 4.05) would
be completed by May 1, 1974 (a) at national level, and (b) at the regional
and local level within the three ORD's in the project.
Post-School Cooperative Groups (GPS)
5.06      This item consists in the creation of 150 cooperatives of about 15
young men each who have completed their training at CER's in the same regions
of Dedougou, Koudougou and Kaya (Maps) and about half of whom would have
reached at least 18 years of age in the case of boys (and 16 years for girls).
This would be the pilot phase of a scheme to create 510 such GPS over a
ive-year period. Preliminary estimates suggest that from the approximately
15,000 who left the CER's between 1963 and 1973, about 4,500 could be interested
into forming 300 GPS. Similarly, about 7,500 of the 20,000 expected to com-
plete their training between 1974 and 1977 would represent potential for
another 500 GPS. The scheme involves identifying and selecting 150 (or 50%)
of the former and 360 (or 73%) of the latter group, helping them organize and
establish thenselves as GPS (Annex 7a and b), and thereafter equipping them
and providing them with continuous advice and services. The first 150 GPS
selected would constitute the pilot phase financed by the project.
5.07      The selection would be based on (a) a survey, made with the assis-
tance of foreign specialists, of (i) the performance and characteristics of
the 16 existing GPS in the three regions and in Yatenga, and (ii) the
interests of all traceable CER leavers; (b) an evaluation of specific
investment proposals by candidate-GPS to be made by a credit committee,
whose membership and powers would be acceptable to IDA. The questionnaires,
selection method and criteria would also be acceptable to IDA. The initial
survey to identify the first 30 GPS is being made at the same time as that
for the selection of the CER's. Additional surveys would be made among each
new graduating group in 1974 and 1975 (para. 5.12). Other things being equal,
preference would be given inter alia to GPS which are:
(a) located in the same area as project-assigned rural
centers (CER's);
(b) provided with a cultivatable plot of at least six
hectares by the "Chef de Terre" of the village;
(c) organized in a cooperative system with a steering
committee agreeable to the "Chef de Village".



- 16 -
5.08      The objectives of the GPS are not limited to the generation of in-
creased tionetary earnings for their members and their families, but include
the promotion of other factors which are an integral part of rural develop-
ment (e.g. reintegration of young people in the cormnunity, the spread of im-
proved farming techniques, better nutrition, willingness to change; see Ap-
pendix 3). Nevertheless, as a result of his membership in a GPS each young
farmer is expected to increase by at least 50% from about $25 to $38 equiv-
aient his annual income compared to a non-GPS traditional farmer.  Durinc
the first five years of the GPS operation the increase would be at least 20%.
5.09      To achieve these results the GPS would need to:
(a)  grow on its collective plot of at least six ha:
(i) three or four main crops such as cotton,
groundnuts, sesame in alternation with
sorghum, mil or other cereals - or one
commercial crop;
(ii)  secondary crops (beans, peas, potatoes);
(iii)  fruit trees and wherever possible raise poultry
and small animals (goats, sheep);
(b) carry out sub-contracted works such as till'ing by draught-
animals, crop transportation and marketing;
(c) allow each of its members to grow vegetables on his own.
5.10      The GPS vould also need assistance from the three GRD's concerned
for the provision of credit, extension facilities and marketing possibilities,
as needed. Project funds up ta a total of about FCFA 16.2 million would be
channeled through the ORD's to the GPS as credits in the form of (a) basic
capital requirements (drsught-animals and farm equipment), reimbursable over a
five year period; and (b) initial supply of seeds, fertilizers and insecticides,
reimbursable annual.y. The value of a GPS annual output has been conservatively
estimated at $380 equivalent (at the rate of $1=255 OFAF) (Appendix 3 Table 1)
for an initial investment of about $500 and annual operating costs of $100.
This would allow project funds to be recovered over a five-year period at an
interest rate of 5% p.a. for deposit into a revolving fund to be created by
May 1, 1975; other terms and conditions relating to sub-loans and the revolv-
ing fund would be agreed with IDA.
5.11      The project would also provide the following additional facilities
and services for the GPS, but at no cost to them: (î) 90 water supply points
or wells preferably for common use with the CER's; (ii) 25 staff houses for
the 30 instructors/agriculture agents (encadreurs/animateurs) needed by the
150 GPS and to be recruited from the graduates of the Agricultural Agents
school at Matourkou or rural education teachers (MER) (Annex 8).
5,12      Because of the relatïvely lîmited experience of Upper Volta with
rural cooperative groups (64 now operating, including 16 in the project



- 17-
region), the annual phasing of the ïmplementation of the CPS part of the
project would be linked to the results to be acceptable to IDA of the de-
tailed evaluation:
(a) in 1973, by the initial survey team to include foreign spe-
cialists, of the performance of the 16 existing GPS; it would
determine their additional equipment needs to be financed
under the project and identify the 14 additional GPS scheduled
for 1974;
(b) in 1974, by a special evaluation team also to include foreign
specialists, of the problems encountered in the creation and
initial operation of the f irst 14 GPS under the project; it
would recommend the number of addîtional GPS to be created in
1975, of which up to a maximum of 120 would receive IDA
financing;
(c) thereafter, by the ORD's themselves, of the performance of
the GPS under their supervision; the ORD directors would
recommend the number of additional GPS to be created an-
nually, account being taken of their own management/credit
processing/extension capacity.
A final evaluation of the impact of the whole rural development part of the
project is discussed under technical assistance.
Rural Development Training Centers (CPR)
5.13      This item provides for the construction and equipment of three
rural development training centers, each wîth a capacity of 60 resident
students. They would be located in each of the three ORD's mentioned above.
The center in the Kaya region would be created through the improvement of
one of the two existing agricultural upgrading centers. Staffing requirements
are minimal: two rural education teachers and one agricultural agent for each
of the CPR's; they would be partly satisfied by selected teachers from the
two existing centers at Kaya after completion of an upgrading course. There
are at present no such centers in Upper Volta and the three project centers
plus two financed with FED assistance would be the first of their kind (para.
3.19).
Regional and Headguarters Facilities
5.14      The project would provide vehicles, didactic, agricultural and
office equipment for the rural education directorate headquarters at
Ouagadougou and for the three ORD's rural education offices; construction
of three regional warehouses administered by the ORD's for storage of the
equipment, seeds and other products to be distributed to the CER's and co-
operative groups; construction of six housing units for the three ORD's
rural education supervisors.



- 18 -
Technical Assistance
5.15      Project implementation team.  To execute the rural aspects of the
project the Directorate of Rural Education would be reinforced by a principal
adviser and the three ORD's by three specialists in rural development with ex-
perience in cooperatives, credit and training, for a total of 12 man-years.
They would be assisted by local counterparts for whose training they would
be responsible. The unit responsible for administering the project as a
whole would have the services of an equipment procurement specialist for
two man-years equivalent.
Other experts would also be needed:
(a)  six man-months equivalent to assist in the initial survey
and evaluation of the CER's and GPS;
(b)  two man-years equivalent for a rural education specialist,
reinforced as needed by other specialists, to help (i)
develop the revised curriculum for the rural education
centers, (ii) initiate a pilot scheme for the use of
national languages in rural education and training, and
(iii) develop related methods and materials;
(c)  one and a half man-years equivalent of specialists to organize
and implement (i) an interim evaluation of the first GPS created
under the project, and (ii) an evaluation of the impact of
the rural development part of the project in terms of the
objectives set out in paras. 3.18, 3.19 and 4.03-4.05, plus
recommendations for future action. To that end, the
Government gave assurances that it would require the
rural education supervisors and the GPS "encadreurs" in the
three ORD's to follow up and trace for a reasonable period
of time the project CER graduates and GPS members and re-
port to the Directorate of Rural Education about the eco-
nomic viability of the school and cooperative farw>, the
extent to which students were integrated into the rural
community and were able to spread new agricu7S-.'ral methods.
The initial surveys would 4nclude questions on youth's motiva-
tion which might help determine the likelyhood that they would
settle in the rural areas. They would also include elements
to compare nutritional levels before and after the project.
Except for the procurement specialîst, the above experts would preferably be
obtained from a single source (e.g. a specialized firm, a university, or one
of the two Societes d'Intervention operating in the three ORD's) and organized
and coordinated in the field by one of them, who would also be the principal
advisor to the Directorate of Rural Education.  This would facilitate the use
of short-term specialists as needed (Annex 9).



- 19 -
5.16      Feasibility Study of the Training of Project Managers.  Successful
operation of the cooperatives would depend to a large extent on the avail-
ability of competent leaders/project managers. Because the same needs apply
to most other rural development projects (para 2.09(b)), including e.g. the
IDA-financed RDF, whereas the formal education system and rural education
system cannot be expected to train managers, the proposed credit would also
include about 15 man-months for a feasibility study aimed at designing an
ap.propriate training system for an annual output of about 50 managers of
small and medium size agricultural development projects (Annex 9B).
Cost of the Pro.ect
5.17      The total cost of the project is estimated at CFAF 837 million, or
US$3,64 million equivalent. A breakdown of the project costs, given in Annex
10, is summarized below.



_ 20 -
(CFAF millions)            (US$ millions)            of
Froject Items        Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total        Total
Secondary Education
Science facilities       58.50   98.71   157.21   0.25      0.43    0.68        23%
Rural Education
C.E.R.                   46.20   54.20   100.40   0.20      0.23    0.43        15
c- P.S.                  26.35   24.32    50.67   0.11      0.11    0.22         8
C.P.R.                  13.67   14.00    27.67   0.06       0.06    0.12        4
Wells and other
suDport facilities    24.50   25.00    49.50   0.11       o.1l    0.22         7
Regional and HQ
facilities             15.61   25.00    40.61   0.07      0.11    0.18         6
Project Administration
Unit
Equipment and            24.11   12.00    36.00   0.11      0.05    0.16         5
Personnel
Technical Aséistance
Experts                 31 42  178.02   209.44   0.14       0.77    0.91        32
Sub-Total           240.36  431.25   671.61   1.05       1.87    2.92      l00/vv
Contingancies
Physi-cal                27.40   41.01    68.41   0.12      0.18    0.30        10û
Price escalation        36.71   60.59    97.30   0.16       0.26    0.42        15
Sub-Total             64.11  101.60   165.71   0.28      0.44    0.72        25-4
Total Project Cost
including contingen-
cies)                  304.47  532.85   837.32   1.32       2.,2    3.64
rch 16, 1973
1 US -- 230.2 OFAF



- 21 -
5.18     Capital costs by type of expenditure are as follows:
Toreign
(CFAF millions)           (US$ millions)      4 of    Ecchange
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total Total  ,4 of Total
1.  Construction
a.  Site Develop-    6.46    6.47    12.93   0.03    0.03    0.06    2%            50iu
ment
b. Academic and
Communal       75.98   75.97   151.95   0.34    0.34    0.68   234           50.;
c. Boarding           2.95    2.95     5.90   0.01    0.01    0.02    14          50,4
d. Staff Housing    28.69   28.69    57.3&   0.12    0.12    0.24    84           50-4
Sub-Total (la-d)  114.08  114.08   228.16   0.50    0.50    1.00   344           50%
2. Furniture             13.17   13.17    26.34   0.05    0.05    0.10    44           50,4
3.  Equipment            22.73  104.22  126.95    0.11    0.45    0.56   194           78%*
Sub-Total (2-3)    35.90  117.39  153.29    0.16    0.50    o.66   23%           76%
4. Water Supply          21.75   21.75   43.50    0.09    0.09    0.18    6-4          504
5. Technical Assistance
and ILocal Person-
nel                68.63  178.03  246.66    0.30    0.76    1.08   37%           72%
Sub-Total (1-5)   240.36 1,31.25  671.61    1.05    1.87    2.92  100%            644
6.  Contingencies
a. Physical          27.40   41.01   68.41    0.12    0.18    0.30   10$           604
b. Price escalation 36.71   60.59   97.30    0.16    0.26    0.42   15%            624
Sub-Total (6a-b) 64.11  101.60  165.71    0.28    0.44    0.72   25%           61%
7. Total Project Cost
Including
Contingencies      304.47  532.85  837.32    1.32    2.32    3.64
*
Average Percentage.
March 16, 1973



- 22 -
5.19      Cost estimates are based on recent works undertaken by public and
private enterprises. In addition, for the rural education items, building
cost estimates for the FED project were consulted. Average estimated unit
costs per m2 of gross area for May 1972 were CFAF-40,000 for science labora-
tories, and CFAF 15,000 for rural education institutions. Cost of staff
houses range between CFAF 15,000 and CFAF 30,000 per m2. For science labora-
tories, despite Upper Volta's landlocked situation, the unit costs compare
favorably with similar Bank projects in West Africa. Unît costs for rural
education centers are exceptionally low due to the fact that maximum use
will be made of local material and labor (Annex 11). Site development varies
between 10% and 15% of the building cost, depending on site condition. There
Q- no local cost adjustment to be added since the .costs estimate is based on
a national average, which is the customary procedure for Upper Volta. The
cost estimates for furniture are calculated at 10% to 12% of the building
costs. The cost of rural education equipmient is derived from the cost of
equipment now provided by the Regional Development Organizations (ORD).
Detailed lists with itemized costs would be finalized during project im-
plementation.
5.20      The cost of the project would include a physical contingency al-
lowance, identical in the case of foreign and local currency costs, equal
to 15% of the estimated costs for buildings, site development, and water
supply since location of most of the facilities te be built still needs to
be identified on the basis of the survey being implemented. For furniture
and equipment a 10% contingency would be appropriate (Annex 12). Based on
the average increase in recent years, the estimated unit costs are expected
to increase by 5% per annum and the project cost therefore would also in-
clude a price increase allowance, identical for foreign and local currency
expenditures (Annex 12).
5.21      The foreign exchange cost estimate has been calculated as follows:
50% for site development, buildings, furniture and water supply; 78% (average)
for science and other equipment; and 85% for technical assistance. Altogether
the foreign exchange component amounts to $2.32 million equivalent or about 63%
of the total estimated cost of $3.64 million.  The estimated total cost, net
of all local taxes and duties, would be about $3.11 million.
Additional Operating Costs Generated by the Project
5.22      The additional recurrent costs generated by the project, cumulative
over the five-year implementation period, amount to an estimated CFAF 287 mil-
lion or US$1.25 million (Annex 13a), and annual expenditures would reach their
peak of 28% of projected total rural education expenditures by 1977/78 (Annex
13b). These amounts include the project unit operating expenditures. These
expenditures plus those generated by the FED project will be within the fiscal
capacîty of the Government by 1978 provided the rural education budget is in-
creased by 10% per annum in real terms. They would still leave sufficient
resources for a moderate growth of the formal education svstem (para 3.26).



- 23 -
VI.  IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBTJRSEMENT
6.01      The project would be implemented over a period of five years after
signing of the credit agreement. An additional six months would be required
for completion of payments and vithdravals (Annex 14).
6.02      The project would be adniinstered by the Director of Rural Educa-
tion in the Ministry of Agriculture, assisted by the Head of a project im-
plementation unit and a techanical advisor (para 5.15). He would be re-
sponsible for implementation of all aspects of the project.  He would also
have the assistance of the following persons:
(a)  for the rural aspects c        project, Fhe Directors
of the three OVD's of Koudiougou, Dedougou and Kaya,
each assisted by a specialist financed under the
project;
(b)  an equipnent procurement specialist.
(c)  a representative of the Ministry of Education to
coordinate the secondary ëducation part of the project.
The Project Director.would also provide liaison with the Association.  He
would be responsible for the selection of specialists to be assigned to the
different dîrecterates and agencies abovea Establishment of the project unît,
appointment of its Head, acceptable to IDA, and assignment to the Directors
of the three ORD's above of the responsîbility for implementation of the
rural education aspects of the project vould be conditions for the effective-,
ness of the project. Coordination with the FED project would be handled by
the Directorate of Rural Education.
6.03      Professional Services.  The design and supervision of construction
-ould be carried out by the Ministry of Public Works.
6.04      Site Acuisition.  All of the project instLtutions have already
their own sites except for the two CPR's to be establîshed in the ORD's of
Dedougou and Koudougou, which need to be selected in time for construction
to start. Land for farm activities would be provided by the local communities
concerned.
6.05      Procurement.  In view of the dispersion of the 147 schools and
centers throughout the country and the small size of construction works,
averaging about US$12,500 in each case, ît is unlikely that firms not operat-
ing already in Upper Volta or neighboring countries would be interested in
bidding for the contracts.  Therefore contracts would be locally advertised
with copy to the local Embassies of neighboring countries. Contracts would
be let over a perîod of four years, and to encourage participation from small
local contractors, individual bids on civil works for one school would be
permitted as well as bids for several similar schools intended to attract
larger firms.



- 24 -
6.06      Science equipment, office and instructional equipment would also
be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement.  Foreign suppliers of the types
of goods required for the project are generally well represented in Upper
Volta which should ensure adequate service. For furniture and equipment
local manufacturers would be allowed a preferential margin of 15% of the
CIF costs of competing imports or the rate of import duties, whichever is
lower; a preferential treatment would also apply to members of the West
African Economic Community. Sinall agricultural implements and draught-
animals required for the rural education items of the project or items which
cannot be grouped in packages of at least $5,000 would be procured up to a
maximum of $150,000 by the project unit after calling for quotations from
local suppliers.
6.07      Proposed financing.  A credit of US$2.85 million equivalent would
be made to Upper Volta to meet 78% of the total project costs. The credit
would represent 100% of foreign exchange costs (US$2.32 million) plus 40% of
local costs (US$0.53 million). It would also correspond to 90% of the total
project cost net of all taxes (Annex 15).
6.08      Disbursements.  IDA would disburse over a five-and-a-half-year
period (Annex 16): (i) 73% of the cost of civil works (i.e. 100% of the net
construction costs, excluding all duties and taxes); (ii) 100% of total costs
of imported or locallY produced furniture and equipment; (iii) 100% of the
foreign exchange costs of technical assistance; and (iv) 80% of the project
unit costs and of the local specialists and GPS instructors' salaries. The
percentages for civil works, technical assistance and the project unit and
instructors' salaries would be adjusted, as necessary, to distribute dis-
bursements over the implementation period. Retroactive reimbursement of
up to $10,000 for expenditures related to the preliminary surveys for the
CER's and GPS after April 20, 1973 would be allowed. Undisbursed funds would
be available for cancellation.
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMIENDÀTION
7.01      During negotiations agreement with the Government was reached on
the following principal points:
(a)  its educational development strategy in relation to both
the formal and the rural education systems (paras. 3.26 and
4.02), and the implementation of a mutually agreeable plan
to improve the operation of rural education (paras. 4.04,
4.06, 5,05) including by May 1, 1974, organizational changes
in the adrinistration of rural education at the national
and the regional levels (paras. 4.05, 5.05, 6.02);



- 25 -
(b) surveys and selection criteria for the project CER's
(paras. 5.03, 5.04) and GPS (paras. 5.06, 5.07), and
the timetable for the GPS selection (para. 5.12);
(c)  credit conditions for the GPS (para. 5.10); and
(d) evaluation of the rural education component of the project
(para. 5.15).
7.02      Conditions for the effectiveness of the proposed credit would be
the establishment of the Project Unit, the appointment of its Head and the
assignment to the Directors of the ORD's of Koudougou, Dedougou and Kaya of
the responsibility for the rural education parts of the project (para. 6.02).
7.03      The project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit of
US$2.85 million to Upper Volta.






UPPER VgUTA -   UAiCTERISTICS oF TUE RUv11L DCATIOA IUSTITI1TIoeS  iNDPl ThC ?NOJiCT
C.E.R. ("Centre d'educatiom rurale")                        G.P.S.  "Croupemnt pont-scolaire")                   C.P.R. (<Centre de promotion rs.rale')
rotal number ln                                                                                                                                                                    i
th. projoct                     120                                                                                                                  3
1.   to provide a three-year basic literacy,                 1.   to serve As   field application of the             1.  to provide a t.o-y.ar post CER           I
nuracy, agricultural mad handicrft                           education  nd training received in CER's                gerera1 and rural educ-tion.
education to non-educated rural youth                        and to mLittain infossotive attitude
at lower co.t than formai pri.ary                            developed in these canters.                       2.   to prepare students for entry
educatio.                                                                                                            into *aricuitural schools  rural
Not,   the percentage of enrollment ln                  2    to settle young self-employed farmer.                   t.acher traintng and rural
forma  primary education does not                           into rural comtunities and minimize                    developtent services.
exceed 10  of the âge group and 217                        migrations to urban centers or other
Db ective*             of the governoent budget is spOnt                            countries.                                             Note:  Candidates for these
nostly on formal education.                                                                                          services are in short supirly.
3.   to deveiop and propagate improved
2.   to prepare rural youth for entry into                         farming techniques among rural
productive agricultural work (GPS),                          c5OSOitiCs
Rural Development Training Centers (CPR)
and later Itto rural teaching, extension                4.   to iprove rural life by providing
.ork, etc.                                                   means of improving food crops and
incentivoes for iocreasing individual
3.   soe CER vill  erve an pilot centers for                       and family income through srket
teachifg in the local languages.                              conomy.
Etrrl1ment/      40 studeots with at l .st 20 of theo. 15 years                IS former C.EfR. stad.nts 1-19 years old              60 post-CER boarders selected for a
Center         or older.                                                     and -orl on G.P.S. and own fars                        tw-year course oS the basis of
and                                                                                                                                rural experience and inclinaâton tOWarc
Otut/Center   40 students avery three year.                                                                                           rural develop.eet services. 
Staffinc       Existing M.E.R. (rural teachers) vill be up-                  I encadr-uraraimateur for  6 GC.P.S.  plus             Existin6 staff pùI* cechnical adv-sory
and          graded through vacation courses.  Additirnal                 technical advisory services in oaci  region             services provided for each region
rural education supervisors will be appointed.               t  be used in cosmon vith tho C.E.R.                    (MOD).
Sutervision      C.E.R. administration vill be integrated
vithin the O.R.D.
Curriculu-       Growing Season:                                               Unît pratitca1 productive vork  sitsl                  Advanced general education,
Practical 2/3 of tlime: diversified agriculturc             erphasis or far. productivitv and                       Sgriculturel ad rural developnent
*nd            cash and food crop., handicraft, appIied t.                  CommercîaI:aos;uork aiternativrlv on                   activities.
farming (domestic science for girls)                        GC.P.S.  ian  own farm.
Program.         CGneral sducation 1/3 of time: literrcy
numoracy.
Dry Season:
Practical 50/ - Geocrai 50X.
Expected         Enliightened practical rural citizens. improved               Farsing  c.nooical uni ts,   lf-employed               lncreased nuober of candidates to
cutcome          diet, nutrition, and health.                                  i        -rmc v  npr-vrd food production and'          enter rural dovelop cnt ond teaching
aXricaltara1 technique in the area surround-           services.
ino  ti- t.t E  .
ALppl;catios'  f s'-nical i,sovatioe'_  
To measure change in migration, mprovement                    lncrc.v   f production'                                Compari.on oi tlt output uith thc
EvaIuation       in rural education, i.proved knovIedgc about                               siclds                                    primart  s-hool graduates In their
rural lifo and agricultural techroiogy.                                   disrsiicetioo                              suitability for rural developmeint  nork
of                                                                          Improvnnest ' marketing .jhaiiîs
:tr. balan-e .hee t*
Proiact                                                                       lnprovcmanr  o: io.d comsauption
4bal,ancr  dist
I classroom - I staff house - one i. hectare                 I Latai lIeuse tur sarh Ii (1ps - ons                  I ilassros, 3 .taff houoes, i adainie.
plot                                                         Ss hect-re plot and faro equipc-ns                      trative and *carage spaco
I tlautipurpose room and equipment                                     l redit, "i. br prov:de!  or 15             BR oarainx facilities.
Note: .ost of the existing facilities are                    GPS.                                                    Fquipmont, offi-v and construction
Facilities        poor anod equiptaint is  iacking in 11 0f                                                                           :  Ioihes
thm.      40  viii be aeiected for re-                      rhe reci-na I-:l! h q   i..  :i  provid-d         I
eLnd           construction and equipsent iP3 for equip-                    1 or tii; CER vi] he  esi!  n   vosas.n
_mnt only by the proposed project.
Warehouses, offices, centers for traoining
draft anilmas, repair vorkshops, veols  nd
vater points. xahicIes  fil be provided In
each régional development organiz&tion <ORD)
shirsh are to supervise the t ork of the
CERis. Pedagogical, supervisory and techoical
assistance vill be provided in Hq and
regbons.
Mrih, 9Q73



APPDIX 1
Page 2
A. TH13 REGIONAL DEVELOET CRGNIZATIQNS
Agricultural and rural developuent programs are presently carried
aut in Upper Volta by Il Regional Development Organizations (ORD), which thein-
selves are under the Ministry of Agriculture (Map).  Each ORD is administered
by its own Board of Directxrs, ccaaprising the District Coewiissioners (Commnandante
de Cercle) and repreeentatives of the local government (Collectivitês Rurales),
Parliament, the ?tinistry of Agriculture, the National Bank for Developnent(BND)
and the Ministry of Commerce. The Mînistry of Education, the Departments of
Forestry and Animal Husbandry, and representatives of the local traders parti-
cipate on the Board as observera.  ORD s are, in particular, responsiblêefor
providing agricultural extension, credit and marketing services. They have a
marketing monopoly mainly for cotton crops and sometimes for other cropa.  The
staff consista of a Director, (sub) sector ohiefs and technical assistants for
water, agronomy and extension methode. As many as 100 extension agents (encad-
reurs) are employed in some ORDIs. Seven of the l1 CRDes are carrying out agri-
cultural development programs financed by Fonds dtAide et de Coopération (FAC),
Fonds Européen de Développement (FED) and IDA, the maj ority of which are managed
by French and other foreign development firms.  In the future the ORD's organi-
zation and management staff will be strengthened to ensure that they can handle
all types of rural development programs; the development of rural education
will form an important part of their responsibilities.
B. INTERDEPARTMENTAL TECHNICAL CCMMITTEE
The Interdepartmental Technical Committee set up for the R.D.F. -rcçject
where nine ministries are represented, or preferabiy a subcormmitte could serve
for the Rural Education project.
Such technical subcommittee for loans to G.pS covld have the follo5wing
cor.osition:
- the Directorate of R.ural Development;
- the Directorate of Rural Education;
- the Head of the MDA Educat-ion pro,ect;
- the Director of the ORD concerred and h1s to- - unting Advisor; and
the regîonai represer.t,at. tle.BND.
This subc-oiyzmitte, wi t¾- only c nin>oers istead of 1, and with the
head Oif the etucation project as secrecary) ccu:ci mreet as and when required,
but at less.   or : times a yea..  Lt could be empowered tc) call to subcommitte
-meetings any persons who mright assist the committee in its 4cASk. The subcommitte:
could select GPS financing requests as well as coordinate artlons for successful
GPS impleementation.
Loan repayments by GPS would be made over a >-year :)eriod.  The presenL
fixed commission charged by ORDLs is 5;n.  In drougf,t years deferment of repayment
obligations would be granted.



UPPER VOLTA
ORD - ORGANIZATION & STRUCTURE
(1972)
| DIR. ORD     |                                                       r ,NEENDENT 
~~~RIl                                                                   REG. SERVICES    l
I         I
[ÉITiNE I CAL                                  AGRICULTURALES                                              RURAL
I l    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~POUTADVISER
ÂDMINIST                                                           RODUTEFXTESTR                 EDUATIO
1   MANAG.   |       |EXTENSION                  EXACTENSION
WAREHOUSEl
EQUIPMENTl
CREDIT  l
ACCOUNTSl
ASECrOsu- SECTOR                                                      SECTOR
CHIEF~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
r  FARMERS                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~Worid Bank-7327(CR)  .+






UPPER VOLTA
ORGANIZATION RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT \
& INTEGRATED RURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
|  MJNISTRY                                                              [       MINISTRY       |       r    MiNISTRY                    OTHER MINISTRIES
OF                                                             OF ~~~~.E .IF                                        gPUELCWORKS,
PLANNING OFA|R|ICULFTUR  |EDOFT |O                                                                                                       INTERIOR, HEALTH
EDUCATION AND          r  -  ..              NATIONAL                                                                  DIRECTION                  CENTRAL                CERAL
AGH  ULTURAL DEVELOPMENT  EVELOPMENT                                                             R RAL T.DEELOPMNT.        ERVNICESSEVIE
PROGRAMS OF AID DONORS                _         BANK (ND)                                                                 DEVELOPMENT   L      _       SERVCES
*FAC
P FED
* REPRESENTATIVES OF
FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS
*INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTIONS        VAFIJOUS          RURAL DEVELOPMENT
* CHARITABLE                      DEPARTMENTS        RO F UNED (T RMFG)
INSTITUTIONS                                       RF PROJECT MANAGER
* PMWA
|RDF PLANNING|      r     RF 
EVAND ATCON         ADMINISTRATION  A
FD UNI                 1 N 1-7;  
IN H _  RFD  Ut      SRICES
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E _J 
U   EDUCATIONssDtitttt|  TECHNIEAT                                                                                    | LE  REGIONAL  STRALE
- * -* -*  -   -    FAELOMERT                                                           DVETIDCRESNIILT
|    W           I ~~~~~OR GANISMS (ORD)  @                                                         EVCS j §              SRIE 
RURAL EDUCATION PROJECT                                                               |                                                           |LEGEND: r 
1- Directorate of Rural Education and Educationi Project     _II I|                                                                              DIRECTr RESPONSIBILITY
2- Conseillers Education Rurale   UnK   |  | -                                                     aa||sEl ~~~~~~~~~COOPERATION AND ASSISTANCE
2~~~~~n-| CosellRs MEduainRurl  | f                                              ;                                                     DIRECT RDF RESPONSIBSILITY
.. . . . . . . . . . . .                                                     CO~...C NSULTATION AND ADVICE
W.rîd B.mk.7330(2R1






APPENDIX 2
Page L
RAL EDUJCATION IN THE FIVE-YEAR PLAN 1972-76
The following sumnary is based on information available at the time
of appraisal (June 1972).
1. Expansion of Rural Education
- New CER's for girls vill be financed by the Government and
by FED while both FED and IDA are expected to finance new
GPS and OPRS.
- Quantitative objectives, by the end of the Five-Year Plan and
by the end of the FED and IDA projects, are given in Table 1.
2.  CER's for Boys
(a) Improvement in average enrollment
Centers     Students      Ratio
1971/72        696         24,088       34.6
1976/77        696         27,840       40.0
1977/78        696         27,840       40.0
N.B.:  Inorease in enrollment between 1971/72 and
1976/77 - 3,752 (+15.6%).
(b) Establishment of new CER's (FED Project)
Centers     Students      Ratio
1975/76          3           120        40.0
1976/77         16           640        40.0
1977/78         18           720        40.0
Cumulative
Total           37         1,480        40.0
N.B.:  Increase in enrollment between 1971/72 and
1977/78 = 1,480 (+6.1%).
3. CER's for Girls
Establishment of new CERts
Centers     Students
1971/72         87         2,960
1972/73       +  3            96
1973/74       + 11           352
1974/75       + 10           320
1975/76       + 10           320
1976/77       + 10           320
1977/78       + 10           320
141        4,688



APPENDIX 2
Page 2
h. Establishment of new GPS
FED Area  IDA Project Area   Other Areas   Total
1971/72       40             16 )               8          64
1972/73       22                ) 30                       22
1973/74       43             14 )             n.a.         57
1974/75       60            188               n.a.        248
1975/76       31            124               n.a.        155
1976/77       30             18               n.a'         48
1977/78       43            150               n.a.        193
Total       269            510               n.a.        787
5. CPR's
FED Area   IDA Project Area   Other Areas   Total
1975/76        i              3               n.a.          4
1976/77        1                              n.a.          1
Total         2              3               n.a.          5
November 25, 1972



APPENDIX 2
Table I
UPPER VOLTA:  MIRAL EDUCATION
Summary Targets
Present       End of        End of FED and
Situation   Five-Year Plan    IDA Projects
1971/72       1976/77          1977/78
GER
Number of Centers (Boys)      696            715               733
Enrollment                 24,o88         28,600            29,320
100%         118.7%           121.7%
Nwnber of Centers (Girls)      87            131               141
.nrollient                  2,960          4, 368            4,668
100%         147.6%           158.4%
Number of Centers (Total)     783             846              874
Enrollment                 27,048         32,968            33,988
100%         121.9%           125.7%
GPS (Young men only)
Number of Groups               64            594               787
Membership                    820          8,910            11,805
CPR (Young men only)
lIumber of Centers              0               5                5
Enrollment                      o            255               300
November 25, 1972



UPPER VOLTA
POPULATION AND RDUCATION
IN THE ORD OP DEDOUGOU, KAYA AND KOUDOUGOU
eopulation 1970    .          _     Rural Families                             P _ rima rs Educatiîon±
Average
Rurall/          Rural                  Number of                                                         Main Ethnic and
Area                                          Inha-       Heads      People          Age          School                  Enroll-         Linguistic
bitan      of        per                         Age         Enroll-    ment              Groups
_ _ ______ _         k _      Total     Resident       _resent  fper 15F                                  - 1g9/    Children ._     ment       Ratiou
O» of Dedouaou        29,600                                                                                                                                  Bobos, Markas,
Samos, Peulhs,
Masculine                                                                                               22,600         69,400       7,445       10.7%      Dogons, ...
Feminine                     _6__-_               _ ._.      _    _       . ___ _                       21.400         6 6900       4.354        6.-5,
Total                    491,000    484,000         470,000       16       51,800       9.3          44,000        136,300      11,799        8.7%
ORD of Kaya           21,600                                                                                                                                  Mossis, Peulhs...
Masculine                                                                                               23,500         72,200       4,504        6.25/
Feminine                              _                                                                                   . ___    ___  __  __________    8.8%
Total                    618,000o-   604, 000       583,000       27       790          844,00                     141,800       6,486        4.6%
ORD of KoudouAou      26,300                                                                                                                                  Mossis, Courounsis,
Peulhs ...
Masculine                                                                                               29,300          89,800       9,396       10.5%
Feminine         .                                                                                      27.700         86.400       4.899         5.7
Total                     786,000    751,000        721,000                              .           5               6          14,295        8.1%
UPPER VOLTA
Total         274,000  5,204,000  4,978,000    4,806,000          17      530,700       9.4         525,000      1,072,600    105,706         9.8%           -
Sources: Ministry of Planning (Population projections), Ministry of Education: Directorate of Rural Education and Directorate of Primary Education (Annual Report 1970-71)
1/ Present population + absents = resident population                                                                                                                                     oIm
2/ Calculation based upon present population
3/ Estimates
4/ School year = October 1970 - June 1971.



AF?PNII 3
1.        The objective3 of the GPS are as follows:
a)  reintegration of youtha into rural commmîties thus slowing
down their migration to urban areas or abroad;
b)  introduction of improved farning techniques and of more
scientific practices among villagers through demonstration
of diversified production;
c)  creation of additional earnings to result from  (i) increased
production yields, (ii) lower costa thanks to collective
work and improved managements and (iii) provision of services
to the rural oozwuxity;
d) increase in the level of food consumption and improvement of
natritional balance to result from. the growing of fruit and
the diversified production of vegetables as well as cereals;
and
e) initiation of a long run process o! associated econoncsi,
social and mental changes which fora an integràlpart of
rural development.
2.        To achieve these objectives the GPS would be organized and assisted
as described in paras. 5.09-5.11. The financial feasibility of this scherne
is illustrated in the following Table 1. The comparison is deliberately
made between a theoretical group o! peasants working under better conditions
than those prevailing today, to avoid attributing to the youths cooperative
group benefits which do not directly result fram its creatîon (e.g. the pro-
vision of water to a coiumîty where a project GER and GPS are located).
3.        The table shows that the GPS members have ai ehoLce between growing
crops, fruits and vegetables for their own consuzptiàn (thus improving their
families' living conditions) and growîng commercial crops for profit which
would yield considerably larger returns (Budget Ds ootton). The important
point is that in order to improve their living conditions, rural youths
in the three Pro«jet regions do not necessarily have to switch to comer-
iîal fdarmng.
4.        It is also of considerable interest to verîfy whether a GPS member
would still be likely to be attracted by the salary he could obtain in the
Ivory Coast as an unskilled agrieultural worker.
The $85 which the Ivory Coast offers for the first year of work
te an unskilled agricultural worker is still about 2 to 3 times the annual
net initial revenue of a GPS member who would work for the 75% of his
remaining time under traditional conditions.  However, if he were to use
his improved knowledge outside of the GPS, and thus become an active agent
o! change in his omumîity (para. 1(b) above) his initial annual revenue
might be in the order of $45-$102 depending on ths nature of the crops, thus
potentially eliminating the monetary incentive of migration to the Ivory
Coast (Table 1, Section IV, para. l.c)






APPENDIX 3
UPPER VOLTA                                          Table 1
GPS TYPICAL BUDGETS
I. Capital Investmant
Pair of oxen + Tractable equipment + Cart = CFAF 125,000
(har'ow plough)                     $     500
II. Annual Expenditures
Applied to           Applied to        See1!
Diversified Crops   Specialized Cro  (Cotton)
(CTAF)                (CFAF)
Fertilizers               16,000                 15,000
Pesticides                 4,300                 20,000
Seeds                      2,500            (Provided by ORD)
Taxes on animals              700                   700
Maintenance                                       2,000
Total Expenditures  CFAF 25,000                  37,700
$    100                   1145
III.  Gross Return                           (A)                  (B)                 (C)                   (D)
To be Realized by   Return Expected if
Realized by      Next GPS Starting   GPS Desired Optimum
Production on 6 ha         ealied by Peamantai   Existing GPS 2       ith Equipmant 3      Rate of Return
1.5 ha  Côtton output                                                                           Seed
market value    CFAF   24,000               27,000               32,400 (a)    6 ha Cotton  144,000
1.8 ha  Groundnuts                                                                        (800 kg/ha)4/
market value            16,000              18,000               20,000 (b)
l 5 ha  Sorghum
market value            12,000               13,500              14,400 (c)
1.2 ha  Sesame
market value             8,000               9,000                9,600 (d)
0.3 ha  Vegetables                  3,000              10,000              11,000         vegetables    10,000
Services ( subcontracted
works) - Tilling,                                                                        subcontract
crop transportation                                   10 OOO              10,000         work           10,000
CFAF  63,000              87,500              97,400                       164,000
247                 343                 382                           643
IV.  Net Return
1.   a. Annual benefit during        CFAF                                           '49,075                       97,000
5-year loan reimbursement    $       200                n.a.                 167                           383
b. Total aniual reveITS per
full-time peasant/            $      25                                      30                            44
c. Alternative total revenue6/  $         25                                      45                           102
2.   a.  Annual benefit alter        CFAF                      61,000               71,900                      126,300-
period loan reimbursement    $       200                 243                 282                           498
b.  Annual net return par GPS
member working 25% of time
on GPS plot                    $      -                   16                  19                            33
J o. ota  rava   rovcpe per
full-timae neasant2/           $      25                  35                   38                            52
d.  Alternative total revmue
per full-time peasant°'        $      25                  64                   75                          132
1/ The results could be obtained under improved conditions (water and supervision) by about 8 farmers working
full-time and having about $50 of annual expenditures.
2/ Most of the eaxisting GPS are in Yatenga where soil is rather poor and raina rare. The three ORD 's
concerned in the project will provide better conditions.
The basic tractable aquipment will be provided by ORD in a 5-year loan at 5% p.a.  Reimbursement will be
made every year (20% of the loan plus interest).  The initial investisent of 4500 plus the workir4 capital
of $100 permits an increased return of $50 to$300 per GFS to give a total  return    of *380 to $650 par year.
(a), (b), (c), (d) = Zstimated production yields:  (a) 720 kg/ha;  (b) 800 kg/ha;  (c) 800 kg/ha;  (d) 250 kg/ha.
These estimates are rather conservative since yields can reach:
(a) 1000 kg/ha; (b) 1200 kg/ha; (c) 1000 kg/ha; (d) 1000 kg/ha.
Basis: cotton = CFAP 30/kg; sorghum = OFAF 12/kg; groundnuts r CFAP 14/kg; sesame oil = CFAF 380/kg.
à/ 800 kg/ha is a very reasonable yield since more than 1 ton/ha can be essily obtained through improved techniques
and in amall plots. Such gross return cannot be obtained every year but every 3 out of 4 years, due to necessary
cultivation shitting. Sesame production could bring about the seme returc. The gross returm could alseo be
improved by small animal production in addition ta crop production.
S' tach member or the O"6 is assumed to uork 75% of the ti» under trattonal faiRng conditions, for which
lhe obtains $19 per year.
à/ Each member of the GPS is assumed to use improved techniques during the 75% of his tims when he does not work
on the GPS plot.
February 9, 1973
REte of Ecchange: US$1.00 - CFAF 255.79






à~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~1
ele~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



1



ANNEZ 2
UPPE2 VOLTA:  AUIE   MW AND THE OUTPUT 0P THE EDUCTIONAL SYSTEM
A. Estimated Rliroement of Personnel vith Specialized Trairiing
Total
Tgpe of Training   197l-75     1976-80     198145      15 Years
Rural                    1,570       1,030         620      .3,220
Scientifiic and Technical   860      1,320       1,970       4,150
Comercial and
economic                 790         920       1,210       2,920
Medical and social         190         250         330         770
Pedagogical                760         990       1,240       2,990
Administrative and
Judiciary                500         670         890       2,060
Military                   160         180         200         540
Total                 4,830       5,360       6,460      16,650
B. Jobs Occ  1d by Non-African    atriates
(% of total ïmionot)
Categories             Private Sector              Public Sector
High level personnel             67.5%
Middle level personnel           58.0%
Chief accountante                32.0%
Technicians                      48.0%
Coemercial                       37.0%
Other qualified personnel         9.0%
Skilied workers                   1.2%
C. Output of General Ecication
Level of Edcucation       1971        1975        1g9o        1985
(Primary Certificate)   4,2L0                               4,285
Fîrst CÇle
Fi4thout BEPC            1,300       1,745       2,225       2,360
k.th BEPC                  86$       18160       1,345       1,435
Total                  2,165       2t905       3,570       3,795
Second Cycle
Without Baccalaureate      600         840       1,310       1,,430
iWth Baccalaureate         265         400         610         645
Total                    865       1,910                   2,075
Source:  Enploi et ForMation en Haute Volta SEDES, Docember 1970
November 25, 1972






ANNEX 3
Page 1
UPPER VOLTA:  ENROLIMENT IN PUBLIC AND PRIVATE INSTITUTIONS
(1970/71 and 1971/72)
1970/71                      1971/72 
Public  Private   Total      P blic  Private   Totta    Female
Primary enrollment 1/    101,922   3,784   105,706   107,798   4,66 ±/ 112,463    36
Rural Education            30,005      -      30,005    27,048      -      27,048    10
General Secondary           5,730   3,179      8,909     6,355   3,8424/  10,197 )
Technical                     588      883     1,471        682   1,214Y   1,896 ) 28
Teacher Training              338&:   -          338        151     -         151)
Post-Secondary Education
University Diploma in
Letters (D.U.E.L.)           172     _          172       220                220
University Diploma iq
Science (D.U.E.S.)X2         -        -         -          -       -         -
Licence                                - _                   30     -          30
Pedagogical Institute
(I.U.P.)                      66     -           66        90      -          90
Technological Institute
(I.U.T.)                      26     _           26        45      -          45
1/ Including small sections of pre-primary classes.
2j Cours normaux.
3/ To start in October 1972 with an intake of 120-150.
4/ Enrolment in private schools is about 4% at the primary level and about 40%
at the secondary level. Of a total of 634 secondary school teachers, 269
are teaching in private schools and 360 (57%) are expatriates.
November 25, 1972



o                            -~~~~~~~  *0         ô          Ô            0     0    .   0~~~~~~~~~~~~----- 
.0                          §         §                    §          §                    g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C



ANNEX 4
Page 1
UPPER VOLTA: EDUCATION OPERATING BUDGETS AND EETERNAL AID
(1964-1972)
A. Government OPerating Budgets
(GFAF million)                    1964      1966      1968      1970       1972
Ministry of Education             944.o   1,052.2   1,037.8   1,517.6   1,815.3
Schools of other
Ministries                        56.o      63.0      69.0       83.0     102.3
Education-related general
budget 1/                        668.7     699.3     667.5    597.4       815.9
Total Education operating
budget                         1,668.7   1,814.5   1,774.3   2,198.0   2,733.5
Total Government operating
budget                         9,150.1   8,460.6   7,842.5   8,852.4   9,876.6
% Education of total
Governnent budget                18.2%     21.4%     22.6%      24.8%     27.6%
% Education of GDP                 2.4%      -         2.3%       2.6%      3.5%
General administration, scholarships, subsidies to private schools, contribution
to bilateral regional and national cooperative activities.
B. Construction and Equipment Aid (1960-71)
1. France        $ 6,350,000   (primary and secondary schools, regional ag.
engineering school, university, etc.)
2.  FED          $ 5,290,000   (225 rural schools and the National School
of Administration)
3. Austria       $   310,000   (Junior technician training school)
4. UNICEF        $   450,000   (Equipment for rural schools)
November 25, 1972



ANNEZ 4
C. Aid for Recurrent Costs (1970-71)
(a) Teachers
1.  France      $ 3,100,000  (Secondary and university teachers)
2. Religious
Missions    $ 1,000,000  (Secondary teachers)
3. UNDP         $   375,000  (Specialists and advisors)
4. Austria      $   130,000  (Teachers and operating funds)
5. Canada       $    80,000  (Teachers)
6. U.S.A.       $    50,000  (Peace Corps volunteer teachers)
$ 4e735,000
(b) Scholarships
1.  France      $   400,000
2.  FED         $   250,000
3. Canada       $    15,000
Other       $    25,000
$   69o,ooo
Navember 25, 1972



OPPER VOLTA EDUCATION PROJECT
l*Scoet ie                                     Public Secondary Schools Included lu the Project:  Ntober of Existing and Ne., Labo. and C.et Estif,nate for EeUioc,eot
T-                                                                                                                                     -   -----
Rnrclln,ent       Hercber of Science L.boraor~ies                                   Cost E.tiale f-r Eq.ip...t
Phyciea      Chemistry  Nat.Scien.i Generai           Total       Exieting       Ne,                 Total 
PUBLIC SECONDARY SC!E>LS                 Toa       -xs        e     xs~N -x -       Ne- BLa -     e -   xt  Ne.        u              us         us a         00-FEMAOKSS
1.02   CE3:  Cours Noreal de J. Filles                  210                                                      -           -       5,550        17,200 ~j22,750            5,243        YI yo, Nome Economics; uadier construction
1.03   LE5:  Scole Normale d'instituteurs'15                 ~          ---                              -       -    3      -      1,5                         720          305Te      col   r   .e    h   a,   a,fcl.ic
1.04   CE'.:  Collè.ge d'Enseigomenet             - 2    106                                                     -           -       725                       1,-5          3,965            h                    sn    h     -
Géérl  C'1G)                      -1-06-
1.05   1>X1;  Lycée Municial94    342                            --                  1     ---                               3      1,5                         75
BOBO - DTOULASO
1.06   LE2:Lycee ~Quezzin Coulibaly              207  1,064                          I                   -       -           2      17,250            -        17,250        3.965
1.07   1>42   Lycé. Municipal                     73~  403                           1             i     -                   2      17,250            -        17,250         3,065
1.09   CE6:  C.EG.                                -      il --                         --                        -     I              ,550            -5,550                 1,279
B__R                                             191
1.09   OM3:  Lycée Municipal                             150
1.10   CES:  C.E.0.-                                                                                     i      î      i     i       5,550          5,550      11,100        2,559          The 2 ecfioola axe  sin  th. scee labo. facilities
1.1 OUANIGOUYA                                       168                                                                                                  il10            258
fS CES:  C.EG.                            1.          S-                                             i      I      I      i    .  ,5             ,50        1,0           2,558
KOODOUGOU
1.13   CEt:  Coure Normal-                               290--                                               1  i      i     i          , 5         5,55o       11,1oo        2,558
1.14   CE13: C.E.G.                              -       114-        --                  -j                     -      i     -       5,55O                       5,550        1,279
1.15   OEN:-  C.E.G.-                                    305            1            -                                 2     -      11,100           -          11,100        2,55 8
1.16   CEO    ...-                                       162--               -         -      -          I      i            i       5,550          5,550       11,îoo        2,558
FADA N'GOURI4A
1.17   CE7:  C.E.G.                              -       236    --                   I      -       i    -      -      -     3          -           110         11,100         2,558 
1.18   CE12: Collège Troc,c-Coemun               -         i530                                                                                      -550                      1,279         Science Teachfng te be d... in regular classrooes
GADUA-                                             ---                              --                  --                                           I
1.19   GE l,- Collège Tronc-Coe,en              -        70---S.50                                                                                              5,550         1.279                                -ditt.
LEO                                       -       -_                   _        -       -       -       -       -                       
1.20    El-5: Collège Tronc-Commun                        78                                                                          5.550           -5.550                   1,279                                -ditt___o~}-_ ____ ___
1.21   CE14! Collège Troo-.Comcmun                         25                                                                         5,550           -           ,550        1, 279                                -ditto-
TOTAL                     953   6.164    6                    S      2       S                   9     1      4670           7,0        2201,000      50,648
assis. oS  -oc  ..tr,-te cf aqipme at  phy.i.e    7,770, Che,ictry$ 3,850, Nat.ra1 Science  53.5S0  fo, 24  tuodent. od Ho-   cnerc   17,500  f-r 20 At.d..t.
Saer  cf Exchan9e:  UNS 1.00 * ICM   230.20                                                                                                                                                                                       L






UPPER VOLTA: RURAL EDUCATION CENTERS ELIGIBLE FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND/OR EQUIPMENT
I                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAXIMM  NUJMBER ELIGIBLE FOR
NATURE                                             MASCULINE CER OPENED IN                                    RECONSTRUCTION                EUIPMENT
OF                                                                                                         PHASE I   PHASE II  PHASE I  PHASE Il  PHASE III
CONSTRUCTIONS            1961-63   1964-65   1965-66   1966-67   1967-68   1968-69   1969-70   1970-71   1974-75   1975-76   1974-75   1975-76   1976-77
DEDOUGOU
FED                           46          2                __ _  _ __              _  _ _    _ _ _  __             _ _  _ _  _ _ _ _ _      48     _  _ _ _
SEMI-DUR                                  3          5     _  _ _ _        4     __ _ _ _               _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _ _      12                 _  _ _ _ _
PROV                                                 9          6         15          8          1          3         38          1         38          1          3
TOTAL                46          5         14          6         19          8          1          3         38           1        98           1          3
KAYA
FED                           13         10     __  _ _ _  _ _ _ _ __              _ _ _ _23                                                        _  _ _ _
SEMI-DUR                                  2          2    ____             3          2                     3                                9    ____              3
PROV                                                                      10 _    -    1  4      3          7         34          3         34          3           7
SUB-TOTAL                  13         16          7         il         13          6          3         10         34          3         66          3         10
MINUS       (closed
_ 1972-73_            _                  -3                    -1         -2          . .       -2         -6              _     -6                     -2
TOTAL                 13        16          4         il         12          4          3          8         28          3          60          3          8
KOUDOUGOU
FED                           45         il                _          __                    2 1                                             56
SEMI-DUR                                                        2          1          2      __ _1                                           5      __ _1
PROV                      __          _   2          3          5         14         17          9          3         41          9         41           9          3
TOTAL                45         13          3          7         15         19          9          4         41           9       102           9          4
MINUS (closed in
197III39 (cloedi       ___            -1      _    _        . .        -3                 _-_ -4                              -4          __
SUB-TOTAL            45         13          2          7         15         16          9          4         37           9         98          9          4
GRAID TOTAL          104        34         20          24        46         28          13         15        103         13        256         13         15
116                       284         x
March, 1973.



RURAL EDUCATION CENTERS
In Dedougou, Koudougou and Kaya ORD)
Classification by Sex, Durability of Construction
And Eligibility for Buipment and Reconstruction or Equipment Only
35~~~       303              Z34-
Total        Masculine       Eligible                         Durable           Eligible         To Be            otal Number
Nunber                        For                              Constrution       For Jquip        Selected        To be
Existing                      Project                                           ment              For    --        Selected for
CER                                                                              Only             Equip-          Project
ment
Serni-Durable.
r  -, .    ,S'                           Construction.
45                         t
Temorary
BuildÎng
-13                             _40_
Eligible         To Be
Building                         For Re-           Selected
_'  -   _   ~   I        ' - :      r         -       construe-         For Re-
\                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~tion ar.d  construction         1
7Euipment        And FAuip-
w__.                        -                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ment          1O
Feminine         Not                                                                ment
Eligible
(Too
Recent)
March, 1973



Ul'PP' VOLTA.  PROPOSED EDUCATIQI PROJECT
Deternlination et Repartition par Tranches annuelles
des Unités à construire ou a e( u.erCE   -& GS
Project
Type of Investment                Maximum Eligible Centers                      zqnterz           froposed ?hasing
1974/75  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78  Total    %    Total   1973/74  197h/75  1975/76  1976/77 197/78
CER
Reconstruction
(durable)               103        13                          116   30/35%    4o                 20        20
Equipment/cattle
(cheptel)               256        13        15                284   h0/h5%  120                  60        30       30
GPS Scheme
Equiprent/cattle
Pre-1973 outputs        297                                    297      50%   150        30        60        60
Outputs after
1973                  186        91        26        186     489      75%    360               128         64      18       150
Housing for extension
agents                                                                          50                                   25        25
Motorbikes for samne                                                              85        6        30        20        4        25
GPPect Items
Pilot GPS                                                                        150       30       120
Housing for extension
agents                                                                          25                                    25
Motorbikes for same                                                                30       6        24
Mareh; 1973



IJPPER VOLTA- PROPOSMI) EDUCATION PPOJECT
Phasing of Post-3chool Cooperative Groups (GPS) by Region (ORD)
Preliminary-                  lInlemertation of' cheie
ORD         GPS To Be Est1abUShed    Phasirg           Phase I   Phase II   Phase III   Phase IV        Totals
1973/74       -,1971h/7q   1975/76     1976/77    1977/78
ORiD de Dedougou      Pre1973 outpu'              10           20         20                                      50
Output after 1973                       53         16            5           62           136
Subtotal               13 38 
ORD de Kaya           Pre-1973 outpub             10           16         16                                      42
Output after 1973                       20         29            7           24            80
Subtotal                                       45            7           24           122
ORD de Koudougou      Pre-1973 ou'put             10           24         24                                      58
Output after 1973                       55         19            6           64           144
Subtotal               10           79         I;W           6                        202
Total (3s OK,D's)     Pre-19'î3 output   1/       30           60         60
Output after 1973                      128         64           18          150           360
Total                  32/         188        12-           18          150           510
1/ Including the 16 Sexisting GPS and  iotse to be established
before 1973.
2/ The projeet includes the first 150 centers only.
March, 1973..



ANNEX 8
UPPER VOLTA: PROPOSED EDUCATION PROJECT
Needs for "Encadreurs/Animateurs" in
GPS
A. Total Scheme
1973/74   1974/75   1975/76   1976/77   1977/78
Number of GPS
Creations                   30       188       124         18       150
Cumulative t'otal           30       218        342       360       510
Number of' "encadreurs"
New posts                    6        22         21        il        25
Cumulative total             6        28        49         60        85
Ratio - "Encadreurs"/GPS      5.0       7.8        7.0       6.o        6.0
B. Initial Phase
Number of GPS
Creations                   30,      120          -         -          -
Cumulative total            30       150       150        150       150
Number of "encadreurs"
New posts                    6        22          2         -          -
Cumulative total             6        28         30        30        30
Ratio - "Encadreursu/GPS      5.0       5,3        5.o       5.0        5,0
January 15.,1973



v                                  I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .l



UPPER VOLTA:  TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
EXPERTS      DURATION      TIME SCHEDULE          OUALIFICATIONS                             FUNCTIONS                            LOCATION
(man-years)
Procurement      2         Adapted to project    Experience in procurement           Be in charge of all procurement of           Ministry of
Specialist                 progress               through developing countries'    furniture and equipment.                       Agricultuire
administration                    Assist the "Service des equipements"
of the Directorate of Rural Education.
Train counterpart.-
Principal                                         Specialist in rural                Support the Project Unit                     "Direction de
Technical         5        73 - 77                education and training             Coordinate technical assistance.              l'Education
Adviser                                           (high caliber)                     Serve as liaison with ORD's.                  rurale,"
Assist the Directorate of Rural               and part-time
Education, especially in establishing         at ORD's.
the "tracer system" (para, 5.13)
Field                      73 - 75                Specialists in "vulgarisa-         Assist ORD's.
Advisers (3)      7        Flexible time          tion et animation rurale."         Work with counterparts("conseillers          ORD's
schedule to fit                                           d'education rurale") - CER and
with project                                              GPS levels
progress
Local                                             Rural education through            Help develop the revised curriculum          Working with
Language          2        73 - 75                national languages.                of CER's.                                    the three
Specialist                                        Experience in More or Peuhl        Initiate pilot scheme for the use of         ORD's.
language.                         national languages and develop related
methods and materials.
Coordinate teaching activities with
field advisers and relevant pedago-
gical services.
Survey          1/2        72/73                  Rural education and rural          Assist ORD's to collect appropriate          Field
Team                                              development applied to             data and evaluate CER's and GPS
Africa.                            to be selected in line with the
appraisal report recomendations.
Evaluation     1-1/2       Interim evalua-        Same qualifications                Collect appropriate data concerning          Field
Team and      (broken      tion of "project       as Survey Team specialists         CER's and GPS.
Logistic      down         progress" and          and/or addition of:                Evaluation of progresa and coordina-
Support       into         logistic support         specialist in rural              tion within the project.
short-       whenever neces-           sociology, rural credit         Recommendations for improvement or
term         sary.                     and cooperatives.                acceleration in line with the
missions)                                                               project time schedule.
Evaluation of the impact on rural
communities as indicated in
"Appendix I."
Source:  Paras. 5.12; 5.15 of Appraisal Report.
1iarcli 1973.



UPPER VOLTA: TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Related to the Organization of ORD's and Relevant Ministries
INTERNATIONAL
Technical                                     M I N I ST R Y 0 F AG R I C U LTU R E
Assistance
T            _,                                           r~~~~~~~
r-t                       -~ n1  n n    n                                                 
Survey Team r                        Direction                               EDUCATION RU-L
&             |                Development            ;BUREAU PEDAGOGIQUEf            EDUCATION PROJECT
Logistic                             Rural             i       Principal Tech.                   UNIT
Support  **                                                      Adviser            n         Procurement
Local Language Specialist~~pecilis
.:    .                                         . .
:        ~~ORG. REGIONtAL DEVELOPMENT                   l    0
:  (ORD)                       i;  + -
:field Advîsers                 .0:
:           ~~~~Local L-anguage"Specialist   @+        4
, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
CER's
GPS's   O
*  Experts
_ _ Cooperation and assistance                                        Rural Comut tes
Wodd Bank-7328(3R)



Annex 9 B
Feasibility Study of the Training of Project ïManagers (PM)
Outline Terms of Reference
1.        Define a realistic and manageable training project
a. Type of project managers who could best be trained
through proposed approach (e.g. level Pl and P2 or P1, P2 and P3).
b. Choice of a limited nunber of ORD's (2-3) where
training would take place, to avoid dispersion of
training effort - e.g. among those affected by RDF
project and by Education Project, namely Bobo--D,ioulasso,
Dedougou, Koudougou and Kaya.
c. Review writh affected Sociétés d'Interventicn(CFDT and SATEC)
their readiness to participate in a project oa  such nature
and of formula best suitable for proposed operation (whether
the Societés would reinforce their team with training
specialist(s), whether they would welcome support of training
firm, or whether Bank sponsored technical assistance under
the education project should handle the trainiiig task).
This would lead to selection of one Societeé d'Intervention
for assisting in carrJing out the project.
2.        Determine the actual number and phasing of project managers to
be trained.
(i)  for the direct needs of the above ORD's;
(ii)  for the needs of other GR3Ds;
(iii) for the needs of other institutions or agenicies.
3.        Provide detaîled information on-how many of the project manager
candidates would already be employed by agencies which would be sponsoring
their training*;                           -for how many PWTs vacant positions
are already existing and merely need to be filled;
-how many new PM positions must be
created, and the appropriate method. Alio describe whether it is proposed
to relate performance of the project manager candidates during their training
to their final appointrent to the designated functions and posts.
4.        Based upon the information obtained through the survey in relation
with the C L's and GPS, and with additional specific surveys as needed,
(a) identify the general characteristics of the population groups from which
the PTvs are expected to originate (motivation, aptitudes, response to
incentives); (b) locate likely specific saurces of ?tis, together with a
phasing of the numbers to be selected and recruited in relation with para
2 above.
* ïknd if so, whether they will have a full (or trainee) salary from the
agency for the training period.



Annex 9 B
Page 2
5.   ,cify criteria and nethod of selection of trainees, to ensure
mnaxisum  effec+iveness of training progran, but also to ensure their con-
patibility '.ith present selection and hiring methods and practices in the
public and private (including cooperative) sector in the Uppe- Volta.
6.        Propose the details of an economnical, efficient and workable method of
administration and control of the progran in terms of the framework outlined
under para 1 (broadly corresponding to solution (d) of the September 1, 1972
Preliminary '3tudy of Surequip), together with the staffing requirements (by
specialty and over tine) and the specific distribution of responsibilities
between the different parties involved (OIR's, Societe's d'Intervention,
Training firm, Public Service Commission, Directorate of Rural Education,
National Development Bank etc.).
7.        Identify a systen of successive typical Projects and Sub Projects
dirough which the training of project managers would proceed. Specify
tentatively -which projects in which CRD constitute a first network of projects
for the pilet phase of the training program implementation.  Identify comple-
mientary studies (e.g. accounting) which preferably could be undertaken in
existing institutions.
8.        Cutline the characteristics of' successive phases in the trair.ing
of project nmallagers to result in a permanent, national systen,   Also outline
the pedagogical content of the training.
9.        Outline the detailed logistical support required for the different
phases.
10.      îlstablish a detailed costing for the implementation program, for
each of the successive phases (para 8)
(a) in mnan-months of experts - locacl
- foreign - belonging to Societés
d Intervention (SI)
- specialized t"raîin.g . irn
(b)  in financial teris for
the                        specialists
locisticalJ s-U,port
- operabing cots to-
Government
- CRD and SI
- Jraining firxm



Annex 9 B
Page 3
The tentative manpower cost for such a study is assessed as follows:
Total duration of study about 6 months.  Specialists needed:
Senior expert in design of training systems (including         (Man-months)
report writing) ...................... .......                     6
Psycho sociologist .......    ...........*           .. ..          2
Expert in administration of manpower prograns .........
Short tern specialists                         ........ ..         [3
Total:         15
*Including 2 months at headquarters.
March, 1973.






AINNEX 10
TOFFER VTOLTA EDUCATION PROOJOCT                                                                                 'R
S0030Y OF ESfIO2ATED COOTU
(in CFAR '000 Ba,ed on MaF 1972 FP12-0
I       COOO-ST00CTION COST                                                                                                                                            0000
B00IL0ING                                          F UONITURE COSL                                   EQOUTPMENT C0S0                                      ASSTST-            TOTAL
000E  ACAOUUOC                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ACADE0IIC                                                  00020E & iu-PPORT                       ANCE         ESTIT4TMO , fgoeT
ODEVEL-     &                  STAFF    OUI-                   &                  STAF                                   TRSNOROT-  NORC- FAIT-                     WATER      OU LOCIAL        (w000
.9. SUCRAUAUT 000000000   ~ ~~OFRONT  C40000NAL  BO0000I0G HOOSINO   TOITAL , TOTAL  C1YOUNAL  BOARAINS OU00000   TOTAL          SCIENCE  RURAL    ATION           TI10N    LITIRS  TOTAL       SUFFIT    PERSONNEL0  OFAF       US$
A. REOunVAo FaDI10AeON
Pur 13 20103UL        ~      10,620    87,000                          8  7,000   97,6201  8,940        -                   ,940   30,0143       -                                       5045        -         -      141,605    015.0
For  O UrUAolo                    -          -         -         -          -~       - -  -  -                               i5,603      -                   -          -        5,603       -         -       15,603       57.0
TOTAL 0F A,                         !10,620    07,000       -                  7,000   97,620,    0.940                           8  ,940   50,648                                             5  - - 00648                   1  07,208    682.9
B. ROUA  CUCATION IN2 DED0U02U,
03UD00000 0. UIOA 00D
2. R-1  TOoriuCentr
£GER)
For 40 COU                               0l,000      -       21,000   72,000   72,000    6.200          -        2,200      8,400                                - -            -          -         -                   0400    0,49.3
Pur 120 COR--                                                  -         -          -         -         -         -          -         -       20,000      -          -         -                       20,000                      8  0,00 0.9
000-TOTAL uf 2.-                        50,000               21,000   72,000   72,000    6,200          -        2,200      8,400      -       20,000       -         -         -        20,000                1-090,400           460.2
3.  Fu-oolCou... io 
ForlO InOîuîu,                   -                            3,105   13,125   13,125                            1  ,375    l,375                                                                    -                  14,UOO       63.5
Fo 50  1F                                                                                                                                    6,250      0.200                         1  7,450     -                  7.450       73.0
FUT 020 Ouuîruuour, /Aprlo.  -  -  -  -  -  -  -     -         -         -         -          -         -         -          -         -          -       10,720    00,729       90.3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~18,20  1.
000-TOTAL uf 3.                 -          -         -       03,025         13,123-  13,125                      1  ,375    1.375              lb0,250     1,200                -        0740        -        1,200.
TroSuino Ceulors <CPU>             j                                                                                                                              50,670~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5060   2.
4. RrlOvOp,u               
Doduuouu                  -        3,8~~1:231    2550   2,100      ,45  ,475            4110      ,200       2220    2832        -          9000                 200      -        0000        -         -       1,0          40.0
2Co~~~~,douguu        - ~~~~~~~ 3,025    2,3        2,000    0,47       O45          40       ,200       220     1,3                     0>      -           20       -         1,0                            145        4.
____________________________      0~~~,200    02>0    1,050    3,050    300            20         600       000       91.7-               700       -          200       -900                                       8  ,60    21.
SOO-TOTAL 204.                 0~~~~~~~~~,050  5,900  5,250   20,000   2000       0(22       ,0                    ,30 -ï             2,500      -            00      -        3,10o       -                   7,670    003.2
001er Supply                               -                                                                       -         -         -         -          -         -          -         -0      43,5(,0      -       43,500      103.0
02Loo-                                     -         -         -          -,00
910U-TOTAL OF 5.                                                                                                                                                                                                         4    ---      ----  ,00 6005 - 600 _ 2 23.3 
Onglou..l                      2,310    5,120        -       0,0220   23,1000i25,410           2355               1,000     2,055      -        2,4O221-   7,550       900       -       170850                         38 5,315    166,
Ouduurro-,                                                                                     500       -         -          5220                -        1,300       5(27               1 ,000      -         -        2300        00.
SOU-TOTAL 0F 6.                2,310    5,000        -       0,002    23,1030   25,410         755      -         0,000    2,555       -        2,400      0,05)     1.4U0               1 2,650      -         -       40,613    176.4
TOTAL 0F B.                        2,310   64,950    5,900   57,375  128,2250130,535    795              3.0022      5.925   16,900        -      41.5(10    00,050    2.000       6,002    59.200   43,5020    10.720  268,855  1,167.9
C.  V0.00T ADMINIS0TRATION TNIT
ue  uAoppor, ou           -          .                             -     I -              o       -UN(2                                    -        4,4,00      ,5o22              17,100      -        10,500    36.100      236.0
D. TRCONIOAL ASSIS0TANCE
uR-l RAr1                                                                                                                                                                                                   1    - - ------              59,562   i59,562    693.1
FroJeut Ad.Liniotru  2(1            l-                                    -         -         -         -          -  ni                                              -          -         -         -       2.09       2,5         116,7
PrO)ocî Usuagoro 05002  .  -  -  -  -  -    .   -  -  -        -         -          -         -         -          -         -         -          -      23,021      23,020    030.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2,02  2302
TOTAL 0F D.                          f-           -         -         --                             -         -          -         -         -         -          -         -                    --               2,440    209,441   509.8
G0AND TOTAL <i0 '000)          CPA  2b,9301595             5,900   57,37   20,2L2,5                 7,415    3,02        5,923    2,30   50,640    41,150    24,655    4.520           6,000  026,948  43302660                60604
00$     562,6               56        292 949            902        7 5.6      13.0      25.7           l 24.5    17800  7.8        107.1   09.5        76.1   s551         10.      1,071.5              2,917.4
uro  Fj700   Coo,u-h-u  Cun- u  oil,           17 04797-4
Ou_Ciogole           65  00     79.8
T-1u Frojoco, C..,  80l,~fRCo00e00                     37,314  3,637,2
FUORTIGN EXCO2ANGE                                                                                                                                                                              ____
CosO beoe   aîîRooo-            O                                     527,       5( 7~                                     5 0-     Il7, SO    0         05,       507,      612         'l 11, 02. SO       5L        64.25,
(b)  A,uu.r - 0  Fr07-0-1 Coo
bePureFA iubtlngtu<e1        6,465                                  1007,612                                                       55,53    28,800    22,005    4,050        3,600
'00  CAO(Tla                                                            014,077                                    13,107                                                      104,223    201,2753   078,025  431,245
1Sbîua    ,940                                   34,4~36
'000 CFAF (Tu6oO                                                                36,36                                     3,424                                                       28,101,      6,059    26.704   301,603
,oo    S,bt 1a                                                          15405  4, 34                               1~,594 -              -         ___132,363                              20,729~ 204.729  532,040
(Toa                                                             J35.5
5/Ooo5diOg tOfatI  OOA
F/ qoipuenî Cor 40 064, i0010d.î.
C/ 3raî                            CEol   opoeeo  o   2, 403 oud 020,
4COu "2' .,ly.
OuR t f TohalOo0014             10   230.20
oarch, 1373



ANNEX 10
Page 2
GPS: Analysis of Costs
Cost of the Scheme
GFAF '000     US $
Fifty instructor staff houses                        29,000    126,000
Equipment and vehicles for 510 cooperatives          58,650    254,800
Salaries of 85 instructors/agriculture agents
(one  "encadreur" for 6 cooperatives)               28,940    125,700
Total      116,590    506,500
Cost of the Pilot Project
CFAF t000    US $
Twenty-five instructor staff houses                  14,500     63,000
Equipment and draft animals
100 GPS type 1 (oxen)                12,500
50 GPS type 2 (mules)                3,750
Thirty instructor bicycles              1,200
Equipment                         17,450      75,800
Salaries of 30 "encadreurs" (one
for five cooperatives)                              18,720      81,300
TLotal Cost        50,670    220,100
The share of the water supply and other support facilities for all
cooperatives cannot be isolated from that relating to the rural
education centers.
Rate of Exchange:  US$ 1   CFAF 230.20
March, 1973.



UPPER VOLTA
COMIPAdATIV1, CAPITAL COSTS IN NEW PflOJECT, INSTITUJTIONSI/
~~~~(n  ç_n 2U N S Dollars
Coet per Trainea/Boarder Place or per Living Unit
Grosa Area      Site
per trainee    Develop-                                                 SiJrdlar Bank Group
or houwee       ment      Build.ng   Furniture  Equipment   Total   Financed Institutions
r'2          _          _           _            _- ;
Academie and Communal
Rural Education Center(C.E.R.)  2.1              Nil        124 1h                   16        155    Comparison is not
Post-School Cooperative                                                                                feasible since this is
Grours (G.P.S.)                 Nil            Nil        Nil          Nil         26          26    the first project of
Rur~] Dev'elo.ititnt                                                                                       f Training
Centers (C.P.R.)                4.2            Nil        249          26          71         346    its kind in the Bank.
Pural Txve1op) r. nt & Training
C(enters (C.P.R.)               2.8            Nil        166          78           _         244
St,Qf1fousir
Rural iducat1vr; Center(C.E.R.) 35               Nil       2052         215           -        2267
Pos t-School C', ;perative
Groiins (3..S.)                                Nil       2052         215         156        2423
Rurl  D;3eV&Xr & nt Training
Cerltera t('cl.R.)             35/70           Nil       2736         286           -        3022
l    ssrof  >, :  fees not applicable - contingencies not included.
Rate of Ecchange:  US$ 1. = CFAF 255.79
MaSc ,  973 0



UY?ER VOLTA EDUCATION PROTJEC
CONTINGENCIES ALLOWANCES (in '000 CFAF a_d US$3
Site Qevelopment         Buildias           |  Furniture             W9m Wter Supply                                 Technical Assistance       Sub-Total
Local Foreign        Local Foreign           Local Foreig.n        Local Foreign           Local Poreain            and Local Personnel       Local   Fori .          TOTAL
Local   Foreign
Continkencies Percentages
a. Unforeseen factors               15%       15%         15h       15%            107.    107.          10%       10%           15%     15%                5%         57.
b.  Price escalation                157.      15%         17%       17%            16%     16%           18%       177.          17%     17%               11%        10%
Total (a) + (b)                30%        30%         327.      327.          26%      26%           28%      27%            327%    32%               167.      15
Total Project Cost Before
Contingencies           CFAm    6,465      6,465      1.07 613    107 612       13,170   13,170       22,7_5   104,223       21,750    21,750          S8,636      178,025    240,359     431,245       671,604
US$       20.1      20.1       ^41>.4    4J4r.5           57.1    57I.2         9y .                    94.5      94.5           "R. 2       ;73.i    1.g.]        1,873.3       2,917,4
coutin8enciee Amounts
a. Unforeseen factors    CFAF        970       970       16,142      16,142        1,317    1.317         2,173    10,422       3,263     3.262           3,432        8,901     27,397       41,014       68,411
US$        4.2       4.2          70.1       70.1          5.7      5.7           9.9     45.3          lh.2      3h.2            Oh.9        38.7       319.0       178.2         297,2
b.  Price escalation      CFAr       970       910       18,294      18,294        2,107    2,107        4.091    17,718        3,698      3,697          7,550       17,803     36,710       60.589       97.2S
US$        4.2       h.2          79.5       79.5          9.3      9.3          17.7     76.9          163       lf"0            32.8        77.2       1 ;0.<      263.1         h22.6
Sub-Total             CEAF    1,940      1,940       34,436     34,436         3,424    3,424         6,364    28,140       6,961      6,959         10,982       26,704     64,107      101,603      165,710
US$       8a.4       8.4         149.6      1IL9.6        15.0      15.0         27.6    122.2          30.2      30.2           4s7.7       115.9       278.5       41.3          719.8
Total Froject Cost        CFAF    8,405      8,405      142,049    142,048        16,594   16,594        29,089   132.363      28,711    28.709          79,618      204.729    304,466      532,848      837,314
Including Contingencies US$       36.N       36.5        617.0      41.7.1         72.1     72.2        124.h    C74.Q         124.7    124.7            345.9        889.2    1,322.6      2,314.6      3,637.2       x
Rate of Excchangec  173$ 1   CFAF 230.20
March, 1973.



ANNEX l3 a
UPPER VOLTA
Estimated Additional Recurrent Costs of the Project -  .ural Education Scheme
(CFAF million)
1973/74   197L/75   1975/76   1976/77   1977/78   Total
GPS "Encadreurs/Animateursl'         900     4,228      7,399     9,060    12,835    34,3422
Rural Education Teachers (IRER)      840     1,680      1,680     1,680      1,680      7,560
CPR instructors                                -        1,684     1,684      1,684      5,052
'Jentral personnel                   -         840        840       840        840      3,:36,
Service personnel                 4,090      4,240      5,020     5,020      5,020    29,39,1
Support services                  1,710      2,850      3,990     5,700      7,410 2o,660
Operation of uhe CPR                 -         -        2,790     4,380      4,380    21,55-
Operation ci' the CES              6,730     8,470    10,210    10,210    10,210    45, 30
Administrative expenses            2,300     2,300      2,300      2,300     2,300    11,500
Personiel training                   950     1,000      1,075     1,125      1,200      3,350
Revolving fund for GPS             1,000     1,000      1,000      1,000     1,000      5,000
Maintenance                          -          -         150        225       250        625
Vehicles anc cost of
transportation facilities        7,560     9,480    10,740    -,,400    12,900Q   5.Q, 0
Teacling `laterial                 1,750       700        700        700       700      4,550
l.iscellaneous expenses            1,200     1,200      1,200      1,200     1,200       ,000
?roject TJnit personnel            3,700     3,700      3,700    _2700       3,700    1   0C
Total before contingencies    32,730    41,688    54,473    60,224    67,309   255,429
Contingencies factor              (5.0%)    (7.66%)  (12.155)  (13.18%)  (17.265)  (l2.' V
Contingencies                      1,636     3,194      6,620      7,939    il>619    31,008
Total                          34? 366    44 882    6' 098    68.163         9     287, 437
March, 1973.



ANNEK 13 b
UPPER VOLTA:  FiNANCING OF RURAL EDUCATION OPERATING EXPENDITURES
(CFAF million)
1972     !U       1974      1975    1976    1977    1978
I  Projected bud,,et aliocations to rural education-
1  Total national rural education                              167.3   184.0   202.4   222.7   245.0   269.5    290,.'S
2 of which. Rural education in the 3 ORD's included
in the plo je2ct2                                          59.4    65.3    71.8    79.0    80.9    95.6   1O.2
II Recurrent expciiditure glencrated by the proJect
A. Cenltral overhiaii expanses
3        (i)  Direction of  rural education                        _     16.4    19.4    20.5    20.8    2i.7         21.?
14     (i>)  Project unit                                                  4.      5.1      5.3      5.3     5,5       5.,'
5         ,            Total overkiead                             _     2i.3    214.5    25.6    26.1    27.2        2',.2
B.  Additionai expenses of the 3 ORD's in the
6        proeject                                                  -     13.1    20.4    35.3    42.1    51.7         51.7
7      Mixius: reveinue from CER's and local sources                      8.6    12.0    14.6    15.8    15.8         1,.8
b      Remains: centrai governmer.. tpereÀi.ura                           4.5      8.4    20.7    26.3    35.9        35.9
C. Total recurrent expenditure generated by
9        the projoct                                                      34.4    44.9   61.1    6c.2    76.9          i6.9
10      Minus: revenue from CER'a and local sources                  -       b.6    12.0    114.6    15.U    15_.c         .
il      Remnains: Central Oovt. Expenditu:e                                25.b    32.-5    46.5    52.4    63.1        03.i
III  Total racurrent expemnliture or the 3 OFRD s in,cLudod in
the projuot)
12    (i)  Present expenditure_'                                   55.14    61.2    63.0    64.9    66.8   6b.b         2C.9
13   (ii)  Additio.;al expen3es ;enerated by
the projeot (line 6)                                   -      4,j      b.4    20.?    26.3        5       35.9
i4   Total                                                         59.4    65.7    71.4    o5.6    93.1   O14.7    106.b
15   Resource gap (line 2-14)                                        -    - 0.4   - 0.4   -, .6  - 6.2   - Y.1    - I.6
IV Total 1birae Education Expenditure (Central Govt.
E x an ditur-L~o n~
16    (i) 'Prasent expenditure                                    167.3   172.3   177.5   162.B  1&b.3   193.9    1S9-.
17   (ii)  Additioinal expenditure generated by the
projoct (lino 11)                                      -     25.6    32.9    46.5    52.4    63.1         63.1
16  (iii)  Additional net expwnditure generated by FlD project  -           1.7      4.0      6.5    14.14    20.5      20.5
19    Total                                                      167.3   199.b   2114.4   235.6   255.1   277.5    286.3
20    Resource gap (line 1-19)                                       -   -15.6  -12.C  -13.1  -10.1   - 6.0    + L. '
21    Cumulative resourco Lap                                        -   -15.b   -27.e  -40.9  -51.0   -5S.0   -50.8
Assom  10% amnmal growth.
Assume constant proportion of total Government rural education expenditure.
Central Goverrnent espenditure only.                                                                       mareh, 1973
Assumed to grow at a rate of 3% p.a.



ANNEX 14
IbMPLM{ENTATION SCHEDULE
Year                   First       I     second              Third             Port                  ifth      T          xi
Qrarter    3   4           2 3 I4    i 2 3 .4    1                        - 4-                                              
t. Civil Works                         jj                                                           ~----~~k-
1.0  Science taboratories               ..j   .   ..       ..   ... i  ii+  4         j +                                                                f
2.0  C-E.E.        rhase                                  j .   .. ++4+ +:                   xi
Phase Il       i             ji.+  +4+4--4+  -+++-                                i 
*  4.0  C.P.R.                                                  +f   ~   ++41 
6.0  Regional and I{ead-                                                                                                
II.  Furniture                                                                                i
1.0  Science Laboratories                    ..   ..  ..      ...    
2.0 C.E.R.         Phase Il1.j                                 ~ ~ ~                                                       
3.0  G.P,.S                             ..  ....
60quarter facilities                                i
7.0  Project AdministrativeI                                                                    II                                    j    I Im
~I.Eguipaent                                 ai~i                           i         î       i I         î      jie
1.0  Science Laboratories  j             ..--   --
2.0  C.E.R.        Phase 1              ...ii                                                                                     
3.0  G.P.S.   Rural                          ..   ...f                                                        i         i 
5.0  Support facilities       I.  *1j                                                 i         ii                                    ii
Preliminar, Phaise¶                                                                          I H              Ji
Phase      j 
Phase III~~~~~~~~~~~                              ...>... .....
6.0  Regional and flead-      i                     iilî                                                  i      iI
quanxtertfailtiesii                                                  i       i     i                                                       
quanprte  acltiesI                                        i         i i           i       j         f                  
Office                            ...~f                                                                                       ~  
Animals replacement             fa=~====
7.0  Project Administrative                                                                           i
Unît           tain P~   n~                                  -,                                      i             i
Transportation (Pub. SJks.)                                                                            i     j
PIV.  Water_Supply fclte              ~                                                                                        
5.0  Support       Phacîiset         f                                  .i i                                                          Ii
V.  Technical  Âssaistn:.                              .j.f            --±+ 
8.01  Rural education           u      J.'iIt                                                                                                             j
8.02  Proj. Admin. Unit                                        1"i H          t:t:j:   :
Legend,    Preparation.
+44   Construction period.
x    End of guarantee period.
D= elivery period.
t: Execution period.
January 12, 1973






RNEX 
UPPER VOW LA EDUCATION PROJECT
PROPOSED FINANCING
(US$ °000)
Cost net of
Total       Taxes and      Foreign    Local      IDA       Governnent
Cost         Duties          Cost    Cost    Financing   Financing
Construction       1,307.1    73%    954.1    653.6        653.5    954.1        353.0
Furniture            144.1   73%    105.2        72.1       72.0     94.7         49.4
Equiprnent           701.3    100%   701.3      575.0      126.3    631.2        70.1
Water Supply         249.6   73%    182.2        124.7     124.9   182.2          D7.4
Technical Assist-
ance and
L»ocal Personnel   1,235.1    98%  1,216.3     889.3      3L5.8    981,1       254.°
Total              3,637.2          3,159.1   2,314.7   13322.5  2,843.3         793.9
US.$ = 230.20
May, 1973.



ANNEX 16
UPPER VOLTA EDUCATION PROJECT
S3TI2ATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSE5IsLS
(US$ millions)
Accumulated           Undisbursed
auarter         Disbursements             Disbursements            Balance
2.85
2                 0.09                       0.09                  2.76
0.12                      0.21                  2.6)
4                 0.11                       0.32                  2.53-
5                 0.13                      0.45                  2,40
J                 o0. i                      0.63                  2.22
7                 0.26                       0.89                  1.96
9                 0.37                      1.26                  1. 59
0.40                       1.66                 1.19
N2                 O. h                       1.90                  0955
=lB                0.30                       2.20                  0.65
12                 0.15                       2.35                  0.50
1                  0.18                       2.53                  0.32
1h                 0.08                       2.61                  0.24
CI0.(03                    2.64                 C.21
05                         2.69                 O. 16
0.04                       2.73                 0.]"
0o. 04                     2.77                 O. 0o 
19                0.03                       2.                    0.05
0.0°                       2.32                 0.03
2                  0.03                       2.85                   GQ 
_/   _atn-: -'-oe<, date OI efieCtiveness
March 2, 2?97 7
March, 1973.



UPPER VOLTA: STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATION SYSTEM
PRIMARY            SECONDARY - FI_ST CYCLE        SECONDARY -        POST-SECONDARY
t 41                              SECOND CYCLE
VOCATIONAL CENTRES
TEC_NICAL EDUCATION                                      O University Diploma
TECHNICA- EDUCATION                                  COMMERCE ACCOUNTANCY                      D Examinations
TECHNICAL                 O-       °       j               Created or expanded under the project
O IND~~USTRIAL & TECHNICAL
2 ~ ~    ~     ~    ~    |                     1               D,U.E.L. - DUES (UNIVERSITY DIPLOMA IN
ARTS OR SCIENCES)
GENERAL EDUCATION                                                PRIMARY TEACHER    PEDAGOGICAL INSTITUTE
TRAI NIN G       °        3
ASSISTANT PRIMARY TEACHER TRAINING
RUA-- - ------ -__ -*-- - --- -----1-r- ----- --- --
EDTCATION                                                      RURAL EDUCATION TEACHERS CENTERS
RURAL EDUCATION                 _              -      ---                                    _
Q- ;| ~~~~~~~~~~~GPS|
f                                                                          j -. *   E N  t   RURAL WORKS ENGINEERS
RURAL ENGINEERING ASSISTANTS SCHOOL
AGRICULTURAL
EDUCATION                                                             VETERINARY ASSISTANTS SCHOOL
ENCA
DREURS     AGRICULTURAL ASSISTANTS SCHOOL
.~~~~~ IPREPOSES
G RADE   12  3   4  5   6         7   8       9   10          11    1 2    13      14    15    16
AGE  6   7   8   9  10  il    12  13    14  15              16    17    18       19    20    21              Bk
World Bank - 7329 (2 R>      C



il



UPPER VOLTA: EDUCATIONAL PYRAMID 1969-1970
POSTSECONDARY (1)
14                                                                                                                                                144
SECOND CYCLE SECONDARY
380     69
12                                                                                                                                         501       10
i1                                                                                                                                         464         310
-- FIRST CYCLE SECONDARY
1 0                                                                                                                                     i7442
9                                                                                                                                            5            545
8                                                                                                                                                             4 B   15  4  GIRLS
7                                                                                                                                     183679
PRIMARY (2)
6
4                                                                      9  g35(:                                        ......:: 'g
3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        c
1~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~1,5
2                                                12,240 10,00- goo         800                                                                                                                                                            t- 6000  5000    40  30  2 -  o0
. .*.-.*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.-- . -~~~~~~~~~~~-~~~~~-:-*:5 .~~~~~~... .. .
16,000   15,000  14,000  13,000   12,000   11,000  10000    900       80        000    6000      5000    4000    3000    2000       1000      O       1000    2000    3000    4000    5000    6000          7000    8000    9000
Notes:
(1) Nuber- f female studentsestlated
(2) Not -ncludng 24.187 male students and 2 177 ferale st.dents
enrolled In rural educatron centers.                                                                                                                                                            'Orid Bank - 6917(R)






UPPER VOLTA EDUCATION PROJECT
CHANNELS OF RURAL EDUCATION: FOLLOW-UP/UPGRADING, TRAINING AND PRODUCTION WORK
|    RURAL EDUCATION                 r        FOLLOW UP OR                                   TRAINING                                   PRODUCTION
RURAL EDUCATION          I         UPGRADING
Farmers and
Sp ecialized Farrmers
Post School Groups                                                                __    Specialized_Farmers
Precooperative
Follow-up Activities                   Rural Teacher Training Centers
_                                     +            ~~~~~~~~~~      ~       ~     ~        ~      ~~1 or 2 Year    (MER)
Rural Education Centers
(CER)                                                                               MATOURKOU:              l\
3 Year Course                                                                      1 Year Agricul. Extension                      Extension Workers
Training Course                            (ENCADREURS)
Rural Development
Training Centers                             MATOURKOU:                                Agricultural Agents
+ (CPR)              _                     _ 4 Year Agricultural                         (ATA)
2 Year Post-CER                             Technician Course                    _ (
Up-gradîng Course
Veterinary-Assistant School
+          ~~~(ENIE)            .       _Veterinary Aides
2 Year                           (INFIRMIERS D'ELEVAGE)
Course               I
ct-
DINDERESSO:             I                    o
1 Year Forestry                             Forest Rangers
Course                I     l    _       _   _   _       _ _I
O_After completion of appropiate entrance examination
World Bank - 6918< 2 R)






,                    Wrr g~~~~~So  ,do4n rlco "c 100 9t 1 "Or tk rc
4                            pr ororno rrr»lrm  or acrrr   c rb  2                                           .-, . ?                                                   _
Orr 0Bre,r1maff0O0                                                         N y. *                                                 ,
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA
EDUCATION PROJECT                                                                                 -                                                  )
SECONDARY SCHOOLS AND SCIENCE FACILITIES                                                                                                                            (
S A  H  E L                                                               .w r>AFRI  CA
Plimory olado. pcaved
Primory ronds, gqfont                           oDJIBI Vlq1°
- ORD boondanios
Irternotion    bounduiies                           A T E N C  A            ,                     --                                                                           ,
Rivers 5  ~  ,  >,)  <  11 i > ) \ g/ t-Ds60< v-S - 0
o   zI:o4g:At/ests   5 -   §   ,     0                                           -'      : >  & `    ,   `    `         `       <S                     ~~~N  I   G    E    R
TOUGAN                                        K~~~~~' OU   GADY G                                AONGUM                              101    2
BOBO-    I    U   ASSG                   X HOUNE          YAKO                                                             BOGANDE
â1  ,tK   t   t       .         \  D E D olu G O/U                /          /      <      />        >~   _    ) )                                                                                i ,abv
,Ojkorosr>  JpI»' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ om
,    }   NOUNA   C   X   TOMA  O  S  8  X  1 o1 / X 3- \ < )EX _ ,Z u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F AD A                        N'    C
}f27to&t  4 tX (3D'EI>?-\ g \ i~~~u 
ORODORO ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~KUDU                                                     AAO
B2iOORA  110     ??            4r2/    /              t    1 W-@ <                  <      vJ       o  u  A\A  D   X   G  O  U           \                                                        DIAPAGA              \il2;
,z~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~r <I                                               10  414 0OIX  /'n,nr "in B - Oo conn \~01.1O \                                         10 K01 OoOg Uc' P   L Anr /
0   5O    O $' o/ U 7   ~ '  1.K  0 U DM O U G                                                       1 U  001_  0     o   0                        1/
BO B 0             NDE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OO0~0~                                                                                                                0100
sr8v«rSse ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~0  LMZ Lycé MoI>o                                                                    1.1  000, \Ed                                                               c  , >A
B                                       'c-DIOULASSO                                                    PO                                                                 O- i r n- _oir>    3
\    9   ORODA                                                                                                                                            Te DBm~,#                   'O 1.09             A  H  O   M        E   Y
S   BANFORA  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ }   |       4 ~~~~~~~~~~~~G    H                            A    N1   A                        |TO   G    O 
B 0 U G 0 U R 1 B                   .1A00  .00                     Or>lOcc11706, .60
>   <    qJ         -o  /                1 19>         9                           tsLAGAfrouGorr                                       1 11 CE2: Cours Mormal      l.IB CE12, Collese 7L1 Zi.d  0abc  1  n rr2 - cs rlôel  12P nrnw Cllèg
_, f 4t 75GOAÉl1 02 CE3. C- urs Nora  ellde J, FNiles-   1 12 CEo: C. 
-__ t   B   A     F  O  R  A         /      >      7_ _                       _      n___0_l_C.3f.                                        _______   ________                   __CrCollège Ic-om.u
ic  Ldya     \           g                                                  f.0  LM b: LÀSSQ fu .                                                                   DEDOiUGOi               1,~2ü CE lb: COflrge 1,unc - C.mmu,'° 
5   ,  ~~~~~~É  «."i  BATIEO   t                        1.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~06 LE2! Ly.ee. Qvoai. Co.'ffiy               KAYA                    1.21 CeI4: C.llege T,.-c -Coen
. S) \ ,- ,,or ti 1) ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0' LM2: LYO6e Mrnicipe                                                          1,5 CE8: C.E,Gf
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T gâm,                           4                      1.08 CE3i: C E.G.                                            TEfNKOf OGO                  rqanes nyE 
f;t~~ ~      ~~      ~~ y       A   5   r                                      DrE   EGt JBg,m  cc                                    1 17 CE7r C.E.G.                                                               c
4-                                =,                       2                                                            0                                                            2-           '






REPUBLIC  OF UPPER  VOLTA                                                                        '                                                               R     D-
v        s_, _8                       O~     ~    ~ ~~~~~~~RD  RURAL EDUCAt!ON2
EEDUCATION  PROJECT                                                                                                                                DEDOUGOU
REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT ORGANIZATIONS (ORD)                                                                                                                            KOUOUCOLT            ANCE) BANK IDA
AND  ADMINISTRATIVE  UNITS (CERCLES)                                                                                                                          KAOO                FINANCED PROJECT
Z:,    8                   $ ~~~~~~~~~~~A H tE L          <           
£4'                                                                                                                                 II~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ANFOA 
20  40  60                                                                                                                              1500  USIT
[77 0   0KILMetES     >   ii   ù2     F00 FINANCE2 PROJECT
K51024OTER$               O-j:::    UAHI GOUYA 
1 ~ ~ ~ ~         ~         ~          ~         ~          ~         ~         ~         ~         ~         ~         ~        ~                 29~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
S,  ......... ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~.-  -
40                                                'I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
fv             o(                                                                                                      0344 iLl-l Lll*                         '-       +O
| ~~~~~~~~~l                                                                                      3    ,"Oto        
37                                  2    , I2 ,RS Y i                                 34  Tl                   rEUrBLi Ro
38 .,      D.            U              i ,                                ,                                                     , S0
0  L  SSO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tta                                                 4Rao             0Kllis¾                 0
41                                                                                        3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20nîs1 11450  23OOOO 4   ed 
'V RY2                                                                                                                          Adoosro;Us  Bndr



e                  $                                                                                                                                                                        



IBRD 100
SEPTESOBER 1972
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA                                                                                                                                              (
EDUCATION PROJECT
RURAL EDUCATION IN DEDOUGOU
REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT ORGANIZATION
RURAL EDUCATION  CENTERS  (CER)
Masculine   -   Garable construcbon
*          ^      Masculine   -   Sernîdaroble ConstruCtiEn             f,                                                                                 J50ro A,
A  Masculine   -   Tnroay  Sar          usd10 cr  a perorit                     cvA                                                                                OscuAw
A      M.sculine-   Tenporory  ba, ding                                                                          M                I            h i
*      Femn,ne                                 -                           ,e'                                                <                  I                                    OcELLEA
POSI-SCHOOL  COOPERATIVE  GROUPS  (GPS)                                    /sOMO5                   sonna
*      Esisfig   grouKs                                                        A o                                               ( A  OUE                    A OUNGArE           RIEMBARA            rlsscuLl    )
RURAL  DEVELOPMENT TRAINING  CENTER  (CPR)                             A *   Eue \Ms                                                        *N
SGte to be deter     d  nea             To SV-r               DJ BSASSU                                            LAA      sors Oc *A ES   ECoMsso-   S                                  o SRAL
REGIONAL AND  LOCAL  UNATS                                                           *T-M                                              KS                   *         T-GU 
-      Regional development headqucrters                                                                                     ccORNA
(SIège de ]'ORD)
1) Admmisfratiue urits   (Lerulos)                                Oac AEN  *                                                            AIA cain       **                                2 _ 70r
O      Local communitins  (Collîeutiuits raroles)               /                oscANooeA                                            caenn           h        CUMEARASARN+
-  -  -   ORD  candarîns                                                                                                                       A  LESSERE cOiceuA.,           ruaSs    .A .J
Adîtin rtov    vn Sabundraries                               AESO                         c ocrooco    sTICUA acc                                               *AEOUNOU
_____       dS                                                                                                                                      O                       OMA
Mcoar ronds                                             /                                                                                             nTA  AuCun                 A ON   EN      'IAE * ^ O < * -
-  -OIn Otrnotaonc îiboundorles  N.  -                           NOUNA E.  A aNIsA
icers i                                   sEa                                                                                                                        0e AS A
~~~~~~~~~~~~......            ...n.A.anes . u.
EAGAL ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~     ~ ~ ~ (  conun /    CUSSA  *cOUNIAN                         To Ktos'udOug
-~~~~~~~~~~N *5 A                             EIRnON-nEO C. *                                    GERGA          * Asasso          \
suu KUAN *               rsa                           cousO  c * KOUNA                                                  sucraGO     *OrA 
Mt A    L                                                                  A DOUsAcc
I  counoanus.                                                                                                                0f'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7,  ~e.-
f ~~~~~~SOLENZO- )KON YAASCTOOVG
12-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n
n0 nUo5             S OUAGADOUGOU
s       U P P E R      V  L T A
i5 1           10     20      30      ÀO      50     60      70                                                                                                           !                  I`                          DA
KILOMETERS                                                                                           7>c boa2ns11vv .h.s o  ; '      !         >t%                      {HM 
ivlMordatPhfra 3 C4Tk .  



le             4                                                                                                                                             »                a



REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA
10  5  O       In     20      30      40     50      60     70
EDUCATION PROJECT                                                                                                                                                     
RURAL EDUCATION  IN KAYA                                                                                                                        KILOMETERS
REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT ORGANIZATION
RURAL EDUCATtON  CENTERS  (CER)                                                                                                                                                                               14'
-14              Masculine -  Durable construction
Elîgiole for eqoîpmeft                                                                                 f.
A      Masculine -  Semi-durable construction                              f rOb  fbo ui/
*   Moscolîse -  Tnmporary  building t Eligible  for recontruction
Apnd/or  equipment
à      Masculine - Temporory building    N/  \i
*      Feminine                                                  ( \ _                                          .                            ANKOONA
To D-,
POST-SCHOOL  COOPERATIVE  GROUPS  (GPS)                                     BASSE                                         GUIENDEBILA                ........ ..
*      Exostirg groups                                                                   ATErR\
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IG                                                                   ' POGORO\a
RURAL DEVELOPMENT TRAINING  CENTER  (CPR)                (       A             ,                                                                             TLYO 
Site to be determined                                                            D NAMSSIUIMA/
REGIONAL AND  LOCAL  UNITS                                  IVATD                      L            ,UorNAGRARGO                                                                          A
1~  Regional development heodquraters  sq-r1               NAP L .E  IENG AE    d                      ARSALOGHO                                                          ro'rfGO/
(Siège de l'ORD)               ~                   oso        BaSAMBA A
©)    Administrotive units  (Cercles)                          EL-GA                                                              D'ANE  O  *  -ouo  a   00,.
O      Local communi lles  (Collectivités rurales)                    O      RISSIAM A....... TAMASSOGOOI
ORD boundaries                                                     KOUGSABLA         AFOLOU   HA        DAPLOGO .SMOG
.. Administrative unit boundaries                               \               Z
Mior roadS                                                 NIANGouELA                           UALG
-  -- -  Internaltonail boundories                                   /  *    K I AI                               A      AMESM/
'/ WBA~~~~E:-K SIouR                                     ArOULALLE
Rivers                                                                      Àk SEG  GALLA               5                      KYS1i*DLGALE /3-
\, _  _  /   \    VANGHINDEt         TENNOKO       +                         /              \      s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Baovade
MALI  <'  'I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
r ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ s-                                            Ki,BMRO5-       OAA            ^ 
IN                                      DENA              ;DNM/
Ta I           SAMBDAGAGA     FDULLAOU       _           \ BOUOSA
--                                                                                                                                                              A i  , \ DAFDLE  YAONGO, 
`M A t t         sp  
{L^3   j  KATA  1          >          l                                                                        /N Ge                                      NIEGA                     I
,"}  OUAGADOUGOU                                                                                                                                                     I       \  
U P P E R    V O L T A                                                                                                                                             KNm
iNANAi lz ,<                           fîDiOMEY               îîîvodîî/
t   <   {ô H A F 4 A    g~  ~  ~    ~   ~ ~ ~lO rI   Oîîîîk1  a, ,   d r Ics  t/çlaIrcl                                                                         Toll  K ooov/Al<l      t t   
..                                                                                                                                                                                                                   r  A NA
VORé~ ~~~~~~~~~~4 C(ÀT.                              v,rt.t"A.il9Jiltfo                                                                                                 a ozaa              Jésr



p                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          dl                        a



IBRD 10087
r                                                                                r t   I                                                                                           SEPTEMBER 1Sl72
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA
o0  5  o      10      20      30      40     50     60      70
KIL OM ETEES                                                                               EDUCATION  PROJECT
RURAL EDUCATION IN KOUDOUGOU
Tl GOoiry                                                  REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT  ORGANIZATION
o / )3zYA<O                      TAMPOUY RURAL EDUCATiON  CENTERS  (CER)
/   BARIGMuA..        / *      -                    * NAM ssA         \A                                   Masculine  -  Duroble  construction
T-           ATOE SG                        *HIE                                                             A E  A  Masculine -  Semi-duroble construction            f
AROLE                                                             MsclE   -Teporybuldn    Elîigble for reconstruction
a A                                                               A(  M.iscune-   ./Tmporybuilding A \,,cnd/or equipment
A.ib,BIESOU,.   \   *sONA             \«    7                               *A      MoscUlne -  Temporory  building
>*  A :ATeUe       *                   RAKOUNGAv                                                                                           Not eBigible
OSene0  +-<SEMAA         IMOUA "..*  f TARe      .      *   .-i6-Ess*ASEi.ED\N                                      Feminine
à    \  Ae           ' u    S           .              eoOGO   ''-         9                    POST-SCHOOL  COOPERATIVE  GROUPS  (GPS)
/OGUEYA \      SA     *.oriGlG                           ODO *A    X ANKOULA
GOA.u       oi *E                                            Existing  groups
OSSEOgA          CecisA                        RURAL  DEVELOPMENT TRAINING CENTER  (CPR)
Site to be determined
/   rERXoiK  EnNYOLO  |   EWOLOTNGA        Q>      j   j                                 REGONAL AND LOCAL  UNITS
A  01560 SOSSi     ZEenees 
Il' ; *zE s  -   EO;      --  -àÀ           (*)    Regionol development heodqudrte,s  (Siège de l'ORD)
cou )   E   KJ                                                         Administretive units  (Cercles)
O      Locel com-rnities  (Collectivités rurales)
Tleogu                                                     A   -         io K                                         -  -  -   ORD boundories
\   K SABD   TeeBO"    SALSSHe        GOGe                                               ......... ..  Admmnistratîve unit Dounduries
*8AVILA  A o       A<   *          \SABOUDO             NIÙA                                              Major roGds
A    BAGUIEMO             ^          OGHO                                   -                                       OL  _'''Railwoy
-12'                       BUDEO                                                                                                      I,ternationol  boundcries                                        12-
87KOA,lG/t P/OSMA APOUN ^s ODE,.' \ ..... .. " \ ~~~~~~~~Rivers
fluba *-Dv ,ooTeesO  sS SA                     ..     .... A            0                             .    l o  ue
SI,bo -D-u/so             LIA          |TT_AOE.    EILANYOU                                                       \         7
LAB              é       -                                                                          vçdvo
A DALO70 .                                                                   S     i    LO       s BT7  i
bororro   2               ,      ^ ~~     ~      ~     ~~~                                             ~~DIDO    >        
B. OUO                                  GADJ                                                               A
6         BREDIE\                            )                                  /     
/    o FARA                                2  /                                                                                         B
NEq                                        Pl                                1' (                         t
NISBOUR                 \                   AYE,,O                                            >-   'mPI!' elidDt; T5.l[: or a«Cepouncc b, ,th
) ADDUNA                      NADION A            V               EL-oGA                _::         
f                                                             3GEF-IANAvl ft                                                                                   <       [Gg
|(  B-.A304
,^  rO          =           =         =                 OUTOuLou   ^        |                     PRATA   ^    ~~~~~~ >           K                C              n LE
Otrovou           '      '                                                                                             ,               _           < |    <UGADUGU 
J2.  :{   9( HA,
j!    ,  `  -  -  G  H    A  N  A     -            .                     /         -      ir      4           L --C_\. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r  - r  mf 



