                                              DOCUMENT OF
                                              The World Bank

                                        FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                    Report No. 41179-KE




                                           PROJECT PAPER ON

                                   A PROPOSED RESTRUCTURING

                                                    OF THE

                     KENYA DEVELOPMENT LEARNING CENTRE PROJECT




                                               October 19,2007




Eastern Africa Country Department 2
Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                                   REPUBLIC OF KENYA

               DEVELOPMENT LEARNING CENTRE PROJECT (H065-ICE)

                                      PROJECTPAPER


Date: October.l9,2007                         Task Team Leader: Marc Lixi
country! Kenya                                Sector Manager: Onno Ruhl
Project Name: Development Learning            Country Director: Colin Bruce
                                              Environmental category: C

Borrower: Republic of Kenya
Responsible Agency: Ministry of State for Public Service




Does the restructured project require any exceptions to IDA policies?   oYes    F J N o
Have these been approved by IDA management?                              oYes   o No
Is approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?              o Yes  O No
Revised project development objective/outcomes. Yes.

Does the restructured project trigger any new safeguardpolicies? No.
                                      w


Introductory Statement

1.      This Project Paper seeks the approval of Bank management to amend the Kenya
Development Learning Centre Project (Grant No. H065-KE) as requested by government on
July 16, 2007.

2.      This is a first order restructuring proposal for a project that was prepared under the
Learning and Innovation Lending (LIL) instrument. The restructuring proposal is submitted
for the approval of the Vice President, Africa Region, in accordance to the Executive Board's
delegation of authority to Bank management for LIL approvals1.

3.      The proposed changes are as follows: (i) modify the Project Development Objective
(PDO) to better articulate the project's specific intention, scope and results. Thus, the revised
PDO will read as follows: "to improve the capacity of public servants, and private individuals
?nd institutions in specific public sector management areas targeted by the development
learning centre"; (ii) revise the results framework indicators to improve alignment with the
proposed PDO and attribution to Project activities; (iii) specify the project years eligible
under IDA'S decreasing financing for operating costs, Part B, category 4(b), as follows: 80%
up to June 30, 2008; 60% from July 1, 2008 to June 30, 2009; and 40% thereafter; and (iv)
extend the closing date of the project by 18 months from December 31, 2008 to June 30,
2010, in order to allow sufficient time to achieve the Project's objective. This package of
measures will help improve the implementation of the Project and help the government to
take advantage of emerging new programs that require considerable capacity development in
the public sector.

Background and Reasons for Restructuring

4.      Background. The Project was approved on October 17, 2003, and became effective
on February 4, 2004. The grant am&nt is SDR 2 million (US$ 2.7 million equivalent), of
which 50 percent had been disbursed as at end-July 2007. Project funding is channeled
through the Ministry of State for Public Service (MSPS, formerly known as the Directorate of
Personnel), Ofice of the President, responsible for establishing a Development Learning
Centre (DLC) in Kenya and facilitating the Project's Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
activities (Part A and C). Project funding is also channeled through the newly-created DLC
responsible for capacity building (Part B).

5.      Implementation constraints. After effectiveness, project implementation was slow
during the first two years.       The slow progress was largely due to delays related to
procurement of the specialized equipment of global as well as local connectivity equipment
and pedagogical tools. The procurement process was affected by several issues. First, the
Bank was reviewing an option that was offered to all African DLCs on contracting the same
satellite service provider and utilizing preferential rates used by the Bank. The government
preferred this option but it was not possible to proceed with the procurement until the review
was completed. Second, achieving consensus was slow regarding a few contentious terms
and conditions proposed by the supplier. Finally, it was important to further clarify the
Bank's advisory and technical assistance role in the procurement and installation processes.
The equipment, finally delivered to the centre in April 2007 and, thereafter, installed and
tested in June 2007, took approximately two years to completion. This, in turn, affected the


IBoard Paper: Adaptable Lending -New Instruments(R97-203), September 9, 1997.

start date of the centre's operation (Part B), and the implementation pace of the overall
project. To a lesser extent, project implementation was also affected by construction material
shortages, and planning and implementation delays by MSPS staff who are mainstreamed in
the ministry and involved in other government functions. For these reasons the project was
rated unsatisfactory following a supervision mission in January 2006 and upgraded to
satisfactory in September 2006 once the procurement issues were resolved, reflecting the
improved situation and actions.

6.      Mid-~ermReview findings. The Mid-Term Review (MTR) carried out in June 2007
confirmed significant improvements in project implementation, and the disbursement rate of
IDA funds. For example, because initial constraints had been resolved disbursements went
from 26 percent in January 2006 to 50 percent by end-July 2007. Moreover, by end-June
2007 the centre was now fully operational and ready for business. The government had fully
achieved the outputs for the preparatory component (Part A), i.e. allocation of land,
independent registration of the DLC, construction of the facility, equipment, furnishings and
staffing (director, technical specialist, finance officer, and administrative support). The MTR
agreed with the government that the overall project performance was satisfactory, despite the
delays mentioned above in paragraph 5.

7.      Adequate time a remaining issue. A major concern is that the DLC may not have
enough time to achieve all its objectives within the short time remaining before the original
closing of the project (December 30, 2008). The intention of the original design was to
provide all the requirements in the first year of the project (February 2004 - March 2005) so
that the centre could start its business operations from the second year of operations (by June
2005). The centre is now opening its doors for business in June 2007, two years behind the
planned opening (see also paragraph 10).

Proposed Changes                       P


8.      The proposed changes will modify slightly the PDO. The original PDO is "to test
the effectiveness and sustainability of a development learning centre in Kenya as part of a
global knowledge-sharing network to strengthen the capacity of public, private and civil
society decision makers and implementers to design, plan and manage social and economic
development policies and programs." The proposed changes to the PDO aim to clarify and
simplify the specific intention, beneficiaries and focus areas of the project. In addition, the
proposed changes support a better balance between the scope of the project and the
achievable results relative to its funding envelope (SDR 2 million). In this regard, the
proposed revised PDO is "to improve the capacity of public servants, and private individuals
and institutions in specific public sector management areas targeted by the development
learning center". Further reasons for the proposed adjustment to the PDO are as follows:

      Lessonsfrom experience. The "learning and innovation" aspect of the lending
       instrument has been validated by insights gained from Global Development Learning
      Network (GDLN) centers that were established ahead of Kenya, as was indicated by the
      Bank's Independent Evaluation Group in its review of Implementation Completion
      Reports on older DLC projects in Africa. Insight that will be brought to bear under the
      modified PDO shows that the viability of the center depends on its ability to focus
       sharply on building the capacity of public servants as its mainstay and identifying
       specific public management areas, often dictated by the government's priorities. By
      coming on stream five or six years after the earliest centers were launched, and in light

      of the client's request to modify the PDO to move beyond experimentation and engage
      the government in capacity building for specific groups in public sector, the Kenya
      DLC has the advantage and can make the innovation.

      New opportunitiesfor impact. The government's plans for considerable expansion of
      telecommunications infrastructure and provision of access to information technology,
      its focus on modernization of state, includingthe ongoing public sector performance
      improvement reforms, and introduction of e-Government will require considerable
      capacity-developmentin the public sector. Therefore, further opportunities exist for
      increased project development impact by adjustingthe project's PDO to highlight
      alignment of the PDO with the Government's new programs and targets to take
      advantage of emerging positive outcomes.

9.      The revised results framework indicators improve alignment with the proposed
YDO and attribution to Project activities. The proposed performance indicators on project
outcomes will measure the improvements in capacity as assessed by participants, the quality
of the range of services and facilities provided by the centre, its viability and how well M&E
is being used to continuously improve the quality of the DLC program. These key indicators
are as follows:

        At least 75% of participants are satisfied that their capacity in specific public sector
        management areas improved following the course (PDO outcome indicator).
        At least 75% of participants are satisfied with the quality of the range of services and
        facilities offered at the DLC (construction and installation of facilities component,
        Part A);
        The DLC achieves 100%cost recovery of its operating costs (DLC operations support
        component, Part B); and
        At least 80% of adjustments wsidered and/or incorporated in the program are based
        on the M&E feedback received on each of the Project's results indicators (M&E
        component, Part C).

10.     Extension of the closing date to allow sufficient time to achieve project objective.
The closing date will be extended by 18 months to June 30, 2010. The rationale for the
extension request is that:

         The original project design envisaged a five-year operation, with the DLC
         established by the end of the first year, the DLC's business opening in the second
         year of the project and its financial sustainabilityattained at the end of its fourth year
         of operation. The project is currently two years behind this schedule, with 18
         months remaining to the closing date, and the centre will not have enough time to
         establish its capacity building activities stronglyenough to achieve its objectives and
         become a viable operation;

         The decision of the African GDLN Centers in 2006 to select private connectivityand
         technology service providers (hence becoming independent of the World Bank
         communications infrastructure) would require the centre to adapt itselfto the new
         environment, hence requiring more time to achieve its development objectives;

         Regional developments, including the Association of African DLCs program to
         establish a cross-border network of DLCs in Africa would require the centre to have

            adequate time to establish itself as a major player in regional programs in partnership
            with other centers (e.g. in the East Africa Community activities);

            New country initiatives and IDA-supported project opportunities in Kenya (e.g. in
            governance and transparency initiatives, ICT, public sector management reforms,
            judiciary reform, parliamentary capacity building, education,health, social
            protection, HIVIAIDS, East Africa trade and integration, MSME, and other sectors)
            offergreat opportunities for cross-fertilizationand complementaritiesof capacity
           'development programs. However, some of these projects (e.g. the Regional
            Communications InfrastructureProject) and the DLC need more time to establish
            close operational partnerships for capacity building program development.

 11.      Alignment of project years with IDA financing eligibility. Schedule 1, Operating
Costs,under Part B of the Project, indicated a decreasing financing rate for the project years 1
'to 4, starting with 80% financing in the second year of the project. Since the DLC was not
operational as expected by this timeline, and an extension is now proposed, there is a need to
update and specify the financing as follows: 80% up to June 30,2008; 60% from July 1,2008
.to June 30, 2009; and 40% thereafter. No other adjustments related to funding are proposed
since the project had recently undergone a budget review exercise which culminated in a
formal budget reallocation.* The MTR found the budget reasonable for the remaining years
and activities, with annual reviews recommended to adjust for new or unexpected
requirements.

Analysis

 12.       Technical Analysis. The proposed changes will not affect the original economic
(demonstrationof an economically-viabletraining alternative to traveling abroad or recruiting
international trainers),              social, ssguards or technical (introduction of advanced
communications technology) aspects of the Project as appraised. The key activities of the
project remain aligned to the revised PDO, with further emphasis on blended learning3. The
time necessary for the Kenya DLC to reach financial sustainability is likely to be shorter than
originally planned (at the end of the third, instead of the fourth year) since the centre will
benefit from the experiences and programs of ten other centres in Africa. In particular,
Kenya will benefit from the programs delivered by Uganda, Tanzania Ghana and Ethiopia.
Further technical information is provided in paragraphs 16 and 17 below. The institutional
 arrangementsand key activities of the project will essentially remain the same.

 13.       Fiduciary Analysis.                  The MTR rated the Project's financial management
 performance as satisfactory. The project has complied with audit reporting requirements.
 Although the audit reports for the year ended June 30, 2006 were qualified, the reasons as
 confirmed by the Bank's Financial Management Specialist did not include significant
 accountability weaknesses.                 An action plan is in place to address the two weaknesses
 reported, i.e., the need to fully adopt International Financial Reporting Standards and to
 ensure timely accountability for special account drawings. New measures introduced during


  The budget reallocation, dated November 9, 2006, covered the increased specialized equipment costs and the enhanced
 technical specitications for telecommunications and power.
  Blended learning refers to an educational experience created cost-effectively using a mix of integrated distance learning
 technologies such as videoconferencing, e-learning, videos, and CD-ROM.Typically, the blend will also include traditional
 face-to-face meetings, classroom activities, print resources, and a variety of instructional strategies such as action learning,
 participatory learning, interactivity, case studies, etc.

the MTR to further strengthen financial management, particularly on risk management
aspects, are discussed below in paragraph 17.

Expected Outcomes

14.     The expected outcomes and intermediate results, including the arrangements for
monitoring results, are presented in Annex I.

Benefitsand Risks

15.     Implementation and strategic benefits. The proposed restructuring is expected to
make the DLC leadership more focused on its results and role. It will also allow the DLC to
become more strategic in supporting the public sector's program, particularly in the area of
service delivery. In addition, the restructuring promotes innovation and enhanced capacity
building impact through the blended learning approach, a marketing focus on institutional
clients and partnerships and the deliberate use of M&E to improve the quality of business
operations, the range of facilities and services offered and the capacity building program on a
continuous basis. Finally, the benefit of allowing the project more time to make up for the
historical implementation delays is significant since it substantially heightens the likelihood
of achieving project objectives.

16.     Mitigating performance risks. The main potential risk is that, even with the
restructuring, the DLC may take more time to achieve its objective. This risk is mitigated by
the fact that the centre is well prepared for business with a very dynamic and experienced
management team. The team was recruited from the private sector through a highly-
competitive and independently-managed process. In addition, the success of other African
DLCs, such as Senegal and Tanzania which have, post-IDA, continued to run capacity
building programs, suggest success i likely for Kenya since it has a similarly-conducive
country environment. For example, t           'r;e  number of potential business clients and partners in
Kenya is significant considering the country's active and reforming public sector, its dynamic
private sector, and its supportive development partners. Furthermore, the project is well
supported by a parent ministry that is closely associated with the government's ongoing
capacity building operations and reforms (the DLC Director already has access to the list of
training requested by all government ministries). In addition, the centre has prepared a
business plan (approved by the board) containing expenditure and revenue projections, a
marketing strategy, a training calendar, and the potential partners and participants. The
Director has also established contact with interested content providers, institutions and
participants4.

 17.    Further efforts and opportunitiesto enhance businessprospects. During the
MTR several ideas to further improve the centre's business prospects were offered. The
Director is currently updating the business strategy to reflect these ideas and lessons shared
by other African DLC Directors. The updated strategy, for example, will consider the need to
take advantage of low cost / high return marketing activities, manage the transition to no-
IDNGOK funds, exploit programming successes of other African DLCs, introduce specified
performance targets in DLC staff contracts, expand the board of governors to introduce

'These include, for example, programs on trade in services and international agreements, such as the Africa local
government action forum, the East African orthopedic surgeons, and community health, HIVIAIDS, M&E, change
management, and leadership development programs, among others, that would be sourced from international providers, the
Africa Medical and Research Foundation. the World Bank Instiutute and other associations.

competencies required to move the strategy forward, and factor in the connectivity
technology transition in business planning. The centre intends to focus on events with
 impact, including using its upcoming official launch to maximize its exposure in the media.
 In addition, it will develop a marketing approach that primarily targets institutional clients
and content developmentproviders as opposed to individual ones to maximize return on
 investment in marketing activities. The centre has also recognized opportunities for
 introducing new sourcesof revenue by offering value-added servicessuch as internet access
and related s~rvices,creating an internet cafe, and innovativelyusing open space areas for
 wireles; connectivity and maximum customer-orientated workspaces. Generally, the centre's
 high quality building offers the opportunity for an exciting, interactive and dynamic setting
 that would increasethe visibility of the DLC as a high-tech center for training, access to
 internet, peer-to- peer-exchanges, and on-line learningand knowledge transfer. The targeted
 beneficiaries include middle and senior level public sector professionals from the ministries
 of health and HIVIAIDS, trade,justice, police, education, civil service reform, e-government,
'and East Africa integration, among others.


 18.       Mitigating fiduciary risks. As the project enters the second phase of
 implementation, government has agreed to implementMTR recommendations intended to
 strengthen and streamlinethe new centre's risk mitigation and financial management. These
 include the following measures:

      (i)       completion of the establishmentof financial management systems, particularly the
                accounting and reporting arrangements, information systems and associated
                update of the operations manual;

      (ii)      review of arrangements for the flow of funds and accountability by the DLC to
                ensure streamlined,accountableand well managed systems;

      (iii)     capacity development fo&e new financialoficer in preparing interim unaudited
                financial statements that may form the basis of future disbursements;

      (iv)      establishment of an effective internal audit function (assignedto the project and
                reporting independentlyto the board)'; and

      (v)       arrangements for effective fiduciaryoversight by the DLCYsboard of governors
                which will establish audit and financial management sub-committees.

 19.       Mitigating risks in delayed processing and authorizations. Experience has shown
 that delays in planning, implementingand following-up on procurementsand payment
 processes are highly likely for the centre if it requires formal interventionsfrom MSPS staff
 who are all involved in other ministerial duties. To mitigate this, the agreed strategy going
 forward is to devolve as much as possible all the planning, disbursement and procurement
 procedures and processes to the DLC. This is now possible since many of the remaining
 activitiesrelate to the operations of the centre itself and to the project's M&E activities. The
 original expectation was that all the M&E activities would be implementedjointly with
 MSPS. However, going forward, all the routine6M&E activitieswill be initiated by the
 centre while MSPS retains the responsibility for the independent performance assessments.


  The internal audit hnction includes conducting fiduciary risk assessments on an ongoing basis, monitoring compliance
 with laid-down policies and procedures, and recommending enhancement of accounting and internal controls. It is expected
 that this hnction be carried out by the internal auditor at MSPS or a staff seconded by the government's Internal Auditor
 General.
  Majority of the M&E activities include market surveys, training needs assessments, client satisfaction surveys, audits,
 performance evaluations and strategic plans, among others.

                                                                                                                                 Annex 1

                                                        Revised Results Framework

                                               Kenya Development Learning Centre Project


     Project Development Objective (PDO)                                Results Indicators                                 Use of information

 To improve the capacity of public servants, and      - %age of participants who are satisfied that their           To assess the ratio of participants
 private individuals and institutions in specific       capacity in specific public sector management areas         who actually improved their
 public sector managemnt area targeted by the           improved following the course.                              capacity as a result of the DLC
 development learning centre.                                                                                       training they attended.

                                                     I                                                            I
          Intermediate Outcomes 0 0 )                          Intermediate Outcomes Indicators                            Use of information

 Component A: Construction and Installation
 The DLC provides a range of quality services         - %age of participants satisfied with the quality of the      To assess the quality of the
 and facilities.                                        rage of services and facilities offered at the DLC.         services and facilities offered by
                                                                                                                    the DLC as assessed by the
                                                                                                                    clients.

  Output 1.1. The DLC is installed, established       - # of days per year where the DLC basic services (VC,        To assess the reliability of the
  and operational.                                      MM) are operational.                                        DLC facilities and technical
                                                                                                                    services.
  Output 1.2. The DLC staff is recruited.

                                                     I                                                            I
 Component B: DLC Operations Support
 The Kenya DLC becomes a viable entity.               - Cost recovery of the DLC operating costs.                   To monitor the capacity of the
                                                                                                                    DLC to cover its operating costs
                                                                                                                    by generating revenues.

 Output 2.1. A responsive needs-based capacity        -
                                                    -   %age of training courses offered by DLC that                To assess the relevance of the
 building program is established.                       correspond to the identified needs of the market.           DLC curriculum against the
                                                                                                                    identified public and private
                                                                                                                    sector needs.

                                                              F

 Output 2.2: A business operation able to attract     - Utilization rates (based on the total capacity of the       To assess the level of utilization
 a viable number of paying clients is established.      infrastructure).                                            of the DLC facilities.


                                                     I                                                             I                                     I
- Component C: Monitoring and Evaluation
  A DLC that continuously improves the quality        - The %age of adjustments considered andlor                   To assess the extent to which
 of its program based on M&E information.               incorporated in the program based on the M&E                M&E is used to improve the
                                                        feedbackreceived on each of the results indicators.         quality of the DLC.

  Output. An effective M&E system that                - %of indicators (from output to PDO) measured and            To monitor implementation of
  provides information to monitor and guide the         for which the data collection mechanisms are in place.      the M&E system.
  Centre's capacity building program and
  business.

                                               Arrangements for Results Monitoringand Status of the Initial ~ndicators

 Result Indicators                     Baseline Target Values                 Data Collectionand Reporting                                         -     Project Status as at-July
                                                '08      '09      '10         Frequency and Reports        Data Collection lnstruments      Responsibil  I, 2007
                                                                                                                                            ity for Data
                                                                                                                                            Collectfon
 PDO Outcome Indicator
 REVISED INDICATOR
 % age of participants who are         0        50%      60%      70%         Reported every 6 months in   Survey conducted twice a year    DLC          Not yet measured;
 satisfied that their capacity in                                             the project progress reports on participants (3  - 6months                 operations started in July
 specific public sector management                                                                         after they attend course)                     2007
 areas improved following the course
 INTITIAL INDICATORS
 At least 40% ofparticipantsfrom YI    0        As per targets defined in the Annualprogress reports       Pre andpost survey reports       DLC
 and 70%fiom Y3 have improved                   indicator statement                                        from level 2 and 3 training
                                                                                  #
 capacity to design,plan and manage                                                                        evaluations (e.g. KirkPatrick 's
 social and economic development                                                                           methodology)
 policies andprograms asjudged by                                                                                                                        Not measured since the
 bothparticipants and their                                                                                                                              training business had not
 supervisors.                                                                                                                                            started at time of re-
 At least 40%from Y2,50%from Y2,       0        As per targets defined in the As above                     As above                         DLC          structuring.
 60%from Y3 and 70%of the                       indicatorstatement
 sampled participants have improved
 knowledge andlor skills or changed
 attitude as a result of the training
 Centre is selfsustaining by Y5 of     0        As per target defined in the  As above                     Revenue vs. operating cost       DLC
 operation.                                     indicator statement                                        analysis
 Intermediate OutcomeIndicators
 for each component
 Constructionand installation of
facilities, Part A component                                                                                                                                                       -
 REVISED INDlCATORS
 %age of participants satisfied with   0        45%     65%       75%         Compiled/analyzed            Questionnaire completed by       DLC          Not yet measured;
 the quality of the range of services                                         quarterly.                   participants for all events                   operations started in July
 and facilities offered at the DLC                                                                                                                       2007.
 # of days per year where the DLC      0        70       100      250         As above                     Daily sheets tracking the        DLC          As above
 basic services (VC, MM) are                                                                               dayslhours where services
operational.                                                                                               were not operational

Result Indicators                     Baseline Target Values                  Data Collectionand Reporting                                           Project Status as atJuly
                                               '08      '09     '10           Frequencyand Reports       Data Collection Instruments    Responsibil  1,2007
                                                                                                                                        ity for Data
                                                                                                                                        Collection
INTITIAL INDICATORS
A highlyeflectiveproject              None in  By project start               Quarterlyprogress reports                                 MSPS         Achieved
coordinatorsupported by an           place
eflcient accountant and
procurement oflcer inplace at the
ministry.
DLC 'sindependent registrationand    Non-      As above                       Quarterlyprogress reports                                 MSPS         Achieved
boardset-up completed                existent
                                     entiv
The centre's land allocated by host  No land   As above                       Quarterlyprogress reports                                 MSPS         Achieved
insfitulion.
Facility built and equipped within   No        within 12 months of            Qvrterlyprogress reports                                  MSPS         Achieved, ajier some
the time and standardF required      building/ effectiveness                                                                                         delay (construction
                                     faciliv                                                                                                         completed by March
                                                                                                                                                     2005, local equipment
                                                                                                                                                     andfurnishings by May
                                                                                                                                                     2006, special equipment
                                                                                                                                                     and connectiviv inJune
                                                                                                                                                     2007).
Highly qualified DLC staff recruited No staff  As soon as thefaciliv is built Quarterlyprogress reports                                 MSPS         Achieved (consultantstaff
                                               and equipped                                                                                          recruited inphasesfrom
                                                         -                                                                                           May 2006 to June 2007)
DLC operationssupport, Part B
component
REVISED INDICATORS
Cost recovery of its operating costs 0         20%      60%     100%          Compiled/analyzed (costs   Revenue vs operating costs     DLC          Not yet measured;
                                                                              vs revenue) each quarter   tracked regularly on a                      operations started in July
                                                                              and reported on every 6    monthly, quarterly,six-                     2007
                                                                              months in project progress monthly and annual basis, and
                                                                              reports.                   against business plan targets.
%age of training courses offered by  0         30%      50%     70%           Reported every 6 months in Identification of needs        DLC          Not yet measured;
DLC that correspond to the                                                    project progress reports   collected via surveys,                      operations started in July
identitied needs of the market                                                                           consultationsand marketing                  2007
                                                                                                         on a regular basis and




