Page  1
IDA GRANT NUMBER H065 KE 
 
Project Agreement 
(Development Learning Center Project) 
 
between  
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
DEVELOPMENT LEARNING CENTER 
 
Dated  November 10,  2003 
Page  2
IDA GRANT NUMBER H065 KE 
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated November 10, 2003, between the INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and the DEVELOPMENT 
LEARNING CENTER (DLC) 
 
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Grant Agreement of even date herewith 
between the Republic of Kenya (the Recipient) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the Recipient an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
two million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 2,000,000), on the terms and conditions set 
forth in the Development Grant Agreement, but only on condition that DLC agree to 
undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;  
 
(B) 
by a Subsidiary Grant Agreement to be entered into between the 
Recipient and DLC, part of the proceeds of the Grant provided for under the 
Development Grant Agreement will be made available to DLC on the terms and 
conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Grant Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS DLC, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Grant Agreement with the Recipient, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Development Grant Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 2.01. (a) DLC declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Grant Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out Part B of
 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, educational, engineering, environmental and 
Page  3
-
2
-
technical practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for Part B of the Project. 
 
(b)  
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and DLC shall otherwise agree, DLC shall carry out Part B 
of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in the Schedule to 
this Agreement. 
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and 
consultants’ services required for Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the 
Development Grant Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03.  DLC shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods 
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition) 
in respect of this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.04. DLC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Grant Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, DLC shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or 
waiving the Subsidiary Grant Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 2.05. (a) DLC shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of Part B of the Project, the performance 
of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement, and 
other matters relating to the purposes of the Project. 
 
(b) 
 DLC shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Grant, or the performance by DLC of its obligations under this 
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement. 
Section 2.06. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, DLC, in conjunction with the Recipient, shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months before  the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Association, a 
plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
DLC on said plan. 
Page  4
-
3
-
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of DLC 
Section 3.01. DLC shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and technical practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers. 
Section 3.02. DLC shall at all times operate and maintain its buildings, office 
space, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make 
all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound administrative, 
financial and technical practices. 
Section 3.03. DLC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) DLC shall establish and maintain a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, in accordance 
with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to 
reflect its operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to Part B of  the Project. 
 (b) 
 
DLC 
shall: 
 
(i)  
have its financial statements (balance sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section
 
for each Fiscal Year (or other 
period agreed to by the Association), commencing with the 
Fiscal Year in which the first withdrawal under the Project 
Preparation Advance was made, audited, in accordance with 
consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year (or such 
other period agreed to by the Association): (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year (or such other period agreed to by the 
Association) as so audited, and (B) 
an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Page  5
-
4
-
Association; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon DLC’s reporting obligations set out in 
Section III of the Schedule to this Agreement, DLC shall prepare and furnish to the 
Association a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for Part B of the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
showing separately funds provided under the Grant, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in implementation of Part B of the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and explains variances between the actual and planned 
implementation of Part B of the Project; and 
 (iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under Part B of the Project, 
as at the end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association 45 days after the end 
of the first calendar quarter after the first expenditure under Part B of the Project, and 
shall cover the period from such first expenditure to the end of such first calendar quarter; 
thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after  
each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Grant Agreement becomes effective. 
 
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
DLC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates: 
 
(i) 
the date on which the Development Grant Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms; or 
 
(ii)  
the date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement. 
Page  6
-
5
-
(b) 
If the Development Grant Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall 
promptly notify DLC of this event. 
 
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request.  Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail.  The addresses so specified are: 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477 6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
64145 (MCI) 
 
For the Development Learning Center: 
 
Development Learning Center 
 
c/o Directorate of Personnel Management 
 
P.O. Box 30050 00100 
 
Office of the President 
 
Harambee House 
 
Nairobi, Kenya 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  
 Facsimile: 
 
23125
210192
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of DLC or by DLC 
on behalf of the Recipient under the Development Grant Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by the Director of DLC, or by such other person or persons as DLC shall 
designate in writing, and DLC shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the 
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person. 
 
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Nairobi, Republic of Kenya, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
 
/s/  Makhtar Diop 
 
Country Director 
 
DEVELOPMENT LEARNING CENTER 
 
By 
 
/s/  S.P. Njau 
 
 
Chairman of the Board 
Page  8
-
7
-
SCHEDULE 
Implementation Program 
Section I
.
Implementation  Arrangements
1. 
(a) 
DLC shall: (i) prepare and furnish to the Association, a Project 
Implementation Plan for Part B of the Project, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association; (ii) carry out Part B of the Project in accordance with said PIP; and (iii) 
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, not amend, abrogate or waive any 
provision of said PIP which, in the opinion of the Association, may materially and 
adversely affect the implementation of Part B of the Project or the achievement of the 
objectives thereof. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provision of Paragraph 1 of this Section, the 
PIP shall include: (i) a Project implementation plan; (ii) a Project monitoring and 
evaluation plan; (iii) a Project procurement plan; (iv) a Project financial management 
manual; and (v) such other administrative, financial, technical and organizational 
arrangements as shall be required for Part B of the Project. 
2. 
(a) 
DLC shall prepare a Business Plan, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association, which shall set out in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request, market data, budget and sources of financing, training and other services to be 
provided under Part B of the Project, sources and programming of training, pricing policy 
for different types of training and financial projections in the form of a budget, operating 
account and marketing strategy. 
 
(b)  
DLC shall, no later than November 15 of each year, furnish the Business 
Plan for the following year to its Board  for approval and to the Association for review 
and comments. DLC shall update the Business Plan annually and promptly furnish each 
updated plan to its Board for approval and to the Association for review and comments. 
(c) 
DLC shall prepare and furnish to its Board, no later than 30 days after 
the end of each quarter, an activity report on its operations and progress made in carrying 
out the Business Plan during the quarter. Said quarterly report shall specify any problems 
encountered in the carrying out of Part B of the Project and include updated performance 
indicators on DLC’s operations. 
3. 
DLC shall enter into a Memorandum of Understanding with KIA, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, specifying mutual responsibilities and 
modalities of cooperation between DLC and KIA, including the terms and conditions 
related to the maintenance of DLC's facilities on the premises of KIA and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, not amend, abrogate or waive any provision of the said 
memorandum which, in the opinion of the Association, may materially and adversely 
affect the implementation of Part B of the Project or the achievement of the objectives 
thereof. 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
Section II
.
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
DLC shall establish, and thereafter maintain until the completion date of the 
Project, a Project Implementation Unit in form and with functions, staffing and resources 
satisfactory to the Association. 
2. 
Without limitation upon the provision of Paragraph 1 of this Section, DLC PIU 
shall consist of the following staff with terms of reference, qualifications and experience 
satisfactory to the Association: (a) a Director; (b) a training coordinator; (c) an 
accountant; (d) an administrative assistant; and (e) and information technology officer.  
Section III
.
Monitoring and Reporting Arrangements
1. 
DLC shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in the PIP and 
summarized in Schedule 6 to the Development Grant Agreement, the carrying out of the 
Part B of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof.  
2. 
Progress Reports and Reviews 
 
(a) 
DLC shall prepare, in conjunction with the Recipient, under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to the Association, annually 
beginning on or about the date twenty four (24) months after the Effective Date, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph 1 of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of Part B of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report, and a draft work program and 
related budget, including the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out 
of Part B of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the twelve 
months’ period following such date. 
 
(b) 
DLC shall review, jointly with the Recipient and the Association, the 
reports referred to in subparagraph (a) of this paragraph, on or about a date one month 
after the submission of the said reports and, thereafter, take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of Part B of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said reports and 
the views of the Association on the reports. 
3. Mid-term 
Review  
 
(a) 
DLC shall carry out, jointly with the Recipient and the Association, on or 
about the date thirty six (36) months after the Effective Date, a comprehensive mid-term 
review of the implementation of operations under the Project aimed at: (i) documenting 
progress toward Project objectives and sustainability of Project activities, notably the 
financing of recurrent maintenance costs; (ii) reviewing the performance of DLC under 
the Project; (iii) identifying and removing obstacles to Project implementation; and (iv) 
adjusting, in agreement with the Association, targets and corresponding programs to 
Page  10
-
9
-
reflect progress achieved in the implementation of the Project as of the date of the 
review. 
 
(b) 
in conjunction  with the Recipient, DLC shall, not later than one month  
prior to the review referred to in the preceding subparagraph, furnish to the Association 
a
mid-term report, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
implementation of Part B of the Project; and 
 
(c) 
Promptly following the mid-term review, DLC shall take any corrective 
action as shall be recommended by the Association to achieve the objectives of the 
Project.
 
