-MC 
-  -                                                      L                        r qi                                                                                                          [ECI
_   z   <'  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ r r~~~~C
_    ws    _    #e   ~~~~~~~~~~~~ I , _~~~'.
_ y > < _ ,< I eN: _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
i~~~ I _ _~~~~~~
_                                  'S                        I                                                                                                 >        t    r  -    '~~~
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ T                                                                                              .
..-';                                                                                                                                                                   .'      i    - 
Vt ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Vt  r-                                                                         I      
a~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~_Ic.  -
C- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~      ~       ~     ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     = '~  ..



CURRENCY FQUIVALENTS
(as of February 1991)
Current Unit = Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$i.00       - Rp 1,901
RI) I million = US$526
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
July 1 - June 30
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
APHE       =   Action Plan for Higher Education
BAPPENAS        National Development Planning Agency
CPIU       =   Central Project Implementation Unit
DGB             Directorate General of Budget
DGHE            Directorate General fo- Higher Education
DIP        =   Development Budget
ESC             Environmental Study Center
FKIP       =   University Faculty of Education
GOI             Government of Indonesia
COJ        =   Government of Japan
HEDP            Higher Education Development Project
HEPG       =   Higher Education Program Guidelines
.KIP       =   Teacher Training College
IFIU            Institutional Project Implementation Unit
IUC        =   Inter-university Center
KOPERTIS   =   Regional Coordinator for Private Higher Education
LPTK            IKIP or FKIP
MIS             Management Information System
MOEC            Ministry of Education and Culture
MT         =   Higher Education Project Implementation Monitoring Team
O&M             Operations and Maintenance
PCR             Project Completion Report
PIU             Project Implementation Unit
PPAR       =   Project Performance Audit Report
PPI             Accelerated Engineering Education Program
REPELITA   =   National Five-Year Development Plan
SIMES           Higher Education Monitoring and Evaluation System
SINAS      =   National Information System and Network
SOE        =   Statement of Expenditure
SO         =   Nondegree (Diploma level) Program
Sl              Undergraduate Degree Program
S2         =   Two-Year (Master's level) Postgraduate Program
S3              Three-Year (PhD level) Postgraduate Program
SPl        =   Specialist (Medical Doctor) Postgraduate Program
SUDP       =   Second University Development Project
TA         =   Technical Assistance
UGM        =   University of Gadjah Mada
UKKP       =   Library Activities Coordination Unit
UNAND      =   University of Andalas
UNLAM      =   University of Lambung Mangkurat



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       iii
I. HIGHER EDUCATION IN INDONESIA .1
A. Background .1
B.  Financing of Higher Education   . . . . . . . . . . . . .         2
C. Sectoral Issues.                                                   3
D.  The Government's Higher Education Deveiopment Strategy  .         7
II.  BANK INVOLVEMENT AND LESSONS LEARNED  . . . . . . . . . . . .         9
A. BacKground                         .9
B. Lessons of Experience .10
C. Bank Strategy .14
III. THE PROJECT .15
A. Project Objectives .15
B. Project Components .16
C.  The Higher Education Expenditure Program  . . . . . . . .        23
D.  Project Implementation and Management . . . . . . . . . .        24
E. Monitoring and Evaluation .25
IV.  PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT, AND DISBURSEMENTS  . .        28
A. Costs .28
B.  Financing   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  31
C. Procurement .33
D. Disbursements .36
E.  Accounts, Audits and Reports  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        37
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Indonesia in September/October 1990 comprising Man He You (senior economist,
task manager), and V.C. Demetriou (senior architect), Erik Thulstrup (science
specialist), Brigitte Duces (MIS and libraey specialist), Victoria Kwakwa,
(young professional), John Stewart (engineering/technical educator-
consultant), and Peter Burbridge (environxmetwtal specialist-consultant). Peer
reviewers included: W. Rees (ASTPH); S. Asher (AS2PH); C. Valdivieso (LA3HR);
and V. Selvaratnam (PHREE). Russell Cheetham, Director, AS5, and Clifford
Gilpin, Chief, AS5PH, have endorsed the report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii -
Page No.
V.  BENEFITS  AND  RISKS   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  38
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMIMENDATION  . . . . . . . . . . . .       40
LISTS OF TABLES IN MAIN REPORT
Table 2.1:  Higher Education Subsector - Completed and Ongoing Projects
and Project Completion and Performance Audit Reports         10
Table 3.1:  Higher Education Expenditure Program, April 1991-March 1994  24
Table 4.1:  Summary of Project Costs by Component . . . . . . . . .        28
Table 4.2:  Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditure . .        29
Table 4.3:  Financing Plan  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        32
Table 4.4:  Procurement Arrangements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        35
ANNEXES
1.  Public and Private Higher Education Statistics
Table 1: Public Higher Fducation
Table 2: Private Higher EduLation
2.  Bank Group-Financed Education and Training Projects
3.  Higher Education Program Guidelines
4.  Action Plan for Higher Education
5.  In-country and Overseas Staff Development Programs by Component
and Year
6.  List of Studies
7.  Environmental Study Centers
8.  Technical Assistance Program by Component and Year
9.  Project Processing and Overall Implementation Schedule
10.  Project Cost Estimates
Table 1:  Project Cost Summary
Table 2:  Summary Accounts Cost Summary
Table 3:  Project Components by Year
Table 4:  Summary Accounts by Year
Table 5:  Summary Accounts by Project Component
11. Disbursement Forecast
12.  Selected Documents and Data in Project Files
CHARTS
Chart 1: DGHE Organizational Structure
Chart 2:  Organizational Structure of Public Universities
Chart 3: Project Management Organizational Structure
Chart 4: Central Project Implementation Unit Organizational Structure
MAP
IBRD No. 20718R



- iii -
INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:         Republic of Indonesia
Amount:           US$150.0 million equivalent
Terms:            Repayable in 20 years, including a grace period of 5 years,
at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description:   The p -?osed project would encompass a second time-slice of
Indon. sia's higher education development program for the
final three years of REPELITA V (1991/92 through 1993/94).
The objective of the project is to provide further support
for the Government's higher education development program to
help: (a) improve quality and efficiency in education and
research; (b) strengthen selected fields of study reflecting
human resource needs; (c) improve sectoral planning and
institutional management in higher education and project
implementation capacity; (d) increase resource mobilization;
and (e) strengthen regional development. To improve quality
and efficiency at public universities, support would be given
to: (a) overseas and domestic postgraduate academic staff
development programs for university teachers; (b) university-
based research programs; (c) consolidation of Inter-
university Centers; and (d) university library development.
To help meet national and regional professional and technical
human resource needs, the proposed project would support:
(a) basic science education and science teacher training
programs; (b) regional science and technology centers to
strengthen basic science education in private universities;
(c) accelerated engineering education in selected fields;
(d) consolidation of polytechnics; (e) environmental
education, training, and research; and (f) construction of
facilities for agriculture, engineering, and pre-medical
programs at three universities. To improve sectoral planning
and institutional management, and project implementation
capacity, support would be given to: (a) a training program
in university management and finance; (b) expansion of the
management information and monitoring and evaluation systems
for the Directorate General of Higher Education and public
universities; (c) higher education planning and management
studies and evaluation; and (d) strengthening central project
implementation capacity. The project would finance civil
works, equipment, furniture, library books and journals,
instructional materials, staff development, technical
assistance, research and project management.



- iv -
Benefits;         The benefits of Bank assistance under the proposed project
would be widespread. These include improved educational
quality and efficiency, increased and more efficient research
activities, increased cost recovery through student fees and
university income from services, improved planning and
management, and improved project implementation. The
project's specific time-bound actions to support subsectoral
strategies would lead to the development of a more efficient
and financially self-sustaining higher education system. In
addition, the project would both help alleviate critical
human resource shortages in science and technology, and would
also support increased environmental awareness through
expansion and improvements in training and research in
environmental fields.
Risks:            Most components of the proposed project are continuations of
activities under the first Higher Education Development
Project, which have all performed well. There is no major
risk even among the new components: the Environmental Study
Centers; Inter-university Centers; and Polytechnics.



-v.
Estimated Costs:                                           Local   Foreign   Total
- US$ million -
Quality and efficiency                                  111.8      30.0    141.8
Selected fields of study reflecting human
resource needs                                         52.4      52.7    105.1
Planning, management, and implementation                  4.0       1.9       5.9
capacity
Total Base Costs                                168.2      84.6    252.8
Physical contingencies                                    6.6       7.0      13.6
Price contingencies                                      10.7       5.3      16.0
Total Costs                                    185.5/a   96.9    282.4/a
Financing Plan:
Government of Indonesia                                 122.8       0.0    122.8
IBRD                                                     59.8      90.2    150.0
Government of Japan                                       2.9       6.7       9.6
Total                                           185.5      96.9    282.4
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank ?Y                                        1992    1993    1994    1995
Annual                                         23.0    58.0    59.0    10.0
Cumulative                                     23.0    81.0   140.0   150.0
Rate of Return: Not applicable
Map: IBRD No. 20718R
/a Includes US$7.6 million equivalent in identifiable tay-s and duties.



I. HIGHER EDUCATION IN INDONESIA
A. Background
1.1       The Government of Indonesia (GOI) has made commendable progress
during the past decade in expanding access to education and improving the
skills of the labor force. Between 1970 and 1988, school enrollment at the
primary level more than doubled to over 28 million, representing virtually
universal access to grade one of primary school. During the same period
enrollment at the junior secondary level increased five times to 6.5 million,
with the enrollment ratio reaching 52% of the age cohort. At the senior
secondary level, enrollment grew more than six times to nearly 4 mil'lion
during this period, corresponding to an enrollment rate of 352. Approximately
43Z of junior and senior secondary students were female. Also, enrollments in
higher education experienced a substantial growth duting the 1980s.
1.2       The Directorate General for Higher Education (DGHE) in the Ministry
of Education and Culture (MOEC) (see Chart 1) is responsible for the higher
education system. There are now 45 public universities 1/ and four art
institutes with a total enrollment in 1989 of about 554,000 students in
nondegree (SO), undergraduate (Sl), and graduate programs, which include
master's (S2), PhD (S3), and medical doctor (SP1) programs (Annex 1, Table 1).
Enrollments in public higher education are now about four times as large as a
decade ago, but the growth has been low (less than 42) during the last three
years due to: (a) higher admission requirements; (b) declining enrollment in
the Open University; and (c) abolishment of some programs at teacher training
colleges (LPTKs). The number of full-time public university teachers
increased from 31,000 to 39,000 and the student teacher ratio decreased from
17 to 14 during this period. The number of private universities doubled in
the 1980s to 850, and enrollment increased from about 750,000 to about
1,010,000 in the last three years, equivalent to 671 of all students in higher
education (Annex 1, Table 2). Private universities are expected to meet most
of the increase in demand for higher education in the coming years. In 1989,
about 83,000 students were admitted to S1 programs in public universities and
about 185,000 students enrolled in Sl programs ir. private institutions. The
rapid increase in student places in higher education has outstripped the
available qualified candidates from the Outer Islands, due to the limited
capacity of their secondary schools. The GOI is presently addressing this
problem by improving the access to and quality of secondary education,
including the supply and training of secondary school teachers. The Bank is
1/   In this report the term "universities' is used generally to include IKIPs
(teacher training colleges) and institutes of technology. It also
includes polytechnics which are faculty-level units within universities
which offer diploma level study programs in engineering and commercial
subjects. Chart 2 presents a schematic diagram of the organizational
structure of Indonesian public universities.



-2-
assisting the GOI in implementing this program. The female participation in
higher education has improved much during the 19809. Of the students at
public universities, close to 4;.Z are now women. The female participation 4s
highest in the fieid of education (more than 502) and lowest in science and
engineering (less than 202). Among university teachers, a similar pattern is
found. Among the applicants for research grants from DGHE, 19Z were women,
while 202 of the grants were awarded to women.
1.3       Until 1990, public universities had little autonomy in their
planning and budgeting decisions. Many decisions of relevance on a local
level, such as changes in study programs or in organizational structure, were
made centrally in DGHE, and income from a range of activities could not
legally be kept in the universities. However, in July 1990, the Government
passed a decree granting autonomy to public universities in financial
management, academic programming, and institutional organization. Financial
autonomy will allow universities to retain income from student tuition and
fees, donations, research, services and consultancies, marketing of teaching
by-products, and gifts. It will also allow them to pursue more actively
alternative sources of income, thereby reducing their dependence on cer.tral
government funding. Academic autonomy will permit public universities to
design ard offer study programs based upon their individual perception of
national and local priorities. Institutional autonomy will enable them to
devise the organizational structures considered best suited to their
individual needs. An important change from present practice to be permitted
is the employment of full-time staff without civil service status. This
should allow universities to compete with industry for highly skilled
technicians, and to attract other staff with particularly needed skills.
B. Financing of Higher Education
1.4       The progress in enrollment at all levels was achieved despite a
lower percentage of the GDP (3.12) allocated to education than in other
countries at a similar stage of development (4-5Z) and despite severe cuts
during 1985-88 in the development budgets for all sectors, caused by lower oil
prices. This reduction delayed the implementation of ongoing projects and the
initiation of other planned investments. The budgetary situation has
improved, especially since 1989, and a continued increase in the education
budget is expected. Public higher education is financed from the development
budget (DIP), the routine budget, student fees, foreign aid (averaging 51.52
of the total during 1986/87 - 1989/90), and operations and maintenance (O&M)
funds introduced in 1988/89. The O&M budget allocation was about 152 of the
total funding, but it is uncertain how large this allocation will be in the
future. Between 1986 and 1989, government financing grew faster than the rate
of enrollment: combined development and routine budget allocations increased
by 13.42 over the period, while enrollment increased by 3.52. This change
reversed the pattern of the early 1980s when growth of government financing
lagged significantly behind enrollment growth.



-3-
1.5       Each university's initial proposals for its development and
recurrent budgets are evaluated by the DGHE. Budgets for recurrent
expenditures are allocated to each university based largily on standardized
unit costs per student, rather than differentiation by type or size of
university, or by region.  The laLk of reliable unit cost data makes planning
for expansion in priori- fields difficult at b^th central and local levels.
State allocation for public universities is sup, emented by student fees.
Fees are used to finance recurrent expenditures such as teaching equipment and
materials, research, community service, honoraria, student activities, and
general campus maintenance. The fees are an increasingly important source of
funding for 'iniversities. The average contribution per student in 1989/90 was
about Rp 123,000 (US$70) per year, or a total of Rp 68.1 billion (JS$38.5
million). This represents about 25! of the operational budget at public
universities, more than twice the contribution of ten years ago. Income from
student fees is expected to reach Rp 77 billion (US$41.7 million) in 1990/91.
Other sources of income are minor for most universities, except for foreign
aid, which has increased during the 1980s, due mainly to the start of large,
new projects and to improved implementation of existing projects. Although
autonomy has increaseu the incentives for public universities to earn
additional income, it is not yet clear whether the majority of public
universities will be able to fully and effectively exploit the potential new
sources of funds.
1.6       The average annual recurrent cost per university student is not
exactly known at either public or private universities. It is estimated to be
between US$290 and US$360, which is low compared with unit costs in many other
countries in a similar stage of development (typically around US$600). The
unit cost is four times the unit c.,sts in secondary education, compared with
eight times in other comparable countries. This does not indicate greater
efficiency in higher education in Indonesia. On the contrary, it indicates a
low level of educational quality. The main reason for the low cost is that
the academic staff, as are other civil serv- cs, are not paid well. The
average salary for public university teachers is lees than US$2,400 per year,
or around one-third of what is considered an acceptable income. This forces
them to take second jobs elsewhere, which reduces the quality of their
teaching and adversely affects the academic environment. Efforts are being
made by the Government to improve the situation by establishing a functional
career stream for civil service personnel and allowing more flexibility in
increasing compensation for key university staff under the financial autonomy
(para. 1.3).
C. Sectoral Issues
1.7       The major issues identified by the first Higher Education
Development Project (HEDP I) (Loan 2944-IND) which in spite of some progress,
still remain to be addressed in large part are: (a) low educational. quality
and efficiency; (b) shortages of professional and technical personnel; and
(c) weak planning and management capacity. The following sections highlight
the progress made and describe the remaining issues.



- 4
Educattional _Qua1Hty and Efficiency
l.fl      Even thtoughl there has been substantial improvement, the overall
quality of education in public and particularly private universities is still
unsatistactory. This is .'ue to: (a) inadequately prepared students,
k-;pecially those graduated from Outer Island secondary schools (para. 1.2);
(l) low qualifications of the teaching staff; (c) low salaries making second
jobs necessary fo. public university teachers (para. 1.6); (d) limited
recearch activities; (e) insufficient laboratory equipment, often i need of
repair; and (f) poorly equipped libraries, where students on the average
borrow only 1 or 2 books each semester. This has consequences for the
relevance of universit) ceaching. The subject matter taught is not "state of
the art' and important iubjects requiring laboratories and equipment are being
partly neglected. It also leads to low efficiency. since students, especially
the poorly prepared, do not find the support needed from their teachers and
the academic environment, nor do they have access to up-to-date laboratory or
library facilities. Students often spend 50! more th&n the theoretical time
required for graduation.
1.9       With support from HEDP I and other university development projects,
the percentage of teaching staff in public universities holding advanced
degrees increased from 18Z in 1987 to 25! in 1990. The percentage is even
lower in private universities. These numbers are unsatisfactory compared to
conditions in other countries in the region. For example, in Thailand more
than 802 have higher degrees.  The low standard of the teaching staff has
negative consequences both for the teaching of subject matter and for teaching
methods.  Teaching is still done by lecturing, and modern problem solving
approaches are not common. This may help explain the very limited library use
by students and faculty membezs. Laboratory work also suffers from a lack of
new initiatives in teaching methods.
1.10      Research work at universities forms a basis for quality S2 and S3
programs and for upgrading teaching staff. Research, however, tends to be
weak. Indonesian research literature is dominated by local journals having
little effect on research quality, and only about 1! of university teachers
publish in international journals regularly. HEDP I has provided a much
needed impetus to the development of research by financing the university
research grant programs of the Directorate of Research and Community Affairs
in the DGHE. It provides guidance and research grants to active researchers
at public and private universities. Support is given on a competitive basis
to researchers with documented research ability and strong proposals. During
the last three years, the number of proposals has more than doubled and peer
reviewers have detected a clear quality improvement. While all public
universities benefit from these grants to varying degrees, strong proposals
from private universities have been scarce.
1.11      With the assistance of the Second University Development Project
(SUDP) (Loan 2547-IND), 16 Inter-university Centers (IUCs) were established at
five universities to provide postgraduate education and research opportunities
in strategic disciplines to staff from universities, government agencies, and
the private sector. From the start, support for IUC research has been given
without regard to performance and quality of proposals; it is not surprising



that research productivity is low, income from contracts small, anid
publication of research results rare.
Shortages of Professional and Technical Personnel
1.12      A major problem is the continuing lack of adequate knowledge and
understanding of the graduate labor market. A limited study of the employment
of engineering graduates under HEDP I gave little information about the basic
picture. Forecasts indicate substantial graduate unemployment, but they are
based on rapidly changing patterns of education and occupation. The
educational level of the labor force is still very low. University graduates
accounted for C.3Z of the total labor force in 1980, and 1.7Z in 1988, still
far below the level required by a dynamic economy.
1.13      Unemployment for universitv graduates is an issue.  The annual labor
market survey data indicate open unemployment rates, increasing from about 5%
in 1982 to 12.6Z in 1988, while total unemployment fell from 3% to 2.8Z. From
discussions in universities and polytechnics and a review of the available
data, it appears that, in spite of the total unemployment, there is an
unsatisfied demand for ucience and technology graduates, including secondar;
school science teachers, and for graduates in the financial sector.
1.14      Today, mathematics and natural science graduates are employed by
industry in increasing numbers, often to work in the expanding field of
research and development. At the same time, these subjects provide a basis
for modern engineering and supply a large part of ELle engineering teaching
staff. However, the laboratory equipment and library holdings available do
not allow up-to-date teaching of science, especially at the postgraduate
level.
1.15      In spite of considerable unemployment among teachers, the shortage
of science and mathematics teachers was estimated to be around 3,500 in 1989.
The shortage was particularly acute in the Outer Islands. Science teachers
are produced at the LPTKs (about 3,000 per year) and, supported by HEDP I, at
selected science faculties in three-year diploma programs (about 1,200
graduates per year). The latter are required to serve for some years in the
Outer Islands, but these programs will be abolished when the science teacher
shor ige has been eliminated. A badly needed, substantial revision of the
scie;.ce education curriculum at the LPTKs has begun and the first year program
is presently being implemented at some of the stronger LPTKs.
1.16      Most recent investments in the public sector have gone into natural
sciences and engineering, while the large growth in private higher education
has concentrated on fields which dc not require laboratories, such as social
icience and education. Private universities are now being encouraged to
develop science and engineering programs to help meet professional and
technical personnel needs. An example of the Government's efforts to
strengthen science and engineering education in the private sector is the
support under HEDP I for the development of four growth centers (hereafter
called science and technology centers) located at Hedan, Semarang, Surabaya,
and Ujung Pandang, with well-equipped science laboratory and library
facilities (to be provided under the proposed project-HEDP II) for shared use



- 6 -
by students from nearby private universities. The physical facilities and
equipment funded by the Government will remain under government ownership.
1.17      The insurficient production of engineers (fewer than 5,000 per year)
is partly due to the difficulty many engineering students have in completing
their undergraduate programs in less than 6 years. The main reasons are the
high number of credits required for graduation (20-30X above requirements in
other countries) and the demands imposed by a senior year project. In
addition, many universities have difficulties competing with industry for
qualified teaching staff, including those who are able to supervise senior
year projects. The accelerated engineering education program (PPI), supported
by HEDP I, covers the fields most in demand by industry, i.e., chemical,
electrical, electronic, and mechanical engineering, at seven universities
which were provided with modern teaching equipment. The PPI accounts for over
40% of all engineering graduates. Under the program, the average number of
years required for a bachelor's degree has been reduced from 6.9 in 1985 to
6.2 in 1989. However, a further reduction is still a high priority, and the
institutions are encouraged to use the new academic autonomy to find
individual solutions to this problem.
1.18      The polytechnic system was developed under the Polytechnic Projects
(Credit 869-IND, during 1979-85, and Loan 2290-IND, during 1983-90) to produce
middle-level technicians through diploma programs in engineering and
commercial subjects. It has been difficult for the polytechnics to procure
all planned equipment under these projects, partly due to inflation. The
graduates are, however, in great demand in industry. Whereas enrollment in
the 16 polytechnics is expected to increase to about 20,000 in 1993/94, output
is projected at only 7,300 technicians annually, equivalent to half the
estimated demand. However, the limited number of qualified teaching and
administrative staff and the limited amount of equipmenL, often in need of
repair or service, make a quantitative expansion difficult, and quality
improv=ments in the present system are given highest priority.
1.19      With the rapid development of Indonesia, concerns have increased
about the impact on the environment. Some of the major problems are:
(a) water quality and water use in Java; (b) degradation of land resources,
including forestry, in both Java and the Outer Islands; and (c) air quality in
and around major population centers. In order to provide needed training and
research, a number of Environmental Study Centers (ESCs) were developed during
the 1970s and 1980s with UNDP/World Bank and bilateral donor assistance (for a
detailed description, see Annex 7). The ESCs provide undergraduate and
postgraduate courses in environmental science and management, as well as
workshops and seminars directed at raising the awareness of environmental
issues. Demand for trained personnel in the environmental field is strong
both in the public sector and in industry and is expected to grow in the
coming years.
1.20      Although extensive civil works have been carried out, for example,
under the Polytechnics Projects, SUDP, and HEDP I, and building space is
rarely a major problem, some work remains to be done in support for faculties
producing needed professional and technical staff.  In order to complete
projects started under SUDP, the Universities of Andalas and Gadja Mada need



upgrading of laboratories and additional teaching facilities for agriculture
(Andalas) and engineering (Gadjah Mada). Also, other local needs exist. In
order to alleviate a severe shortage of medical doctors in Kalimantan, a
premedical program has been started in 1990 at Lambung Mangkurat University.
Modest support for some buildings and equipment is needed to achieve
acceptable educational quality.
Planning and Management
1.21      This issue embraces:  (a) the need to strengthen and enhance
quantitative planning, which is often weak, partly because key information on
societal needs and unit costs are not available (para. 1.5); (b) the upgrading
and monitoring of quality including the development and efficient use of
quality indicators; and (c) the general need at all staff levels for improved
management and administrative skills. Although some policy actions have been
initiated, e.g., in professionalized management, enrollment control in public
universities, and the development of a Management Information System (MIS),
mainly under HEDP I, the needs for continued improvement of planning and
management are strong.
1.22      The present planning system for higher education still lacks
flexibility and the ability to adapt to changing circumstances. Determining
accurate enrollment and other planning targets for the remainder of the Fifth
National Five-year Development Plan (REPELITA V--1991/92 through 1993/94) is
crucial in order to facilitate appropriate resource allocations among
disciplines, among individual public universities, and between public and
private institutions. For this purpose, the insufficient knowledge of human
resource needs and unit costs by discipline and region must be improved.
Monitoring and evaluation of qualitative targets in higher education should
take place both centrally and locally. Adequate MIS must exist at each
university in order to evaluate performance and to make rational plans and
requests for resources. Public universities need to develop their
administrative and managerial capabilities to take advantage of the new
autonomy. Introduction of a student loan scheme has been attempted without
success, and this limits the possibilities for large increases in income
through student fees. In order to maximize cost-recovery from other sources,
it is necessary to develop new expertise in this field at all public
universities.
D. The Government's Higher Education Development Strategy
1.23      The objectives of the GOI in its higher education development
strategy are contained in the Higher Education Program Guidelines (HEPG).
They deal with the following Issues: (a) quality and efficiency; (b) human
resource needs; (c) planning and management; (d) mobilization of resources;
and (e) regional development. The Program Guidelines have provided a basic
framework for the ongoing HEDP I, as well as the proposed project. The GOI
has dem.onstrated its interest in these issues through frank sectoral dialogue
and through its willingness to implement some difficult policies. Among the
significant policy changes recently taken by the GOI are: doubling of student
fees for incoming university students, implementing a semester credit system,
eliminating unproductive study programs and courses, awarding overseas



- 8 -
fellowships for university teachers, developing domestic postgraduate
education, creating IUCs, developing a mandatory upgrading sem,'n- for
university teachers, introducing functional pay allowances to university
administrators, upgrading the status of university library directors,
providing training programs for university administrators, encouraging
development of private higher education, and establishing a Higher Education
P'oject Implementation Monitoring Team (MT) to expedite the implementation of
all foreign-assisted projects in the subsector. The GOI will still need to
make further changes in the regulatory environment for the sector, in addition
to the new autonomy it accorded public universities in July 1990. For
instance, quality evaluation of major areas in higher education should be
performed at regular intervals, research should be evaluated and supported
stlectively on the basis of quality &ad relevance, and the accreditation
process for both public and private universities should be strengthened.



- 9 -
II. BANK INVOLVEMENT ANI) LESSONS LEARNE'D
A. Background
2.1       Since the Bank uroup's first project with the MOEC in 1970, fifteen
projects for a total of about US$958 million have been approved to dr e in the
education sector. Nine projects have been completed. In addition to the
projects with MOEC, the Bank has supported training in specialist and
professional fields through ten free-standing projects for a total of about
US$700 million in several other Ministries (see Annex 2 for list of the Bank
Group-financed education and training projects). Over this period, Bank
strategy evolved from an initial emphasis on assistance to support training
programs designed to alleviate the critical shortage of technical personnel to
an increasing emphasis on quality issues, and then to a wider sectoral
emphasis on investment programs and policy reforms. The Education Sector
Survey 2/ contributed a framework to formulate a coherent lending strategy
for the Bank and to initiate an effective policy dialogue with the Government.
Subsequent subsector reports have helped the Bank move to sector lending and
deepen the relevant policy dialogues. Although the evolution of education
lending to Indonesia has to a large extent mirrored the evolution of Bank-wide
policies, it has also on several occasions been at the cutting-edge,
including, for example, the first free-standing textbook and nonformal
education projects assisted by the Bank.
2.2       In the 1970s and early 1980s, when the GOI was undertaking an
ambitious program of expanding enrollments in primary and secondary education,
Bank strategy was to direct much of its assistance to meeting many of the most
critical midd.e and higher-level skills needed by the economy--this effort
included a series of projects designed to build the capacity to produce
teachers, agricultural technicians and non-governmental technicians in a range
of engineering and commercials fields (in a new system of polytechnics). The
rationale for this focus was that Bank resources could be used most
effectively at higher levels of the education system, while the construction
of primary and secondary schools was financed largely from domestic resources.
2.3       In the 1980s, Bank attention shifted increasingly to sector and sub-
sector management issues and to quality improvement. This shift was
particularly marked in higher education, beginning with the First University
Development Project (Loan 1904-IND).  Initially the emphasis was still mainly
on improving selected institutions but by the mid-1980s the strategy again
shifted to an emphasis on broader sub-sectoral policies, culminating in the
HEDP I (FY88). The main reasons for the change in approach were the need to
address: (a) overall resource mobilization issues, particularly the inadequate
funding for O&M, resulting from the oil shock of the mid-1980s; (b) serious
implementation problems through an increased focus on sector management and
implementation monitoring; and (c) sector-wide institutional and quality
2/   Indonesia:  Education Sector Survey, Report No. 4439, t975.



- 10 -
issues identified by Bank sector work. Table 2.1 shows completed and ongoing
higher education projects funded by the Bank Group since 1977.
Table 2.1: HIR6M EDCATION 58USECTOR - COMPtET  AND ONOINO PROJECTS
AN PROJECT CWLETrION AO PRFOCE AWrT REPORTS
Original   PPAR     .    CR
Cred it/Loon  Ot                             Lon   Report        Report
Raf    No. Iecti.     C             Project      (USS *)  No.    ODat  No.    DOat
I   Loan 1433  Juyl-77  Jun-84    Fi r-t Teacher Troining  19.0  6315  Jun-88  Mar-85
2   Credi. 0819 a My 79  Jun-66    Firt. Polytechnic Devaelopmnt  49.0  7847  Jun-89  Oct-87
3   Loan 1904  Jan-81  sep-8s  First LUniversity Development  48.0  9247  Dec-90  6421  Mar-90
4   tLon 2101  May-82  Jun-90    Second Teacher Trining  80.0 Le
5   Loan 2290  Sap-83  * D*c-90    Second Polytechnic Development  107.4  a ongoing
6   Loan 2647  Nov-86  * Dec-91    Second Univeraity Development  147.0  * ongoing
7   Loan 2599  SeP-86  * Dec-92    Science and Technology Training  93.0  * ongoing
8   Loan 2940  Jul-88  * Jun-94    Accountancy Davelopent  113.0  * ongoing
9   Loan 2944  Jul-85  * Dec-91    Higher Education Dev*lopment  140.0  * ongoing
10  Loan 3134  Feb-90  * Mar-96    Profeeion Huen R eourc. Dow  117.6  v ongoing
Ia                 1  21L2
Lit Under preparation.
* Indicates ongoing projects.
B. Lessons of Experience
2.4      One of the features of projects in the education sector as reflected
in Project Completion Reports (PCRs), Project Performance Audit Reports
(PPARs) and an Impact Evaluation Report is that many of the lessons of
experience have been incorporated into succeeding project designs. Much of it
has been project specific, for example, institutional issues such as to: (a)
avoid creating separate Project Implementation Units (PIUs); (b) ensure the
early appointment and continuity of key staff to PIUs; (c) ensure adequate
coordination/communication among implementing agencies; and (d) provide pre-
departure language training for overseas fellows. Projects have also been
structured to take into account past experience. For example, whereas the
first textbook and nonformal education projects had focused on quantitative
expansion, the focus of the follow-up projects was on qualitative
improvements.
2.5      The following discussion deals with some of the broader themes that
have emerged as lessons of experience from both completed and ongoing
projects. In many instances, the latter are more relevant, given the
substantial changes in project focus and design that have occurred over the
past two decades.
2.6      Policy Dialogue.  The Bank began to enhance its policy dialogue in
the mid-1970s witb vhe first education sector survey. In the 19809 more in-
depth sector work    secondary education 31 and higher education 4/ helped
shift Bank strateb, .owards a sector approach as the studies provided the
underpinning for policy dialogue and reforms. This has now led to coherent
subsectoral policy development in these two subsectors. The major issues--
necessary improvements in quality, efficiency, equity and financing--are
3/ General Secondary Education in Indonesia: Issues and Programs of
Action, Report No. 4954-IND, 1984
4I Final Status Report on the Hi3her Education Sector, 1986.



- 11 -
clearly outlined in guidelines, implemented through agreed Action Programs
and, in the higher education subsector, supported by the Bank through a time-
slice of the expenditure program. As this approach has proved successful in
terms of policy formulation and implementation, it is expected that it will be
continued in future operations. With regard to the primary subsector, the
policy dialogue began after discussions on the Basic Education Study.5/ A
project is now under preparation which would assist in formulating
comprehensive subsectoral policies 'or primary education.
2.7       Experience in the sector has also indicated that policy improvements
are necessarily difficult to implement and require a long time-frame. The
most successful reforms have been in the higher education sector, but this has
taken over a decade to achieve and is far from complete. The experience also
indicates that Bank operations should be phased and realistic in the design of
policy reforms.
2.8       Private Sector.  The Bank's involvement in the past two decades has
been overwhelmingly with the public sector despite the massive expansion of
private sector education. As quality improvements are the GOI's overriding
policy concern, public support for private schooling is, and will become,
increasingly important in the future, particularly as much of the future
expansion in enrollments is to be absorbed by the private sector.
2.9 The Bank has now recognized the importance of influencing and directing
GOI policies towards private institutions. Key policies, inter alia, are for
public assistance based on criteria related to need and quality, and an
effective system of accreditation. The HEDP I was the first Bank project to
provide direct assistance to private higher education institutions with
incentives (domestic and overseas training for academic staff and
instructional and communal facilities) to raise the quality of their
education.
2.10      Quality impact.  The quantitative or physical targets of nearly all
the projects have been attained and in most cases exceeded. However, the
theme emphasized in many PCRs and PPARs is that a systematic assessment of a
project's impact on educational quality has not been done in most projects.
2.11      Building on this experience, more recent projects have made a better
effort to make a systematic assessment of the project's impact on educational
quality.  HEDP I established a monitoring and evaluation system with a set of
indicators to evaluate university performance on a regular basis. The
proposed project also includes the same feature.
2.12      Institutional Development.  MOEC is the largest Ministry in the GOI
in terms of staff, budget, and administrative infrastructure. Management of
education programs in the context of such a large ministry is intrinsically
complex. Fragmentation of planning activities ir, MOEC has also made it
difficult to ensure coherence, consistency and coordination among individual
programs. Thus, institutional development has only been partially successful,
5/  Indonesia:  Basic Education Study, Report No. 7841-IND, 1989.



_1Z -
despite the a t empts in most pLojects to strongthenI )- i:,
administration of educational programs.  This has beri, CC                     and
PikRs.  Based on this experience, the Bank has adoptu'. .'A   *i          w,ent
projects, a coordinated approach to institutional d(vVi:)p,(iit i.>    -,   n Png
integrated management training programs and systems devvlopmie!.          -  PiFg
alternative approaches to improved monitoring and evaluattion. tlI i
individual projects will continue strengthening respective pLu)le( - i, 'otoent
units and Directorates General this will be achieved wtlliio  tic 1,    Xl of
the assistance being developed for MOEC as a whole.  Tihe cstabIlsk,1'A1 .j n
Central Project Implementation Unit (CPIU) in the DGIIE whlichi will aJi ( be
responsible to implement the proposed project is a good example oi th1i  1I'W
approach.
2.13      The more intractable institutional issue leading to poi itul(. Jiy is
the problem of low teachers' salaries and the lack of inceoitil"es, X'hh1A lhIS
led to "multi-jobbing", and also the lack of professional (levelopoIrent  tI)
teachers. This has not been resolved in the last two decades. Ad hoc
attempts to provide incentives have been tried under individual projects but
have not proven sustainable.  Recent initiatives to improve the quality of the
teaching force includes the establishment of functional positionIs, but
experience suggests there will be a continuing need to deal with this problem
in future projects.
2.14      Training.  Staff development through pre-service and io servi(e
training programs and fellowship programs has been a central element in many
projects in the education sector. However, PPARs, particularly on the initial
projects, have pointed out that progress or development in staft trdining
beyond the disbursement of funds and the number of staff months of funding
used has been poor. Subsequent career patterns and the impact of trained
personnel on departments and faculties have also not been included as part of
the project design. In overseas fellowships, particularly in the earlier
projects, the Bank had given inadequate attention to the selection,
administration, and eventual functions of returnees. The evidence available
indicates that problems of re-entry and dispersion of those trained under the
project are common. The effectiveness of postgraduate training has probably
been the greatest for university lecturers and least for short-term courses in
administration. Remedial measures for most of the above have now been
incorporated in more recent projects, particularly in the first Science and
Technology Training Project (Loan 2599-IND). But no project in MOEC has so
far provided for post-project evaluation of its fellowship progr-am except for
a limited evaluation under the Second Teacher Training Project (Loan 2101-
IND).
2.15      Technical Assistance (TA) and Studies.  These two areas have not
been systematically analyzed in all PCRs and PPARs. TA has not only been used
for equipment procurement, civil works and specialist services, but also for
administering the fellowship programs. The experience with TA seems to be
positive in most projects, with the exception of the university development
projects. In these, the administration of the fellowship programs was
contracted to a consortium of universities; the result was limited placement
at high management costs. Given the lesson of experience, and tne increasing
capabilities within GOI, the administration of the fellowship program has now
been institutionalized, with MOEC and the Overseas Training Office of the



- 13 -
t'stional Development Planning Agency (BAPPENAS) jointly selecting and placing
university academic staff in overseas universities. The experience with
studies, largely from ongoing projects, has been disappointing. Studies,
particularly those done by local consultants, have lacked sufficient analysis
to be of value. Insufficient attention has been paid to the adequacy of the
terms of reference, selection of consultants, and supervision and follow-up of
work done. Recommendations to address these issues have been included in a
recently completed Bank staff study on TA in Indonesia.
2.16      DecentraLization.  One of the more positive achievements in the
sector is that, although never explicitly stated as an objective, projects in
both the nonformal and higher education subsectors have contributed to the
decentralization of activities. In nonformal education, the PPAR for the
first project comments favorably that annual programming and budgeting,
training and implementation have already been decentralized to the provincial
and district levels thereby bringing program design closer to the learning
locale. In higher education, university management has been decentralized
with resultant financial autonomy (para. 1.3).
2.17      Support for decentralization of activities in the primary and
secondary subsectors is the logical sequence, as MOEC is overcentralized. The
process has already begun in secondary education and will be included under a
proposed project for the primary subsector.
2.18      The lessoILS of experience from the nonformal education project, with
the greatest experience with decentralized programs, is that these programs
which are complex, with dispersed activities and a heavy bias on software
components demand more intensive field supervision during implementation and
operation and possibly with inputs and assistance different from the regular
supervision being carried out by the Bank.
2.19      Financing and Equity.  Education at all levels suffers from
inadequate recurrent funds. Budget cuts have affected the implementation of
ongoing projects and caused problems with the sustainability of completed
projects. Both the Bank and GOI now see the main solution as the need for
reduced reliance on central budgets and increased cost recovery. Studies are
being incorporated in projects to find better instruments for targeting public
subsidies to schools in the poorest areas, and the provision of scholarships
and loans for needy students.
Sustainability and Replicability
2.20      On the basis of the sustainability indicators developed by the
Bank's Operations Evaluation Department (inputs, outputs, efficiency, quality
and spinoff effects), it was concluded that the evaluation of sustainability
in education projects is more difficult than in other sectors, where easily
identifiable outcome measures are possible. Following the evaluation of the
First and Second Education Projects 6/ based on these indicators, the
6/ Impact Evaluation Report: Indonesia, Sustainability of the First and
Second Education Projects - Report No. 7767, 1989.



- 14 -
Operations Evaluation Department concluded that the projects have demonstrated
a moderate level of sustainability.
2.21      Experiences on replicability or whether improvements in a specific
project can be used to benefit other projects or the rest of the subsector has
been varied. Innovations like the centralized workshops, and the cascade
method of teaching have been :eplicable and used in other projects and other
sectors. The IUCs as faculty/departmental resource centers have been designed
as affordable models for replication, but the experience needs to be carefully
reviewed. The Learning Resource Centers under the first teacher training
project were underutilized and not continued in the next project. The above
study shows the importance of clearly identifying indicators of sustainability
in the proj'ct design and the need to improve both Government and Bank efforts
to monitor project performance against the appropriate indicators. The
proposed project includes measures for such performance monitoring.
C. Bank Strategy
2.22      Assistance for human resource development continues to be a major
element of Bank strategy in Indonesia, both as a means to alleviate poverty
and as a prerequisite for sustained economic growth. However, as Indonesia's
educational system moves close to meeting reasonable levels of access and
coverage, the focus of Bank assistance has shifted to sustaining and
consolidating those gains while supporting efforts to improve quality. Bank
support would also be continued to fill skill gaps identified as critical for
economic growth. In particular, Bank strategy will emphasize: (a) more
equitable access to the benefits of basic education and out-of-school learning
opportunities for disadvantaged groups; (b) improvement in the quality of the
learning process through a redirection of financial resources to O&M and
through an improvement in the quality of inputs (teachers, learning materials,
etc.); (c) the consolidation and sustainability of institutional changes, many
of which are recent and still fragile; (d) an improved regulatory envi onment
and incentives in support of the private sector, especially in the provision
of higher education and vocational training; and (e) better management and
coordination of education and training programs.
2.23      At the higher education level, Bank strategy emphasizes many of the
objectives listed above within the subsector framework. The Bank supports the
Government policy of encouraging the private sector to meet most of the
growing demands for higher education opportunities. Within the system of
public institutions, Bank strategy is to support improved subsector
management, increased mobilization of resources for O&M and improved quality
of undergraduate and graduate teaching and research. Support for expansion in
the public systtmii would be limited to the development of postgraduate programs
(which will gradually reduce Indonesia's dependence on overseas fellowships)
and undergraduate programs in higher-cost areas where there are clear
shortages (mainly in science and engineering) and where the capacity of
private institutions to fill the gap is particularly limited.



III. THE PROJECT
A. Prolect Objectives
3.1       In support of the policy objectives which underlie HEDP I approved
by the Executive Directors in May 1988, the proposed project would finance a
second time-slice of Indonesia's higher educatioII expenditure program covering
the final three years of REPELITA V. These policy objectives, which are
contained in the GOI's updated Higher Education Program Guidelines and are
detailed in Annex 3, aim at:
(a) improving quality and efficiency, by upgrading university staff
qualifications, increasing the provision of appropriate equipment,
books and instructional materials and physical facilities, and
supporting research;
(b) alleviating human resource shortages, by expanding science and
engineering courses in public and private universities to meet both
professional and technical personnel needs for industrial
development in Indonesia, and the need for secondary school basic
science and mathematics teachers;
(c) improving planning and management, by making enrollment growth
targets and the number of study programs more contingent on resource
availability and job opportunities, improving the MIS as a tool for
managcrTient decision-making, conducting policy and evaluation
studies, and strengthening program implementation capacity through
monitoring and performance evaluation, and funding support;
(d) increasing mobilization of resources, by encouraging cost recovery
in public universities under the new autonomy, and reinforcing the
role of private universities by providing them with incentives and
guidance to raise the quality of education, with more emphasis on
science and technology courses; and
(e) strengthening regional development, by supporting the young
universities, especially in the Eastern Islands, with emphasis on
science and technology, marine science and dryland farming.
3.2       Action Plan for Higher Education (APHE).  An Action Plan for Higher
Education (APHE), contained in Annex 4, has been prepared '.o ensure
implementation of the activities by specified target d".es as they relate to
the policy objectives of the HEPG. These actions tl, be taken under the
proposed project would specifically: (a) expand enrollments and numbers of
study programs in public universities taking into account the availability of
financial and human resources, qualified secondary school leavers, and job
opportunities; (b) encourage public universities to seek additional sources of
income under the autonomy decree, and prepare all the necessary operational
procedures and guidelines for implemer.tation of the autonomy; (c) prepare a
plan and a timetable for the removal of polytechnics from the administrative
control of universities; (d) undertake a thorough evaluation of primary and



16 -
seconlary s(hool teac)uor education programs in both the universities and the
IKIPs witth a view to eliminating inefficiencies and improving the training of
future primary and secondary school teachers; and (e) evaluate the performance
of the IUCs. At negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that the proposed project will be implemented in accordance with the HEPG
(para. 3.1) and the APHE as confirmed during negotiations (para. 6.2(a)).
B. Project Components
3.3        In support of the above-mentioned objectives the proposed project
would contain the following components:
(a)  Improvement of Quality and Efficiency through:  (i) university staff
development; (ii) expansion and improvement of research programs in
universities; (iii) support for the IUCs; and (iv) strengthening of
the university library system;
(b) Improvement of Fields of Study Reflecting Human Resource Needs
through: (i) strengthening basic science education and science
teacher training; (ii) improving science and technology facilities
in four science and technology centers to be used by private
universities; (iii) support for the PPI program; (iv) strengthening
of polytechnics; (v) strengthening of ESCs; and (vi) construction of
physical facilities for agriculture and engineering faculties at two
universities and for a pre-medical program at a third univei ity;
and
(c) Improvement of Planning, Management, and Project Implementation
Capacity through: (i) management development for selected DGHE and
university staff; (ii) expansion and enhancement of the monitoring
and information systems; (iii) higher education planning and
management studies; and (iv) strengthening of the CPIU.
Improvement of Quality and Efficiency
3.4       Academic Staff Development (US$111.3 million).7/  To reach the
government's target of having 35Z of public university staff with a higher
degree will require a large program of postgraduate training for present and
future faculty members. The need for upgrading of private university staff is
also great. The proposed project would finance an overseas and in-country
staff development program (see Annex 5 for details). The overseas program for
the development of university staff would consist of 135 fellowships of 2
years each for master's degrees and 28 fellowships of 3 years each for
doctoral degrees. Of these, at least 10 to 20 are expected to be given to
private university staff, depending on the qualifications of the applicants.
Priority for both public and private university staff would be given to study
programs in basic science, science education, and engineering for which a
7/   This and subsequent statements represent total costs including
contingencies.



17 -
numbeit ,I    l.,1i1, vwould l)e earmarked.  The in-country piogramn would
conlsi,t oi   pipp itlox ttm1y 1,200  master's degree programs, including the
conple:ti, u   I;alomt 2,600 plograms initiated under HEDP I, and about 830
doct otal po)t.; , iln(ludirig the completion of 380 doctoral programs initiated
undel  M-,, 1.
3.5       ij,i .t&g    t tc iiitig programs of short duration (typically 3 to 6
month h)    ld Ite el,I e ftive in rapidly introducing new knowledge and methods
into t owl,h; rg   Ovtt eias nton-degree programs would comprise 21 staff-years for
the dvvteluuptiufi of sa lence and technology education in universities and 30
staff yeai:  tot tu;o,( science in the LPTKs.  The in-country non-degree program
would ino lode e) s'alff-years of training for university basic science staff
and 180 qt aftf ye al ; of training for the science education staffs of the LPTKs.
3.6       T1lP 'or odures for the selection and placement of fellows in HEDP I
would al;o be u';t-d in the proposed project.  Six months of training, including
language, wott,d ie provided to candidates prior to departure for overseas
studies. By thie end of the training program, candidates must take a test in
order to receive a scholarship. Under HEDP I, around 65Z of the applicants
have passed the test. In order to improve the selection of degree programs
and the placement of postgraduate students, studies would be carried out on
the performance and working conditions of both overseas and in-country
graduate students and on their situation at the home university after their
return (see Annex 6 for a description of the studies). At negotiations,
understandings were reached on the implementation plan for all the above staff
developmnent programs, and on the candidate lists for the first year of the
project (para. 6.1(a)).
3.7       Su port for University-Based Research (US$27.2 million)  The
proposed conmponent would strengthen research activities. In addition to the
grants, which contain small honoraria to help relieve researchers from second
jobs, the project would finance the costs of: (a) proposal evaluation and
selection; (b) monitoring of research progress; (c) national seminars to
review and disseminate research findings; (d) review and publication of
scientific articles resulting from research projects; and (e) workshops and
other training to improve the quality of research in selected (including some
private) universities. The number of research proposals submitted to the
Directorate is expected to increase from 4,450 during HEDP I to about 6,000
during the proposed project period. The project would provide direct support
to about 2,000 of these, at an average cost of US$5,000 equivalent each. In
connection with the dissemination activities, support would be given to the
development of local journals into national research journals for specific
subjects. Special funds have been earmarked for research in the basic
sciences and for the strategic engineering and social science areas covered b~
IUCs. These funds would be administered by the Research Director, using the
same procedures as for other research grants. This means also that research
support for the IUCs would be given in open competition among all researchers.
This would provide new incentives for active research with a likely increase
in productivity. The competitive procedures would be extended to cover the
use of remaining IUC research funds under the SUDP (para. 1.11).



- 18 -
3.8       Suypjort for Inter-University Centers (US$5.3 million).  The proposed
project would p rovide modest assistan(:e to the IUCs after the SUDP closes
(De:ember 31, 1992, with a possible one-year extension), to finance
maintenance of the large atnount of sophisticated equipment purchased under
SUDP, as well as a scaled down continuation of the overseas non-degree and
visiting scholar programs (Annex 5). With the proposed assistance to the
lUCs, they would be expected to become increasingly self-sustaining
finiani(ially t lrotugli income froin research contracts with government agencies
and industry.
3.9       UniversityLiAbrary Development (US$12.6 million).  The proposed
component would continue Bank assistance for the development and
implementation of a national university library network. The project would
finance the acquisition of general library materials, books, journals, reports
and information sources in automated or CD-ROM format for all public
university libraries in the network. In HEDP I, libraries at eight major
universities were designated as Development Services Centers, each with
responsibility for a particular discipline, and together covering the full
range of academic subjects taught. These would be allotted a larger share of
library materials. In addition, a bibliographic network with a shared
catalogue of holdings in all libraries in the network would be developed.
Network coordination and support would continue to be provided by the Library
Activities Coordination Unit (UKKP) in DGHE.  This unit would be resp.lsible
for implementing the network and for coordinating acquisition of all library
materials both for this and for other project components. A major upgrading
of all departmental libraries in science faculties at an average cost of
US$50,000 per department would also be supported. An ongoing service contract
with a reputable international supplier of library materials would be an
efficient way of acquiring new items on a regular basis. The Government has
agreed to consider this arrangement and brought to negotiations its decision
on the procurement procedure it proposes to use, together with an
implementation plan for the procurement (para. 6.1(b)). No disbursement will
be made for this component until appointment of a full-time manager of UKKP,
whose qualifications are acceptable to the Bank, has been made (para. 6.3(a)).
3.10      As part of the university library development, selected university
library staff would be trained overseas (30 in S2 programs and 30 in short-
term courses) and in-country (60 in two-year library science programs at the
Sl level, 30 at the S2 leve. and 60 in two-year diploma level programs). In
addition, 60 university library staff would be given two months of training in
library computer use (Annex 5). The project would also provide assistance to
30 university libraries through one-month visits by library computer experts
(Annex 8).
Improvement of Fields of Study Reflecting Human Resource Needs
3.11      Basic Science and Science Teacher Education (US$39.8 million).  The
proposed project would upgrade natural science and mathematics education in
the 15 public universities where science faculties exist. Teaching
laboratories in all departments (around 60) would be upgraded to an agreed
national standard by supplying teaching equipment at an a -erage cost of
US$86,000 each.  In order to promote research activities among staff in



- 19 -
dfpartments which do not have postgraduate programs, selected research
equipment would be provided to 48 of these at an average cost of US$100,000.
Twelve departments, selected to be responsible for graduate programs _n the
bqSi(i sciences, would receive research equipment at an average cost of
US$300,000 each. These postgraduate programs cover various subjects, from
mathemratics and computer science to biochemistry and biology.  Participation
l)y students from other gc--ernment agencies, private universities and indust-y
is expected to grow considerably with the quality improvements.  In order to
on!;ute proper maintenance of equipment, instrumentation and calibration
(etters would be established in 8 locations.  The upgrading would be supported
by 32 staff-months of international expert assistance, and would, over the
project period, benefit around 25,000 students in the universities involved.
3.12      Science teacher training at the 10 IKIPs and 20 University
Facilities of Education (FKIPs) would receive support through continiued
curriculam development and production of textbooks and basic science teaching
modules. In order to ensure proper nationwide implementation of the new
curricula, experts from IKIPs which have taken part in the development would
visit other LPTKs to advise them on implementation of individual modules in
the curricula. These activities would benefit around 18,000 science teacher
diploma students over the project period. The special three-year science
teacher diploma programs at nine universities, which supplements the science
teacher production at the LPTKs, would be continued from HEDP I. Operational
support for the universities as well as scholarships for the students would
benefit 8,000 students during the project period.
3.13      Development of Private Higher Education (US$2.7 million).   The
proposed project would make the four science and technology centers (para.
1.16) operative by providing equipment for basic science, computer and
language laboratories, funding for installation and operation of the
laboratory equipment, as well as furniture, books, journals and consumables.
The buildings are expected to be completed by August, 1991. In addition to
the staff development fellowships to be given to private university staff
(para. 3.4), the project would finance 10 staff-years of administrative staff
training and 150 staff-years of short-term laboratory technician training.
The proposed component would include a comprehensive study of private
university development strategy and the possible private sector contribution
to the alleviation of technical personnel shortages (Annex 6). ThIe centers
will operate under the guidance and supervision of the Regional Coordinator
for Private Higher Education (KOPERTIS). The fees, which will be paid for use
of the centers by participating private universities, would be set
sufficiently high to defray operating costs. At negotiations, understandings
were reached on operational plans for the centers (para. 6.1(c)).
3.14      Accelerated Engineering Education (US$13.4 million).  The PPI
program in chemical, electrical, electronic, and mechanical engineering
(para. 1.17) would be continued to alleviate acute shortages of engineers in
industry, particularly in manufacturing. The proposed component would finance
attendance by lecturers at seminars, costs of more frequent final
examinations, and increased supplies of duplicated study materials, handouts,
and laboratory equipment. In addition, it would finance honoraria for
university engineering staff in the selected disciplines for meeting more
frequently with students, especially to provide guidance for students working



- 20 -
oti the(ir senior year projects.  As a part of a comprehensive study of
university graduates, the possible imbalance between engineering and
p)olyte(chni( graduates, detailed employer needs for engineers, and the need for
changes in engineering and polytechnic curricula would be studied (Annex 6).
A 11)     Support for Polytechnics (US$25.0 million'.  The proposed project
p provide further assistance to polytechnics (para. 1.18), with increased
emphasis on management, quality of instruction, and equipmnent maintenance.
Management would be improved through a series of seminars conducted by local
and international specialists, by visits to advanced overseas polytechnics,
and through a feasibility study of a polytechnic MIS as a part of the DGHE
MIS. The quality of instruction would be improved by a staff upgrading
program comprising: 40 staff-years of overseas postgraduate studies for
selected polytechnic staff; enrollment of 480 instructors in bachelor's degree
programs at local universities; and short in-country retraining courses for
1,400 instructors. Equipment maintenance and repair would be emphasized
through provision of 27 staff-months of services by international equipment
specialists. They would plan the development of a maintenance and repair
center at each of the 16 project polytechnics, prepare equipment lists, and
organize training programs as required for the personnel of the centers and
for laboratory and workshop staff. In addition, the project would include
curriculum development, production of course notes and teaching aids,
laboratory and workshop equipment, furniture, books, and housing for
polytechnic staff in remote areas.
3.16      Except for an aggregate amount not to exceed US$1.0 million for
urgently needed equipment, completion of I.he following actions will be a
condition for disbursement of the loan for equipment in the polytechnics
component: (a) adoption of a plan for tl.- establishment of equipment
maintenance and repair services; and (.  an action plan and a training
schedule for service personnel and ins,::u>tors (para. 6.3(b)).
3.17      Tt has been decided that the pJ,1-technics will be removed from the
administrative control of the universitie-s where they are located ; 1993 or
earlier. Polytechnics may be capable of ;;enerating significant income through
courses for industr), other services, and ssle of products from training
activities. When they become autonomous t:hiy will not only be free to adjust
their programs to local needs, but they wi.l. also have stronger incentives to
generate additional income for their owm us
3.18      Environmental Study Centers (US$14.6 million).8/  The primary
objective of this component is to increase the competence of 12 of the 55
existing ESCs in solving complex environmental problems and advising local,
regional, and national government agencies as well as private businesses on
environmental matters. The 12 ESCs are strategically located for dealing with
major environmental problems. The proposed project component would provide
funds for management training, staff development, research, equipment, some
8/   See Annex 7 for the background, government strategy, and assistance to
ESCs, and lessons learned under the UNDP project.



- 21 -
minor civil works, books, journals and reference materials, and TA.  The( TA
would consist of four full-time international experts in environmental
planning and management, who would work with the DGHE during the project
period, i.e., a national project manager, a chief technical advisor and two
regional technical advisors. In additi,n, 24 staff-months of short-term
service would be provided by international experts. Some support for staff
development and research would also be made available for six of the remailiirn
43 ESCs, based on their ability to take strong initiatives.
3.19      The component would contribute to institution building.  Boards anldl
committees would be established to improve linkages among agencies with
activities that have environmental impact, such as:  (a)  a National ESC
Development Board comprising representatives of the DGHE, BAPPENAS, various
government ministries and non-governmental organizations; (b) a committee to
advise the DGHE on approval and funding of proposals from the ESCs; and
(c) provincial advisory boards in each of the 9 provinces where project ESCs
would be located. At negotiations, assurances were obtained from the
Government that the rectors of the universities hosting project ESCs will
adopt action plans satisfactory to the Bank by December 31, 1991, ensuring
that: (a) the ESC will be incorporated as a constituent part of the
university; (b) full-time staff will be assigned to core positions in the ESC;
and (c) all ESC staff will receive full credit toward promotion for their
activities (para. 6.2(b)).
3.20      The GOI has indicated its intention to request a loan of US$9.6
million from the Government of Japan (GOJ) for the ESC component. Since the
GOJ does not normally announce its commitment outside of the annual IGGI
(Inter-Governmental Group for Indonesia) meeting (usually in June), it will be
difficult to confirm co-financing before the scheduled Board presentation of
the proposed project. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the
Government that by September 30, 1991, it will obtain loans or financing from
the GOJ or other sources for financing the ESC component (para. 6.2(c)).
3.21      Selected Physical Facilities (US$23.8 million).  The proposed
project would enable the University of Andalas (UNAND) and the University of
Gadjah Mada (UGM) to continue the construction of their campuses as described
in their master plans (para. 1.20). The design and construction of much of
their present campuses were included in earlier Bank projects. The proposed
project would include an additional building for the faculty of agriculture
and an auditorium at UNAND, and an auditorium, buildings for basic science,
and the completion of the engineering faculty facilities at UGM. Plans for
the completion of construction work at these two universities are at an
advanced stage. The project would also include pre-medical facilities at the
University of Lambung Mangkurat (UNLAM) in Banjarmasin, financing the costs of
design, site development and construction, and furniture. During
negotiations, the detailed implementation plans for the UNAND and UGM
components and the preliminary plans for pre-medical facilities at UNLAM were
reviewed (para. 6.1(d)).



- 22 -
linl)rovement of Plarining, Management, and Project Implementation Capacity
3 22      Management Development of Public Higher Education Institutions
(US$2.4 million). The autonomy in financial managemen,t, .rademic programming
amid institutional organization will allow public universities to retain income
derived from student tuition and other sources, to design and offer study
programs based upon their individual perceptions of national and local
priorities, and to devise 'he organizational structures considered best suited
to their individual needs (para. 1.3). These new responsibilities will place
heavy burdens upon the administrative staffs of the public universities.
Although assisted in HEDP I by the provision of management training, these
staffs are still not adequately trained. Rectors, vice-rectors, department
heads, and finance officers of the public universities would receive training
for a total of 116 man-days for each institution. The project component would
finance preparation and management of the training programs and honoraria for
the twelve consortia.  These are advisory committees under the DGHE, each
covering an area of university activities, and will assist in the planning of
project activities. During negotiations, understandings were reached on the
management training plan and implementation schedule (para. 6.1(e)). To help
the DGHE and administrators of the public universities implement the autonomy
measures, one staff-year of international specialist services would be
provided under the proposed project component. In addition, a study of unit
costs in public universities would be conducted (Annex 6).
3.23      Development of Management Information System (US$2.5 million).  The
proposed component would continue the assistance begun under the first HEDP I
in the development of a MIS in the DGHE and the universities. Both the Higher
Education Monitoring and Evaluation System (SIMES) and the newly developed
National Information System and Network (SINAS) would receive suppirt in the
form of computing equipment and funds for further development or software,
establishment of a data base, training workshops, and improved information
flow between the DGHE and the universities. SIMES is now implemented in 43
universities and produces an annual report and summary tables for each
university.   Efforts would be made to improve the quality of information and
to establish data standards. Data gathering and report production would be
also be supported. SINAS is to provide on-line access and retrieval
capabilities in an electronic network. Two prototype subsystems, one for the
public universities and one for KOPERTIS, would be developed during the first
year of the project. After testing, these would be installed in 16
universities. The activities would be coordinated with SIMES, which would
become part of SINAS during the project period.
3.24      Studies and Evaluation (US$1.0 miillion).  The DGHE would organize
five major studies and evaluation (Annex 6), to provide policy guidance to the
DGHE. The studies would focus on: (a) the labor market for university
graduates; (b) private higher education development policy and strategy;
(c) an evaluation of the effectiveness of the overseas and in-country
fellowship programs; (d) higher education costs and financing; and
(e) preparation of the next time-slice for a higher education loan. The
proposed project would provide funds for local and foreign expert services to
conduct the studies. At negotiations, understandings were reached on the
terms of reference for these studies (para. 6.1(f)).



- 23 -
3.25      Project Management (US$0.8 million).  The CPIU was established to
coordinate the implementation of HEDP I (para. 3.29 and Charts 3 arid 4). The
proposed project would provide funds for full-time domestic consultants who
would organize and conduct national project meetings, supervise and advise
local project units on site and carry out correspondence. The funds would
also permit the DGHE to pay honoraria (at GOI approved rates) to the CPIU
Project Director and his four senior staff members.
3.26      Technical assistance would be used widely in the project, both for
capacity building and as support for project implementation (for details on
the amount of TA for each component, see Annex 8). International consultants
are essential to the development of the project ESCs, and carefully selected
visiting scholars at the IUCs would help improve their productivity.
International experts would also be used to help upgrade the polytechnics and
in the provision of equipment for basic science. In order to strengthen the
proposed studies, limited support from international experts would be
provided, and one year of international specialist services would be provided
to help the institutions take full advantage of their new autonomy. Local
consultants would be used in research training, evaluation and dissemination
activities, for textbook production, library development, in polytechnics,
basic science and science teacher training activities, for MIS development,
and for the studies. This use of local consultants would help develop local
expertise, often in short supply in Indonesia.
C. The Higher Education Expenditure Program
3.27      Total estimated higher education expenditures for the period between
April 1991 and March 1994 is about US$1,693 million equivalent (Table 3.1).
About US$1,411 million equivalent of this will consist of previously committed
foreign aid, counterpart funds for that aid, continuation of purely
Government-funded projects, and project related recurrent expenditures. The
remaining US$282 million equivalent would come from the proposed Bank and GOJ
loans and from increases in the Government's routine budget for project -
related expenses. The activities to be financed directly by the proposed Bank
loan would be located in about 802 of the DIPs in the DGHE's annual higher
education investment program. Therefore, the proposed pr_Ject would
essentially support the higher education expenditure program as a whole. This
three-year expenditure program shown in Table 3.1 as the "proposed program"
would then represent the project costs to be supported by the proposed loan.
At negotiations, understandings were reached with the GOI on the three-year
expenditure program composition and costs, including the specific budgetary
provision for the activities to be financed under the proposed project in the
1991/92 higher education budget (para. 6.1(g)).



- 24 -
Table 3.1: HIGHER EDUCATION EXPENDITURE PROGRAM,
APRIL 1991 - MARCH 1994
(US$ million)
souU(e CPrevious commitments    Proposed program    Total
pevelopment Expenditures                 634.5                 230.5           865.0
GOI counterpart funds and
purely local projects                 375.0                   70.9           445.9
Selected new activities                                      159.6 /b        159.6
Other external finance /a             259.5                     -            259.5
Recurrent Expenditures                   776.1                  51.9 /c        828.0
Salaries                              482.4                   41.3           523.7
operations and maintenance            293.7                   10.6           304.3
Total                            1,410.6                  282.4         1,693.0
/a   Existing commitments including ongoing Bank loans.
/b   Includes US$9.6 million funding for ESC component by GOJ.
Ic   Incremental salaries and O&M expenditures.
D. Project Implementation and Management
3.28      Status of Project Preparation.  Most major activities of the project
are either ongoing or in an advanced stage of preparation. Recipients of
fellowships during the first year of the project have been identified and some
placement arrangements are already in progress. The implementation plans for
the balance of the fellowship program were reviewed at negotiations
(para. 3.6). Equipment lists for most components, except for the four science
and technology centers, are nearing completion. Documents for the first year
construction program have already been prepared at UNAND and UGM, whereas the
proposed pre-medical facility at UNLAM is at the preliminary design stage.
3.29      Project Organization and Management.  With the extensive experience
gained under the first University Development Project (Loan 1904-IND) and
HEDP I, management arrangements will remain the same, although the one year
overlap with HEDP I could cause some overloading unless the CPIU is
sufficiently strengthened. The basic structure (Charts 3 and 4) would consist
of the CPIU and institutional project implementation units (IPIUs) at the
institutions that participate directly in the GOI's higher education
development program. Most project activities, such as procurement and



- 25 -
reporting, would be the responsibility of the CPIU. Each year, goods and
services to be purchased would be included in the annual budget of the IPIU of
the relevant institution, even though the CPIU would often be involved in the
procurement. Responsibility for overall coordination of activities and for
liaison with the Bank would rest with the CPIU, which would: (a) monitor and
coordinate disbursement of the loan; (b) report semesterly to the MOEC and the
Bank on the progress; (c) raise issues requiring attention; (d) provide advice
to the IPIUs; (e) assist in procurement under ICB procedures; (f) submit
withdrawal applications to the Bank; (g) arrange for timely audits of project
accounts; (h) prepare tie project completion report; and (i) participate
directly in the overseas staff development program, the studies and
evaluations, the management training program, and the university library
system development program. As in HEDP I, the MT would monitor the
performance of the CPIU and provide advice as needed. The CPIU, with support
from the MT, would convene a project implementation workshop each year. Bank
staff would attend and contribute to these workshops whenever feasible. Tlle
organization and staff of each IPIU would remain essentially the same as in
HEDP I, reflecting the type of component, i.e., (a) academic staff
development; (b) civil works; (c) procurement of goods and services; and (d)
financial administration, budget control and accounting. In addition, each
IPIU would be authorized to employ consultants to supervise major civil works
contracts. During negotiations, assurances were provided by the Government
that by July 31, 1991, it will strengthen the CPIU by assigning three
additional qualified and experienced professional staff members to handle the
increased responsibilities due to the overlap with HEDP I and the inclusion of
the IUC, polytechnics, and ESC components (para. 6.2(d)).
3.30      Implementation Schedule.  The proposed project would be implemented
over a period of three years, starting April 1, 1991, and ending March 31,
1994, corresponding to three Indonesian fiscal years. The implementation
schedule (Annex 9) and the cost schedules (Annex 10) would serve as the basis
for project implementation planning and would be updated annually by CPIU
staff, in cooperation with the IPIUs. The closing date of the proposed
project would be December 31, 1994.
E. Monitoring and Evaluation
3.31      Monitoring and evaluation of project performance would improve
project implementation and provide a tool for DGHE and internal university
management. Four aspects of university development and operations would be
monitored regularly: (a) implementation of the action plan; (b) implementa-
tion of the expenditure program; (c) implementation of project activities; and
(d) the performance of the major institutions in the higher education
subsector.
3.32      The Action Plan.  The APHE will be monitored according to the dates
agreed for each of the actions in the plan (Annex 4). Reasons for deviation
would be identified, modified plans agreed upon and action taken to overcome
bottlenecks in order to facilitate the achievement of the Plan.
3.33      Annual Review of Expenditures.  To ensure smooth implementation and
a forum for both ex-post and ex-ante Bank comment on annual expenditures, the



- 26 -
proposed project would include an annual Bank-DGHE project review. The timing
of the annual review would be coordinated with the GOI's annual budget
preparation cycle.  At negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government
that beginning in 1991, the GOI will submit to the Bank for review and comment
by December 31 of each year a retrospective review of the implementation of
the previous and ongoing year's budgets for the higher education program,
together with a plan and budget for the following fiscal year. Agreement was
also reached that thereafter the GOI will make the budgetary allocations,
assisted by the proceeds of the proposed loan, with proper regard for the
Bank's comments (para. 6.2(e)).
3.34      Project Activities.  The retrospective review would indicate how
much of each activity had been completed and how much remained to be carried
out by each implementing unit. Implementation of the program would be
monitored in terms of educational activities, achievement of construction
work, procurement of equipment and materials, development of new courses and
curricula, and research activities.
3.35      Performance Indicators.  A collection of indicators designed under
HEDP I has been introduced in 43 public universities to monitor project
implementation and support local and central management. They comprise the
following categories: (a) student enrollment at public universities by fields
of study, including female enrollment, admission rates, drop-out rates, length
of study, and other indicators relating to student participation and
attendance; (b) academic and administrative staff figures, teaching loads, and
other academic activities, training both completed and in progress, and
academic quality indicators, including the number of staff with higher
degrees; (c) availability and utilization of physical facilities, such as
classrooms and laboratories; (d) library facilities for availability and
utilization; (e) financial resources; and (f) quality of education and
research, such as frequency of research publication in local, national, and
international journals. The quality of input data provided by individual
universities varies greatly, at present.
3.36      The initial set of indicators focused heavily on input measures.  In
the future, more emphasis would be placed on output indicators, with
information on external efficiency. Although more difficult to design and
implement, their impact may be much greater. Input measures are primarily
useful for resource allocation and monitoring of resource utilization. Output
indicators may form a basis for decision making on program direction and
improvements in effectiveness.
3.37      In the proposed project, the initial set of indicators would be
improved accordingly and the input data collection strengthened in the MIS
development activities. The indicators would be further developed to deal
with postgraduate education, IUCs, polytechnics, ESCs, KOPERTIS, and the
effects of the new autonomy. The new information would include:
(a) IUCs. Number of participants, by origin, in S2 and S3 programs and
in short courses, number of visiting scholars, amount and source of
income from contracts and other income;



- 27 -
(b)  Polytechnics.  Qualifications and industrial employment history of
teaching staff and employment statistics for graduates;
(c)  ESCs.  Number of environmental studies undertaken by client groups,
amount and source of income from contracts, and actions taken as a
result of such studies;
(d)  KOPERTIS.  Accreditation records, graduation comparisons between
private and public universities, and utilization rates of the four
science and technology centers; and
(e)  Autonomy.  Information on new income earning activities and uses of
funds raised, changes in curricula and study programs, and other
initiatives.
3.38      During negotiations, targets for individual activities for the first
project year were set. The activities would be monitored through the
appropriate indicators in the MIS and the targets adjusted according to the
annual project review. The initial establishment of targets were based on the
time frames given in the project implementation schedule (Annex 9).
3.39      Progress Reports.  The Government provided assurances that the CPIU
will prepare semi-annual progress reports and submit them to the Bank by
April 30 and October 31 of each year (para. 6.2(f)). The first progress
report after the start of each GOI fiscal year will also include a section
showing changes in the performance indicators for the higher education
subsector.



- 28 -
IV. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PRCCUREMENT, AND DISBtUR5EMENTS
A. Costs
Summary of Costs
4.1         The total cost of the three-year second time-slice highot education
program, as defined for purposes of this project (excluding previouis
commitments on foreign-assisted and purely GOI-financed projects), is
estimated at Rp 536.7 billion (US$282.4 million equivalent)  including
identifiable taxes and duties. Tables 4.1 and 4.2 summarize the estimated
costs by project component and category of expenditure, respectively.
Detailed costs are provided in Annex 10.
Table 4.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT
RD Billion                     US2 Million            I
Component                                 Local   Foreign    TotMl      Local    Foreign    Toa i    Foreign
A.  Q1ts*d efficiency
Stiff dev-lopment                    181.3      35.1    196.4       85.1      18.2     103.3      18
Research                              40.1       3.7      43.8      21.2       1.9      23.1       8
Inter-university
conters                              3.9       4.4       8.3       2.0       2.3       4.3      63
Library development                    8.6      14.5      21.1       3.5       7.8       11.1     69
Subtotal A.                      211.9      67.7    289.8      111.8      30.0     141.8      21
B. Selected fields of study
Basic sciences and teacher
training                            26.0      42.3      67.3      13.3      22.1      36.4      e3
Private higher education               1.3       3.1       4.4       0.7       1.7       2.4      70
Accelerated engineering
education                           20.8       3.6      24.4      11.0       1.8      12.8      15
Polytechnics                          13.2      27.9      41.1       7.0      14.6       21.8     6s
Environmental study centers           11.9      12.3      24.2       8.3       6.4      12.7      61
Physical development                  26.6      11.8      38.4      14.1       6.1      20.2      31
Subtotal B.                      98.8    101.0       199.8      52.4      62.7    106.1       61
C. Plonning, management and
implementation capacity
Management development                 3.2       0.8       4.0       1.8       0.6       2.1      21
Information and evaluation
systems                              2.3       1.8       4.1       1.2       1.0       2.2      44
Studies                                1.1       0.6       1.7       0.6       0.3       0.9      34
Project management (excluding
salaries)                            1.0       0.3       1.3       0.6       0.1       0.7      20
Subtotal C.                        7.6       3.6      11.1       4.0       1.9       5.9      32
Total Bas  Costs                      318.3     182.2    480.6    168.2        84.8    262.8       33
Physical contingencies                     12.4      13.4      26.8       6.8       7.0       13.8     62
Price contingencies                        21.9       8.6      30.4      10.7       6.3       18.0     33
Total Costs                           2AU&      a3l."    F3e.7    lso          2Ls      flZ       34



- 29 -
Table 4.2: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
Rp Billion                 US$ Million            2
Component                     Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total  Foreign
Civil works                     28.3    12.5    40.8       15.0      6.5    21.5      30
Equipment                        5.9    54.3    60.2        3.2    28.5    31.7       90
Books, journals and              1.6    14.6    16.2        0.9      7.6     8.5      90
instructional materials
Furniture                        2.7     1.2      3.9       1.4      0.6      2.0     30
Overseas training                1.8    36.4    38.2        1.0    19.1    20.1       95
In-country training           152.0    27.6   179.6        80.3    14.2    94.5       15
Technical assistance:
Project support               8.9      2.4    11.3        4.7      1.2     5.9      21
Capacity building              1.3     4.5      5.8       0.7      2.4     3.1      78
Policy development            0.5      0.1      0.6       0.2      0.1     0.3      23
Research                        21.2      4.2    25.4      11.2      2.2    13.4      20
Project management               9.9     2.6    12.5        5.3      1.3      6.6     20
Related O&M                     15.8     1.8    17.6        8.3      0.9      9.2     10
Related salaries                68.4     0.0    68.4       36.0      0.0    36.0       0
Total Base Costs          318.3   162.2   480.5    168.2    84.6   252.8          33
Physical contingencies          12.4    13.4    25.8        6.6      7.0    13.6      52
Price contingencies            21.9      8.5    30.4       10.7      5.3    16.0      33
Total Costs /a              2.6   184.1   5          18        96.9   282.4       34
/a Includes US$7.6 m equivalent in identifiable taxes and duties.



- 30 -
Basis of Cost Est imat es
4.2       Base Costs and Contingencies.  Base costs are expressed in December
1990 pri(es. Civil works costs were based on approved building proposals for
the various components with acceptable area allocations and unit rates.
Furniture costs were based on lists of standard locally available items, and
on prior experience under the first time-slice project.  Equipment costs were
based on agreed lists priced for similar imported or locally available items.
Books and journals costs were based on similar items recently procured in
other education projects in Indonesia. Training costs were estiniated as
follows: (a) overseas training--US$24,000 per student-year; and (b) domestic
training--(i) S2 and S3 programs--US$3,800 and US$4,700 per student-year,
respe(tively; (ii)two-year diploma and Sl courses--US$2,900 per student-year;
(iii) three-y-ar diploma courses in science--US$460 per student-year; and
(iv) accelerated undergraduate programs in selected engineering fields -
US$206 per student-year. Costs for local consultants were estimated at
US$2,000 per staff-month. Research awards were based on experience from other
university developrment. projects, and include various categories of inputs
(services as well as materials). Project management and administration costs
were based on standard allowances for salaries, consumable materials, travel
and honoraria. Other recurrent expenditures, i.e, related salaries and
related O&M were based on standard GOI allowances (financed by the
Government).  Physical contingencies of 102 have been allowed for civil works,
equipment, overseas training and TA, and 5% for related incremental O&M and
salaries. No physical contingency has been allowed for research and in-
country training programs since the programs would be reviewed and adjusted
annually within the agreed overall plans and budgets. Physical contingencies
(US$13.6 million) represent 5.4Z of base costs. Price ccntingencies (US$16.0
million), about 6% of base costs plus physical contingencies, were estimated
on the basis of the implementation schedule (Annex 9) and expected annual
price increases as follows: local--6.5Z for 1991 and 6Z for 1992 and
thereafter; foreign--3.62 for 1991 and thereafter.
4.3       Foreign Exchange Costs.  Direct and indirect foreign exchange costs
were estimated at about Rp 184.1 billion (US$96.9 million equivalent)
including contingencies. Based on detailed analysis of expenditures of
similar projects in Indonesia, the foreign exchange component for the major
categories was estimated as follows: (a) civil works--302; (b) equipment and
books--90Z; (c) furniture--302; (d) overseas training--95Z; (e) foreign
consultants--88Z; (f) in-country training and local consultants--152; (g)
research and project management--202; (h) related O&M--102; and (i) related
salaries--02.
4.4       Taxes and Duties.  Identifiable taxes were estimated at about
Rp 13.9 billion (US$7.6 million equivalent). Estimated taxes were based on
the current practice of about 10% value added tax on all contracts for civil
works and goods and services. Imported instructional equipment is exempt frorn
import duties.



- 31 -
B. Financint
4.5       The p)roposed Bank loan of US$150 million would finance about 53Z of
the US$282.4 million three-year time-slice expenditure program net of taxes or
64% of the costs, excluding salaries and taxes.  The Government has indicated
its intention to seek a loan of US$9.6 million from GOJ (para. 3.20) to cover
85Z of the cost of the ESC component, excluding related research activities
which would be financed by the Bank loan. The possible finatncinig by the
Government of Japan represents about 31 of the program. The Ccvernment will
finance the remaining 33X of the program (US$122.8 million) including related
salaries and O&M. The financing plan is presented in Table 4.3. Expenditures
for previous commitments on purely GOI-financed projects and GOI counterpart
funds for other externally financed projects (US$375.0 million), and US$259.5
million of foreign financing, including disbursements under ongoing World Bank
higher education loans for about US$60.0 million, and ongoing levels of
recurrent expenditure (US$776.1 million) are not included in the project costs
(Table 3.1).
4.6       Recurrent Costs.  Additional annual recurrent expenditures generated
after the third year of the program are estimated at about US$20 million in
1993/94, the last year of the program, about 9% of the projected DGHE routine
budget for that year and about 22 of the total MOEC budget. Considering the
priority given to higher education development and the relative underfinancirg
of higher education in recent years, this is not an unreasonable addition to
the DGHE budget, as it constitutes a prerequisite for the development of
higher education.  Moreover, increased financing is expected to be offset by
increased cost cecovery obtained through higher student fees and the
development of sources of income for universities under the autonomy decree.
This should result in a gradual increase in real terms in budgetary and
nonbudgetary allocations for O&M in higher education.
4.7       Budget Allocations.  Although most proposed project activities
constitute support for ongoing programs, budget allocations will be made
available to the project on an annual basis, in accordance with Indonesian
budget procedures. Considering that the proposed loan will disburse around
90% net of taxes and duties for selected investment program activities with
the exception of in-country training (US$97.3 million) at 45%, the Government
should be able to provide the necessary funding, which is required mainly for
its ongoing programs and related salaries and O&M. Expenditure allocations
will be reviewed annually by the Bank and DGHE and will be adjusted as
necessary by the DGHE to ensure that the agreed annual plans dre implemented
without delay.



- 32 -
Table 4.3: FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
IBRD Share
Proposed                           I
Category of                                  IBRD      GOJ       Total  (excluding
Expenditure                  Government      Loan       La         lb      taxes)
Civil works                     8.6          16.5        0.3      25.4       70
Equipment                       7.8          28.0        1.0      36.8       76
Books, journals and             2.0           7.6       0.3        9.9       77
instructional materials
Furniture                       0.6           1.8          -       2.4       75
Overseas training                 -          20.7        2.9      23.6       88
In-country training            51.9          43.8       1.6       97.3       45
Technical assistance              -           8.7        2.3      11.0       80
Research                          -          16.1          -      16.1      100
Project management /c             -           6.8        1.2       8.0       85
Related O&M                    10.6             -          -      10.6        0
Related salaries               41.3             -          -      41.3        0
Total                    122.8         150.0        9.6      282.4       53
/a Comprising 85Z of the ESC component excluding research.
/b Including identifiable taxes and duties estimated at US$7.6 million equivalent.
/c Includes expenditures directly related to the management of the project such as
travel, consumable materials, honoraria, etc., but excluding salaries.



- 33 -
C. Procurement
4.8       1,h1  loan proeeds would be used to finance procurement in the
followinig expenditure categories excluding related categories of the ESC
componient (finaniced by GOJ) during the three-year time-slice as follows:
(a)  Civil Works totaling about LS$25.4 million equivalent.  Past
experieilce in Indonesia has shown that contracts for civil works do
not attract foreign bidders unless they are packaged to form
contracts in excess of US$5 million. As this is not feasible under
the proposed project because of tbe geographical dispersion of
project sites, all contracts for civil works (ranging from US$0.05
to US$2 million equivalent) would be awarded on th. basis of local
competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank.  Interested
foreign firms will, however, be allowed to bid;
(b)  Equipment totaling about US$36.8 million equivalent.  Bid packages
exceeding US$200,000 equivalent will be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
guidelines. Local manufacturers will be given a margin of
preference in bid comparison of 15Z of the c.i.f. price of competing
imports or the actual custom duty, whichever is lower. Equipment in
smaller packages, and aggregating to a maximum of about US$5.3
million, will be procured through LCB under government procurement
procedures acceptable to the Bank. Off-the-shelf items not
exceeding US$50,000 equivalent for each package and aggregating to a
maximum of US$1.7 million, could be purchased through prudent
shopping on the basis of competitive price quotations from at least
three suppliers eligible under Bank guidelines;
(c) Books, Journals and Instructional Materials totalling about US$9.9
million equivalent will be purchased through prudent shopping
procedures, through a service contract or directly from publishers,
local distributors or book jobbers following procedures acceptable
to the Bank (after negotiations for best discounts) (para. 3.9);
(d) Furniture totalling about US$2.4 million equivalent will be procured
using LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank; prudent shopping
procedures may be followed for contracts not exceeding US$50,000
equivalent up to an aggregate of US$200,000 based on a comparison of
bids from --t least three suppliers eligible under Bank guidelines;
(e) Overseas and In-Country Training totaling about US$120.9 million
equivalent. Placement of candidates in foreign institutions would
be made on the basis of relevance and quality of the programs
offered, costs, and prior experience. In-country graduate and
undergraduate training would receive support on a student-year basis
and would be financed by the loan on agreed student enrollments.
Management of overseas training programs (US$23.6 million) may be
continued under existing arrangements with a number of agencies,
provided their performance has been acceptable. The CPIU also plans
to self-manage some programs as in HEDP I;



- 34 -
(f) Foreign and Local Consultant Services totaling about US$11.0 million
would be selected and employed in accordance with the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers," (about US$8.7
million) and OECF Guidelines (about US$2.3 million); and
(e) Research Awards totaling about US$16.1 million would be awarded
through DGHE based on criteria for relevance of topic and
qualifications of the parties selected, satisfactory to the Bank.
To cultivate quality, distribution of research support and contracts
would be awarded on the basis of a competitive process acceptable to
the Bank.
4.9        Procurement procedures to be used for the above categories are
indicated in Table 4.4.



- 35 -
Table 4.4: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million)
Procurement Procedure
Total
Category of Expenditure      ICB    LCB    Other/a       N.A.    Costslb
Civil works                   -     25.1      0.3          -        25.4
(16.5)   (0.0)                 (16.5)
Equipment                    28.8    5.3      2.7          -        36.8
(22.6)  (4.1)   (1.3)                 (28.0)
Books, journals and           -      -        9.9         -          9.9
instructional materials   -        -       (7.6)                 (7.6)
Furniture                     -      2.2      0.2                    2.4
(1.7)   (0.1)                  (1.8)
Overseas training             -      -       23.6                   23.6
(20.7)                (20.7)
In-country training           -      -       97.3                   97.3
(43.8)                (43.8)
Technical assistance          -      -       11.0          -        11.0
(8.7)                 (8.7)
Research                      -      -       16.1                   16.1
(16.1)                (16.1)
Project management /c         -      -        8.0                    8.0
(6.8)                 (6.8)
Related O&M                   -      -        _          10.6       10.6
(0.0)     (0.0)
Related salaries              -      -        -          41.3       41.3
(0.0)     (0.0)
Total                    28.8   32.6   169.1         51.9    282.4
(22.6) (22.3) (105.1)        (0.0)   (150.0)
/a  Other procurement procedures include:  (i) prudent shopping; (ii)
negotiated purchases for books and journals; (iii) technical assistance in
accordance with Bank guidelines; (iv) research activities to be awarded on
a competitive basis; and (v) GOJ procedures.
/b  Totals represent total estimated costs per category including physical and
price contingencies.
/c  Project management includes expenditures directly related to the
management of the project such as travel, consumable materials, honoraria,
etc, but excludes salaries.
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.



- 36 -
4.10      Bank Review.  Preliminary architectural designs, terms of reference,
letters of invitation for consulting services (local and foreign consultants),
iand master equipment lists indicating proposed packaging and cost estimates
v.;1 1be reviewed by the Bank prior to bid advertisement.  Prior review by the
!    will also be required of all associated procurement documents relating to
cts for: (a) civil works exceeding US$1.0 million equivalent (covering
aibout 802 of the value and 70Z of the estimated number of contracts); and
(b) equipment and other goods exceeding US$0.2 million equivalent (covering
about 82Z of the value and 701 of the estimated number of contracts). Other
contracts will be subject to selective post-award reviews.
D. Disbursements
4.11      The proposed Bank loan of US$150.0 million will be disbursed over a
period of about three and a half years (Annex 11), an average of US$15 million
during a four-month period. Disbursements are expected to be completed by the
Decenmber 31, 1994 Closing Date and will be made against the following
categories of expenditures covering the selected activities to be financed
under the proposed loan: (a) civil works--70Z of total expenditures;
(b) equipment, furniture, books, journals, instructional materials--(i) loo0
of foreign expenditures of directly imported goods; (ii) 10OZ of local (ex-
factory) expenditures of locally manufactured goods; and (iii) 65Z of local
expenditures of locally procured goods; (c) overseas training--lOOZ of total
expenditures; (d) in-country training--45Z of total expenditures; (e)
professional and consulting services of local and foreign experts--100Z of
total expenditures net of taxes; (f) research awards--100Z of total
expenditures; and (g) project management support (excluding salaries)--100 of
total expenditures.
4.12      As the disbursement forecast (Annex 11) is based on a time-slice of
planned expenditures during the three-year project period, it does not reflect
the historical r7ofile of other Bank-financed projects in Indonesia, but
follows the profile of HEDP I in which performance has been satisfactory with
a disbursement percentage of 90% of SAR estimates maintained until December
1990. The program and disbursement forecast is feasible considering the
DGHE's existing undertakings and the priority status of the investment
activities selected. Furthermore, the proposed activities are either part of
ongoing plans under HEDP I or are at an advanced stage of preparation.
4.13      Documentation of Expenditures.  Withdrawal applications for works,
goods and services with a contract value of US$200,000 or more will be
supported by full documentation. Contracts below US$200,000 and other
disbursements against programs not undertaken by contract such as in-country
staff training or project management support will be made on the basis of
Statements of Expenditure (SOE), for which supporting documents would be
maintained by the CPIU. The CPIU will be responsible for aggregating the
eligible expenditures under each DIP and for preparing withdrawal applications
for submission to the Bank. To the extent practicable, withdrawal
applications under SOEs will be aggregated in amounts of US$200,000 or more,
pri3r to submission to the Bank.



- 37 -
4.14      Special Account.  In order to expedite disbursement of eligible
expenditures, the project would establish a Special Account in Bank Indonesia
to be maintained by the Directorate General of Budget, Ministry of Finance
(DGB). The Special Account would be used for eligible payments against all
disbursement categories. Upon loan effectiveness and confirmation of the
establishment of the Special Account, the Bank would make an initial deposit
of about US$15 million representing a four-month requirement for local or
foreign currency payments, upon receipt of an application from the DGB.
Subsequently, applications for replenishment would be made quarterly, or when
the Special Account balance is reduced to one-half of the initial deposit,
whichever occurs earlier, with appropriate supporting documents. During
negotiations, the Government provided assurances that it will make
satisfactory arrangements for the establishment of the Special Account and set
up the necessary organizational structure for its operation, including
appropriate accounting and auditing procedures (para. 5.2(g)).
E. Accounts, Audits and Reports
4.15      Under Indonesian law, all project units involved in project
implementation prepare and maintain separate project accounts in accordance
with sound accounting practices. Accounts and documentation supporting SOEs
will be maintained separately and will be readily available centrally for
review by visiting Bank missions. Accounts and SOEs for each fiscal year will
be prepared and audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
Certified copies of the audited accounts and financial statements for each
fiscal year, together with a consolidated single auditor's report for the
whole project, will be furnished to the Bank as soon as available, but not
later than nine months after the end of each fiscal year. The CPIU will
submit Part II of a project completion report to the Bank by June 30, 1995, or
six months after the loan closing date. During negotiations, the Government
provided assurances that it will comply with these requirements
(para. 6.2(h)).



- 38 -
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
5.1       A key benefit is that the proposed project would continue to enhance
the reform measures initiated by the DGHE with the assistance of HEDP I. By
financing the DGHE's expenditure program for the final three years of REPELITA
V, such policy improvements would also result in better quality and efficiency
of education and research, better resource mobilization, improved planning,
and improved project -implementation.
5.2       Another key benefit is that sectoral planning would be improved, as
the project would strengthen the planning capability relating to human,
physical, and financial resources, as well as relating graduate outputs to job
opportunities. This would be done through training for key staff, improvement
in management information systems and studies and evaluation of areas where
information is insufficient.
5.3       The proposed project would help upgrade the entire higher education
system through extensive fellowship programs to improve the teaching and
library staff of universities, particularly in basic science and engineering.
Most training will be for higher degrees (about 7,600 S2 degrees and 900 S3
degrees). In addition, the project would provide incentives and financial
support for research, without which quality universities cannot be developed.
5.4       The project would benefit economic development by helping alleviate
skilled human resource shortages through improvements in the quality and
efficiency of the higher education system as a whole, and especially in basic
science, science teacher training, polytechnic education, engineering, and
environmental studies. Around 10,000 science students and a similar number of
science teacher students would graduate over the project period. Post-
graduate programs in basic science would be strengthened for the benefit of
education and research in science and engineering and in support of industrial
and agricultural development. The accelerated engineering program would
produce about 12,000 engineers over the project period. Strengthening of
polytechnic education would help produce approximately 18,000 well-qualified
technicians. The project would significantly help protect the Indonesian
environment through assistance to 12 ESCs in developing environmental
expertise and advising local, regional, and national government agencies, and
private businesses on complex environmental problems.
5.5       Finally, the project would also improve and benefit the management
of the higher education system through the provision of training in university
management and finance, including the three areas of autonomy (financial,
academic, and institutional) for key DGHE and i"niversity staff and through
further development of MIS and monitoring and evaluation systems.



- 39 -
Risks
5.6       Risks are minimal.  All the components of the proposed project, with
the exception of the ESCs, were included in HEDP I or other Bank-financed
projects. Consequently, an experienced and competent project unit is already
in place for each component, under the guidance and supervision of an
experienced and competent CPIU. Project implementation risks for these
components are therefore manageable.
5.7       For the ESC component the ri"'-s are also small.  Even though some
directors of project ESCs may be unfami.iar with Bank procedures, the
participation of the CPIU in procurement and training arrangements would
eliminate most risks. The important early recruitment under the TA program of
qualified experts who will advise on the development of the project ESCs and
remain with the project for the entire project period would be carefully
monitored by Bank staff.



- 40 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1       During negotiations, understandings were reached with the Government
on the following:
(a) an implementation plan for the staff development programs, together
with candidate lists for the first year of the project (para 3.6);
(b) a decision on the library materials procurement procedure it
proposes to use, together with an implementation plan for the
procurement of the library materials (para. 3.9);
(c) operational plans for the science and technology centers
(para. 3.13);
(d) detailed implementation plans for the UNAND and UGM components and
preliminary plans for the pre-medical facilities at UNLAM
(para. 3.21);
(e) a management training plan and implementation schedule for
management development of public higher education institutions
(para. 3.22);
(f) terms of reference for the five proposed studies (para. 3.24); and
(g) the three-year higher education expenditure program composition and
costs (para. 3.27).
6.2       During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that:
(a) the proposed project will be implemented in accordance with the HEPG
and the APHE, as confirmed during negotiations (para. :.2);
(b) rectors of universities hosting project ESCs will adopt action plans
satisfactory to the Bank by December 31, 1991, ensuring that:
(i) the ESC will be incorporated as a constituent part of the
university; (ii) full-time staff will be assigned to core positions
in the ESC; and (iii) all ESC staff will receive full credit toward
promotion for their activities (para. 3.19);
(c)  by September 30, 1991, the Government will obtain loans or financing
from the GOJ or other sources for financing the ESC component
(para. 3.20);
(d)  the Government will strengthen the CPIU by assigning by July 31,
1991, three additional qualified and experienced professional staff
members to handle the increased responsibilities (para. 3.29);
(e)  the Government will (i) submit to the Bank by December 31 of each
year commencing in 1991, for review and comment, a retrospective



- 41 -
review of the implementation of the previous and ongoing year's
budgets for the higher education program, and a plan and budget for
the following fiscal year; and (ii) thereafter will make such
budgetary allocations (para. 3.33);
(f) the Government will prepare and submit progress reports to the Bank
semi-annually by April 30 and October 31 of each year (para. 3.39);
(g,  the Government will make satisfactory arrangements for the
establishment of the Special Account and set up the necessary
organizational structure for its operation, including appropriate
accounting and auditing procedures (para. 4.14); and
(h)  the Government will maintain, audit, and submit project accounts for
Bank review yearly and submit a project completion report six months
after the closing date of the loan (para. 4.15).
Condition for Disbursement
6.3       The following will be disbursement conditions:  (a) appointment of a
full-time manager for the library development component will be a condition
for disbursement for this component (para. 3.9); and (b) except for an
aggregate amount of US$1.0 million for urgently needed equipment for the
polytechnics, (i) adoption of a plan for the establishment of the equipment
maintenance and repair services for the polytechnics; and (ii) adoption of a
staff training program for the polytechnics, all satisfactory to the Bank,
will be conditions for disbursement for the equipment under the polytechnics
component of the project (para. 3.16).
Recommendation
6.4       Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed project
would constitute a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$150 million equivalent
to the Republic of Indonesia for a term of 20 years, including a grace period
of five years, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.



- 42 -
INDCNtESIA
S6EOC H1QHER EDLCATION DEVOPMENT PROJECT
Public Higher Education
Year Cre-ted, Number of Study Program, Enrol lmnts, Now Entrant.
end Full-Tim Academic Staff of Universitiee. 1989
Undergraduate              Nondegree               Oraduate program
broararp  (SI)           p                            enrorllnt.            Full-ti-.
Na.. of Inat tution            Year                   Now       Enroll-             Enroll-   HMeter.  PhD         Medical    ecade-c
created     Number   entrant.   eants       Number   sent.         (S2)    (SS)       (SPI)       eteff
Univ  Indonrsia               1950          62        3,230    14,774       15       3S,60        938      24        933         2,386
IKIP  Jakarta,               1963           41        1.374      7,729       1       1,298        118      13          -           797
Inst. P*rtanian Bogor        1963           28        1,634      8,966      10       2,146        S88     171          -         1,090
In-t  Teknolrogi Sendung     1959           26        1,561      8,499      28       2,706      1,841      46          -         1,057
Un,v  Pedjedjoran             1957          66        2,133    11,804        2       3,306        564    213         870         1,727
IKIP. Bandung                1964           34        1,368      7,726       S       3.675         87      12          -           960
Un,v. Jenderal Soadir-nn    1963            19          984      6.516       3       1,469      1,027    442           -           650
Univ- Diponegoro              1960          28        1. 928    12,611       9       4,702         68       -        828         1,214
IKIP. Semarang               1965           26        1.075      4,284       2       3,606          -       -          -           631
Univ. Sebelas Meret           1976          84        2,673    14.652        1       1,774           -      -          -         1,197
Univ  Codjsh Made             1949         104        4,168    25,680        11      3,928      1,576     176        456         2,026
IKIP. Yogyakarta             1963           33        2,154      9,S61       1       2,827          -       -          -           719
Univ. Airlenggs               1954          26        1,838      9,041       6       1,997        306    126         795         1,309
Inst. Teknologi Surabaya    1960            19        1,944      6,855       8       2,548          -       -          -           638
IKIP. Surabaya                1964         3S         1,348      7,286       1       3,087          -       -          -           650
Univ. Brewiiaym               1963          36        2,087     10,824        6      2,719           -      -          -         1,119
IKIP. Malang                  1954          24        2,121      6,901       1       2,301        332      39          -           735
Univ. Jeaber                  1964          26        1,858      9,176       3       1,970           -       -         -           631
Univ. Syieh Kuala             1961          38        1,642    10,277         4      4,002           '       -          -          747
Univ  Sumatera Ut.r'          1967          s0        2.098    11.939        8       4,366           -       -         -         1,622
IKIP. Medan                   1950          26        1,171      6,466       4       2,795          -       -          -           914
Univ  Andales                 1956          34        1,483      6,707        6       1,829        144       -        25         1.022
IKIP. Pedeng                  1954          31        1,526      6,244       S       2,916          -       -          -           732
Univ  Riau                    1962          27        1,676      6,801        4       1,496          -       -          -          822
Unsv  Jambi                   1963          15          860      8,516        1        844           -       -          -          408
Univ  Sriwijoya               1960          37        1,389      7,282       10      2,914           _ -                -        1,030
Univ. Leepung                 1965          28        1, 42      7,210        4       1,927          -       -          -          675
Univ. Tanjungpurs             1963          21        1,502      7,495        1           -          _ -               -           563
Univ. Palsngkeraya            1963          10          882      3,371       4       1,629           -      -          -           391
Univ. Lambung Mangkurat       1953          37        1,459      7,665       2       1,282           -      -          -           658
Univ. Mulcearmmn              1962          21          843      3,412        1      1,669           -       -         -           434
Univ. Sam Retulangi           1961          46        2,158    10,747        5       2,284         83       -          -         1,319
IKIP.  anedo                 1966           34          637      4,123       1         934          _-                 -           672
Univ. Hacenuddin              1956          62        2,769     16.683      11       3,297           -      -          -         1,420
IKIP. Ujung Pandang           1965          81        1,696      8,247       2       3,126          -       -          -           632
Univ. Pattisura               1958          32        2,304      7,092       1         424           -      -          -           497
Univ. Udayene                 1962          48        1.658    13,223        3       1,308          -       -          -         1,455
Univ. Mat rsa                 1962          22        1,624      6,832       1         623           -      -          -           510
Univ  Nusa Cendlna            1962          26          763      4.544       S       1,446          -       -          -           657
Univ. Conderawaeih            1962          20          638      3,092       4         566          _-                 -           306
Univ. Tedu;eko                1981          12        1,018      4,995       2         589          -       -          -           264
Univ  Haluoleo                1981          14           22      4,819       4       1,259          -       -                      528
Univ  bongkulu                1982           8          6S4      2,617       4         497           -      -          -           476
Univ. Terbuke                 1984          17            -    80,772       22       4,671          --                 -           304
Yogyakarta Art Inst.          1984           7          687      1,629       3         100                  -          -           226
ASTI Bandung                  1970           -            -          -       3         683          -                  -            99
STSI Surakarts                1964           3          160        575       3         282          -       -          -           195
ASKI Padang Penjang           1965           -            -          -       3         579                             -           108
STSI D npaesr                 1969           -            -          -       3         428          -       -          -            62
Total                               1,418      82,882   441,019       244      99,8695     7,689  1,262       3,907        39.310
of which:
1 women                                               85.56%     35.76               39.6       29.4%  21311       26.4%         25.0%
Sources: (1) Direktori Perguruan Tinggi Negeri di Indonesia 1989, MOEC, Jokarta, 1990
(2) 6uku Dcta Pergurusn Tinggi Negeri 1974-1989



- 43 - 
5SO- HIlQ EDUSCATIONs DEVELItT PtOJElT
Pe-st H,gert Ed.cmtseon
Websr of Inst- Ct.ona, Enrol laent, Nov Enet,snt, Cveduetac, and
FullI-Tr;_ Acedeamc Staff by Reg,on, 1989
Nond.ae.. aroapras  (SO)        Undardredmts. &,oors.s (511        Full-t&-"  esdem-c staff
Locat.on/              Total no  of      Nee       0n ol -                  Now      Enrjo II               Co.een-  Nonqon.rn-
KOP89T15                nst.,t.ona   *nt,.nt*    Santo  Creduste.   *nt,snts   sent,.    Ie.dusts,    a.nt                "nt       Total
NOdhA (1)                   128          7,916    32,952        1,396     30,085     116,862      3.765        798       2,196      2,994
P.l.eneg (II)               66           2,318      9,245         874      8,077      36.568      1,S13        362       1,194      1,556
Jaarta (III)               132          18,662    55403         3,686S    26,749    129,620    10,242          890       6. 044     6,934
Bandyn9 (IV)                 77          6,160     19,569       1 260     18,306      96,995      4,963        Sa0       2.16       3,048
Yogyakseta (V)              52           4,439     15,723       1,098     11,612      57,112      1.50        633        1,239     1,872
S.ads.an  (VI)               58          6.436     21,489       1,600      11,325     59,696      3,296        629        1,736     2,3S4
Swaboys (VII)               197          5,207     20.968       4,821     53,163    189,363    11,337        1.222        5,009     6.231
Ds.npsse  (VIII)             44          1,677      86546         904      6,107      48,267      4,347        448        1,00      1.453
Ujung Pandang (IX)           97          3.849      14,639      1,225      18.002     72,331      4. 50        645        1,697     2.340
Tgotl                 fi          56 864   198 534       17 061    185390    810304    45 883            6M        22        2t.79S
Source-.  (1) Laossn Tahunan Oirakto.st Jenderal Pondidiken TsnAQi Tahun 1989/90, HOEC, Jakarta, 1090
(2) D0,rkto,, Paerurumn Tinggi Seasta d. Indonoeim 19809, IOEC, Jakarta. 1990



_     -!, _                           ANNEX 2
INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Bank Group-Financed Education and Training Proljcto
Loan/                                                                   Amount
Credit     Fiscal                                                 (leo cancellations)
Number     Year        Purpose               Agoncy               Bank            IDA
--- (US3 million) ---
219        1970        First Education       MOEC/c                                  4.60
387        1973        Third Education       MOEC                                   18.60
1237       1976        Fourth Education      MOEC                 S7.00
1433       1977        First Teacher Trn.   MOEC                  19.00
1486       1978        Nonformal Education  MOEC                  16.00
869        1979        Polytechnic           MOEC                                   49 00
1904       1981        First Univ. Dev.      MOEC                 46.00
2101       1982        Socond Teacher Trn.  MOEC                  79.69
2102       1982        Second Textbook       MOEC                 26.00
2290       1983        Second Polytechnic   MOEC                 107.40
2366       1984        Second Nonformal      MOEC                 43.00
Education
2472       1985        First Secondary       mOEC                 78.00
Educ. A MSmt. Trn.
2647       1986        Second Univ. D-v.    MOEC                 147.00
2944       1988        Higher Educ. Dev.    MOEC                 140.30
3168       1990        Second Secondary      MOEC                164.20
MOEC Sub-Total                 890.49             67.10
288        1972        Second Educotior      UOA/b                                   6.30
1692       1979        Second Ag. Training  MOA                   42.00
2258       1983        MPCS/Construction    MPW/c                 80.00
2341       1984        Third Ag. Training   MOA                   63.30
2599       1986        Science & Tech. Trn. MORTd                 93.00
2706       1986        Manpower Dev. A Trn. MOM/                  68.10
2940       1988        Accountancy Dov.      MOFjf A MOEC        113.00
2992       1989        Tree Crop Human       MOA                  18.40
Resource D-v.
3112       1990        Public Works          MPW                  38.10
Instit. Dev. A Trn.
3134       1990        Prof. Human           BAPPENAS, BPPTLa   117.60
Grand Total         1,461.89             73.40
a  MOEC - Ministry of Education and Culture
MOA  - Ministry of Agriculture
c  MPW  - Ministry of Public Works
MORT - Ministry of Research and Technology
e  MOM  - Ministry of Manpower
MOF  - Ministry of Finance
BPPT - Agency for Assessment and Application of Technology.



- 45 -                        ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 3
INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Higher Education Program Guidelines
1.        The development of higher education that has been underway since the
First Five Year Plan, has made good progress. The Directorate General of
Higher Education (DGHE), however, is now facing critical problems in coping
with the ever increasing need for resources to improve educational quality and
efficiency, and to establish study programs which respond to the demand for
higher level human resources.
2.        The Program Guidelines aim at clarifying the medium-term needs of
the higher education sector, taking into account the policy guidelines for
development of the national education system laid down by the State Basic
Guidelines for 1988, REPELITA V, and the DGHE's Framework for the Development
of Higher Education 1986-95.
A. Quality and Efficiency
3.        Priority attention will be given to preserving and improving
educational quality and efficiency in public higher education institutions.
Emphasis will be placed on strategic areas such as staff development and
libraries, which have maximum multiplier effects on educational quality
throughout the higher education system. In addition, physical facilities will
be further developed and increased provisions will be made for operational
expenditures, such as teacher honoraria, instructional materials and the
maintenance of equipment in order to promote both quality and efficiency.
B. Human Resource Needs
4.        The higher education sector is of vital importance in providing the
scientific and technological personnel needed for national development. There
are critical manpower needs in the higher education system itself. Unless the
nation has the capacity to train its own higher education teaching staff and
researchers, it will be unable to determine the pace of its own scientific and
technological development. Therefore, priority will be given to developing
the national capacity for postgraduate scientific and technological education
and research. Within the limits of resources available, emphasis will be
given to the education and training of professional and subprofessional
manpower in engineering and technical fields in order to sustain the national
policy of industrial development and diversification. Similarly, a modest
expansion will be undertaken in selected fields of agriculture, fisheries and
marine science, in order to sustain the national policy of agricultural self-
sufficiency and development of marine resources. Close attention will also be
given to the production of teachers for the extension of universal basic
education through grade nine and for the senior secondary schools, especially



-46 -                        ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 3
outside Java and in the basic sciences, where there are acute shortages. From
the third year of REPELITA V, a selected number of Environmental Study Centers
located at public universities will be significantly upgraded in order to
train personniel required in environmental fields and to conduct problem-
solving environmental research.
C. Planning and Management
5.        A comprehensive plan for development of the higher education system
in the remaining three years of REPELITA V will be reviewed. The projected
growth of higher education enrollments and the establishment or expansion of
study programs will continue to be closely related to the availability of
human, physical, and financial resources and job opportunities, and the
availability of qualified secondary school leavers. At the same time,
measures will be taken to improve higher education statistics and the new MIS.
The administrative capacity of universities will be strengthened to lay the
foundation for sustainable growth and quality improvement in the future.
D. Mobilization of Resources
6.        With the steadily increasing need for resources in public
universities, the role of private institutions as partners in the development
of the national higher education system must be reinforced. Measures will be
taken to stimulate the development of private universities, particularly in
areas such as engineering and basic sciences where there are critical national
human resource needs. At the same time,in order to recognize more clearly the
educational achievements of both public and private universities,
accreditation standards will be reviewed. In the public universities, income
from student fees will be increased as permitted under the new financial
autonomy decree signed in 1990 to help offset the pressure on the government's
budget for O&M support. In addition, public universities will be encouraged
to seek additional sources of finance to supplement the funds received from
fees and government budget.
E. Regional Development
7.        The condition of higher education will be given part' ular attention
in those parts of the country where the universities are still relatively
young, such as the Eastern Islands. Efforts will be made to meet the needs
for staff recruitment and training and for equipment and instructional
materials to support the curriculum. Emphasis will be given to basic science,
engineering, and selected fields in fisheries, marine science, and dryland
farming. The local supply of secondary school graduates capable of
benefitting from higher education will be assessed before approving new or
expanded study programs.
F. Implementation
8.        Improvement in the implementation of ongoing projects will receive
priority attention. Particular care will be taken to ensure that the
counterpart fund budget is closely related to the actual work programs of the



ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 3
various projects. The monitoring of ongoing projects will be reinforced in
order to identify implementation obstacles early and initiate corrective
action. Implementation performance will be a major criterion in the
allocation of development budget funds to state higher education institutions.



-48-                       ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Action Plan for Higher Education
The Higher Education Program Guidelines which underlie the proposed
project have been translated into priority expenditure activities. studies, or
actions. A list of the actions to be taken during the project period which
are not covered by the expenditure program or proposed higher education
studies is given below:
Target Date
Improvement of Quality and Efficiency
1.  Implementation of recommendations in the primary           May 1992
teacher training study
2.  Implementation of recommendations in the secondary         May 1993
teazher training study
3.  Evaluation of IUC performance by the National              December 1991
Graduate Council
4.  Assessment of performance of the four science and          May 1993
technology centers based on the agreed performance
criteria in meeting the original objectives of the
centers to be shared by private universities
Resource Mobilization and Finance
5.  Preparation of standard operational procedures for         April 1992
implementation of the financial autonomy decree
6.  Review of new sources of funds/revenues which may          Annual/October
be raised by public universities under the
financial autonomy decree
Planning and Management of Higher Education
7.  Adjustment of the rate of expansion of state               Annual/October
university enrollments and study programs to
the availability of financial and human resources,
qualified secondary school leavers, and job
opportunities



- 49 -                  ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
Target Date
e.  Preparation of a plan and a timetable for the             March 1992
removal of polytechnics from the administrative
control of universities
Implementation
9.  Preparation by *he monitoring team of a report on         Annual/December
implementati. of all World Bank-assisted DGHE
projects
10. Carrying out a joint DGHE/IBRD review of the              Annual/January
current and following year's expenditure program
and implementation of the Action Plan
11. Organizing a project implementation workshop              Annual



-  50  -                                          ANNEX  5
Page I
INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHER EDUCATION DEVEI0PMENT PROJECT
In-Country and Overseas Staff Development Proarams by Component and Year
(Student-years)
In-country Training                    Overseas Training
Component                  1991/92  1992/93  1993/94  Total    1991/02  1992/93  1993/94  Total
A. Ouallty and Efficiency
Staff Development
Predeparture training for            291       298       300       889         -         -         -         -
overseas fellowships /a
S-3 Degree Programs;
Baslc science/math & science        42        43        82       167         5         8       11        24
Engineerlng                         16        12        29        57         4         6        8        18
Agriculture                    )                                             2         4        6        12
Soclal study/economics         1   396       405       820    1,621          2         4        6        12
Health science                 )                                             2         3         4        9
Other                          1                                             2         3         4        9
S-2 Degree Programs:
Basic scLence/math 4 science    671          739    1,464    2,874          15        33       32        83
Engineering                        287       316       620    1.223          9       22        23        5.
Agriculture                    )                                             6        16        18       40
Social study/economics         ) 2,367    2,520    4,845    9,732            6        16       18        40
Health science                 )                                             4        11       13        28
Other                          1                                             4        11        13       28
Subtotal                           4,069    4.332    8.160   16,561           60       137       157      353
Inter University Centers
Non-degree programs                    -         -         -         -         0         4        14       18
Library Development
S-2 programs                           9        24        42        75         9        24       27        60
S-1 programs                          18        47        85       150         -         -         -         -
D-2 programs                          18        47        85       150         -         -         -        -
Non-degree programs                    -         -         -         -         2         3         3        8
Computer training (1-month)            2         2         1         5         -                   -        -
Subtotal                              45       120       213       379        11        27       30        67
Total for A                          4,114    4,453    8,373   16,940           71       167       201      439
ja Includes predeparture training for basic science i teacher training overseas fellowship program fellows



- 51 -                                            ANNEX 5
Page 2
:, Country anid Overseas Staff Development Programs by Component and Year (cont'd)
~Student years)
In-country Training                     Overseas TrainLng
Component                   1991/92  1992193  1993/94  Total        1991/92  1992/93  1992194  Total
b Selected Fields of Study
Basic science & teacher education
S-3 degree program                     20        36        67       123         9        15        21        45
S-2 degree program                     90       179       219       488        29        50        21       100
No.v-degree programs                   60        60        60       180        21        16        14        51
In-service training                    20        25        20        65         -         -         -          -
Subtotal                              191       299       366       856        59        81        56       197
Private Higher Education
Laboratory technician training         50        50        50       150         _         _          _         _
Univ  administrator training            3         3         4        10         -         -          -         -
Subtotal                               53        53        54       160         0         0         0         0
Polytechnics
Pre-departure training                 30         0         0        3C         -         -          -         -
Staff development                      88        88        99       275        15        15        10        40
D-Ill upgrading                         8         8         9        25         -                              -
Management training                     0         2         0         2         2         0          0         2
Malntenance training                    0        20         0        20         -          -         -         -
Library staff training                  1         1         2         4         -         -         -          -
Subtotal                              127       119       109       356        17        15        10        42
Environmental Study Centers
S-3 programs                            6        19        48        73         1         9        23        33
S-2 programs                           12        31        71       114         5        17        31        53
Non-degree programs                    20        28        22        70         4         7          5       16
Internships                             6         9         7        22         -         -         -         -
Management training                    57        67        62       186         -         -          -         -
Subtotal                              101       153       210       464        10        33        59       102
Total for B                             472       624       739    1,836         86       129       125       340
C. Planning. Management and
Implementatlon Caoacity
Management training /a                  3        14         4        22         -         -         -          -
Computer training for MIS              25       100       100       225         -         -         -          -
Total for C                              28       114       104       247         0         0          0         0
TOTAL                              4,615    5,191    9,216   19,022           156       297       325       778
La  116 staff-days of training for each of 49 institutlons amounts to 5,684 days ln total, vhich is
equivalent to 22 student-years calculated at 5 days per week and 52 weeks per year.



- 52 -                          ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
List of Studies
1.        Labor Market Study of University Graduates
(a) to obtain a data base of the changing demand for highly trained
human resources. The data in turn will become part of the decision
support system for investment policies. Completion date - March
1992;
(b)  to obtain information on employers' needs for high'y trained people,
their expectations of specific skills, personal traits and
leadership qualities, including intellectual capability and the
compensation they are willing to offer. Completion date - March
1992;
(c) to uncover the present and future degree of imbalance between the
number of engineers and of middle level technicians and to propose
possible alternatives for future human resource planning in this
critical field. Completion date - December 1992; and
(d) to obtain information on industry requirements for the Si
engineering and the DII and DIII polytechnic programs in various
fields, and to propose appropriate curricular changes for the
programs. Completion date - March 1993.
2.        Strategy for the Development of Private Higher Education
To identify the major issues in the private higher education sector,
analyze these issues, recommend a long-term development strategy, including
ways to improve the quality of education and to respond to changing human
resource needs. Completion date - September 1992.
3.        Effectiveness of the Overseas and In-country Fellowship Program
Part I:   Conditions and Performance of Indonesian Students in Degree Programs
To obtain information on the relative general educational level of
Indonesian students starting in-country and overseas degree programs, on the
relevance of their placement and the services offered by the host university
and the TA (if any) responsible for the placement. For overseas programs, the
quality and relevance of the predeparture training will also be evaluated.
Completion date - March 1993.



- 53 -                          ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 2
Part II: Conditions and Performance of Indonesian Degree Holders after their
Return to their Home Universities
To obtain information on the situation of higher degree holders in
the first years after their return and on how their productivity can best be
improved. Furthermore, an evaluation will be made of the relevance of their
degree programs. Completion date - March 1993.
4.        Unit Costs and Financing in Public Universities
To obtain information on typical unit costs in public universities,
by field (hard science vs. soft science) and by region, based on a study of
representative programs and universities. Completion date - March 1992.
5.        The Third Time Slice of HEDP
To prepare a possible third time slice in the higher education
development program covering five years of REPELITA VI. Completion date -
June 1993.



I_4 j  _ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 5
INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Environmental Study Centers
General Introduction
1.        Indonesia is a rapidly developing country with rich and diverse
natural resources. There is, however, a basic problem in the distribution of
both population and resources. Indonesia is an archipelagic nation
encompassing more than 17,000 islands spanning a distance of more than 3,500
miles. The majority of these islands are not permanently inhabited and over
65Z of the population of some 180 million is concentrated in the "Inner
Islands" of Java, Madura and Bali which make up only 7Z of the total land
area. There are significant concentrations of population on other major
islands including Sumatra, Kalimantan and Sulawesi, and small but often highly
concentrated populations in eastern areas of the archipelago. In contrast to
these Outer Islands, the Inner Islands are favored with rich soils and
climatic conditions conducive to the establishment of intensive and highly
productive agriculture which has historically formed the focus for the
concentration of population. However, in recent years, the main pattern of
migration has been from rural to urban areas with the Jakarta metropolitan
region receiving the largest number of migrants from all areas of Indonesia.
2.        The concentration of population in the Inner Islands has also
provided both a major market and a pool of labor which has fostered the growth
of secondary and tertiary economic activities. This in turn has created a
powerful magne,, attracting investment and stimulating inward migration of the
better educated and more skilled people from the less developed islands.
3.        As a result, intensive population pressures have built up in the
Inner Islands and there are mounting pressure on land and water resources and
increasing problems of environmental degradation within major watersheds and
urban areas. Problems such as erosion, increased incidence and severity of
flooding, and increasing water pollution from agriculture, industry and
domestic wastes threaten the long-term sustainability of resource-dependent
activities and the health and welfare of large numbers of people in both rural
and urban areas.
4.        In an attempt to redress the imbalance in regional development and
to reduce environmental degradation in the Inner Islands, the Government has
placed great emphasis upon the redistribution of population based upon the
promotion of agriculture, forestry, fisheries and other forms of primary
resource development in the less populated areas of the Outer Islands. In
some cases, for example the harvesting of pelagic stocks of yellow fin tuna in
the eastern seas, there are uniquely rich resource development options which
can provide new economic opportunities. However, where development entails
the conversion of natural systems, such as forests or swamplands to
agriculture or other alternative uses, the ability of those systems to sustain



- 55 -                        ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 5
the new development has generally been low. It is now recognized by the
Government that the sustainable development of the natural resources of both
the Inner and Outer Islands requires far more sophisticated planning and
management than had been generally assumed.
Government Strategy
5.        The Ministry of Population and the Environment (KLH) has a mandate
to protect the environment and to resolve conflicts among sectoral agencies
which could inhibit sound environmental and economic development. In 1982, an
environmental impact analysis (AMDAL) process was established under the
provisions of Basic Law number 4 on the Management of the Living Environment.
The AMDAL procedures have been devised as a tool to improve the design and
implementation of development projects and to avoid unnecessary adverse
social, economic or bio-physical impacts. KLH has identified three priorities
for addressing environmental problems in the current Five Year Plan: (a)
improving water quality and use of water resources in Java; (b) halting the
degradation of land resources including forestry in Java and the Outer Islands
and increasing the rate of rehabilitation of degraded environments; and (c)
improving air quality in and around major population centers in Java.
6.        The Government has taken a number of steps to increase human
resource skills and the information required to help meet the sustainable
development objectives. One of the most significant initiatives was the
provision of official support for the development of the interdisciplinary
Environmental Study Centers (ESCs) which had been established with foreign
donor assistance at a small number of public universities. In 1981, the
Minister of Population and the Environment and the Minister of Education and
Culture signed a Memorandum of Understanding under which both ministries
supported the development of ESCs at institutes of higher education throughout
the country. This agreement permits KLH to provide funds and technical
support to the ESCs. However, MOEC is ultimately responsible for the
administration of the ESCs.
7.        The ESCs are expected to play a critical role in fulfilling the
objectives of sustainable development in Indonesia. They are looked to as
sources of expertise and innovative thinking related to the solution through
applied research of national and local environmental management problems.
They are also expected to provide training to facilitate implementation of new
environmental initiatives and other forms of public service.  Specifically
they are charged with the responsibility for: (a) developing the human
resources needed to resolve environmental problems; (b) developing knowledge
about Indonesian environmental conditions; (c) formulating guidelines on the
development of natural resources; and (d) providing practical advice to policy
makers, planners and managers to help them avoid adverse environmental,
economic and social impacts from new development initiatives.
8.        The National Body for the Coordination and Development of
Environmental Study Centers-BKPSL was established by the ESCs with support
from KLH. The BKPSL is developing a network for sharing information and is



- 56 -                        ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 5
serving as a forum for the discussion of problems and issues concerning ESC
development.
Past and Ongoing Assistance to ESCs
9.        The first ESCs were developed in the early 1970s as a result of
initiatives by staff at Padjadjaran University in Bandung (UNPAD), and the
Bogor Agricultural Institute to promote inter-disciplinary approaches to
complex environmental management problems. The Ford Foundation helped
establish the two original ESCs and two further ESCs at Gadjah Mada University
in Togyakarata (UGM) and Nusa Cendanah University in Kupang, West Timor.
Funding from Ford ceased in 1984. USAID helped strengthen the newly
established ESC at the Institute of Technology in Bandung (ITB) from 1979 to
1982.
10.       In the late 1970s KLH introduced a rolling program of investment and
technical support to promote the expansion of the ESC concept to all 27
provinces of Indonesia. The basic idea was to strengthen centers on Java to a
point where they could become self-sustaining. They were then asked to train
staff from other ESCs and to help develop the Centers in the Outer Islands.
With the fall in oil prices in the mid 1980s, the funds available to KLH to
support the development of ESCs were severely reduced.
11.       UNDP (with the World Bank as Executing Agency) assisted the GOI
through a phased program to support the development of ESCs in the Outer
Islands, beginning with centers at the University of North Sumatra (USU) in
Medan and at Hasanuddin University (UNHAS) in Ujung Pandang, South Sulawesi.
A second phase of the Development of Environmental Study Centers (DESC)
project continued support to USU and UNHAS, and extended technical assistance
to five additional centers. These were: Sriwijaya University in Palembang,
South Sumatra, Andalas University, Padang, West Sumatra; Lampung Mankurat
University,Bandarmasin, South Kalimantan; Pattimura University, Ambon, Maluku;
and Cenderawasih University (UNCEN), Manokwari, Irian Jaya. Funding for this
project finished on the March 31, 1989. A third phase was proposed by UNDP
but never funded.
12.       The main forms of assistance to ESCs at this time are:
(a)  CIDA is funding the Environmental Management Development in
Indonesia (EMDI) project. The primary objective is to strengthen
the staff resources and operation of the KLH. In addition, the EMDI
project has made junior scientists and volunteers available to work
with a number of ESCs in developing research and training projects.
Another CIDA initiative of relevance to the development of ESCs is
the establishment of the University Consortium on the Environment
(UCE). The purpose of UCE project is to strengthen the ESCs at the
University of Indonesia, ITB and UGM by promoting collaboration
between them and the Faculties of Environmental Studies at the
University of Waterloo and York University;



ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 5
(b) the Belgian government is supporting a project to train staff at the
ESC at the Surabaya Institute of Technology in water quality
analysis and the treatment of hazardous industrial waste water;
(c) the Netherland's Institute of Social Science is working with the ESC
at ITB in developing their capabilities in conducting social
surveys;
(d) UNEP is working with the ESC at UNPAD on a training program in
environmental analysis, monitoring and management; and
(e) the Netherland's University Foundation for International Cooperation
is working with UNCEN in Irian Jaya on techniques in rural
development.
All of these current projects help to strengthen individual ESCs. However,
there is little or no coordination among different donor initiatives in
developing a comprehensive program to accelerate the ESC development.
Lessons Learned
13.       Evaluations of the former UNDP-funded DESC project and other ESC
development projects identified the following lessons:
(a) The quality of the leadership and management skills at the ESCs has
a profound effect upon the rate and quality of their development.
Problems common to the management of most ESCs include: inability
to delegate responsibility, poor financial and personnel management,
failure to accurately assess priorities for research, poor public
relations, etc.;
(b) interdisciplinary problem solving is a complex task. Training is
required to increase the awareness of specialists from different
disciplines of the broad range of factors which interact to create
complex environmental problems. Training can facilitate
communication among different disciplines and increase their ability
to define problems accurately, identify the types of information
required and what is already available, and finally specify the most
effective forms of applied research to provide any missing
information;
(c) dependence upon counterpart funding for critical elements in past
ESC projects made them vulnerable to unforeseen changes in the
Indonesian economy. Financial support for research on environmental
problems is limited due to national budget constraints. This forces
the ESCs to concentrate on short-term studies aimed at avoiding
future adverse environmental impacts. There is little incentive or
opportunity for them to develop longer term, systematic approaches
to existing problems and providing better information for planners
of new development initiatives;



- 58 -                       ANNEX 7
Page 5 of 5
(d) research which produces scientific data without explaining the
significance in policy terms is of little use to decision makers.
Any applied research at the ESCs should be directed toward the
provision of accurate information and the exposition of practical
solutions to problems;
(e) the institutional setting of the ESCs needs to be strengthened if
they are to make more effective use of their resources. Specific
points which need to be addressed are: (i) the ESCs should be fully
integrated into the higher education system; (ii) the directors and
program managers which make up the core staff should be given full-
time appointments; and (iii) staff should be given full credit
towards their career development for the research, training and
public service activities they undertake at the ESCs;
(f)  working links between ESCs and local government egencies, NGOs and
the private sector need to be strengthened at some ESCs. Weak links
limit the support for these ESCs and their recognition of what
problems and issues are of regional and national significance; and
(g) strong leadership and programmatic direction are critical elements
in the success of institution development projects. The DESC
project was seriously weakened through the removal of the Chief
Technical Advisor (CTA) position just before the project start. It
was not possible to make up for the loss of the technical guidance,
day-to-day management and liaison with donors which the CTA could
have provided.



- 59 -
INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PIOJECT
Technical Assistance Prosgram by Component and Year
(Staff-months)
Local consultants                  Forelgn consultants
Component                   1991192 1992/93 1993/94  Total    1991/92 1992/93 1993/94  Total
A  Quality and Efficiency
Prolect SLupport
Monitoring/evaluation/disseminatlon   250         250     275      775         -        -        -         -
of research activities
Textbook dev.(wrLting&translation)        95       95      90      280         -        -         -        -
Capacity building:
Library development                       10       10      10       30         -        -        -         -
Dev. of Inter University Centers           -        -        -       -         0        8       32        40
Total for A                              355      355     375   1,085          0        8       32        40
B. Selected Fields of Study
ProJect Support:
Basic science training program           140      240     255      635         9       14        9        32
Polytechnic development                  130      220     285      635         -        -        -         -
Evaluation of Growth Centers               0       25      10       35         -        -        -         -
Capacity building:
?olytechnic development                    0       50      25       75         9       12        6        27
Environmental study center dev.            -        -        -       -       114     190        92       396 La
Total for B                              270      535     575   1,380        132     216       107       455
C. Planning. Management and Implementatlon
Capacity
Project Support:
MIS development                           50       98      97      245         -        -         -        -
Capacity building:
Tracer study                              20        0       0       20         4        0        0         4
Autonomy                                   -        -        -       -         4       8         0        12
Policy Development:
Studies on higher education sector        55      120      60      235        12      12         5        29
planning and management
Total for C                              125      218     157      500        20      20         5        45
TOTAL                                 750   1,108   1,107   2,965        152      244       144       540
Al= c=e= 2==   =0=0 m=f  N0v0=nters
/a Includes 288 s/rn of UN volunteers.



ANNEX 9
INDONESIA
SF.COND  HIGHEf    EDUCATION  DEVELOPMENT  PROIJCT
Project  Processing  and  Overall  Implementation  Schedule
CalerJar Years                       CY90               CY91              CY92               CY93              Cr94
FNMJIJAS IOND JFAMJ A     J         FM_  A  JJASID JFMO AMJXJASj        JFM|AMJIJASJ*ND
IBRO Fiscal Years                             FY91               FY92              FY93               FY94
(Ju t  to June)                     -_      _  _                                                              I
Indonesian Financial Years              FY90/91            fY91/92           FY92/93            fY93/94            FY94/9S
(April to March)               T___         _ _                  . __        - _ __
Repelita V - Fifth S-Yer  Development Plan (1989-94)
1   1''' 2'2 '1            3            4                       5   /
Preparation                     c<--(Jan/Feb 90)
Preappraisat                         *---(May/Jun 90)
Appraisat                                  *- -(Sep/Oct 90)
Negotiations                                       *<--(Feb 91)
Board Presentation                                     * *-(Mar 91)
Effectiveness                                            *<--(Jun 91)
Implementation Period                  PREP YEAR          R                 R                 O
Major Imnlementation Tasks:
Ove rseas T raiznisnog-
Predeparture Training                            642                595               600
1,837 Students                ...... .... ... _ _  ...m _    ... _II    ......           m ...... ............
PhO.Pogam 36mnts) ........................   ...   ....  I..   ; ...   ...   ...   ...   ...   ...   ...   ...   ....   ...   ...   ...   ...   ...   ...   ...
Ph.D. Programs (36 months)l                             4%;                11                3
59 Students, Various Programs, 3 Batches ...m.. a             _m __                                    rm    cm  cm
MA Programs (24 months)   I                              147               92                3
242 Students, Various Programs, 3 Batches...    m _w   _i _i _I _i c_m a_m   cm  cm otm
In-Country Training:
S-3 Programs (42 months)              127                186               163               164
640 Students, 4 Batches am  .              a  i             mm           m mmma mm
........    ..... I.,..... .... . ..... .. ...... ...................
S-2 Programs (30 months)              1,300              1,641             1,672             1,612
6,225 Studerts, 4 Batchesrm    m                         iI=                              m i  _ _ _  III=  cm  cD   
... ... ... ... ... ... I. I ... ... ... ...8 ... ... ... 2... ... ... ... ... ...
S-1 Programs (30 months)                                        ............ ... ..  .       ... 1 ,4.. ... ... ... ......
58,629 Students, 3 Batches ..u...m....m....m....mm.. a                 ... .    m    -  Elm   m  am  am
D-3 MIPA Programs (36 months). ..1,265                  1,325              1,362             1,399.
5,351 Students, 4 BatchesKm c   amE am_ __ _                 _   _   ___   _   _   _   _ _             a_   cm  am  cm
... ... ... ..I. ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ...
D-2 Programs (30 months) ... ... ...  .. ... .. 30 ... ... .    .. 30 ... ... .    ... ... ... ... ... ... ...
60 Students, 2 Batches   ............  ...  ..                                                       . ... ..  ..  ...
Technical Assistance:
Preparation of TORs            ............   . _ _ _                                                    ............
Selection                      .........           . .. ...                  ... ...       _.            ...  .........
Service Period                 ........ ...... ... ... ..                                             .... ...m_ _ _   _   m m mn
..... ... ... ...  ..I....... ... ... ...              ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ...
Civil Wcrks:
Design                                  Phase I.Phase II.                              ........... ............
Construction Documents         .... ...   rm    r                    _       ...  ... ............ ............
Bidding/Evaluation/Awards  ............ ...m _  .                ..m..... ...      _   .........  ... ............
Construction Period    .        .. ...       .       .      .       .      .      m.... ...m... ...  Om   Om c m 
Eauioment:
Masterlists                    ... cm m  Phase I ...  ... Phase 11. .         - ... ... ...         -- ... ...    -- *--
Grouping/Packaging                       . .mm. .....               -1-  ............ .   | ............
Specs & Bidding Docs   ... ... ..                             . ...... ......
Bidding/Evaluation/Awards ... ... .. .......                          | ...
Delivery Period .m    ......*. ................
Testing & Acceptance              . ... ... ... ... .. ..   ..                         m ... ... ... ...  III ... ... cmcm
..    .. .  . . .   .     .    .   .    .    .   .    . . .    .    .   .    .   ...   ..   ..
Books & JournaLs:                |     ... ... Phase I ... ... Phase II ... ... Phase III .. ... ... ... ... ... ...
Title Identification           .. ..  ... cm. ... ...  ..                  -           ... ... *-                       -
Placement of Orders         .       .        .. ... ...             m         . ... ...  .  ..  ... ...  ... ... ... ... ... ... ...
Delivery Period..........  m                                                      m 1 .       1      m I   ... ... .    ...
Proiet Copleton ll |  (Ma 94)...   ...   ...   ...   ...   ...   ...  ..   ...   ...   ...   ...   ...   ...   ...   ...   .I. ... ...   ...>
Project Coateetion                                                                             (Mar 94)- >        9
Closing Date                                                                                                 IDec 94)-.>*



- 61 -                                    ANNEX 1 0
Table 1
INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
Rp                              USS                            Total
..............................    ---..--........-...---.....    X Foreign       Base
Local   Foreign     Total        Local  Foreign    Total     Exchange     Costs
A. Quality & Efficiency
1. Staff Development            161270.3   35156.1  196426.3         85.1     18.2    103.3         17.9      40.9
2. Research                     40139.1    3690.9   43830.0          21.2      1.9     23.1          8.4        9.1
3. Inter University Centers       3916.9    4328.6    8245.5          2.1      2.3      4.3         52.5        1.7
4. Library Development            6560.1   14529.8   21089.9          3.5      7.6      11.1         68.9       4.4
..... ....... .................. . .. ........................... ............ ...... ...........   .   .....  ...........
Sub-Total                          211886.4   57705.3  269591.7        111.8     30.0    141.8          21.4      56.1
B. Selected Fields of Study
1. Basic Science & T. Trng      25007.3   42283.2   67290.5          13.3     22.1     35.4         62.8       14.0
2. Private Higher Education       1311.7    3129.1    4440.8          0.7      1.6      2.3          70.5       0.9
3. Accel. Engineering Ed.        20784.3    3577.9  24362.1          11.0      1.8     12.8          14.7       5.1
4. Polytechnics                  13163.4   27955.1   41118.5          7.0     14.6     21.6          68.0       8.6
5. Environ. Study Centers        11911.4   12288.6   24200.0          6.3      6.4     12.7          50.8       5.0
6. Selected Physical Facil.      26669.5   11776.7   38446.2         14.2      6.1     20.2          30.6       8.0
Sub-Total                           98847.5  101010.6  199858.1         52.4     52.7    105.1          50.5      41.6
C. Planning Nanag. & Imple.
1. Management Development        3163.5      863.7    4027.2          1.7      0.4      2.1         21.4        0.8
2. Development of HIS            2258.8    1800.5    4059.4           1.2      0.9      2.1         44.4        0.8
3. Studies & Evaluation           1121.4     574.5    1695.9          0.6      0.3      0.9          33.9       0.4
4. Project Management Unit        1042.1     268.4    1310.5          0.6      0.1      0.7          20.5       0.3
... ............................   ...........................    ..............................................
Sub-Total                            7585.8    3507.2   11093.0          4.0      1.8      5.8          31.6       2.3
. ........... .................. . ... ......... ..................  ..  ...................................................  .....  .......
Total BASELINE COSTS               318319.7  162223.1  480542.8        168.2     84.5    252.8          33.4     100.0
Physical Contingencies           12424.1   13368.2   25792.2          6.5      7.0     13.6          51.8       5.4
Price Contingencies              21854.3    8548.9   30403.2         10.7      5.3      16.0         33.1       6.3
................ ............... .. .......  . ........ ....................  ................................ .....  ..
Total PROJECTS COSTS               352598.1  184140.1  536738.2        185.5     96.9    282.4          34.3     111.7
...... .........S  b . 100...........0 .... ...                      ..                        ..
Values Scaled by 1000000.0



-  62  -                                                             1
Tabl'e 2
INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPflENT PROJECT
Summary Accounts Cost Summary
Rp                                    USS                                X Total
................    ......................... -  Foreign      Base
Local   Foreign         Total         Local   Foreign       Total       Exchange       Costs
............................  ..        ..............................  . .......................... .  ...................................................
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
. ..................
A. Civil Works                           28331.1    12510.4   40841.5              15.0        6.4       21.5           30           8.5
B. Equipment                              5855.0    54294.8   60149.9               3.2       28.5       31.6           90          12.5
C. Books and Journals                     1575.0    14605.7    16180.7              0.9        7.7        8.5           90           3.4
0. Furniture                              2694.7      1189.9      ARUI.6            1.4        0.6        2.0           30           0.8
E. Overseas Training                      1858.7   36388.1    38246.8               1.0       19.1       20.1           95           8.0
F. In-Country Training
1. In-Country Training              134214.8    24403.9  158618.7              70.9       12.5       83.4            15         33.0
2. PPI Program                       17795.4      3235.7   210I.0              9.4         1.7      11.1            15           4.4
..............................           ...........................      . ................ ........................ ................................
Sub-Total                               152010.2    27639.5  179649.7              80.3       14.2       94.5           15          37.4
G. Technical Assistance
1. Project Support                    8951.0      2345.9    11296.9             4.7        1.2        5.9           20            2.4
2. Capacity Building                  1244.2      4537.5      5781.7             0.7       2.4        3.0            78           1.2
3. Policy Development                  495.9        150.6      646.5             0.3       0.1        0.3            23           0.1
Sub-TotaL                                10691.1      7034.0    17725.1             5.7        3.7        9.3           39            3.7
H. Research                              21208.3      4191.7   25400.0             11.2        2.2       13.4           20           5.3
i. Administration/Management              9957.9      2565.0    12523.0             5.3        1.3        6.6           20           2.6
.. ...........................       .  ............................. ...........................  ...................................................
TotaL INVESTMENT COSTS                 234182.1   160419.2  394601.3              124.0       83.6     207.6            40          82.1
........................................................... .. ...................   ....................................   ....................
11. RECURRENT COSTS
...................
A. Incremental 0 & N                     15756.8      1803.9    17560.7             8.3        0.9        9.2           10            3.7
S. Incremental SaLaries                  68380.8          0.0   68380.8            36.0        0.0       36.0            0          14.2
....... ...........    -----------.     ... ...........................   . ...... .. .................................
Total RECURRENT COSTS                   84137.5       1803.9   85941.4             44.3        0.9      45.2             2          17.9
Total BASELINE COSTS                   318319.7   162223.1  480542.8              168.2       84.5     252.8            33         100.0
Physical Contingencies               12424.1    13368.2    25792.2              6.5        7.0       13.6            51           5.4
Price Contingencies                  21854.3      8548.9    30403.2            10.7        5.3       16.0            33           6.3
..............................           --------------------------- . ........ ..................................
Total PROJECTS COSTS                   352598.1   184140.1   536738.2             185.5       96.0    282.4             34         111.7
...................................................................................................................
Vatues Scated by 1000000.0



6 (2                                             ANNEX  10
Table 3
Page 1
INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rp
Project Components by Year
Base Costs                     Total
. .......... . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
91/92     92/93     93/94     Rp       US$
A. Quality & Efficiency
1. Staff Development             52188.5   57637.7   86600.1  196426.3      103.3
2. Research                      13640.0   12806.0   17383.9   43830.0       23.1
3. Inter University Centers          0.0    1649.1    6596.4    8245.5        4.3
4. Library Development           m77.3    6391.8    6960.8   21089.9         11.1
....................................................
Sub-total                          73565.8   7848.4.6  117541.3  269591.7     141.8
B. Selected Fields of Study
1. Basic Science & T. Trng        9444.4   44005.1   13841.0   67290.5       35.4
2. Private Higher Education        254.2    3402.1      784.5   4440.8        2.3
3. Accel. Engineering Ed.         7471.1    8096.4    8794.6   24362.1       12.8
4. Polytechnics                   6331.0   21728.5   13059.0   41118.5       21.6
S. Environ. Study Centers         6108.7    9025.3    9066.0   24200.0       12.7
6. Selected Physical Facit.      14819.9   15378.5    8247.8   38446.2       20.2
......... ................ ...... ........... ......... .
Sub-total                          44429.3  101635.9   53792.9  199858.1      105.1
C. Planning Manag. & Inple.
1. Management Development          938.4    2126.2     962.7    4027.2        2.1
2. Developrent of MIS             1192.6    1461.9    1404.8    4059.4        2.1
3. Studies & Evaluation           1043.9     465.0      187.0    1695.9       0.9
4. Project Management Unit         653.4     430.6      226.5    1310.5       0.7
. ............................................................................... ....
Sub-total                           3828.3    4483.7    2781.0   11093.0        5.8
.............. ............................ .... ......................
Total BASELINE COSTS              121823.4  184604.3  174115.1  480542.8      252.8
Physical Contingencies           6214.5   11900.7    7676.9   25792.2       13.6
Price Contingencies              2509.3   11430.2   16463.7   30403.2       16.0
.......................................................................................... ......
Total PROJECT COSTS               130547.2  207935.2  198255.8  536738.2      282.4
Foreign Exchange                35516.9   92941.8   55681.4  184140.1       96.9
Values Scaled by 1000000.0



-64-                                            ANNEX  10
Table 3
Page 2
INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Projects Components by Year
Totals Including Contingencies               Totals Including Contingencies
Rp                                           USt
. ............................. .......................................  .........................................
91/92     92/93     93/94     Total        91/92      92/93     93/94     Total
A. Quality & Efficiency
1. Staff Development             54375.1   62343.9   94866.1  211585.2          28.6      32.8      49.9     111.3
2. Research                      15077.1   14955.9  21604.0   51636.9            7.9       7.9      11.4      27.2
3. Inter University Centers          0.0    1944.6   8147.0   10091.5            0.0       1.0       4.3       5.3
4. Library Development            8577.1    7283.1    8149.0  24009.2            4.5       3.8       4.3      12.6
,. ................................ ........ . . ...........    ............ ...... .................
Sub-Total                           78029.2  86527.4  132766.1  297322.8           41.0      45.5      69.8     156.4
B. Selected Fields of Study
1. Basic Science & T. Trng        9998.3  50300.0   15220.0  75518.4             5.3      26.5       8.0      39.8
2. Private Higher Education        269.3   3936.6    947.9    5153.8             0.1       2.1       0.5       2.7
3. Accel. Engineering Ed.         7614.0   8433.0   9356.1   25403.1             4.0       4.4       4.9      13.4
4. Polytechnics                   6925.0  25094.3   15609.5  47628.8             3.6      13.2       8.2      25.0
5. Environ. Study Centers         6718.6  10348.3  10734.1   27801.1             3.5       5.4       5.6      14.6
6. Selected Physical Facit.      16724.5  18255.5   10300.2  45280.2             8.8       9.6       5.4      23.8
Sub-Total                           48249.6  116367.8   62167.8  226785.3          25.4      61.2      32.7     119.3
C. Planning Manag. & Imple.
1. Management Development         1017.2    2286.6    1114.5    4418.3           0.5       1.2       0.6       2.4
2. Development of MIS             1335.2    1687.0    1691.0    4713.3           0.7       0.9       0.9       2.5
3. Studies & Evaluation           1177.4     552.7     231.4    1961.5           0.6       0.3       0.1       1.0
4. Project Management Unit         738.5     513.6     285.0    1537.1           0.4       0.3       0.1       0.8
Sub-Total                            4268.4    5039.9    3321.9   12630.2           2.2       2.7       1.7       6.7
Totat PROJECTS COSTS               130547.2  207935.2  198255.8  536738.2          68.7     109.4     104.3    282.i
.Vale  Se .b  1 0............ 00._ 0...... 0_.
Values Scaled by 1000000.0



-                                                  ANNEX  10 
Tab le 4
Page 1
INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rp
Sumiary Accounts by Year
Base Costs                       Foreign Exchange
- - - - -- - - - -- - -- - - - - - --  ..... ........ .......
91/92     92/93     93/94     Total         X    Amount
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
............................ .
A.  Civil Works                   14101.3   17567.1    9173.1   40841.5         30     12510.4
B.  Equipment                      6808.1   44530.2    8811.5   60149.9         90     54294.8
C.  Books and Journals             3506.5    9395.2    3279.0   16180.7         90     14605.7
D.  Furniture                      1024.0    1799.4    1061.2    3884.6         30      1189.9
E.  Overseas Training              7516.9   14105.5   16624.4   38246.8         95     36388.1
F. In-Country Training
1. In-Country Training         38993.6   44287.3   75337.8  158618.7         15    24403.9
2. PPI Program                  6360.8    6986.0    7684.2   21031.0         15      3235.7
Sub-total                         45354.3   51273.3   83022.1  179649.7         15    27639.5
G. Technical Assistance
1. Project Support              2959.6    4043.6    4293.8   11296.9         20      2345.9
2. Capacity Building            1935.4    2286.9    1559.3    5781.7         78      4537.5
3. Poticy Development            368.5     278.0        0.0     646.5        23       150.6
Sub-total                          5263.4    6608.5    5853.1   17725.1         39      7034.0
H.  Research                       6599.5    7157.6   11642.9   25400.0         20      4191.7
1.  Administration/Management      3002.1    3520.2    6000.6   12523.0         20      2565.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS            93-6.2  155957.1  145468.0  394601.3          40    160419.2
II. RECURRENT COSTS
. . ...  .. .... .
J.  Incremental 0 & M              5853.6    5853.6    5853.6   17560.7         10      1803.9
K.  Incremental Salaries          22793.6  22793.6  22793.6   68380.8            0         0.0
.......... .. . ... . ....... .........  . . .  ... . . . . . . . .
Total RECURRENT COSTS             28647.1   28647.1   28647.1   85941.4          2      1803.9
Total BASELINE COSTS             121823.4  184604.3  174115.1  480542.8         33    162223.1
Physical Contingencies          6214.5   11900.7    7676.9   25792.2         51     13368.2
Price Contingencies             2509.3   11430.2   16463.7   30403.2         28      8548.9
,..  .  .....   ............ .................. .............  ........................ .
Totat PROJECT COSTS              130547.2  207935.2  198255.8  536738.2         34    184140.1
-- --- - - ----   -- - - - --
Foreign Exchange               35516.9   92941.8   55681.4  184140.1               184140.1
.     ................ .......... . ..................................................................   .
Values Scated by 1000000.0



- 66  -                                             ANNE   10
Table 4
Page 2
INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHER EDUCAIION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary Accounts by Year
Totals Including Contingencies                Totals Including Contingencies
Rp                                            USS
... .. .... ...... .. .... ... ... ... .. .... .... .  ....... .............. ... . . . . . . . .
91/92     92/93     93/94      Total        91/92     92/93     93/94      Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
. ................. .
A. Civil Works                      15913.5   20853.7   11455.7  48222.9            8.4       11.0       6.0      25.4
S. Equipnent                         7623.7   51660.0   10590.4  69874.2            4.0      27.2        5.6      36.8
C. Books and Journals                3931.1   10936.8   3963.7   18831.6            2.1       5.8        2.1       9.9
0. Furniture                         1155.6    2136.1    1325.3    4617.0           0.6        1.1       0.7       2.4
E. Overseas Training                 8422.2   16392.0   20038.0   44852.2           4.4       8.6       10.5      23.6
F. In-Country Training
1. In-Country Training          39323.5   45419.0   78576.4  163318.9           20.7      23.9      41.3       85.9
2. PPI Program                   6414.6    7164.6   8014.6   21593.7             3.4       3.8        4.2      11.4
....... ............ ..... .. .. ... .........  ........... ...................... ..... .
Sub-Total                           45738.1   52583.5   86591.0  184912.6          24.1      27.7       45.6      97.3
G. Technical Assistance
1. Project Support               3343.9    4816.8    5399.8   13560.4            1.8       2.5       2.8        7.1
2. Capacity Building             2172.4    2662.4    1883.9    6718.7            1.1        1.4       1.0       3.5
3. Policy Development              415.9     331.9       0.0      747.9          0.2       0.2        0.0       0.4
Sub-Total                            5932.2    7811.2    7283.7   21027.0           3.1        4.1       3.8      11.1
H. Research                          7463.2    8546.3   14685.9   30695.5           3.9       4.5        7.7      16.1
I. Adninistration/Management        3393.3    4198.2    7551.6   15143.1            1.8       2.2        4.0       8.0
.... .. . ...... ................ ....... .   . . . . . . . . . . .  .  ... . . . . ......
Total INVESTMENT COSTS              99572.9  175117.9  163485.4  438176.2          52.4      92.1       86.0     230.5
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Incremental 0 & M                 6323.1    6687.0    7072.2   20082.3           3.3        3.5       3.7      10.6
B. Incremental SaLaries             24651.3   26130.3   27698.2   78479.8           13.0      13.7      14.6      41.3
TotaL RECURRENT COSTS               30974.3   32817.3   34770.4   98562.1          16.3       17.3      18.3      51.8
TotaL PROJECT COSTS                130547.2  207935.2  198255.8  536738.2          68.7      109.4     104.3     282.
======================:=================    =.==================
.. ........ .................                                                       .... .
VaLues Scaled by 1000000.0



I AI.0$I '.A
$tt(OD "I&oEA (U., A1109 Dtvt,OPIAE11 PrOQj(C
Op
SI.!!         O~~~~nloeri   Ibray   Srce   O,he            . c'(.0                       SI, led       ft      D. 2vIOP.      a           Prjc                       a'9eccc            vtne
I lmostiml COST-
A  C-vi  MbA.                              0 0        0 0        0 0       494         0 0        0 0        0 0    '1WU     601.        35746 6        0 0       16 8        0 0            0 0   40041          100     4084 2      8       SZ39' 2
oafqu.- A                                  00         00         00      SI,,78 a 06677'    20401I           00    29732       190           0 0        00       4908         00             00   601499          100    60130        62      37093s
CB.ock   n  jmIa.                          0 0        0a0        0 0    8640S 0    0547,       284 3        0 0    7137I 1      68 6        0 0        0 0        0 0        0 0            0 0   1618 N7        10 0    1610 '      6 4    1032 9
0I  Inttml                                 Co         00         001        00         001    651 6          00       3534         010    2699 6        00         0.0        00             ('0     M884 C.     0;0        "a8       80       343
AOwe.rsearcen.:nh                     16127 1        00     28473    01 020         . 9329      00         00    20700        4',22         0 0        00         0 0       00             00   382468          100    08'.          1 3    2907
O I CtoM!,!ry lrtIItItq
I  In-CO,wxtTryTrIlnt-               1208819         00         00    36620 0,0666.9          439i0        03      49401    02339           0 0    22630        54235        00            00 108618a7           00         0 0      S00    .700 2
2  PPI Prorm                              0 0        0 0        0 0        0 6        0 0        0 0   21031 0         0 0        0 0       0 0        0 0        0.0        0 0            0C0  2103' 0          0 3        0 0     2 7      06  1
Scct:"""I                             120881 9        00         00      56620    2 0666.9      43000   21031 0    49401    32039            00      22630       542.0        00             00  '796697           00         00a     2 9    02629-
SGleVheIICRI AssIstare                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3
3.Project S."orf                         0 0    2872 8        0 0    1043 0    3131 6        139 0        0 0    2360I        35336        0 0       0 0      889 6      0'3 9            0(0  11296 9         10 0    112-9      10 0    1133 a
2  CapK1't,9idt7t                        00         00       757 7      10g8.0       00         00         00       7095    33 732         0 0      2273         0.0      3230             C0    578'?         '00       0782       62        M 39
3  Policy Centric!                        0.0        0 0        0 0        0 0        0 0        0.0        0 0       0 0        0 0        0 0        0 0        0 0      6466            0 0      646 3       100        64 6      5         %6 7
$,& t 701                                  0 0    281  8       75 7 7     35 1 8    3131 6      39 0        0 0    315  6    3706 0         0 0      227 3      889.6    160950             0 0   17723 I        '0 0    17725 3        6    1329
Ofesear Ch                                0.0   7983 14         00         00 1       00        00         00         0 0    33606          00         0 0        0.0       00             00   25,4000         '00      23400    108a    273035
I  ASlflISt7*!10120i89eIct      0~.0       0.0    4640 S       12324      8330        928a        00      9l4S    18426            00 U   1536.9    115 9.6        00         131005  7123230          '0       '23213    10 9    13670a
Total 189003mm! COSlS                 107009 0   22704.1    8245.3   20149 I   661664I    4440.8   21031 0   41118S5  24200 0   38446 2    4027.2    4059 4    1690 9                    1310 5  39460'13         0 4   21493 2       3 6   22079 7
It. 81038461 COSTS
A  IM'XrintlMIOaRa                     11820.3    W19.8          0.0        00       478?4        0.0    3031 1         0 0        00         0 0       0.0        0 0        00             00   175607           50      0780       9 4     1663 6
S. Irinew,8   Seim1,"                4759 0   19200.0'        0 0    .940 8    .6680           0 0        0 0        0 0        0 0        0 0       0 0        0.0        0 000 633800                                3.419 0     98      68
lob.m8808U1NC0815S                     39412.3   21325.8         0.0      9408      32.4.         0       331           00         00         0 0       0.0        0.0        0.0           00   8094714          50    4297'         9 7    83236
lo al 38081   ColSt                196426.3   4583.0    8243.0   25089.9   61712960.5       44.400.8   2 43  612I   41115     2420  0    8446. ~   02        4059.4    1e951.9        1310 3  480542 8         5 4   23792 2       6 3   30403 2
Phy8sical Cvnt Ingmne                 4083.6    3326.7       824.6    1695 .7    4606.2       403. 1     166 6    3617 8      86 6       84.6       176.4      333 7      169 6         131 0   25792 2.
Price COMOngeme 301                   0575 3    4480.3    1021.        1223.6    3623 6       33! 9      87& 4.   2892 3,   1704 4    2989 c.    234. 6        302 2       96 I          95 6   30403.2         6 3    1925 2
lotal PUOAC3 030                     11583.2   91606.9   10091.5   24009.2   75538.4    0103.8   23403 I   476280 8    780' 1  *5280.2    4418.3    4713.3    19161.3                   1037 1 036M3  2          5 2   27717 .      5 7   30.03 2
lId.                                     0.        4.4        88.2    4699.2    3384.2        417 4        0a 0     694 6     70605    4487 2        215.4     277.0      194.2           0 0   14116 4         9 1    3283 3
moilsr EocImww                      37923.8    4292.1    0366.3   16710.3   481539.7    3626 .1    361* 8   32519 9   14176 4   13584 8            943 2    2074. 3      655 3          387 9  184140 1         7 7   14140B
Valie Scaled by 1000000 .0
C,



- 68 -                       ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Forecast
Disbursements
IBRD fiscal year                  Semester      Cumulative
and semester                   ----(US$ million) -----               Semester
1992
1st (Jul 91-Dec 91)              16.0             16.0        10          1
2nd (Jan 92-Jun 92)               7.0             23.0        15          2
1993
lst (July 92-Dec 92)            21.0              44.0        29          3
2nd (Jan 93-Jun 93)              37.0             81.0        54          4
1994
1st (Jul 93-Dec 93)              35.0            116.0        77          5
2nd (Jan 94-Jun 94)              24.0            140.0        93          6
1995
1st (Jul 94-Dec 94)             10.0             150.0       100          7
Closing Date: December 31, 1994.



-69 -                         ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 2
INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Gray
US$ MILLION
160
150
16
140 -                                                  1 0
120       .
6,;1 /~
100
8
80
60~~~~~~~
40 -
35)
20 t 5 16' 
40
1   2   3   4    1   2   3   4    1   2   3   4    1   2
1     92         1       93         I        94         I  95
QUARTER
FISCAL YEAR (BANK/IDA)
-4- APPR. EST



- 70 -                         ANNEX 1Z
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data in Project Files
A. Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Subsector 1/
A.1   REPELITA V, Indonesia's Fifth Five-Year Development Plan, 1989/90 -
1993/94, a Summary, BAPPENAS.
A.2   REPELITA V, Indonesia's Fifth Five-Year Development Plan, Basic Data and
Main Targets, BAPPENAS.
A.3   "HEMES Summary Data (1988/89)," (Performance Indicators for Public
Universities), DGHE 1989.
A.4   "Guidelines for Research Administration at DGHE," DGHE, May 1989.
A.5   "Report on the Selection, Monitoring, Review, and Dissemination of the
Research Activities," DGHE, October 1989.
A.6   'Improving Research Quality:  A Challenge for Developing Countries,"
E.W. Thulstrup, January 1990.
A.7   "Environmental Study Center Discussion and Study Visit to the Nordic
Countries," J. Koswara and Muhammadi, DGHE, October 1990.
B. Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B.1   Study to Promote Transferability of Semester Credits.
B.2   Study on the Improvement of Accreditation Procedures and Standards for
Public and Private Universities, February 1990.
B.3   Study on the Promotion of Efficiency and Quality Improvement of Teacher
Training in IKIPs and Education Faculties of Universities; Including a
Comparative Evaluation of Diploma Programs for Science Teacher Training
and a Feasibility Study on Integrating Education Faculties which are
Physically Separated from the Main University Campuses.
1/   Most of the documents and data listed in Sections A and B of the Project
Files (Annex 11) of the SAR for HEDP I are relevant to the second time-
slice HEDP.



- 71 -                        ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 2
B.4   Evaluation of Internal and External Efficiency of Polytechnic and
Diploma Programs in Engineering and Commerce in State and Private
Universities, November 1989.
B.5   Study on Unit Operating Costs, Government Subsidies and Student Fee
Levels in State Universities, January 1990.
B.6   Study on the Development of New Sources of Funding for Higher Education,
December 1989.
B.7   Study of Recurrent Costs of Priority Study Programs and of Capital
Development Projects in Higher Education, June 1990.
B.8   "Enhancing the Role of Environmental Study Centers for Sustainable
Development in Indonesia," M. Soerjani, ESC Development, UNDP/World
Bank/GOI Project, April 1989.
B.9   "Development of Environmental Study Centers," Termiral Report,
UNDP/World Bank/GOI Project, April 1989.
B.10  Swedish Feasibility Study of Environmental Study Centers, August 1990.
B.11  Government Task Force Final Report for the Establishment of
Environmental Study Centers, October 1990.
B.12  'Development Program for Medical Science Studies," (in Bahasa
Indonesia), Lamburg Manghurat University, 1989, and 'Development of a
Premedical Program in Kalimantan," E.W. Thulstrup, June 1990.
C. Working Papers
C.1   Second Time-slice Higher Education Development Project Proposal,
September 1990.
C.2   Environmental Study Centers project proposal, Peter Burbridge,
September 1990.
C.3   Terms of reference for studies.
C.4   Project Costs.
C.5   'Development of Basic Science, Science Teacher Training, and Research in
Indonesia,' E.W. Thulstrup, October 1990.



- 72 -
CHART 1
INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DGI iE ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
MINISTER OF EDUCATION |
AND CULTURE
DIRECTOR GENERAL
-    OF HIGHER EDUCATION
SECRETARY
I~~~~~~~~~~
MONITORING TEAM
DIRECTOR FOR          DIRECTOR FOR             DIRECTOR FOR         DIRECTOR FOR
ACADEMIC            RESEARCH AND            PRIVATE HIGHER          STUDENT
AFFAIRS          COMMUNITY AFFAIRS           EDUCATION              AFFAIRS
PIUs OF         NTOUNIVERSITY                     CORDINATORS        AR  COL
FOREIGN          NATIONAL         DEVELOPMENT       FOR PRIVATE      DEVELOPMENT
ASSISTED         PROJECTS          OFFICE (P3T)       HIGHER             OPMES
PROJECTS                                             EKOPETIO            (AM
X TOTAL OF 6 ',  ---  l l  l      iTOTALOF4
TOTAL OF 9
HE2CHRT1                                           TOTAL OF 45



- 73 -
CHART 2
INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT rPROJECT
ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE OF PUBUC UNIVERSITIES
TRUSTEES  -------------- -  R U-NiVERSrrY|
!        - -j      I~~~ SENATE
VICE RECTORS
StUNT cOPo
. . !_._._.1 CQUNCIL 
GENERAL ADMINISTPATIOI                           NESY DEVEQPEN
BUREAU                                         Rg_ FFICEE(3
I         _
|DIVISIONS      /
|SUBDNVISION                                              R
CENTER
i 'UEAU OFACADEMIC AD                           MANAGEMENT
" WUDENT ADMINISTRATION l                          l 5INFORMATION
I                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~SYSTEM (MIS)
DrV3SIONS    /2                                 PROGRAM PLANNING
AND BUDGETING
SYSTEM
(   SUBDIVISIONN   F
RESEARCH      COSMRMUCNrrY | FACULTIES                    UNVERSULY   TY
.  BOARD          DEANS          SENATE   IMPLEMENWAIION
I.                                     A              CENTERS
R   ERC                     VDI VDII VDIII .:HA
FACULTY AEPDEM| FACULTYSADMINISTRATNE
TECHNICAl       .                         DIVISIONS
IMPLEEMENTATION,                  I
CNTERS.I. 
AND STUDIO          | A?DMINISTRATIVSE 
ilil  |UBDNVISIONS11
11 FOR PERSONNEL, FINANCE & GENERAL ADMINISTRATION
/2 FOR PLANNING, ACADEMIC & STUDENT AFFAIRS
HE2CHRT2



- 74 -
CHART 3
INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
DIRECTOR GENERAL
SECRETARY
DIRECTOR OF
ACADEMIC AFFAIRS
CENTRAL PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT
.            '~~~~CIU)
NATIONAL              UNIVERSITY          COORDINATORS FOR
PROJECTS             DEVELOPMENT            PRIVATE HIGHER
OFFICE (P3T)       EDUCATION (KOPERTIS)
15 PROJECTS          49 PROJECTS              12 PROJECTS
HE2CHRT3



CHART 4
INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CENTRAL PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
CENTRAL PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT
(CPIU)
POLYTECHNIC COORDINATOR
ESC COORDINATOR
IUC COORDINATOR |
CIVIL WORKS       PROCUREMENT          TECHNICAL       FINANCE AND
SECTION            SECTION           ASSISTANCE        REPORTING
SECTION         SECTION
I ~~          ~ ~       ~ ~~              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I______________I________
GENERAL ADMINISTRATION J
RECORD          BOOK           CLERICAL      GENERAL
KEEPING      KEEPING         SUPPORT       SUPPORT
HE2CHRT4



"' FA    A.,A-'
INDONESIA 
PHlEPPJNE5  -HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT,
3R~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U T.--ew.
'.'.- . _: A    )                                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P-owlls B  .-d
4.                              .                      
I A I, 1' .4 A.   '
-       HNG-A
5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                   itc  A ouE5
wulembonC GOt.veswedOn ... 5 Jg A RF5} tZ~~~KPU/AUAN                                                                           5V!JA S X ola
aftlluE4s=noodsY8U                                                                                                                  C
J,  "           o _MADORA
a -4I        
SV1AB   UMBA                                        "M^oD   wosc  O'
1|2-                                        118'
.'G-El EDUC~~~~~~~~~~~~~1101 151`~~~~~~~~~~~~015 ~~~KOPERTISTYEO   .TUTO
2 slIP . to 17 ssP blb onq ~~~~~~~32 S  y Ret -lg Ua -e                                 s              I  A   o
I"oo  f  .ea1A-nvw                -eb,xU;-                            33 1FKI h--ndo                                D-_-so AdI bIII Jok rt                                                               ARTI.  ThSaUTE'A
S Poa od oO. UK av. e   ?0 Un ers vr 04hotsb SJm3.-o            os-dd "    esr                         7Pdn  oen  dlwueIV e..6I9                                                        I     KOPE RTIS
b~~~~~~~~~~2                                      [s                                                                                                         a... Us9Z                                    z ea .ZbPrmr ma V Ygyok9rf  UNIVERS.TY LlBR.Rl     
7 vSenra S9ed rmoo Sa ret ts   7? AA4Q os U^ Wees Fw   37 Udoyono Un Mers ty                                      V  S mgroog                                 IECHNTFC O.tOGG CCElE9
9~~~~~~~~~~2                                      D                                                                                                         .e0DU e  3 sPPdn ...... 8lsoo na- Vll Swoboy
y *1 5mon9                    - Rg  ^vestfJYh <sennoUn13s                                                                                                     Vli Denpo,
]  JQ | Qn * W 75 vom2. R-                         ve                        s     '     *                                 ed>ou  U--                        IX  U U,o.N Po-d-,,
l~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~2 Z  cPv9oo5 7tm,      gUeesa                          7tobOe  f est                                                                          Xl, taPd os., 
.3 A-ogg  U-w  2'                       8 10n. 9w. U-w  "s *]                         g tenRv5 Un er                                                                    Xll Amwn
_7heb-                     S,         2Vg   --Y  0eogoooU.ess- Oe  nwr
S 5    .u   t                           Ot.vyMna  tUsr*                         5Ygooe   t 3,ts                                                                                                                                                                                            -0[fTf.,



