Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16051
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3311-IND)
September 30, 1996
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforrnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit = Rupiah
At Appraisal in 1991
US$1.00 = Rp 1,901
Rp I million = US$526
Annual Average
1992   1993   1994   1995   1996
2,030  2,080  2,160  2,237   2,331
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
April I - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
APHE                Action Plan for Higher Education
BAPPENAS    -    National Development Planning Agency
BMPTS         -    Association of Private Universities
D3            -    Three Year Diploma
DGHE           -    Director General of Higher Education
DRK           -    Self-generated Funds
DSC           -    Development Service Center
DUE           -    Higher Education Support Project: Development of Undergraduate Education
ERR           -    Economic Rate of Return
ESC           -    Environmental Study Center
FKIP          -    University Faculty of Teacher Training
GOI            -    Government of Indonesia
HEDP I        -    First Higher Education Development Project
HEDP II       -    Second Higher Education Development Project
HEPG          -    Higher Education Program Guidelines
ICR           -    Implementation Completion Report
IKIP          -    Teacher Training Institute
IUC           -    Inter-university Center
MOEC          -     Ministry of Education and Culture
NPV            -    Net Present Value
PEDC          -    Polytechnic Education Development Center
PPI           -    Accelerated Engineering Program
PTN           -    Public Universities
PTS           -    Private Universities
Si            -    Undergraduate (Bachelor's) Degree
S2            -    Master's Degree
S3            -    Doctorate Degree
SAR           -    Staff Appraisal Report
URGE          -    University Research for Graduate Education



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface ..............................................................                                                               i
Evaluation summary   ..............................................................                                                  ii
Part I: Project Implementation Assessment
Statement/Evaluation of Objectives   .........................................................1
Achievement of Input Objectives   ....................................                  ....................               2
Achievement of Output Objectives ....................................                    ....................              6
Major Factors Affecting the Project  ....................................................... .                             9
Project Sustainability   ........................................................                                          9
Bank Performance   ........................................................                                                9
Borrower Performance .........................................................                                              0
Assessment of Outcome   ........................................................                                          10
Future Operations   ........................................................                                              10
Key Lessons Learned   ........................................................                                            11
Part II:  Statistical Tables
Table 1:         Summary of Assessments   ........................................................                        13
Table 2:        Related Bank Loans   ..............................                 ..........................            15
Table 3:        Project Timetable   ......................                 ..................................             16
Table 4a:  Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual                                                            16
Table 4b:  Loan Disbursements: Estimated and Actual by Category                                                           17
Table 5a:   Status of Consultant Services  ........................................................                       17
Table 5b: Summary Status of Fellowship Programs .18
Table 5c:   Summary Status of Degree Training    .............................                    .............           19
Table 6a:   Project Costs   ........................................................                                      20
Table 6b:   Project Financing   .....................                      ...................................            20
Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants .21
Table 8: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .22
Table 9: Bank Resources: Missions .23
Appendix A:                 Implementation Completion Report (Borrower) including
Operational Plan .24
Map                         20718R-IBRD
Acting Vice President:                                 Javed Khalilzadch-Shirazi, EAP
Director:                                              Marianne Haug , EA3
Division Chief:                                         Samuel Lieberman, EA3PH
Staff:                                                 Rozany Deen, EA3PH
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otheruise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (Loan 3311-IND)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Higher Education
Development Project (HEDP II), for which Loan 331 1-IND in the amount of US$150.0 million
equivalent was approved on March 26, 1991 and made effective on June 21, 1991.
The loan closed March 31, 1996. By July 31, 1996, about 99 percent of the loan was
disbursed. The balance of the loan amount will be canceled.
The ICR was prepared by David H. Clark and Christopher Smith of the Population and
Human Resources Division, Country Department III of the East Asia and Pacific Region, and was
reviewed by Mr. Samuel Lieberman, Acting Division Chief, and Mr. Richard Calkins, Project
Adviser. The Borrower has reviewed the document.
Preparation of this ICR was initiated in November, 1995, and carried further during the
Bank's ICR mission in March, 1996. It is based on materials in the project files. The Borrower's
contribution to the ICR and Operational Plan are attached as Appendix B.






- ii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3311-IND)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The project was a second time-slice of general support for Indonesia's higher education
expenditure program. The project made investments into developing a higher education system
which was already making a substantial contribution to the nation's economy (para. 36). HEDP II
continued Bank support for education first begun in 1970 which, in addition to earlier higher
education projects, has included support for teacher training, primary and nonformal education,
polytechnics, and secondary schooling.
Project Objectives
2.    Project objectives were to: (a) improve higher education quality and efficiency; (b) alleviate
human resource shortages; (c) improve higher education planning and management; (d) increase the
mobilization of resources for higher education; and (e) strengthen regional development. Thus,
project objectives as defined in the SAR were largely long-term goals toward which the government
wished to move, rather than a set of tangible objectives which could be immediately measured after
project implementation (para. 4).
Implementation Experience and Results
3.    Educational inputs, almost all of which went to public universities, were provided under
three components (paras. 6-20).
(a)   Improvement of Quality and Efficiency, provided:
(i)   extensive Academic Staff Development, largely master's or Ph.D. training,
both overseas and domestic;
(ii)   Support for University-based Research, which continued the small research
grant system started under HEDP I along with a number of activities
designed to strengthen research activities;
(iii)   University Library Development including increased library materials, staff
training, and activities that laid the foundation for a national library system;
and



- iii -
(iv)   continuing limited Support for Inter-University Centers (IUCs), first created
during the Second University Development Project (Ln. 2547-IND).
(b)   Improvement of Fields of Study Reflecting Human Resource Needs, provided:
(i)   laboratory equipment, books and journals, curriculum revision, teaching and
learning materials, and help in teaching of basic concepts and conducting, all
designed to improve Basic Science and Science Teacher Education;
(ii)   completion of four growth centers so as to promote the Development of
Private Higher Education, particularly in science and engineering;
(iii)  continuation of the Accelerated Engineering Education (PPI), first started in
1985 to increase the number of chemical, electronic, and mechanical
engineering graduates;
(iv)   Support for Polytechnics including equipment and training for maintenance
and repair centers, staff upgrading; and establishment of a publishing unit;
and
(v)    Selected Physical Facilities consisting of major civil works at the universities
of Andalas, Gadjah Mada, and Lambung Mangkurat and ten polytechnics.
(c)   Improvement of Planning, Management, and Project Implementation Capacity,
provided:
(i)   further Development of a Management Information System; and
(ii)   under Studies and Evaluation, five policy studies.
4.    In terms of assessment of outcome, the project achieved the bulk of its objectives but there
were some shortcomings. Overall, it is rated satisfactory. While it is too soon to measure the
economic impact of project investments, it is very likely that the project will have, on average, a
substantial and positive impact on the development of the country (para. 36).
5.    As regards the objective of improving quality and efficiency, HEDP II injected inputs such
as laboratories, staff development, university-based research, and libraries and library materials into
the public higher education system. The positive impact of these investments at the graduate level is
very clear. The amount of university-based research increased and the system of research funding
improved; graduate schools became staffed with qualified teachers, many of whom had an active
research program; and viable graduate education expanded into twenty-two Public Universities
(PTN), as compared to ten schools at the start of the project (paras. 22-23).  Moreover, the
competitive process which underpinned the project's small grants system developed into the key
design principle and mechanism of two more recent projects, University Research For Graduate
Education (URGE) and Higher Education Support - Development of Undergraduate Education
(DUE).



- iv -
6.     There were also indications that the project yielded improvements in the quality and
efficiency of undergraduate education. For instance, more and better trained teachers returned from
in-country and international advanced degree and training programs, leading to an improved
academic atmosphere. As regards the alleviation of human resource shortages, the project was
successful in delivering the different inputs needed to attain this objective, and most of the inputs
provided were used effectively, with the exception of equipment and the growth centers. As regards
improvements in planning and management of higher education institutions, it is important to
mention the contribution of overseas trained staff, who, upon completion of training, were brought
into administrative and planning activities, thereby bringing new ideas and energy to their
assignments. Further, the project led to increased mobilization of resources, as cost-recovery
measures were gradually introduced.
7.     The project also suffered from shortcomings in meeting some of its objectives. Notably,
quality and efficiency of undergraduate education could have benefited more from the project.
Supervision reports continued to cite instances where libraries and laboratories were not well utilized
and/or maintained; and issues concerning the need for academic staff to seek second or third jobs,
which detracted from their primary university responsibilities. Moreover, the range of performance
in undergraduate education was apparently very wide.
8.    In addition, little is known definitively about the impacts of the training, equipment, and
selected civil works aimed at alleviating human resource shortages. (para. 26). The same applied to
the goals of improving planning and management and strengthening regional development. Some of
those trained abroad were assigned to administrative and planning jobs, bringing fresh perspectives
to their tasks, and important policy studies were conducted and delivered results which were used.
But the full impact of these measures cannot be discerned (paras. 27, 30). Similarly, although the
project was successful in mobilizing resources through increased cost-recovery at the university
level, it is unclear whether discretionary funds (DRK) raised through rising tuition fees and sale of
university services were used to support project activities.
9.     The overall performance of the Bank was satisfactory. Good preparation assured a smooth
start up for the project, and continuity and appropriate skill mix in the task team enabled supervision
to be handled well. However, there was also room for improvement in the Bank's performance in
several areas. One related to studies to assist in policy formulation and planning. A great deal of
efforts went into improving these studies, which provided useful information for the design of the
follow-up DUE project. Still, even wider discussion and dissemination of the findings and the
policy implications of these studies would have been warranted (para. 20). A second problem was
in the initial financial planning for the project, when the DRK budget, a major source of funds for
the operation and sustainability of project investments was ignored, and project design provided
insufficient guidance on how self-generated funds were to be used by the various institutions. While
it is likely that at least some, if not most of the DRK funds, are being used to improve quality and
efficiency of higher education, project design could have been improved if receiving universities or
faculties were committed to use their own discretionary income to help support and maintain these
investments (para. 33). In addition, Bank supervision and ex post evaluation would have benefited
from clear performance indicators and mechanisms to systematically monitor attainment of
benchmarks.



- v -
10.   Borrower performance was also quite satisfactory with regard to implementing intended
activities and introducing key inputs. CPIU staff were efficient and professional in dealing with
what were primarily input issues. However, although overall borrower's performance was good, in
retrospect the project would have benefited if the CPIU had been given the responsibility and
authority to deal with impact and outcomes issues (para. 35).
Summary of findings, future operations, and key lessons learned
11.   The project has attained the bulk of its objectives, and project investments are likely to have
large and sustained developmental effects. The project made substantial contributions to improving
the quality and efficiency of graduate education and to increasing the amount of graduate research.
There are indications that it also yielded improvements in quality and efficiency at the undergraduate
level. In addition, the project successfully delivered inputs needed to alleviate human resource
shortages, improve educational planning and management, and strengthen regional development,
although the full impact of the inputs delivered is not easily discernible.
12.   Overall, the project might have yielded more timely results if provision of key inputs, i.e.,
laboratories, libraries, trained staff had been coordinated more smoothly in improving
undergraduate education (para. 24) and if education had better ties to the labor markets where
graduates will seek work (para. 30). Because of some difficulties in synchronizing provision of key
inputs, it is likely there will be a catching up period in some universities as staff return from training
and reintegrate into newly upgraded facilities. The "glitches" in making inputs available occurred
because HEDP II was developed largely fQ, not with, the individual public universities: it focused
on providing the inputs considered by the central government necessary to increase the quality and
relevance of university education.
13.   The project implementation unit was skilled in implementing project inputs but had no
mandate to assess utilization and impact of project investments. It would have been more efficient
if: (a) the project had been financially integrated relying, at least in part, on existing sources of
finance at the university level, sources that would still be there after the end of the project; (b)
planning of the project had been based on specific objectives as spelled out by the universities
themselves; and (c) the universities not only had the responsibility of implementing the project but
were also responsible for efficiently deploying the investments and routinely reporting on utilization
and impact.
14.   The operation's positive outcomes and the problems encountered have guided the Bank's
strategy in higher education in Indonesia. These lessons have also been digested and recognized by
Indonesian authorities and have been incorporated into the emerging New Paradigm for higher
education. This approach, which emphasizes greater autonomy in the planning process at the level
of individual universities, is being incorporated in the design of the recently approved Higher
Education Support - Development of Undergraduate Education (DUE). It will also be continued in
the next generation of higher education projects in Indonesia, which are intended to support
university-specific upgrading and institutional development programs proposed by participating
universities (para. 40).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Ln. 3311-IND)
Part I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
PROJECT REVIEW
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
1.    The project, which was appraised and became effective in 1991, provided general
support to Indonesia's higher education expenditure program. It was the second of two time-
slices of support, initiated with the First Higher Education Development Project (HEDP I)
which was approved by the Executive Directors in May 1988. It continued Bank support for
education which first begun in 1970, and included support for teacher training, nonformal
education, polytechnics, and secondary education. The project was implemented during a
period of consolidation and improvements for public universities (PTN). Increases in
enrollments at the PTN were stable and excess demand for higher education was being taken
up by private universities (PTS), where enrollments were growing rapidly.
2.    The project had five broad objectives: (a) improving quality and efficiency of higher
education; (b) alleviating human resource shortages; (c) improving the planning and
management of higher education institutions; (d) increasing the mobilization of resources
into higher education; and (e) strengthening regional development. The project's broad
policy objectives were consistent with the Government's Higher Education Program
Guidelines (HEPG).
3.    The project was complex and covered a number of different areas throughout the
public higher education system. It comprised three components: (a) Improvement of Quality
and Efficiency; (b) Improvement of Fields of Study Reflecting Human Resource Needs; and
(c) Improvement of Planning, Management, and Project Implementation Capacity. The
project was successful in providing inputs such as fellowships to almost 9,000 staff,
laboratories and equipment to 25 universities, 16 polytechnics, and four growth centers;
major civil works to three universities and ten polytechnics; and books to 51 universities.
Although there was only one central implementation unit, there was considerable delegation
of implementation responsibilities and considerable consultation with a large number of
potential users of the inputs. In addition, the project was successful in mobilizing resources,
as, throughout implementation, every public university experienced an increase in its
discretionary budget (through rising tuition and sale of university services). The project had a
positive impact on graduate education. The amount of university-based research increased
and the system of research funding improved, while graduate schools became staffed with



2
qualified teachers. In addition, viable graduate education expanded to twenty-two PTN.
There are also indications that the project yielded improvements in the quality and efficiency
of undergraduate education.
4.    Overall the project was implemented well, and none of the objectives were changed
during implementation. There was, however, a delay in getting the project started, mainly
due to the lack of counterpart funds at the beginning of the project, which resulted in an
eighteen month delay in its final completion (para. 31). The project also suffered from some
shortcomings. While its goal was to cover all of the higher education system, its support to
the PTS was in the end limited and the called for strategy for the PTS has not yet been
developed. In addition, the project objectives as spelled out in the SAR were largely
government's long-term goals, rather than a set of concrete and readily attainable objectives,
and there was no overall plan by which the objectives were to be attained. Although the
SAR referred to an Action Plan for Higher Education (APHE) for implementation of specific
activities related to policy objectives in the HEPG, little was accomplished in regard to this
agenda. While the project was successful in providing necessary inputs to the public
universities, it failed to tackle any large institutional changes required to achieve the project
objectives. In addition, although the universities increased their discretionary income during
project implementation, there were no particular incentives for them to use their newly
mobilized resources to complement project investments and move towards project
objectives, and no information about the extent to which this has happened is available.
Achievement of Input Objectives
5.    Overall, the project successfully achieved most of its immediate input objectives, as
illustrated in detail in the sections below.
Component A: Improvement of Quality and Efficiency
6.    Academic Staff Development. Degree and non-degree training for university staff
made up a major part of the project (48% of total investment costs anticipated in the SAR;
52% of actual expenditures). Almost 9,000 university staff participated. The vast bulk of the
expenditures went for degree training, either master's or Ph.D., in order to upgrade the
qualifications of teaching staff at public universities, while a small portion of the training
funds was used for other purposes (non-degree training for IUCs, degree training for library
and polytechnic staff). SAR targets for overseas Ph.D. fellowships were exceeded by a factor
of four. A total of 5% of participants, accounting for about 18% of the funds, attended
overseas education, while the remainder of participants attended domestic graduate schools.
The objectives of the general staff development program, which were to increase staff
quality and to move toward the target set by the DGHE (i.e., that 35% of PTN academic staff
hold a graduate degree) were largely achieved.



3
7.     However, although overall the target set by DGHE has been reached, there are
considerable variations between the various disciplines. The priority fields for degree
training identified by DGHE were basic science, science education and engineering. While
these priorities were largely adhered to in the overseas degree programs (64% of student-
years went to staff training in these areas), this was not the case with domestic degree
training (only 20%)(Table 5c). Further, contrary to expectations, very few of the overseas
fellowships were allocated to PTS staff, due to the lack of qualified applicants (Table 5b).
8.     Support for University-based Research. The project not only continued the small
research grant system started under HEDP I (designed in part to help relieve academic staff
from second jobs by providing a research stipend), but also conducted a number of activities
designed to strengthen research activities. The project supported 2,370 small research grants
(averaging $3,670 each), 128 grants through the IUCs (averaging $16,000 each) and 1,122
grants in basic science (averaging $1,391 each). Other support for research included a forum
for communicating research results, dissemination of research results, three national research
seminars, review of research results, and publishing a style manual for the publication of
Indonesian scientific journals.
9.     Support for Inter-university Centers (IUCs). The project provided for continued but
limited support for the IUCs, originally established during the Second University
Development Project (Ln. 2547-IND). In addition to research funds (para. 8), the project
provided for maintenance of equipment in the various centers, and upgrading of senior staff
in overseas universities, either as participants in seminars or through short-term internships.
These latter efforts helped staff to renew professional connections and have often led to
follow-ups either through research collaboration or as a place to send graduate students.
While it was hoped that the support would assist in making the IUCs financially self-
sustaining, is not known the extent to which this objective was achieved.
10.    University Library Development. The project completed the planned procurement
program for books and journals, with a larger share going to libraries at eight major
universities which were designated as Development Services Centers (DSCs) in HEDP I.
The procurement program included a major upgrading of all departmental libraries in science
faculties. Many library and related staff received training, ranging from practical office
automation to overseas post-graduate qualifications.  The foreign consultant made a
significant contribution to the project (Table 5a). The acceptance of computers as natural,
everyday working tools is now widespread, administration has become more efficient and
standards of professional practice have been raised in all of the state universities, although
the flow of these benefits to academic staff and students has been slow.
11.   The library program in HEDP II had been designed with the assumption that there
would be a third time-slice, which did not follows because new approaches are being taken
toward financing university investments (para. 40). As a result, the university library
development underway during HEDP II was stopped mid-stream. While the project laid the



4
foundation for a nationwide university library network, at the time the project ceased much
remained to be done: many of the DSC libraries are under-used; the retrospective conversion
of records has not been completed; compact disc versions of the National Catalogue have not
yet been produced; and many of the new ideas and modem methods in librarianship have not
spread very widely throughout the university system. Thus, at the close of the project, the
impact has been largely confined to improvements in internal library procedures with few
improvements in services to library users.
Component B: Improvement of Fields of Study Reflecting Human Resource Needs
12.   Basic Science and Science Teacher Education. One major focus of the project was to
build up basic science and mathematics instruction at the university level; a second was to
make improvements in Teaching Training Institutes (IKIPs and FKIPs) so as to enhance the
teaching of science and mathematics in high schools. These were two separate activities,
managed by separate committees.
13.   At the university/institute level, activities to improve teaching of basic science and
mathematics have included staff development (para. 6), research support (para. 8), and the
supplying of laboratory equipment, books, and scientific journals appropriate for both
teaching and research. Considerable effort went to giving technical assistance to the less
developed basic science and mathematics departments/faculties, including help in teaching
of basic concepts and conducting research. Activities focused on the IKIPs and FKIPs
provided equipment for basic science research and teaching laboratories, complemented with
support for curriculum revision and the production of teaching and learning materials. Five
centers have been established in outstanding schools which then offer consulting services to
less developed institutes.
14.   Development of Private Higher Education. The four growth centers (sometimes
called science and technology centers) started under HEDP I were completed and stocked
with equipment, for shared use by students from nearby private universities. The centers,
located in Surabaya, Medan, Semarang, and Ujung Pandang, were intended to encourage
private universities to develop science and engineering programs. The centers operate under
the guidance and supervision of the Regional Coordinator for Private Higher Education and
are supposed to be supported by fees paid by participating Private Universities (PTS). So far
there appears to be little demand by local PTS for the use of the facilities. A plan is now
being developed whereby the association of private universities (BMPTS) is to take over
responsibility for managing and funding each of the facilities
15.   Accelerated Engineering Education (PPI).  The PPI program was first started in
1985, and support from the Bank began in 1988 under HEDP 1. The purpose of PPI was to
increase the number of chemical, electrical, electronic, and mechanical engineering
graduates. Budgets were based on the costs of (a) paying lecturers to increase their teaching,
having more frequent meetings with students working on their senior year projects, and
conducting more frequent final exams; and (b) increased supplies of study materials and



5
laboratory equipment. In effect the project provided block grants to the involved faculties.
PPI under HEDP II maintained the increases in annual output, grade point average and
reduction in length of study for engineering graduates that were first attained under HEDP I.
16.   Support for Polytechnics.  Equipment and training were provided to establish
maintenance and repair centers in the 16 public polytechnics, and qualifications of one-third
of the staff were upgraded from diploma (D3) to degree (SI) level (para. 6). A publishing
unit with staff trained in desk top publishing and editorial skills was established at the
Polytechnic Education Development Center (PEDC) to facilitate the production of teaching
and learning materials by practicing teachers. The publishing unit's activities were
coordinated with support under the project to revise curricula in both the engineering and
commercial streams to achieve a balance of 60% theory and 40% practice in Polytechnic
courses.
17.   Selected Physical Facilities. Major civil works were completed under the project:
physical facilities mainly for agriculture at Andalas University, engineering at Gadjah Mada
University, a pre-medical program at Lambung Mangkurat University, and staff quarters at
10 polytechnics. In general, the quality of construction was found satisfactory by the Bank
review missions.
18.   An important part of components A and B was the provision of equipment. This
included equipment for basic science, computer and language laboratories, as well as
workshop equipment for the polytechnics and teaching equipment for mathematics and
science programs at public universities. In general, the equipment was procured in a timely
manner. A recurring theme in supervision reports, however, was the under-utilization and
poor maintenance of equipment provided under the project. Common problems cited were:
(a) delayed arrival of equipment; (b) inadequate site preparation and planning for installation
and commissioning; (c) equipment supplied without necessary components, provision of
spare parts or operation and service manuals; and (d) incompatibility with the needs and
capabilities of recipients.
Component C:  Improvement of Planning. Management. and Project Implementation
Capacity
19.   Development of Management Information System. The Management Information
System (SIM-PT) for academic records was installed at the University of Sebelas Maret
(UNS) on a pilot basis and plans were made to expand the system to other universities. The
Bank suggested, in 1994, that further expansion be postponed until the system could actually
be proved to work at UNS. Following this suggestion no further Bank funds were used for
this activity. The government has proceeded, using its own funds from the counterpart
budget, to install the system in fourteen additional PTN.



6
20.   Studies and Evaluation.  Five policy studies by outside consulting firms were
completed: (a) a Tracer Study of SI and D3 graduates from ten public universities, including
polytechnics; (b) an Employer Survey of 350 large private export-oriented firms; (c) a study
of the unit cost of education; (d) a suggested strategy regarding the development of private
higher education; and (e) an evaluation of in-country and overseas government fellowship
programs for university staff. These studies were the third attempt under Bank projects to
generate meaningful information to assist in policy formulation and planning. Earlier policy
studies including those under HEDP I were not successful.  The quality of the HEDP II
studies was greatly improved as compared with those from earlier projects, to a large extent
due to the use of an outside "coordination team" assisted by a foreign consultant which
supervised and provided advice at every stage of the process. A great deal of valuable
information came out of the studies. For example, the tracer study found large variations in
employment success between graduates from various faculties and universities, variations
that depended as much on location of the university as on what subject had been studied. As
another example, the unit cost study was handicapped by the poor quality of administrative
data provided by universities to the DGHE.  However, the study did contain useful
recommendations about changes required for the new accounting system to support
development of better cost data in the future. There were two general seminars on the
completion of the studies. Both the Government and the Bank made extensive use of the
findings from these studies, in formulating the New Paradigm for higher education and
preparing a follow-up project, the Development of Undergraduate Education (DUE)
operation. Still, an even wider dissemination of the results and policy implications of these
studies would have been warranted.
Achievement of Output Objectives
21.   The project has attained the bulk of its immediate objectives albeit with some
shortcomings. Nonetheless, the project is likely to have a substantial and long-lasting effect
on the economy. However, there are several challenges in trying to measure the impact of the
project, as findings are often based on limited information. Challenges in trying to assess the
impact of the project result from the following: (I ) project objectives were broad, covering
many aspects of the public university sector, and the effects of the project on such objectives
were not easily measurable; (2) investments in higher education are generally long-term in
nature and it may be years before their major impact is felt; (3) there has been little time for
some of the investments to be put into use (some books, equipment, and overseas educated
staff have only just arrived); and (4) information gaps made it impossible to calculate various
performance indicators identified in the SAR.
Project Objective (a): Improving Quality and Efficiency
22.   There were definite improvements in regard to research and graduate education. The
project increased the amount of university-based research and improved the system of
research funding by moving toward a more competitive system of awarding grants. There
was an increasing amount of government funds coming into the university-based research
system which indicated satisfaction with the product.



7
23.   The graduate schools were staffed with qualified teachers, many of whom had a
viable research program. An important side effect of the project, which was not anticipated
in the SAR, was the expansion of viable graduate education into twenty-two PTN, as
compared to ten schools at the start of the project. Another by-product was the emergence of
the project's competitive small grants system--this successful pilot approach was adopted as
the key design principle in follow-up projects like the University Research for Graduate
Education (URGE) operation and DUE.
24.   As regards undergraduate education, more and better trained teachers returned from
in-country and overseas training programs, leading to an enhanced academic atmosphere.
However, there was only limited evidence of the effects of better educational inputs.
Because of the lack of the performance information anticipated under the SAR, it was
impossible to systematically measure the extent to which the investments in academic staff,
buildings, equipment, and books were actually translated into improved quality and
efficiency of undergraduate education. Bank missions certainly found instances where
investments, for example in basic science, had led directly to improvements in the quality
and efficiency of undergraduate education. On the other hand: (a) supervision reports cited
instances where libraries and laboratories did not appear to be well utilized and/or
maintained (para. 18); and (b) issues continued about the need for academic staff to seek
second or third jobs--sometimes inside, sometimes outside their faculty--which help to
maintain an adequate standard of living, and brings linkages to the local labor market, but
detract from their primary university responsibilities.
25.   Assessments of the quality, efficiency and relevance of undergraduate education
were quite varied. On one hand, the employer survey conducted under the policy studies
(para. 20) found that Indonesian employers were generally quite satisfied with the quality of
the graduates whom they hired (who were almost always graduates from the upper tiers of
public and private universities), and Bank missions visiting the best public universities found
students were very satisfied with the education they were are receiving. But visits to three
outlying universities disclosed that some students were unhappy about the quality of the
education they were receiving. Students mentioned that their schools were short of cash; and
that their teachers were often absent, disinterested or unable to conduct satisfactory
instruction.
Project Objective (b): Alleviating Human Resource Shortages
26.   Most of the inputs to meet this objective were provided as intended, and they were
used effectively, with the exception of equipment and the growth centers. However, the
results were mixed. The teaching of science and mathematics was improved through staff
development and research support. Overall, support to the polytechnics was successful, as
staff qualifications were upgraded and the production of teaching and learning materials was
facilitated thanks to the project. The PPI program was successful in maintaining the increases
in annual outputs of engineers that was attained under HEDPI. However, the equipment



8
provided was often under-utilized and poorly maintained. Further, the completion of the four
regional growth centers did not produce the expected results, as there appeared to be limited
demand for the use of such centers by the PTS.
Project Objective (c): Improving Planning and Management.
27.    Many of the overseas trained master's (S2) and Ph.D. (S3) degree holders have been
brought into administrative and planning activities, bringing new ideas and energy to their
assignments. Staff returning from overseas training have therefore certainly made a positive
contribution to improving planning and management at their respective universities.
Moreover, findings from the policy studies were used (para. 20), but could have been
disseminated more widely by decisionmakers. The management information system is still
being developed, so there are few particular inputs to have made an impact at the present
stage. Short-term training intended to improve the planning and management capabilities of
senior polytechnic staff was not effectively implemented by the PEDC.
Project Objective (d): Increasing Mobilization of Resources
28.   The project was successful in mobilizing additional resources to the universities.
During the course of the project, cost-recovery measures were introduced on an increasing
basis, providing funds to universities that complement recurrent and development budgets
from the government. Self-generated income , which is virtually the only revenue source
over which a faculty or university has discretion on how it is to be spent, comes from two
main sources: rising tuition rates and selling of university services. Such services include
contract research, consulting, and degree and non-degree courses, ranging from diploma to
graduate levels, that often parallel the subsidized offerings. The overall amounts that are
reported in the DRK budget have therefore increased substantially over the project period,
representing about 17% of the 1995/96 higher education expenditure program, and 28% of
funds for recurrent purposes
29.    There is, however, limited information on how universities use their discretionary
income (para. 33), and the use of much, if not most, of the funds generated from the sale of
university services has not been reported. It is therefore difficult to assess what proportion of
the self-generated income has been used by the universities to support project-related
activities in order to ensure project sustainability.
Project Objective (e): Strengthening Regional Development
30.    Little is known about possible impacts regarding this objective. The high
unemployment rates reported in the tracer study for graduates from the outlying universities
(para. 20) along with sporadic reports from other out-of-Java universities about the
difficulties that graduates have in finding work, indicate that labor markets outside Java
were not able to absorb the supply of university graduates.



9
Major Factors Affecting the Project
31.   Factors generally subject to government control. Although it was intended to last
three years, the project in fact lasted more than four years: June 1991 through December
1995. One of the factors delaying implementation was the lack of counterpart funds at the
start of the project. The project was begun after the start of the 1991/92 fiscal year. No
counterpart funds were available until January 1992, when funds became available only for
in-country training. Counterpart funds for the remaining programs only became available in
the fiscal year 1992/93.
32.   Factors generally subject to implementing agency control. Project monitoring and
evaluation to follow project output and impact were not adequately incorporated into the
design of the project. At least some of the objectives of the project were presented in terms
of educational outputs. The office in charge of implementing the project, however, only had
responsibility for administering the inputs and did not have the responsibility or authority to
deal with impact or outcomes issues. As no agency was given specific responsibility to deal
with impact or outcomes issues, there is a lack of data making it difficult to ascertain the
extent to which output objectives have been met. The newly approved DUE project (para.
40) will introduce a very different set of management, oversight and planning arrangements.
Project Sustainability
33.   The design of the project gave limited attention to the sustainability of project
activities and investments. The project called for increased mobilization of resources, and
substantial increases did occur. But the project design did not provide sufficient guidance on
how these increased funds were to be used by the various institutions (paras.28-29). As a
result, at the same time that DRK funds increased, supervision reports indicated that project-
supported activities were often short of funds; laboratories and libraries were sometimes not
maintained; staff educated overseas by the government still had to seek out second or third
jobs; and schools with PPI programs and substantial sources of outside income reported that
additional project funds were needed in order for the PPI to survive. Thus, there is limited
information on how self-generated funds were utilized by the universities. While, overall, it
is likely that at least some of the DRK funds have been used to improve quality and
efficiency of higher education, project design could have been improved if project
investments had been made only when receiving universities or faculties were committed to
use their own discretionary income to help support and maintain these investments.
Bank Performance
34.   Overall Bank performance  was satisfactory. During the project preparation and
appraisal stages much attention was paid to implementation arrangements to ensure smooth
start-up of the project. Project supervision was satisfactory. Appropriate skill mix and
continuity in task management were important factors in the satisfactory outcome of the



10
project supervision. There was, however, room for improvement in Bank performance in
some areas. One shortcoming was in the initial financial planning for the project when the
DRK budget, a major source of funds for operation and sustaining of the investments
available during and after the project, was ignored (paras. 28-29). The Bank could also have
disseminated more widely the findings from the policy studies (para. 20).
Borrower Performance
35.    Borrower performance was   satisfactory in regard to implementing intended
activities and introducing key inputs.  Systematic information as to whether expected
impacts were obtained is not available. CPIU staff, who were efficient and professional,
dealt primarily with input issues. In retrospect, the project would have benefited if the CPIU
had been given the responsibility and authority to deal with impact and outcomes issues.
Counterpart funds from the government were somewhat less than had been agreed to at the
time of negotiation (table 6b).
Assessment of Outcome
36.    HEDP II invested in a public higher education system  whose undergraduate
education is having a substantial effect on the country's development.' The project attained
most of its immediate objectives, although with some shortcomings. (paras.6-20). Some
benefits from the projects are clear: more and better equipment; better libraries and more
books and journals; better trained staff; expanded capacity in the universities for engineering
and technical education; and strengthening of research. While it is too soon to measure the
impact of project investments it is very likely that the project will have, on average, a
substantial and long lasting effect on the economy. As noted, the rating for "assessment of
outcome" therefore has been set at "satisfactory".
Future Operation
37.    The Operational Plan submitted by the Government2 contains provisions to continue
most of the system-wide investment programs supported by HEDP II, including: (a) further
staff development through domestic and overseas fellowships; (b) additional upgrading of
basic science facilities; (c) continuation of both small and large scale university-based
research projects; (d) further development of library networking and continued development
of Development Service Centers, book collections, and training of librarians; (e) further
development of the information system; and (f) new investments at the Growth Centers to
improve their attractiveness by PTS and their students, and thereby increase utilization. The
Plan also describes a new university-based system of developing future investment
The economic rate of return (ERR) to education was more than 15 % for graduates from the ten middle and upper
level PTN included in the tracer studies (para. 22).
2 See Appendix B.



I1
proposals, based on self evaluation and competitive funding principles, and focused on
improving study opportunities, educational quality, educational efficiency, and labor market
relevance. In addition the plan contains important new initiatives to improve utilization of
universities. These include: (a) funds for operation and maintenance of laboratory facilities
equaling three to five percent of investments to be made available; (b) a pilot project for
private sub-contracting for the repair and maintenance of laboratory equipment, to be paid
for out of DRK funds; and (c) the local government at Banjarmasin has agreed to take over
the responsibility for the operations and maintenance of the new medical facilities at
Lambung Mangkurat University financed under HEDP II.
Key Lessons Learned
38.   Project investments are likely to have large and sustained developmental effects,
while the operation's positive outcomes and the problems encountered guided the Bank's
future strategy in higher education. The project might have yielded timely results if its
timing had been planned in accordance with the Indonesian fiscal year (para. 31) so as to
avoid lack of counterpart funds and delays in project implementation, if provision of key
inputs (i.e., laboratories, libraries, trained staff ) had been coordinated more smoothly in
improving undergraduate education (para. 24) and if education institutions had better ties to
the labor markets where graduates will seek work (para. 30). Because of some difficulties in
synchronizing provision of key inputs, it is likely there will be a catching up period in some
universities as staff return from training and reintegrate into newly upgraded facilities.
These "glitches" in making inputs available occurred because HEDP II was developed
largely for not with, the individual public universities: it focused on providing these inputs
which were considered necessary by the central government to increase the quality and
relevance of university education.
39.   Little consideration was given during project preparation to how investments were to
be utilized and sustained. The project implementation unit was effective in implementing
project inputs but had no mandate to assess utilization and impact of project investments
(para. 32). It would have been more efficient if : (a) the project had been financially
integrated relying at least in part, on existing sources of finance at the university level,
sources that would still be there after the end of the project; (b) planning of the project has
been based on specific objectives as spelled out by the universities themselves; and (c) the
universities not only had the responsibility of implementing the project but were also
responsible for efficiently deploying the investments and routinely reporting on utilization
and impact.
40.   These lessons have been digested and recognized by Indonesian authorities and have
been incorporated into the emerging New Paradigm for higher education. This approach,
which is based on a planning process centered at the university level, has been incorporated
in the design of the newly approved Higher Education Support Project - Development of
Undergraduate Education (DUE) and will guide other forthcoming projects. The objectives
remain improving quality, relevance, and efficiency but with a focus on learning outcomes
and quality improvement in participating universities. The role of the central government is
to set broad goals. The projects directly involve end-users at each participating university or



12
faculty by asking them to plan an investment program to meet those goals, implement asked
for investments, sustain project investments, and, in the final step, be held accountable for
actual performance in terms of expected outcomes.



13
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Ln. 3311-IND)
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Obiectives               Substantial         Partial           Negligible         Not applicable
Macro Policies                            Cl                  1                  Ux[
Sector Policies                            U                  iZ                 Ul                  E]
Financial Objectives                       U                 U                   U                   I23
Institutional Development                   I                LI                                       U
Physical Objectives                                                              U                    U
Poverty Reduction                          U                 U                   U
Gender Issues                                                L                  Eli
Other Social Objectives                    U                 U                   U
Environmental Objectives                   U                 U                   U
Public Sector Management                   U                 U                  FYI                   U
Private Sector Development                 U                                    ix                    U 
Other (specify)                            U                 U                   U
B. Proiect Sustainability                     Likelv                     Unlikelv                      Uncertain
(E) (X)                                                    (g3)
Higzhiv
C. Bank Performance                            satisfactory             Satisfactorv                   Deficient
([E3)                       (M3)                           (53)
Identification                             U                           I                              U
Preparation Assistance                     a                          I3                              o
Appraisal                                UaU
Supervision                                U                          I3                             o



14
Highly
D.  Borrower Performance                             satisfactory     Satisfactory       Deficient
(M1)             (E)               (fM)
Preparation                                         El               [3                []
Implementation                                      cl               [E3               E
Covenant Compliance                                 a3
Operation (if applicable)                                             E
Highly                                                   Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome                    satisfactorv    Satisfactory     Unsatisfactory       unsatisfactory
(El)              (E)                ()                  (E)
O            z                  O                  OFX



15
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Ln. 3311-IND)
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Year of
Loan Title                                             Purpose                                 Approval     Status
Preceding operations
1. Higher education              To assist in implementation of the higher education                   1988      Completed
development                   program through (a) improving sectoral planning, (b)
(Loan 2944-IND)               improving sectoral and institutional management in
higher education, (c) increasing resource mobilization,
(d) improving educational quality and efficiency, (e)
strengthening selected fields of study reflecting manpower
needs, and (f) increasing the contrbution of universities
to regional development.
2. Accountancy                   The accounting education component aims to raise the                  1988      Completed
development                   quality of accounting faculty and teaching staff, and to
(Loan 2940-IND)               prepare for future expansion of accountancy education
and training.
3. Professional human            To foster economic development and industralization                  1990        Completed
resource development          and facilitate policies of deregulation and decentralization
(Loan 3134-IND)                by upgrading professional, managerial, and S&T
staff in key govemment ministries and agencies
Following operations
1. University research and       To improve the quality of graduate education in Indonesia             1994      Under
graduate education            by increasing competitive funding for domestic graduate                       implementation
(Loan 3754-IND)               education and university research activities, strengthening
the procedures for selecting grant and fellowship proposals,
integrating university research with graduate training in
universities, strengthening research capacity and dis-
seminating research findings in universities.
2. Professional human            Follow-up of the PHRDP l; and aims to foster economic                 1994       Under
resource development 11       development and industrialization and facilitate policies                      implementation
(Loan 3825-IND)               of deregulation and decentralization by upgrading the
quality of professional, managerial, and science and
technology staff in key govemment ministries and agencies
both at local and national levels.



16
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Ln. 331 1-IND)
Table 3: Project Timetable
Date actualV
Steps in project cycle              Date planned   latest estimate
Identification                       10/89         10/89
Preparation                          2/90           1/90
Appraisal                            9/90           9/90
Negotiations                         2/91           2/91
Board presentation                   3/91           3/91
Signing                                -            5/91
Effectiveness                                     6/21/91
Project completion                 12/31/94       12/31/95
Loan closing                        4/30/95       7/31/96
Table 4a: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
FY91          FY92          FY93           FY94           FY95           FY96
Appraisal estimate       0.00          23.00         81.00          140.00        150.00
Actual                  15.00         21.72          49.51          90.37         123.13        147.80 /a
Actual as % of estimat    -            94%           61%            65%            82%            99%
Date of final disbursement       Expected: July 31, 1996                                                  J
/a Through June 6, 1996.



17
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Ln. 3311-IND)
Table4b: Loan Disbursements: Estimated and Actual by Category
Categories                                       Original Allocation                                     Actual Disbursement
(06/06/96)
1. Civil Works                                                                   15.0                                                   17.0
2. Equipments                                                                    36.9                                                    44.5
3. Overseas Training                                                             18.8                                                     19.1
4. Domestic Training                                                             41.9                                                    37.7
5. Technical Assistance                                                            8.0                                                     4.0
6.  Research                                                                     14.7                                                    16.0
7. Project Management                                                              6.2                                                     8.9
8.  Unallocated                                                                    8.5                                                     0
SA Funds                                                                                                                            0.6
150.0                                                   147.8
Table Sa: Status of Consultant Services
Cost (S'000)                    Consultant-months
Component                         Purposelactivities                                            Appraisal                                                Outcomes
Appraisal      Actuai           estimates             Actual
Estimates                     (F)       (L)        (F)       (L)
A. Improvement of Quality and
Efficiency                     prict Support
Monitoring/evaluation/disseminatior         1,700         2,149          0       775         0        840    840 titles presented in national seminars
of reearch activities
Textbook development (writing and             650           754          0       280         0        559    142 Titles:
translation)                                                                                              (102 translations, 40 published; and 40 written, 8
published)
Capacity Buildint
Library Development                            65           128         0         30         4          0    set up data base computer system, establiahed
library standards, conducted local seminan,
produced four reports
Development of IUCs                           480           223        40          0        40        180    20 Reports
Subtotal                          2895          3254         40      1A                   1
B. Selected Fields of Study
Proiect Support
Basic science training program              1,590           655        32        635        30        396    22 Reports
PolytechnicDevelopment                      1,520         1,109         0        635         0        738
Evaluation of Growth Centens                   90             0         0         35         0         20    I Repon
CaoWflty
Polytechnic development                       250                      27         75
Subtotal                          2A25          I.76         52    -UMS           _9      1154
C. Planning, Management and
ImplementLtion Capacity        Piect Suortfl
MIS development                               264           ISO         0        245         0        146
Caracitv Buildina
Tracer Study                                  310           275         4         20        10         24
Autonomy                                                               12          0         0          0
Policv Development
Studies on higher education sector          1,000           284        29       235         20       270
planning and management
Subtotal                          LU5A            709        _         00         20       440
TOTAL                              -2I~         5727        1M44     L6          104       717



18
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Ln. 3311-IND)
Table 5b: Summary Status of Fellowship Programs
Status at project completion (December 31, 1995)
Students supported
Type of Fellowship                     SAR    (pick-up students            Continuing   Graduated      Never
in parentheses)                                     Completed
Degree Fellowships
Persons
Overseas
Masters                                  138         137        (26)              12         116            13
S2 for Library Dvlpt                                  32         (0)                          32
Polytechnic Staff
Development (Student-years)             40            17                                     15             2
Ph.D.                                     28         212       (104)              80         122            10
Total                                  206          398      (130)
for PTS                              10 -20
Ph.D.                                                 4
Masters                                              11
Domestic
Masters                                7,200        7,357                      5,010       2,347
Ph.D.                                    830         976                         885          91
Total                                 8,030       8,333
Non-degree training
Student
Years                 Persons
Overseas
Science & Tech, Universities            21.0         21.9      (73)
Basic Science LPTK                      30.0          4.4      (19)
IUC                                     18.0          8.3      (85)
Polytechnic
Management Trng                         2.0          0.0



19
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Ln. 3311-IND)
Table 5c: Summary of Degree Training
SAR Targets                       Realized
OVERSEAS                                                                              Students
(Student-years)      (Student Years)       Total    HEDP II  Pick-up
Ph.D.
Basic Science/Math & Science            69.0                 147.5            64        30        34
Engineering                             18.0                 149.2            69        30        39
Agriculture                             12.0                 118.7            46        29         17
Social Studies/Economics                12.0                  44.0            18        11         7
Health Sciences                          9.0                  26.4            11         6         5
Other                                    9.0                   9.2             4         2         2
Total                                129.0                 495.0           212        108       104
Masters
Basic Science/Math & Science           180.0                  90.6            45        37         8
Engineering                             54.0                  62.3            34        25         9
Agriculture                             40.0                  37.8            21         13        8
Social Studies/Economics                40.0                  29.0            14        14         0
Health Sciences                         28.0                   4.7             3         2         1
Other                                   28.0                  21.7            20        20         0
Total                               370.0                  246.1            137       111       26
IN-COUNTRY                                                 Realized
(Student Years)
S3
Basic Science/Math & Science                                 198.0
Engineering                                                   83.0
Agriculture                                                  514.0
Social Studies/Economics                                     433.0
Health Sciences                                              232.0
Other                                                        535.0
Total                                                     1995.0
S2
Basic Science/Math & Science                                 878.0
Engineering                                                  734.0
Agriculture                                                 1753.0
Social Studies/Economics                                    2024.0
Health Sciences                                              471.0
Other                                                       1497.0
Total                                                     7357.0



20
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Ln. 3311-IND)
Table 6a: Project Costs**
APPRAISAL ESTIMATE                LATEST ESTIMATE
ITEM                        US$m                          US$m
Local  | Foreign |  Total      Local    Foreign |  Total
Civil Works                   14.9       6.3       21.2      23.9        0.0      23.9
Equipment                      3.1      27.6       30.7       0.0       31.8      31.8
Books and Journals             0.9       7.3        8.2       1.8        8.4      10.2
Furniture                      1.4       0.6        2.0       5.1        0.0       5.1
Overseas Training              0.9      16.7       17.6       0.9       18.0      18.9
In-country training           78.2      13.6       91.7      88.2        0.0      88.2
Technical Assistance
Project support              4.6       1.2        5.7       2.4        1.1       3.5
Capacity Building            0.3       1.0        1.3       0.3        0.0       0.3
Policy Development           0.2       0.1        0.3       0.6        0.0       0.6
Research                       8.8        1.7      10.5      16.5        0.0      16.5
Project management             4.5        1.1       5.6       8.8        0.0       8.8
Total Investment Costs       117.6      77.3      194.9     148.5       59.3     207.8
Incremental O&M                8.3       0.9        9.2      10.8        0.0      10.8
Incremental salaries          36.0       0.0       36.0      43.2        0.0      43.2
Total Recurrent Costs         44.3        0.9      45.2      54.0        0.0      54.0
Total Base Costs             161.9      78.2      240.1     202.5       59.3     261.8
Physical contingencies         6.3       6.5       12.8
Price contingencies           10.2       4.9       15.1
TOTAL COSTS                  178.4      89.6      268.0     202.5       59.3     261.8
Less Investment costs plus contingencies for Environmental Study Centers component co-financed by the OECF
INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Ln. 3311-IND)
Table 6b: Project Financing**
APPRAISAL ESTIMATE               LATEST ESTIMATE
US$m                           US$m
Local  I Foreign    Total      Local    Foreign     Total
IBRD                         -         -          150.0     -         -          150.0
Domestic                     -         -                    -         -
Counterpart Funds           -         -           66.1     -         -           57.4
Incremental Salaries        -         -                    -         -
and O&M                   -         -           51.9     -         -           54.0
TOTAL                      178.4      89.6      268.0     202.5       59.3     261.4
Less Investment costs plus contingencies for Environmental Study Centers component co-financed by the OECF



21
Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants
INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agreemen         Section       Covenant  Present   Original    Revised              Description of         Comments
l    t                       type      status   fulfillment fulfillment           covenant
date        date
BOARD    Art. II, Sec.2.02(b)      I         C      09/01/91                Establishment of special
account with appropriate
structure and operational
procedures
Art.IV, Sec.4.02       2,4        C      09/19/91                By 09/30/91, obtain funds
from GOI or other sources for
environmental study centers
under part b(v) of the project
Sch. 5, I(a)            5         C      09/19/91                Carry out project in accordance
with higher education programr
guLidelines and actionplan
satisfactory to the bank.
Sch. 5, 1(b)            9         CP                             Prepare and furnish to bank a
report on implementation of
previous FY's budget and
proposed budgetary allocation
for following fiscal year for
borrower's higher education
program by 12/31 of each year
commencing 12/31/91.
Sch. 5, 1(c)            9         C          na                  Prepare and furnish to bank
semi-annual progress and
evaluation reports from April-
September and October-March
of each year.
Sch. 5, I(d)            5         C      06/30/91                CPIU to be strengthened by
appointing three additional
professional staff by 7/31/91
Sch. 5, I(e)            5         C      12/31/91                By 12/31/91 action plan to
make ESC as part of university
and appointment of full-time
core staff, and give full credit
towards staff activities
Covenant types:
I. =  Accounts/audits                                 8. = Indigenous people
2. =  Financial performance/revenue generation from   9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting
beneficiaries                                  10. = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds           I1. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
4. =  Counterpart funding                                   allocation
5. =  Management aspects of the project or executing  12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
agency                                               regulatory/institutional action
6. =  Environmental covenants                        13. = Other
7. =  Involuntary resettlement
8. Present Status:
C = covenant complied with
CD= complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially



22
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Ln. 3311-IND)
Table 8: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                       Actual /a
Stage of
project cycle          Weeks             US$             Weeks            US$
(1OOOs)                          (1 OOOs)
Preparation to appraisal          99.2           226.6            93.4              218.3
Appraisal                         41.4            121.7           39.1              118.6
Negotiations through
Board approval                  7.7             23.7             7.7               23.7
Supervision                        n/a              n/a           57.3              191.4
Completion                         n/a              n/a            19.4              28.9
TOTAL                                                   216.9             580.9
la Through May 6, 1996



23
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Ln. 3311-IND)
Table 9: Bank Resources: Mission
| Month  Number of| Days in |Specialization  Performance
Project Cycle  I /Year  Persons    Field   Represented *  Status    Types of Problems
Through Appraisal:
Preparation   1/90       6        94    2 EC, ST, SE,
ED, MA
Appraisal    10/90       6              EC, A, ST,
SE, EN, MA
Supervision:
6/91        3        15    2 A, EC             3      Lack of C'part funds
10/91       4        40    A, ST, MA,ED       2         Implementation
2/92        2        14    A, 00               2        Implementation
10/92       3        42    A, OO, ED           1
10/93       2        22    A, 00               1        Growth Centers
Utilization of labs
7/94        4        56    2 00, EC, ST        1
6/95        3        21    3 00                1         Lack of impact
Indicators
- A=Architect, EC=Economist, ED= Educator, EN=Environmental Specialist,
MA=Management specialist, OO=Operations officer, SC=Science educator, and
ST=Science and technology specialist
** 1 = minor or no problems; 2 = moderate problems; 3 = major problems.



24
APPENDIX A
HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT H
LOAN 3311-IND
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (BORROWER)
INTRODUCTION
This is a summarized version of the HEDP II Implementation Completion Report (ICR).
Consistent with HEDP I, this project answers to sectoral issues that have not been fully answered.
As a sectoral project it has served one or more developmental activities of 51 public universities.
The objectives fall into three major groups:
A.    Improvement of Quality and Efficiency, which in turn is subdivided into categories such
as: (1) Academic Staff Development, (2) University Based Research Support, (3) Support for
Inter-University Centers (a later addition), and (4) University Library development.
B.    Improvement of High Priority Fields of Study, which include (1) Basic Science
(University) and Science Teacher Education, (2) Private Higher Education Development, (3)
Accelerated Engineering Education, (4) Support for the Polytechnics (shortfall from a previous
project), and (5) Selected Physical Facilities.
C.    Improvement of Planning, Management, and Project Implementation Capacity, which
include (1) Management Development of Public H.E. Institutions, (2) Development of
Management and Evaluation Systems, (3) Evaluation and Policy Studies, and (4) Project
Management.
The objectives are stated in the SAR (para. 3.1 (A-c) in a slightly different form. Although this is
a completion report, not all achievements are included as the more comprehensive reports have
been submitted by the GOI in the form of six-monthly reports throughout the duration of the
project. These Reports were prepared preceding each Bank mission visit and have been subjected
to thorough discussion. Many of the implementation obstacles faced during the project lifetime
have already been resolved.  Since the Progress Reports are an integral part of this
Implementation Completion Report (ICR), not all of their contents will be repeated. The
Progress Reports have been very useful, serving as a guide of lessons learned in the
implementation of the project following each Mission Review visit.
Throughout this report, comparisons will be made with the plans and objectives, as indicated in
the SAR. The ICR Preparation Manual delineates that in addition to measurement of successfully
achieved objectives, the analysis also considers the sectoral-project impact analysis. However,
this was considered difficult to do because of two reasons.



25
1.    The project was not designed to measure project impacts. The components are numerous
and the beneficiaries total 51 universities. Project experience shows that the process of procuring
laboratory equipment required more time than initially planned. Procurement of library collection
including scientific journals from overseas publishers, was a lengthy process until the Project
Managers were able to decide on a most suitable and sustainable system.
2.    The HEDP II was designed as a three year project closely following the completion of
HEDPI. Both projects required time extension of one to two years, which is an indication of the
complexity of a higher education sectoral project. It was originally planned to complete the third
phase (HEDP III), but the project was terminated at the end of December 1995.
It is too early at this stage to perform an overall completion analysis, particularly of the project
impacts in relation to national development. The GOI is requesting that instead of impact
analyses as is required in preparing Implementation Completion Report, this ICR concern itself
more on the analysis of outputs or even of the process. Comparisons will be made with the
original plan as delineated in the SAR. Whenever the data is available, results of users response
of the project outputs will be presented.
A. Quality and Efficiency
Staff Development
In-country and overseas degree training constitute the second and third largest category of
funding under IBRD Loan No. 331 1-IND. An average time of two years is needed for most
participants to complete a one or two years Masters Program overseas. Participants who lacked
the English language proficiency needed up to four years to complete their Masters degree from
the time they were selected as candidates.
Pre-departure training
Pre-departure training of fellowship candidates remains to be an essential part of the candidate's
successful acceptance to overseas universities for degree training. Project funds were allocated
for pre-departure training of candidates under the auspices of the DGHE, totaling 1,420 academic
staff. Of this total, 200 were candidates of the HEDP II. Training sessions are conducted by
academic consulting agencies/language training schools appointed by embassies of destination
countries. More than 95% of those who successfully passed the pre-departure training were
subsequently admitted to an overseas graduate school, particularly in Great Britain, France,
Germany, Scandinavian countries, Canada and Holland.
After the candidates passed the academic orientation and language training in this country
(organized by their respective cultural institutes) they would be allowed to make preparations to
travel to the country of destination. Upon arrival, the candidates are still required by Universities
in France or Germany to take part in the more advanced training for a minimum of six months.
The more advanced academic orientation and language training are conducted under the
responsibility and supervision of the academic consultants. This is one special reason why the



26
DGHE places heavy emphasis on the need for every candidate to complete language training and
pass the course. The success of obtaining an additional degree is dependent on foreign language
competence.
S-3 degree program overseas
The overall number of S-3 fellows receiving support through the HEDP II is 212 persons,
consisting of those who were selected by the DGHE, plus those who were picked up later because
of their institution's request to continue further after they have earned the S-2 degree as the
primary objective. Four of the S-3 students were from Private Universities.
The failure rate of S-3 students has been low (about 5%). The S-3 students supported by this
project consisted mostly of candidates who already had previous S-2 training overseas. Some of
them received their S-2 training in-country, and it was comforting to know how well they
competed overseas. Half of the S-3 students wee pick-up scholarship recipients, receiving a
maximum of one year additional support only.
Returned academic staff from overseas training, who were selected by, and subsequently received
fellowship support from this project have been re-appointed to their previous posts. Many of
them graduated in 1995, and have not completed one semester of teaching. However, some have
succeeded in getting GOI support to do a small research project.
A large majority of returnees have become involved in academic guidance for undergraduate
students, to assist the head of their respective departments. The returnees will improve the quality
of undergraduate education, but a few more years will be needed before noticeable improvement
of teaching competence can be measured. A few are already actively teaching in the graduate
program, and should thereby improve the quality of graduate courses. As the report indicated
earlier, the number of state universities offering graduate programs have increased from the
original 10 universities by the end of HEDP I, to 22 universities now offering the program. Newly
established programs have been asked by the DGHE to concentrate on improving the quality
rather than increasing students enrollment.
University Library Development: Training of Librarians (in-country and overseas)
The target is to have a minimum of one S-2, two S-1 and three D-2 qualified librarians per
university library. Each library must also have enough personnel with the capability to operate
computerized library management and gain access to the national network.
Thirty-three librarians earned overseas S-2 degrees, while 11 persons took in-country training.
This is a good beginning, because domestic graduate training of librarians has not been done
before. About one hundred S-1 librarians were graduated between 1992-1995, which
demonstrated a reasonable interest among library technicians to become professional librarians.
These new librarians will be supported by about 180 new D-3 library technicians who were also
trained in-country under this project.



27
The language problem is a critical constraint in achieving maximal benefit from the courses during
overseas training. since good mastery of the English language is needed for S-2 librarian overseas
training, many of the older librarians were signed up. There was little time to involve the
candidates in lengthy intensive language courses. The older and more experienced librarians have
spent some time working in the library starting from the lower ranks. This strategy contributed to
the success of obtaining good turnouts of well trained S-2 graduates. But from the point of the
number of service years remaining from retirement, this option has its disadvantages.
Candidates who were awarded fellowship for in-country training were less experienced compared
to their colleagues who went overseas. The in-country trained have also been employed for some
time. They are not recent high school graduates. some have already married and many were not
very motivated to participate in formal study. The Central Unit for Library Management insisted
on giving priority of admission to the younger persons, and they must have good
recommendations from the Head Librarian. However, the civil service regulations state that
scholarships can only be given to permanent staff.
It takes about four years to climb up from the status of new recruit, to become a permanent staff.
This is beyond HEDP II operational time.
In line with the library automation plan and the network development between the university
libraries, The Central Unit for Library Management conducted various short courses to introduce
the Dyniz system (166 persons), lasting from one day up to 2 weeks. No significant obstacles
were faced, except that those who had been through the course do not pass on their experience to
colleagues in their work unit.
Most of the returned S-2 degree holders from overseas (with the exception of six persons) are
now placed in the University Central Library rather than at Faculty or Departmental reading
rooms. The other six returnees have been placed elsewhere by the university for no definite
reasons. Some of these S-2 degree holders are now already in charge of the Main Library as Head
Librarian.
All in-country trained S-2 librarians have returned to their original posts in the library. some of the
S-1 and D-2, in-country trained returnees have been promoted to other posts in their universities.
Summarizing the academic staff training program, the following can be said:
(a) Basic Science, Mathematics, Natural Sciences and Engineering constitute the highest number
of S-2 and S-3 returnees, which is in accord with GOI Policy and is also the project target as
indicated by the SAR.
(b) The number of academic staff who qualified for, and received a fellowship to pursue the S-3
degree overseas surpassed the SAR target. The set SAR target was to allocate 129 S-Y (staff-
year), while in fact 495 S-Y was used up. This is due to the DGHE policy to give priority of S-3
fellowships for academic staff who already have an overseas S-2 degree, and who are
academically potential S-3 candidates. The advantages of this policy are:



28
1. potential candidates who are S-2 degree holders from overseas universities usually have no
placement problems to continue their study,
2. they don not require pre-departure training,
3. they have the experience, and as such can be expected to complete their study on time.
Short term training overseas
Short term non-degree overseas programs are available for participants of the selected fields of
study (e.g. Teacher Training Institutes, Basic Science and Mathematics). Some of these
participants may actually be in the process of completing in-country thesis research (S-2 or S-3).
The relatively low cost (very marginal bench fees) and continued person-to-person relationship
which is expected to develop afterwards, between the trainee and his mentor, shows that this
program is a very effective use of funds. However, this program was able to succeed only because
the principal organizer of the program is a widely known senior scientist, with many overseas
academic connections. It would be advantageous to find out means, to institutionalize similar
efforts in the other fields. Many Indonesian universities have developed MOU's for cooperation
with their overseas counterparts although at the time of signing no foreseeable fund sources were
at hand. Such existing contacts will be exploited in pursuit of further cooperation.
University Based Research Support
Staff development cannot be separated from success of postgraduate training received, in-country
so well as overseas. The impact of university based research support on academic life and
particularly in gaining momentum for increased quality research in the university is considerable.
Research activities in the universities has bee receiving Bank support, as a Higher Education
Project component since the time of HEDP I in 1988. At the time the majority of research
proposals and research grant recipients were from the more established universities. The amount
of support for each research topic was small.
By the end of HEDP II university research grants came from a number of sources and the yearly
amount has risen considerably. Recipients of the grants were no more dominant among academic
staff of the more established universities. Moreover, research support funds are coming from
many other sources:
a.    The Center Grants are allocated to university units that provide graduate education upon
submitting research proposals to the sponsor. Selection is done by the University Research
Council, under the auspices of the Director for Research and Public Service, DGHE. Selection is
based on peer review, and visits to the university graduate school by experts panels.
b.      Research Grants are given to individuals and groups of researchers who have
demonstrated their potential by proposal evaluation through peer reviews. Those submitting
research proposals are graduate student (S-2 or S-3) research advisors. Interdisciplinary group
research is highly recommended. Grant recipients are encouraged to present papers overseas or
at international scientific conferences.



29
c.    Young Academic Research Grants have been given to recently returning post-graduates
after they have completed either a domestic or overseas advanced degree.
d.    BBI Research Grants are the oldest available grants, which were originally managed
through BEDP I since 1988 then subsequently followed through the HEDP II until 1992. These
are individual research grants of small value and must be completed in less than one year. It is
eligible to any faculty member after being approved by the University LP (Lembaga Penelitian)
and the DHGE. The results are evaluated or quality of research. Those which qualify are
presented by the researcher, first at the university then followed in a national seminar.
Management of BBI Research Grants deserves mention, because this activity leads to the
beginning of the now well organized university-based quality research using government funds.
When this activity started in 1988, only 925 research titles were proposed. By 1992 the number
of proposals requesting for support rose to 2,897. However, the number of researchers receiving
support is dependent on the available funds, the least being 312 (1988) and the maximum
supported projects 773 (1992). By 1992, when the research funds started to diminish, only 486
titles were approved for funding.
BBI research proposals were mostly submitted by academic staff holding S-1 or S-2 degrees.
Indeed, the total support per research project does not warrant high quality research expected of
S-3 degree holders. Seven years of research funding has provided a strong base for more
innovative and sophisticated research among the researchers. This is also the reason why the
DGHE began to urge the central government (Ministry of Research and Technology) to consider
funding requests, with the possibility of giving support to research groups among university
academic staff.
The appended data of research funding shows that GOI/BAPPENAS development funds are being
increasingly allocated to match World Bank support funds for University Based Research. There
are several explanations to this. Research Management has improved considerably under the
DGHE's coordination. The quality of university based research has also improved, and this in
turn is due to the successful academic staff development program through the HEDP I and HEDP
II support. The scientific atmosphere created by the Inter University Centers must have also
contributed to this.
Support for Inter University Centers
Short visits and internship programs are also organized for the Inter University Centers (IUC).
These centers have been established in five major universities, and were originally supported
through a different World Bank project.
A total of 18 staff-year of funding has been reserved for these centers to send their staff, or those
of other universities, to attend internship (3 to 6 months) activities at overseas universities. Some
provision has also been made for them to attend seminars to present results of their scientific
research. The IUC staff have so far used up 8.3 staff year of the reserved funds. The slow use of



30
seminar and internship support for overseas may be due to several reasons (1) Faculty members
cannot spend too much time out of the country because of heavy teaching loads and the pressure
to meet deadline for submitting research reports. (2) The impact of current increased availability
of research funds has not reached the stage where research communication is needed.
B. Improvements of High Priority Fields of Study
Support for the Polytechnics: Instructor/Lecturer Training . The Polytechnics recruit their
instructors from their own D-3 graduates and improve the qualification.  To be officially
appointed to the rank of lecturer under Indonesian regulations, they must have an S-1 degree.
Consequently they take additional courses leading to an S-1 degree from a Technical Institute or
other relevant University. The upgrading program was planned, according to the SAR, in the first
year of project operation and should now be in its fourth year of operation. Admission to
University courses did not start until 1992/1993. The original plan has to been to provide funding
for the training of 40 lecturers holding S-1 degrees. It was also planned to provide short term
management training for administrative office holders, totaling 2 man-years. Those who already
have the S-1 degree were recommended for the S-2 degree.
Inspite of the late start with 229 participants in the conversion degree program, a total of 17
persons have succeeded to earn the S-2 degree, 62 persons have been awarded the s-I degree and
are now fully qualified to teach. Over 100 students are on-going. Because of the project
termination by December 1995, these students are quite prepared to pay for their own fees and
maintenance in order to complete the degree.
The program has mostly been concentrated at in-country institutions. Due to the strict standards
and regulations of admission to overseas undergraduate programs in engineering, and also due to
the high cost incurred, only a selected few have managed to gain admission overseas to earn the
Bachelor of Engineering degree (equivalent to the local S-1), or to earn a Master of Engineering
(S-2) degree.
The Accelerated Engineering Education Program
This program went as expected. During HEDP I the performance Indicators were established, to
measure progress as improvement of completion time, quality of graduates and many other
institutional factors which support educational quality and efficiency. A study conducted in 1989
showed that the average length of completing an S-1 degree in Engineering was 6.2 years.
Management was improved with the target to reallocate and optimize operating costs. Students
and staff alike were enthusiastic to prove that the program will succeed.
When HEDP II took over in 1991/1992 the Average Length of Study (ALS) was already 5.84
years and remained steady (ALS = 6.03 years) at the end of HEDP II operation. The average
drop-out students ranged from a total of 30 to 63 persons per year for the seven participating
institutions. The seven Faculties of Engineering taking part in the project have an average total
student body of 16 thousand.



31
Basic Science Development at Teacher Training Institutes
a.    The Basic Science and Math (BS & M) at Teacher Training Institutes Development Team
was appointed by the DGHE and funded through the HEDP since 1988. The major concern was
the need for improved teaching at the institutes so that in turn the graduates can perform as better
BS & M teachers of secondary schools. The effort was mainly concerted at improving the
curriculum, developing the textbook, and carry out short term training for all academic staff of
BS&M.
b.    The improved curriculum is essentially a more in-depth approach to the basic concepts,
and thus turn out graduates who are more adaptable to any changes of high school curriculum.
The BS & M academic staff of Teacher Training Institutes are also urged to conduct research in
the teaching of BS&M and the subject matter itself
c.    Each Teacher Training Institute or other tertiary institution concerned with Teacher
Training are urged to develop their own curriculum, based on the curricular nuclei developed by
the Development Teach for each discipline.
d.    Growth Centers (quite distinct from  Private University Growth centers) have been
developed at five of the outstanding Institutes where data base is maintained, and where
consulting services are provided, thus assuring sustainability of the program. The Centers also
assist those wishing to conduct institutional or personal Self Evaluation.
e.    The improved curriculum has now been adopted by 10 Institutes, 18 Faculties for Teacher
Training, and 2 Tertiary Education Schools for Teacher Training. The next step would be to
provide the Institutes/Faculties/Schools with the needed laboratory equipment.
Basic Science & Mathematics (BS & M) in the Universities
The DGHE has also appointed a Development Team to improve BS & M teaching and research in
the Universities/Institutes. The Team consisting of senior experts in the fields received financial
support from the HEDP I and II to conduct their work. Their activities in the first years of the
project was as follows:
a.    Staff development, formally through the Graduate Schools and less formal in the form of
internship for young academics, short courses related to teaching and research, training of
laboratory technicians, and institutional development.
b.    Initiate the awarding of multi-year research grants, assist their colleagues in textbook
writing, assist in developing procurement lists of laboratory equipment for teaching and research,
lists of workshop equipment, and lists of current books and scientific journals.
c.    Assist in the exchange of scientists among domestic universities, and exchange between
domestic and overseas scientists.



32
d.    Develop basic data of academic staff and important equipment, and ascertain sustainability
of program and organization and conduct regular monitoring of important events/on-going
research activities.
In the following years of HEDP II, the additional activities done by the BS & M Development
Team also include:
a.    Give more attention and guidance to the less developed BS & M departments/faculties.
The most common activity has been to provide technical assistance teaching of basic concepts and
in conducting basic research. This is done either by inviting academic staff to the more favorable
environment of the strong departments, or by sending senior staff for several months to the
locations. Both methods seem to have their strengths and weaknesses.
b.    Maintenance of electronic laboratory equipment, and calibration of measuring instruments;
develop fine workshops and glass blowing units.
c.    Initiate joint research work with other domestic agencies.
Selected Physical Facilities.
1.    Educational facilities which were realized by the HEDP II through the Civil Works
funding category has succeeded to give considerable improvement of the infrastructure at three
universities. The HEDP II has contributed by adding 36% of the infrastructure at UGM
compared to those available before the project, at the cost of Rp. 17 billion. AT UNAND the
infrastructure increased by 67% compared to before HEDP II at the cost of Rp. 14 billion, which
at UNLAM the added infrastructure was only 15% costing Rp. 3 billion. However, the physical
facilities at UNLAM (pre-medical training facilities) will be matched by the South Kalimantan
Provincial Government. An MOU has been issued to this effect.
The project has indeed been designed to provide significant numbers of class-room and laboratory
facilities for the University of Andalas (UNAND) and the University of Gadjah Mada (UGM).
Both served to continue incompleted construction work from BEDP I. These two universities
anticipate a potentially higher intake of new students in the coming academic year.  The
University of Lambung Mangkurat (UNLAM) at Banjarmasin needed facilities for premedical
training. This will be the first of such facility in the whole island of Kalimantan. Their reason for
requesting the added facility is for the university in South Kalimantan to train its own medical
doctors of the first time. In addition, the facilities will be open to students requiring practical
work in science. As mentioned earlier, this is a genuine request from the local communities.
2.    The educational facilities at the Private University Growth Center and at the Polytechnics
have also improved. The Private University Regional Coordinator (KOPWIL) IX has received
additional floorspace of 600 M2, the 10 Polytechnics received additional staff quarters with a total
floorspace of 5,354 M2, laboratories with a floor space of 1,650 M2 and storage rooms with
2,040 M2 floorspace. Next June 1997, the institutions who have received added physical facilities
are expected to announce the added absorption capacity for new students.



33
OPERATIONAL PLAN AS A FOLLOW-UP TO TO HEDP II
I. Fellowship program for staff development
Staff development constitutes a most important part in the improvement of Higher Education. By
taking advanced degrees, their research and teaching ability is increased and will them by improve the
quality of education. In addition, academic staff already holding advanced degrees arc going to
become more involved in institutional planning and in the development implementation of the
university where they arc employed. This is the major reason why academic staff development has
been, and will continue to receive high priority in Higher Education Development Program
The two major objectives of future fellowship programs, or academic staff development, as has been in
the past will remain as follows:
(1)    Academic staff preparing for fellowship supported study leave will be given detailed
instructions, to include in their graduate study plan to take courses which are relevant to their home
university curriculum. This has often been overlooked by major professor at the host institution in
drawing up graduate study plans. If the home university has a graduate school in his field, then the
participants will also be asked to prepare themselves to offer graduate study courses and generally
improve the quality of teaching and enrollment capacity of the graduate school. In the development of
graduate schools, newly established study programs are asked to improve quality-wise. Whenever the
need arises. new study programs will also be started.
(2)   The more specific objective is for the returnee to improve capability to teach, conduct practical
or laboratory classes and provide academic guidance to students. As a whole, the returnee will
improve the quality of education. University administration is nevertheless of equal importance. As
universities are becoming more decentralized, universities are given more responsibility. and thus the.,
need for well qualified staff involvement in university development becomes increasingly apparent.
A.  In-country fellowship
This fellowship will be continued for future candidates who for one or other reasons, unable to
get appropriate placement overseas, already have family commitments or whose study program
can already be pursued in Indonesia. The fellowship funds will be allocated as follows:
1. Most of the funds will be allocated to support fellowship for Academic staff. using funds from
the GOI to achieve the nationally targeted S2/S3 percentage of the total academic;
2. Part of the fellowship funds will be specially allocated for recruiting of new academic staff. It is
hoped that gradually in the future, only candidates holding at least the S2 degree will be
considered for employment as staff;
3.  Part of the funds will be used to improve the quality of in-country graduate study program, and
provide non binding fellowships to new S I graduates with high GPA scores.
B.   Overseas Fellowship
Overseas fellowship awards are still highly needed, not only to support academic staff majoring in
fields which have not been developed in Indonesia, but also to provide the academic staff with a wider



34
horizon. By attending overseas universities, they will have the opportunity to observe how a good
university is managed, including teaching-leaming processes and in the conduct of research. In addition
to studying to enhance better knowledge, such experiences are an asset in the future effort to develop
the home institution. For those reasons, these efforts will be continued, either through short term
training, intemship programs, as well as degree training. Short term training visits are aimed at
improving the capability to teach and conduct laboratory classes or practical work.
Realizing the difficulties to obtain GOI support for the funding of overseas fellows, any foreign support
(either in the form of loan or grants) will be fully utilized. It was originally planned to include all
academic staff intending to study for an overseas university degree through the PHRD Bappenas - WB
project. However, since the major interest and problems faced by the academic staff are totally
different from those of other Department, who are involved in the PHRD, the academic staff candidates
for overseas study were then excluded. It was then planned to manage these fellows through the
DGHE BEDPII loan funds. Although projects are being developed as a continuation of HEDPII, and
these projects contain staff development components, the flexibility of their use will be rather limited.
Only universities which can maintain their high standards, and those that are designated to receive
university development packages will be given the opportunity to send their academic staff overseas on
a GO fellowship.
II. Development of Basic Sciences
Considerable amount of improvements have been made in the area of Basic Science education in the
university through the HEDGE, and those include staff development, technician training, and the
procurement of physical facilities in the form of civil works and equipment. However, now having
reached the closing of HEDPII the facilities cannot provide all the expectations; for thoroughly
developing Basic Sciences in the universities. The GOI has now suggested that each university
reorganize all available facilities supporting Basic Sciences, by pooling them together into a Technical
Implementation Unit (TIU). Pooling of the equipment leads to more efficient use, maintenance and
repair. Service courses to students not majoring in Science and laboratory experiments can be
conducted at the TIU. For universities with appropriate preparation the TIU will be upgraded to be
Faculty of Science (MIPA). Though these concerted efforts, basic science teaching will be better than
before, In the past, lecturers teaching basic science did not have the proper background, and were
scattered in many locations/non MIPA departments. Equipment were scarce, and maintenance and
repair had to be done elsewhere.
New MIPA Faculties
Some universities possessing the potential capabilities and resources have already been recommended
to establish the MIPA department within their organizations. This also applied to the reorganization of
the FKIPs which have the manpower, and other resources including MIPA teaching facilities.
However, their quality is still far below the desirable standards. The DGHE will continue to coordinate
the efforts in providing needed technical assistance for these departments.
Opening of new graduate study programs and improvement of research capability will be endeavored
in assisting to improve the quality of the TIUs academic staff and those of other MIPA faculties. The
more detailed plans are as follows:



35
a.    All universities should have a Technical Implementation Unit to offer, Basic Science lectures
and laboratory practice and satisfy all curricular requirements. These Technical Implementation Units
may eventually develop into a Basic Science Faculty (FMIPA).
b.    The FMIPs at some universities, especially those that hold the function as the training ground
of students that take Basic Science as Service Courses will be given attention. These facilities are
needed by the respective Departments to offer service courses to non Basic Science students in
addition to catering for their own Basic Science majors pursuing the SI degree.
c.    'The leading MIPA departments belonging to five universities (ITB, UGM, ITS, UI and
UNHAS) will remain to hold the primary function of:
*  offering MIPA major courses at the university
* train and produce MIPA SI graduates
*  offer S2/S3 major programs In the Basic Sciences
*  conduct upgrading courses for the Basic Science Technical Implementation Units and MIPA
Faculty academic staff.
Depending on their respective functions, the various types of units offering Basic Science courses and
lab. work should be equipped with needed teaching staff, laboratory facilities, and library collection.
Staff training and procurement of facilities will be continued using good funds sources, either specially
reserved for Basic Science development. or in cooperation with other projects. The funds items shall
also include for the operation, maintenance and repair of the facilities. Possibly the DGHE can obtain
such funds from the OPF, every year to the amount of 3 to 5 percent of invested money.
In the financial year 1996/1997 there is going to be a pilot cooperation between a Private Company and
UNSOFD, to maintain and repair its laboratory equipment at 4 to 5 percent of invested money. The
pilot work will be evaluated, to ascertain if 3 percent per annum of investment cost will be enough for
maintenance. The university whose students are using the equipment will be asked to contribute to
OPF through its DIRK routine budget.
m. University Based Research
Funds for small scale research projects in miscellaneous fields normally reserved for the new
researcher will be continued. Each university has been requested to set aside funds from tuition fees
(SPP/DPP) to finance such research projects. The DGHE will only concern itself with the funding of
large scale, competitive, multiyear or interdisciplinary types of research Projects.
One of the research project types, the University Research for Graduate Education is particularly
prestigious. It is headed by a Professor as the principal investigator, but also functions in supervising
S2/S3 students thesis research. In addition to research conduct itself, the funds can also provide
maintenance and tuition fees for the students, in addition to travel and registration for attendance at
scientific seminars. The tradition will be continued in the coming years.



36
IV. University Library Development
a Networking between Public Universities
The work will be continued until all Public Universities are interconnected (followed by the Private
Universities) with the target of realizing inter library loan of corrections. The software for all university
libraries covering needs of cataloging, and collection circulation will be developed so that all
universities will have access to other university libraries. Procurement of the needed hardware will
also be continued.
b. Disciplinary Service Center
Efforts will be made to continue providing the necessary technical assistance to 12 Public University
libraries, in order to reach the capacity to give library support to at least one definite disciplinary area
The procurement of Books and scientific journals will be continued, in order to support the researchers
with their needs wherever they are working. Each Center is required to give full assistance to the
researchers.
c. Book collection at the Public Universities
Each Public University will receive support to procure additional books for their collection, to fulfill the
requirement as mentioned in the MOEC's Decision Letter No. 686/1991. Each study program at the
Public Universities which have DIKTI's approval to operate will be provided with textbooks as
acquired by each of their nuclei curriculum. This provision is needed in order to fulfill the minimal
accreditation requirement of the study program.
d Training ofLibrarians
Improvement of staff who serve the libraries will be continued. 'This includes technician training up to
postgraduate study for the specialists
V. Information System
To support higher education development planning program, accessible complete, accurate and up-
dated data is needed. A good information system has to be developed at all levels of the university
organization, at the DGHE and the Ministry of Education and Culture. In principle, the extent to which
development of the information system will be made is up to each university. Each university would
know their own need for data. However. each Public University information system must be capable of
producing electronic data, and in a formal compatible with trial of the DGHE. By applying regular
electronic data flow, the database at the DGHE can conveniently be updated with minimal manual
operation.
Those Public Universities that have not reached the capability of developing an information system,
will receive the assistance of DGHE, in cooperation with UNS Surakarta to develop the system,
software, and the hardware. The current model has been subject to numerous changes since it was first
developed and is now used by Public and Private Universities. In addition, it is planned, that computer
operation either for library use or as part of the Information system, make use of Intemet facilities.



37
VI. Management of Higher Education
The adjusted PPBS or Planning, Programming, Budgeting System (called SP4 in Indonesian) is a
financial management system now widely used in the Indonesian public universities. The system calls
for an integrated planning process (cycle), based on the university proposed budget. In order to
prepare and submit a proposal, each university must conduct a self evaluation process covering its
capabilities and weaknesses in approaching the targets. Based on the self evaluation, a Public
University then prepares a development plan in various programs for a 5 year target, which is in turn
divided into yearly steps of development. A university can therefore, submit several proposal plans to
the DGHE.
Approved proposals are subjected to negotiation with the DGHE officials, to improve its contents and
determine the costs. -Yearly allocation of funds are given depending on the planned stages and its
implementation. Consequently, the budget size will depend on the 5 year target and the previous
annual completion rate. In order to proceed with the next financial year, the following steps will be
taken:
a.    Long Term Higher Education Development Framework III (KPPT-JP m) for 1995 through
2005, will soon be published. The text is a Higher Education Development Dimensional elaboration.
It outlines major activities and targets to be achieved for:
  improved study opportunities in the university
*  improved educational quality
  improved educational efficiency
*  improved educational relevancy to the market need.
It Is hoped that the book will become a useful reference for the development of each university.
b. The development of an Information System (see item V)
c.  The establishment of a Development Planning Unit at each University
Each university must establish a planning unit with the task of deliberating development plans for the
institution, or scrutinize incoming proposals from its academic units. The development unit is set up at
the Department level, the Faculty level and at the University level. The unit makes full use of the
academic staff, either the senior staff and those which have received advanced training. This group
should be capable of formulating the vision and the function of the institution, in seeing themselves as
participants of development. The development unit should also conduct self evaluation. To succeed in
the effort, special training sessions will be held for the members, either in the capital city of Jakarta or
in their own institution.
For similar reasons, in order to attain a strong planning and administrative unit, incremental steps are
needed to socialize the rule of the game, staff training, and technical assistance in the preparation of
solid proposals. These preparation efforts are expected to require three years.



38
VII. Civil Works
1. UGM
The UGM will continue its efforts of grouping/clustering the engineering and MIPA faculties together
not only organization wise but also in their proximity The old buildings were scattered in several
locations of the university campus. The major reason is for more efficient sharing of resources. With
the additional buildings procured through HEDP I and HEDP 11, the capacity to absorb new students
has increased.
2. UNAND
As the second university which received considerable Civil Work assistance through the HEDP I and
11 has managed to its campus completely to the new site. The previous campuses in the city of Padang
have all been transferred to IKIP Padang. The new campus and its new facilities has enabled UNAND
to improve their teaching and learning processes, better organized activities and increased its capacity
of enrollment in the coming years.
3. UNLAM
The pre-medical school building of UNLAM and its equipment has been procured. The pre-medical
laboratories can become an asset, not only for the Medical Faculty of UNLAM but also for students
enrolled at study program of UNLAM requiring general and basic science background.
In its follow up the DGHE is cooperating with the local government where an agreement has been
reached, that future operation and maintenance of the facilities be their responsibility. The DGHE will
remain to assist the Software and academic staff training aspect.
V'I. GROWTH CENTRE
The development of the Growth centers for Private University (PTS) is not up to expectation. After the
building construction has been completed and the requested laboratory equipment fully procured and
installed, new problems have to be taken care of This is caused by the selection of laboratory
equipment to be procured in the early planning stages.
1.   Most of the PTS consider that the equipment are too basic and arc suitable only for elementary
laboratory practice. On the other hand, some of the equipment are too sophisticated for their purpose
and thus cannot utilize the facilities.
2.   The geographic location of some centers is considered too far from the campuses whose
students are in need of the facilities.
In overcoming the problems, the DGHE is planning to take the following actions:
(a)  To cooperate with the BM PTSI in conducting a survey of the existing types of laboratory and
equipment owned by the PTS. The updated data will identify which type of laboratory and
equipment arc still needed by the PTS concerned to increase performance of Science and Technology



39
teaching at their university. The identified still needed laboratories will be set up and equipment will
be procured using GOI Development Funds to ensure the Functional utilization of the Growth
Centers.
(b)  The GOT will build student dormitories a near the Growth Centers, to be used by PTS students
who have transportation problems. Laboratory practice in the Growth Centers will be available as
blocks or modules, and students can temporary stay in the dormitories while undertaking Laboratory
sessions.
(e) 'The GOI will give L3M PTSI the responsibility to manage the Centers, to ensure that operational
and maintenance cost be covered by the users themselves.






iBRD 20718R
THAILAND                                                                                                                                                    . C                                                        INDONESIA
-                         ALAYSIA                              scab  C/ na,>                                                                                             PHIUIPPINES                      x                    _-- HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMEN                                 T PROJECT
ACE.                                                                      -                                   BRUNEI                                L                                                                                                   *C
<        ,XAU,              lM MALAYSIA                                          *                                                                                                                              \ /Cpit.is
S,.ATE A,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 cit l es  t   tifo To
I SSUMATRA                *s.!.L....'                                                                                                                lebes    S                                                                                --/._    Ri_t
<~A 'AI                                                                                                                                                                                 /            (-- Po,mBodr
b S.              '\                                                                          MALAYSIA           'j 1A,jANTAN                                                                                                                  -   - /oEnnotiono _o_ocokm"
r  Z \/ X;XL>op~~~~~~~~~~POE                                                                                          T AIMASA-*;'{ )    <                        /0SUHLAWFSa                                                      c,     c   O c a a n 
:.,_                             ''                                             V-'-   ,-'                                     ,                                                             '2-Q  ._-                                                                                         - h
CCEJJ34FWA,)ARAT OU 4; 14 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAHERA  
~~ t.~~~.'...                   C~~~AL7.AN IA    T4         I           J                                                                           7 
Re'.t     oGW                                                  A      KSXt -  &Age  KA9MAt %                          ,S.,.WES                                   
SU3IMA        Pxy.   .f.t                   ~            ~            -&g              ---         ~       ~      '-TNGAHS
K -AMA             N                             4        &        A I                  /e n/
~~  ~~~~  }  7'~~~~~RA                1 ~~~~~~  TENG\H?,                                          -,                                            M.AL~~~~~~~~~R-,UKU'
I Un_Nb ol l_lo   16 bn_ lop Un_lily            31. MuP_or_ DX Un~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_ly   44 b>unq PA  h  I Md.w.  *  UNIVERSIrS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I >~q.,iEI T 39'etiei  SAA.WE1    ~ A-~t   57
2 IKIP JOIIDAD   17. IKIP 1aF9              z2. SD_ lob/b  Un_zery                  47 SU,OI Drh-:KB                          II. PoIKhN    14K4
jNG                                                                                                                                                                                       AN 0~~~~~~~~TNGA  AA   SI
11. Godinh MOIO UnTtIIY   26. Srurzvo Un_Z-il Y   41, Tozslobo Un__ll Y                                            T   3    ,                                                                                           '      MILESIlPAAI'   jAr
A7                                                                 /2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Java    Sea                       7. IO.w0. r                                                                                                                                             AgO's,
iA        oo     JvlarRRo Un   Y4    W ,                                                                                                                                                          10 -        30     0
V'AWAJAZT                     -4 "                                                                               "DU
TWURf(XA-- 
''-ian  Ocean                                               5~~054        ~        ~       o..>.<TSMGR TiMOR
Im'                                       wo                                     TIr                                      1i                                        S                                        4'                                         I
PURAC MIG.ER EDUCATiON .5II7TUTTCIKPNSS"I    F .    TO
IU-_.'Dpo  Io.'o                       5. B`1l                           37-                                       6B."         l-                         1OERI                           TYPEI   U..INSTITYTO
S IKIP IDAn                                                                            Uoom'S6y                                     A5.                                                     A Pn.1,LTE
37 BoK.', Ios                         S- S- of. A0-.7777                     S.                                                                      e      ART INSTITUTE ".'C '7l                                        7'  07.' Apo .7ia *'7D~~N  ~  ~NO7R 1
39~~~~~~                  I~~S IJ-.o'   u--.'.,                 33 SKIP Dfo-d                          A D-,-so DA I-30                          Jo J6                                                                                                              a TTDN TLIT
A Boo&7'IT50-    4hf  701           19 5,.Ih K-,.'. U'.-."y              3A H007-dd'7 IJo,D                      A, PdOA,OP..,,ARI'DN                      TI0    K EGERTIs                                                                        i',~7  7                  '7'~    "'" ~
3 Pododiooo  UToD'T                 20 U-, ..nTya NaB- Saoo''           33 SKIP UloT Pood-"                                                                  o>kn                          A      uNIVEFRSITY LIBRARY                        ''  '.7' 7S   o  o         ,ID' 7*.s7'''M   9M
A. SKIP b.,-id                      2i. SlIP M00.'                       36. Po -o' Uo07T                                                                 50                                        TECHTN1LaOY CENTER                        7. 0777.
7 G-6  So.d7Dioo'-Vo                33 Adooso..D-7TY                     37 UdoIo,-Uo.''                                                                   so -bIy
D.0Eo.oRU--,os'T23 IKIP Podoo                                           38  YiDoSooDT                                                                      IS 0o.'o.
'KIVP S..oo,oo                     34 E,U-oo.                           39  U&no..ooPo9'..D.i
SI God,of'MR& Ao-o.9                3A. 3S-l-y U'-o".                     41. TodASD.'iUoOl-Y                                                              AS hio--'o.                                                                                                  DALES
13XII Ygyk-OT                      37. Lop.'g U--."y                     43. Oft.' ON.' -oooy                                                                  6.
23: A28.oo9iDT3  T-iigpa  A". 'D-'Y                                        3 B.0967k  A,.o.' 0U-'s   D                                                                                                                                                                      S' 3.       '
54 N-o.ot. I1I..'osS 2fToooIg         9 Eoogo',-Jo.,y                      4G~   Uoo.,siy                                                                                                                                                                             K.ILOMETERS
15. 'KIP 3'o-o30 Lo'b."  -50.k-'o Uo--.,I                                 43. YogyoAfl Al IoDTie-
M4AAOS I991I






I



IMAGTNG
Report No:       16051
Type: ICP



