                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                   Report No: ICR00003084



           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                    (IDA-37670 IDA-48630 TF-50988)



                                   CREDIT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR49.10 MILLION
                        (US$63.83 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                   TO THE

                       SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM

                                    FOR A

            PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT REFORM PROJECT

                                 April 30, 2014




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit

East Asia and Pacific Region
                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective October 2013)

                       Currency Unit = Dong (D)
                           US$1 = 21,100 D

                           FISCAL YEAR
                       January 1 -- December 31

                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AF      Additional Financing
AP      Accounts Payable
BPS     Budget Preparation System
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CFAA    Country Financial Accountability Assessment
COA     Charter of Accounts
CPAR    Country Procurement Assessment Report
CPS     Country Partnership Strategy
CRPGS   Comprehensive Poverty Reduction and Growth Strategy
DeMPA   Debt Management Performance Assessment Framework
DMFAS   Debt Monitoring and Financial Analysis System
DFID    Department for International Development (UK)
FCWT    Foreign Contractor Withholding Tax
FM      Financial Management
GFMIS   Government Financial Management Information System
GFS     Government Finance Statistics
GL      General Ledger
GOV     Government of Vietnam
ICT     Information and Communications Technology
IDA     International Development Association
IFC     International Finance Corporation
IFMIS   Integrated Financial Management Information System
IMF     International Monetary Fund
IPSAS   International Public Sector Accounting Standards
IV&V    Independent Validation and Verification
IS      Information Systems
ISDA    International Swaps and Derivatives Association
ISR     Implementation Status & Results Report
MTR     Midterm Review
MOF     Ministry of Finance
MPI     Ministry of Planning and Investment
MTFF    Medium-Term Fiscal Framework
MTEF    Medium-Term Expenditure Framework

                                  i
NDW      National Data Warehouse
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PDO      Project Development Objective
PER      Public Expenditure Review
PFMRP    Public Financial Management Reform Project
PFMRI    Public Financial Management Reform Initiative
PMU      Project Management Unit
PRSC     Poverty Reduction Support Credit
RPM      Regional Procurement Management
SBV      State Bank of Vietnam
SOCB     State-owned Commercial Banks
SOE      State-Owned Enterprise
SU       Spending Unit
TA       Technical Assistance
TABMIS   Treasury and Budget Management Information System
TCS      Tax Collection System
TSA      Treasury Single Account
TTL      Task Team Leader
UNCTAD   United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
UNDP     United Nations Development Program
VST      Vietnam State Treasury


                     Vice President: Axel van Trotsenburg
                   Country Director: Victoria Kwakwa
                    Lead Economist: Sandeep Mahajan
               Project Team Leader: Quyen Hoang Vu
                  ICR Team Leader: Minh Van Nguyen




                                    ii
                         SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
                 PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT REFORM PROJECT



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 7
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 13
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 21
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 22
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 27
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 30
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 31
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 33
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 36
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 36
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 37
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 37
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 38
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 59
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 59
  Annex 10. Results Framework Analysis....................................................................... 60

  MAP




                                                             iii
A. Basic Information
                                                                Public Financial
Country:            Vietnam               Project Name:         Management Reform
                                                                Project
                                                                IDA-37670,IDA-
Project ID:         P075399               L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                48630,TF-50988
ICR Date:           02/10/2014            ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                SOC. REP. OF
Lending Instrument: SIL                   Borrower:
                                                                VIETNAM
Original Total
                    XDR 39.90M           Disbursed Amount:      XDR 45.10M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:     XDR 49.10M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies: Ministry of Finance of Vietnam
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: DFID

B. Key Dates
                                                                      Revised / Actual
    Process            Date          Process          Original Date
                                                                          Date(s)
Concept
                  02/04/2002     Effectiveness:        09/04/2003       09/04/2003
Review:
                                                                         02/3/2011
Appraisal:        03/10/2003     Restructuring(s):                      02/26/2013
                                                                        09/19/2013
                                 Mid-term
Approval:         05/22/2003                                            12/11/2006
                                 Review:
                                 Closing:              02/28/2009       10/31/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                 Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:              Negligible to Low
Bank Performance:                         Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                     Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
        Bank               Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
                    Moderately                             Satisfactory
Quality at Entry:                      Government:
                    Satisfactory

                                        iv
Quality of             Satisfactory        Implementing       Satisfactory
Supervision:                               Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank           Moderately          Overall Borrower   Satisfactory
Performance:           Satisfactory        Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                       QAG Assessments
                              Indicators                            Rating
     Performance                               (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                         Quality at Entry
Project at any time      No                                 None
                                         (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any                  Quality of
                         No                                 None
time (Yes/No):                           Supervision (QSA):
 DO rating before
                         Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                      Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                       75                   75
Sub-national government administration                  25                   25




Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
 Debt management and fiscal sustainability               50                  50
 Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                         50                  50
procurement

E. Bank Staff
       Positions                   At ICR                    At Approval
Vice President:         Axel van Trotsenburg         Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:       Victoria Kwakwa              Klaus Rohland
Sector Manager/Lead
                        Sandeep Mahajan              Barbara Nurnberg
Economist:
Project Team Leader:    Quyen Hoang Vu               Edward Mountfield
ICR Team Leader:        Minh van Nguyen
ICR Primary Author:     Sati Achath




                                          v
F. Results Framework Analysis                  See Annex 10
                                               for details
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                            Actual
       Date ISR
No.                         DO                        IP                Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                        (USD millions)
 1     06/30/2003       Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       0.00
 2     12/19/2003       Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       0.10
 3     05/26/2004       Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       1.04
 4     08/02/2004       Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       1.04
 5     06/15/2005       Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       1.05
 6     12/28/2005       Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       1.06
 7     07/25/2006       Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       4.83
 8     03/29/2007       Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       9.08
 9     02/20/2008       Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     10.50
 10    04/23/2008       Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              11.69
 11    12/17/2008       Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              15.84
 12    01/30/2010       Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              30.50
 13    10/25/2010       Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              33.12
 14    01/16/2011       Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              35.34
 15    04/01/2012       Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              46.06
 16    02/13/2013       Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              59.57
 17    10/16/2013       Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              63.90
 18    10/30/2013       Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              63.90


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                               Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                     Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
  02/3/2011       N       S     MS           35.34         For details see Section 1.7
 02/26/2013       N       S     MS           59.63         For details see Section 1.7
 09/19/2013       N       S     MS           63.54         For details see Section 1.7




                                       vi
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country and Sector Background. At the time of appraisal in 2003, Vietnam with a
population of 78 million people, had a three-tiered structure of local governance. In
addition to the national level administration, there were 61 provinces (tier l), 695 districts
(tier 2) and 10,500 communes and wards (tier 3). The share of these local administrations
in total expenditure increased steadily from 26 percent in 1992 to over 43 percent in
1998, and to close to 50 percent in 2003.

The existing treasury and budget management systems included some effective
mechanisms to prevent over-spending and misappropriation of resources. Targeting of
spending on public health and education-especially on education, had improved over
time. Public social expenditures were more equally distributed than household
expenditures. The 1996 State Budget Law established clear and generally sound “rules of
the game” for resource allocation and resource use. A revised State Budget Law was
approved by the National Assembly in December 2002 and came into force in January
2004. This revised legislation strengthened the legal platform for budget management in
three important regards: (i) Managing decentralization: The new law further clarified the
roles and responsibilities of central and sub-national government; (ii) Improving
transparency and accountability: The new law consolidated and built on the efforts to
promote fiscal transparency and accountability allowing for more detailed publication of
final accounts for 2000 and the budget plan for 2002 and providing an enforcement
mechanism to make communes post their budgets outside offices; and (iii) Promoting
administrative rationalization and streamlining: The division of responsibilities between
the Ministry of Finance (MOF), the State Treasury Department (within the MOF), the
Ministry of Planning and Investment and the State Bank of Vietnam were further
clarified.

Project Background. The Public Financial Management Reform Project (PFMRP) was
approved by the Board of Executive Directors on May 22, 2003, and became effective on
September 4, 2003. The project aimed at strengthening the government’s capacity to
plan, execute and report on its budget and to improve the transparency and accountability
of the budgetary systems and processes. The project included major investments to
upgrade the core systems of public financial management (funded by International
Development Association (IDA) credit), and Technical Assistance to support institutional
reforms, policy formulation, and capacity building (partly funded by DFID co-financing).




                                              1
Rationale for Bank assistance: The Bank had been working with the Government of
Vietnam (GOV) on public financial management reform over a number of years, and had
developed a strong partnership with the borrower. There was strong synergy between the
Bank support for this project and other components of the Bank Group Country
Assistance Strategy 1 (CAS) for Vietnam. In particular, the case for ongoing budget
support, through Poverty Reduction Support Credits (PRSCs) and sector-wide assistance
programs, would be significantly strengthened if a well-designed project to strengthen
public financial management reform was underway in Vietnam.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

The objective of the PFMRP was to strengthen budget planning, execution, reporting and
accountability.

Key performance indicators for the PFMRP were:

     Accuracy, timeliness, relevance, transparency and compliance with international best
      practices in budget execution and reporting at each level of government.

     Better planning of the State Budget and the Public Investment Program to achieve the
      growth and poverty reduction goals set out in the Comprehensive Poverty Reduction
      and Growth Strategy (CPRGS).

     Greater fiscal sustainability through improved and more integrated recording of
      external and domestic public and publicly guaranteed debt, improved capacity to
      monitor State-Owned Enterprise (SOE) liabilities, and improved ability to assess
      associated fiscal risks.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key
Indicators, and Reasons/Justification

The objective was not revised. However, at the time of Additional Financing in January
2011, the output indicators were updated to fully reflect the expectations from the key
project activities.




1
    Document number: 24621-VN; Date of latest CAS discussion: September 3,2002


                                                  2
1.4 Main Beneficiaries

Expected beneficiaries were all those who use public services in Vietnam. Through the
development of formal links between budget management and the developmental goals
of the CPRGS, the poor would benefit significantly.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project consisted of four components as follows:

Component 1: Strengthening Treasury and Budget Management (61.42 million)

The first and largest component of the PFMRP would involve the implementation of an
integrated Treasury and Budget Management Information System (TABMIS). The turn-
key procurement of the new TABMIS, included hardware, software, technical advice to
implement cash management, a Treasury Single Account (TSA) and a government-wide
uniform chart of accounts.

Component 2: Strengthening State Budget and Investment Planning (4.18 million)

This component would involve the strengthening of state budget and investment
planning, including the development of a Medium Term Fiscal Framework (MTFF) and
of Medium Term Expenditure Frameworks (MTEFs) in four pilot sectors and four pilot
provinces.

Component 3: Strengthening Management of Public Debt and Monitoring of SOE
Fiscal Risks (2.88 million). This component would support the strengthening of the
Government's ability to manage Vietnam's public debt and to begin monitoring fiscal
risks that emanate from State-Owned Enterprise (SOE) liabilities. This would include
technical assistance (TA), training and capacity building, as well as systems
implementation to support recording of domestic debt (interfacing or integrated with
systems for recording of external debt that are already under development with United
Nations Development Program (UNDP) assistance).

Component 4: Project Management Support (2.97 million). This component aimed at
financing PMU personnel (local consultants and Government staff), training, in-country
travel, office space, telecommunication costs, consumables, transport, and audit services.

1.6 Revised Components

The components were not revised. However, as mentioned in Section 1.7, the scopes of
several sub-components were adjusted.


                                            3
1.7 Other Significant Changes

The project involved the following changes:

(i) Additional Financing

Additional Financing (AF) of US$14.0 million was provided in January 2011. The
objectives of this AF were to: (i) ensure successful completion of original project
activities that face cost overrun; and (ii) scale-up the implementation of selected activities
and add a limited number of new activities in order to improve the efficiency of the
project and sustain its development effectiveness. The details are as follows:

   Nearly 65 percent of AF went towards completion of the original project activities for
    which the cost had increased during the first seven years of project implementation.
    AF was needed to complete TABMIS nationwide implementation, ensure system
    stability and sustainability for the full scope of users and functions required. The
    remaining 35 percent of AF was used to finance implementation of additional or
    expanded activities.

   For component 1, additional activities included scaling up the implementation of
    Budget Allocation module to major supervising agencies at central budget level,
    technical assistance for development of the model, roadmap, technical requirements
    and bidding documents of a TABMIS Portal, designing a TABMIS Portal enabling e-
    transaction by all spending units (SUs), and developing a model and a roadmap
    towards the government’s longer term vision of a Government Financial Management
    Information System (GFMIS), with TABMIS at its core.

   For component 2, AF was required to prepare timely for the adoption of MTFF and
    MTEF, which were successfully piloted during the previous four years, and
    integration of these frameworks to the annual budget process.

   For component 3, AF was needed to further enhance public debt and risk
    management instruments and capacity, and to strengthen the monitoring of fiscal risks
    arising from SOEs.

(ii) Project Restructuring

The project was restructured three times during implementation:

First Restructuring: 3 February 2011. The restructuring involved following changes:

   Adjusting the scope of several sub-components. As the changes are too numerous to
    be mentioned in the ICR, details are available in project documents.

                                              4
   Allocation of additional financing and reallocation of funds:

     (a) The AF of US$ 14 million was mainly allocated to Component 1 (about 80
     percent)

     (b) Unallocated amount of the Original Credit was reallocated to other categories of
     items financed under the project.

     (c) A new category of “Consultants’ Services/Training/Workshops” was added to
     reflect the plan to use IDA, instead of DFID co-financing which was expiring, for
     this type of expenditures.

     (d) Changes to percentage of financing in each category. Simplification of capital
     structure was proposed with only two types: 100 percent IDA, 95 percent IDA.

   Revising the closing date. The closing date of the project was extended from February
    28, 2011 to February 28, 2013. For details see Project Schedule below.

Second Restructuring: 26 February 2013. The second Level 2 restructuring included:

   Revising project activities and their associated output indicators. In response to
    changing circumstances, it was necessary to: (a) remove selected activities which
    were no longer appropriate technically or feasible within the project timeframe; and
    (b) update feasible delivery timeline for a number of pending activities. Accordingly,
    the output indicators were updated. The removal included:

     (i) Rollout of Budget Allocation Module to selected major supervising agencies, of
         which the implementation timeline was no longer feasible in the extension
         period, and the implementation approach was considered to be technically more
         optimal through the future TABMIS Portal.

     (ii) Feasibility study of a Budget Preparation System (BPS), which could be
          undertaken only after the State Budget Law was revised in 2014.

   Reallocating proceeds across different categories. Allocation of proceeds were
    adjusted to align them with the changes in project activities:




                                            5
For the Original Credit: TABMIS was delivered under a turn-key contract covering both
goods and operating costs– it was therefore not possible to split category 22 and category
3a in each bill. The government wanted to charge the entire contract amount to category
2, thereby requesting to reallocate SDR5.74 million from category 3a (which was
supposed to finance operating costs of the turn-key contract) to category 2.

For the AF: Reallocation was done from category 2 to category 3a and category 4 in
response to additional training needs. The reallocation increase was financed from
category 2 due to the savings from the purchase of additional hardware.

Third Restructuring: 19 September, 2013. The third Level 2 restructuring was to
response to changing circumstances and to address the incorrectly reflected information
in the existing legal agreement. Changes include (i) remove selected activities which are
no longer appropriate technically or feasible within the project timeframe; and (ii) revise
a number of sector and output indicators to reflect their recent expectations on content
and delivery timeline.

(iii) Project Schedule: During implementation the closing date was extended three times
as shown below:

(a) First Extension: The project closing date was extended from February 28, 2009 to
February 28, 2011 to fully achieve the PDO through complete deployment of TABMIS
and the Debt Monitoring and Financial Analysis System (DMFAS).

(b) Second Extension: The second extension of the project for two more years was
required to complete several key original activities. These activities included: (i)
Completion of TABMIS rollout to the remaining 28 provinces and any adjustments
required after the first years of operation, full operationalization of core TABMIS
modules including commitment management and cash management, and introduction of
a TSA; (ii) Development of a feasibility study for a BPS; and (iii) Implementation of the
domestic DMFAS and integration of domestic and external debt databases.

(c) Third Extension: The closing date was extended for eight months from February 28,
2013 to October 31, 2013, to ensure successful hand-over of the TABMIS from the
contractor to the MOF and completion of remaining critical activities.




2
  Category 1: Goods other than financial management systems Category 2: Goods for financial
management systems; Category 3: Incremental Operating Costs – (a) For TABMIS; (b) for PMU; Category
4: Consultants’ Services/Training/Workshops


                                                 6
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Quality at Entry. The project’s quality at entry was moderately satisfactory.

 The design was realistic in terms of technical perspective and sequencing. For
example, initial design of TABMIS was compact in terms of budget preparation and
execution/accounting system which focuses only core treasury functions. Likewise, for
the component 3 on public debt management, there were strong linkages between the
sub-components.

 The technical tasks involved in completing the project were appraised and assessed to
be feasible for Vietnam, given the continued commitment and leadership. In Information
and Communications Technology (ICT) terms, this was mainstream work, with well-
established solutions and internationally-recognized software packages.

 For TABMIS, the turnkey procurement was chosen, which was a well thought out
decision. Measures for mitigating the risks associated with the turnkey approach included
increased quality of the bidding documents; bid evaluation and contract; careful scrutiny
of CVs and references with controlled resource replacement and right to reject unsuitable
resources.

 An Independent Verification and Validation (IV&V) adviser was used to ensure close
contract management. Advanced training of PMU procurement and technical staff on
Information Systems (IS) procurement was also included in the project design.

 Even though in hind sight it appears that the timeline envisioned in the design was
ambitious, at the time of project preparation it was realistic to estimate that the
implementation of TABMIS could be completed within about six years. It was mainly
because of the increase in the number of users from the originally estimated 5000 to more
than 15000 and the resulting expansion of the scope of TABMIS that the project needed
10 years for completion.

 Although the project took time like any other IFMIS project, it delivered a highly
successful outcome for Vietnam. Many strong and innovative features of the design
played a very large part on the success of the project. The Bank took its time to move
ahead with this operation, waiting until the new PFM framework was in place. The turn
key contract structure, careful oversight of procurement and independent verification and
validation of delivery meant that the Government was able to deliver a strong design and
had support to manage this complex procurement and contract.


                                           7
On the other hand, the design had the following two shortcomings:

    The PDO was broadly defined

    The PDO indicators did not have specific measurable targets

Soundness of Background Analysis. As part of project preparation, sector background
was studied, main sector issues were analyzed in depth, and government strategies to deal
with these issues were also considered. There was extensive analysis of sector issues,
including the joint IMF-World Bank study of 1999 "Towards Fiscal Transparency"; the
joint Government-donor Public Expenditure Review (PER) of 2000; the 2001 Country
Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) of 2001; and the 2002 Country
Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) of 2002.

Lessons Learned and Reflected in the Project Design: Lessons were learned from other
public financial management reform projects financed by the Bank, including those in
Guatemala, Ecuador, Pakistan, Kazakhstan, Ghana, Bolivia, Hungary, Colombia and
Turkey, and incorporated into the project. These included the importance of: (i)
integrating management and institutional reforms with ICT investments; (ii) sequencing
reforms, with a focus on core systems first; (iii) ensuring government commitment and
management support for the overall reform through extensive and deep dialogue with the
authorities in all aspects of project design and implementation and through workshops in
different provinces of the country; (iv) the importance of inter-agency coordination and
user involvement in systems design; (v) the importance of developing organizational
capacity and technical skills; (vi) the need for formal project planning and systematic
processes for management of change; and (vii) the need to develop user requirements,
functional and technical specifications and procurement documentation in advance of the
main procurement of an ICT solution.

Risks and Risk Mitigation Measures. The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) had
identified some risks and mitigation measures as deemed appropriate at that time were
taken during the preparation stage. Even though there were a few areas where risks were
relatively high/substantial, these risks were managed appropriately as indicated in the
PAD.

Adequacy of Government Commitment: The MOF has been requesting support for a
project of this kind from the Bank for at least five years. The continued strength of the
Government's commitment and ownership to the project was demonstrated, among other
things, by: (i) the Prime Minister's statement on the Public Administration Reform Master
Plan, including a clear statement of public financial management reform objectives; (ii)
the establishment, through a formal decision of the Minister of Finance of a Steering
Committee for the Public Financial Management Reform Initiative; (iii) the passing by

                                           8
the National Assembly of a revised Law on State Budget in December 2002, including
formal clarification of responsibility for budget planning, budget execution and
management of public debt; (iv) the recruitment of the consultant to assist the
Government with preparation of the TABMIS; (v) the appointment of one of the M OF’s
most senior and capable officials to lead the PFMRP team on a full time basis; and (vi)
implementation of other reforms to strengthen information, transparency and public
financial management.

2.2 Implementation

Over the years the project experienced delays due to time consuming ICB procurement of
TABMIS system and implementation involving large and complex IT system, business
process reengineering, change management, and capacity building process. The Bank
conducted a Midterm Review (MTR) in Vietnam from 11 to 22 December, 2006, and
assessed progress to date on all project components, the implementation issues and the
actions to be taken to ensure the successful completion of the project. The review
identified a number of areas where there were issues for the immediate focus of the
project to ensure that the project outputs were produced timely and the project objectives
were achieved.

Factors Affecting      Implementation.     The   following    factors   affected   project
implementation:

Component 1:

(i) The TABMIS contract finalized about 10 months later than originally forecast due to
delays caused by the complexities of the procurement package and partly by internal
government approval process.

 (ii) Lack of experience of the government in the early stages of the project for managing
a complex TABMIS component and the failure of IV & V consultants to fulfill their role
of advising and supporting the government in contract implementation slowed down
implementation.

(iii) The number of key specialists for the contractor IBM based in Hanoi was not
adequate to address issues and improve performance of TABMIS rollout rapidly. There
was substantial delay in resolution of technical issues related to application software by
the IBM team and Oracles.

(iv) The original design of the system capacity (based on survey results obtained about 6-
7 years prior to bidding so became backward) was not sufficient for system rollout which
necessitated additional time for all parties (the Bank, the government and the contractor)


                                            9
in studying and deciding on the system hardware upgrading. These contract revisions
were subjected to the World Bank's consideration and approval which took considerable
time.

(v) Implementation of several core TABMIS modules were delayed fully operational
(commitments control, and cash management), due to a need to enact regulations and
establish necessary technical infrastructure including automated integration of data across
a number of existing and under-development external systems.

Component 2:

(vi) There were several difficulties in implementing the pilots. Firstly, despite efforts to
integrate the MTEFs into the annual budget cycle, given that it was only a pilot, many
staff saw this as an added task rather than as part of their ongoing duties. Interest and
participation as a result was mixed. This was particularly the case for the Planning and
Investment Department, which in 2012 put together a Medium-Term Investment Plan.
Secondly, compiling information in a timely manner was a real challenge.

(vii) Progress was slow on the preparations for the rollout of the MTEF across the
country due to delay in the finalization of key reforms expected to the Constitution and
the State Budget Law.

(viii) The Budget Preparation System (BPS) was dropped from the project as it was found
not feasible due to the complex and highly interlinked budget structure in Vietnam
involving four levels of government consisting of the center, provinces, districts and
communes. After careful consideration, the Bank and the government decided to drop
BPS to concentrate human resources on successfully implementation of TABMIS which
is already a huge task.

Component 3:

(ix) Implementation of Domestic Debt Recording System was delayed primarily due to
the additional complications for contracting UNCTAD to implement DMFAS for
domestic debt. The contractual deviations from the standard World Bank agreement,
required special consideration up to Managing Director level by the World Bank which
took considerable amount of time.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E Design. The project’s results framework was prepared according to the Bank’s
guidelines/template which existed at the time of project preparation in 2002-2003. As it
was extremely difficult to measure the "ultimate impacts" of stronger PFM systems
because they are extremely diffuse and there are many intervening variables that make

                                            10
attribution hard, Outcome/Impact Indicators were broadly defined and did not have
specific targets on these indicators. It was particularly difficult to measure in 2003 when
there were no PEFA indicators3 which are the standard measures used today for PFM
systems. In the absence of clear and specific targets, the results framework had 26
intermediate outcome indicators that were more directly under the government's control
(and the Bank's ability to directly influence).

M&E Implementation. MOF was regularly collecting data according to the output
indicators developed during project preparation. These data were closely monitored and
the actual figures were compared with the target values by the Bank and MOF.

M&E Utilization. Appropriate data collected by MOF were evaluated and used for
decision making on certain activities. If any activity was no longer needed, it was either
revised or dropped. For example, when the fixed asset module was no longer useful, it
was dropped from the scope of the project. Further, decisions such as not implementing
TABMIS in SUs (for Component 1) and canceling BPS development (for Component 2)
were also based on the M&E data.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguards Compliance was not required for this project.

Fiduciary Compliance. The project complied with fiduciary covenants during
implementation. Internal control arrangements were in place, and financial management
aspects were generally in compliance with Bank procedures, although there were a
couple of issues during the earlier stage of project implementation. The MOF did
procurement in full compliance with the Bank’s procurement rules and requirements.
Overwhelming majority of contracts was subject to prior review which always showed
high quality of procurement documents and observing of all applicable procedures. For
details see Section 5.2 (b).

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

(a) Transition Arrangements. The transition arrangements for maintaining the project’s
achievements appear to be adequate, as demonstrated by the following measures adopted
by the MOF.




3
  PEFA indicator set includes 28 evidence-based indicators which assess performance of the country PFM
system in three broad categories: PFM system outturns, Cross-Cutting features and key systems, processes
and institutions within the budget cycle.


                                                  11
    Policies:

   A number of specific policy, procedure- and process reforms which have been
    introduced through TABMIS implementation include: unification of budget procedures
    and processes; clear definition of budget revenue and spending coverage at all levels of
    government; reduction of budget adjustment period (from five months to one month);
    budget allocation cascading from level 0 (NA approval) to level 4 (spending unit) to
    ensure strict budget control; clear definition g of functions, duties and roles of different
    agencies in budget allocation and execution (through TABMIS workflows); clearer way
    of calculating budget deficit in accordance with international practices; introduction of
    commitment accounting); centralization of real-time and integrated budget revenue and
    expenditure information enables timely, consistently and accurately reporting for better
    serving management needs. All regulations and implementation guidelines to affect these
    policy, procedure and process reforms have been issued and are being followed.

    Institutional:

   The MOF has a core team consisting of staff with a mindset for reforms and adopting
    new technology. The quality of IT staff of MOF and the Treasury has been strengthened
    with adequate training both in Vietnam and abroad and they are working closely for the
    implementation of TABMIS.

   Vietnam State Treasury (VST) has engaged an additional 17 staff, four of whom worked
    on the TABMIS implementation project as part of IBM’s subcontract team. These skills
    and experiences will enhance the sustainability of the MOF in operating TABMIS.

   MTFF and MTEF are being institutionalized in the revised State Budget Law to be
    adopted by end of 2014 and it will then become mandatory for agencies to comply with
    them.

   The Debt Management Office (DMO) will continue functioning and will manage debt
    management. DMO will be gradually taking over domestic debt management, portfolio
    management and information system in the next 2-3 years, staff have been trained and
    regulations on duties and responsibilities for each unit in using the system have been
    made very clear.

    Technical:

   TABMIS is well established and operational over a period and the MOF has successfully
    assumed full responsibility for the system and its environment, with IBM withdrawing
    completely in September 2013. The MOF is administering the system database and
    security with support from an outsourced contractor for system administration and user

                                                12
    support. The MOF intends to take on total responsibility for TABMIS in 2015. MOF has
    issued regulations on DMFAS operation and management and is taking total
    responsibility for DMFAS administration.

    Financial:

   GOV has allocated funding in the budget for maintenance cost to cover licensing and
    other costs to ensure that MOF will be able to administer the system, especially at the
    database level.

    Follow-on Project. Currently the MOF is planning a few core information systems for
    financial management and is thus carrying out a study of the model and roadmap of the
    GFMIS to enable MOF in developing a comprehensive system based on modern
    technological platform. The Bank is in the process of discussing with the government on
    the possibility of supporting the GFMIS project.

    The Bank is also considering providing further support to help building the MOF
    capacity for in-depth analysis of the incoming information from the SOEs, early-warning
    of fiscal risks from SOEs, better reporting to the Government and the National Assembly,
    and increased transparency of SOEs information to the public.

    3. Assessment of Outcomes

    3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

    The objective, design, and implementation are still relevant, timely and appropriate to the
    country’s current development priorities. The project is also consistent with the Bank's
    current Country Partnership Strategy 4 (CPS) for Vietnam for the period 2012-16. For
    example, the Bank will continue to support measures to improve PFM, notably
    modernization of revenue collection and reform of public expenditure management and
    oversight, and reforms to various public investment laws. The Bank will also work
    closely with the International Finance Corporation (IFC) to address priority reforms
    including on the SOE-related issues of soft budget constraints and weak corporate
    governance. The Bank and IFC will strengthen dialogue with the Government on SOE
    reform and respond with financial support for restructuring of the sector if requested.

    Rating: Considering these factors, the relevance of objectives, design, and
    implementation is rated High.


    4
        Report No. 65200-VN, dated November 7, 2011




                                                      13
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Moderately Satisfactory. The project was successful in achieving its deliverables. As
shown in the Results Framework Analysis (details in Annex 10), almost all the
intermediate outcome indicators were fully achieved. TABMIS business processes
aligned with the World Bank Treasury Reference Model together with a unified Chart of
Accounts aligned with GFS and TABMIS itself helped to establish an orderly and
transparent budget execution process with strict control throughout four levels of
government. TABMIS has realized commendable benefits for the government during
challenging budget times due to improved accuracy, timeliness, and transparency in
budget execution and reporting at each level of government. Experience from the pilot
MTFF and MTEF has resulted in improving budget planning in pilot ministries/
provinces, and more importantly to inform the ongoing amendments of the State Budget
Law. The implementation of the DMFAS and a number of other TA activities has
steadily helped the government to strengthen the institutional arrangements, systems, and
capacity for the management of public debt in a comprehensive manner and the
monitoring of fiscal risks from the State-owned enterprises (SOEs).

There is no doubt that the project has strengthened the budget planning, execution,
reporting and accountability in many aspects. On the other hand, because the PDO and its
indicators were too broadly defined, while the project has helped establish critical
enabling systems and institutions, it would take more time and further efforts for the PDO
as formulated to be fully achieved. Had the PDO been more clearly defined, and the
indicators been more closely linked with the project outputs and measurable, the outcome
rating could have been assessed to be Satisfactory, given the remarkable achievements
recorded by the project.

DFID co-financed critical TA inputs in all four components of the project along with IDA
funding. DFID-funded inputs constituted integral parts of project activities that
contributed to achievement of project development objective are assessed by this ICR.

The details of the project’s major achievements that contribute to its outcomes are as
follows:

PDO Indicator 1: Accuracy, timeliness, relevance, transparency and compliance with
international best practices in budget execution and reporting at each level of
government.

   A Treasury and Budget Management Information System (TABMIS) has been
    developed, implemented with a commercial of the self-software solution Oracle
    Financials and served as a common platform to all treasury offices and financial
    agencies at all four levels of the Government for budget allocation and control,

                                           14
    payment and receipt processing, expenditure and revenue accounting and reporting.
    TABMIS is fully operational in all intended 1,500 treasuries and financial agencies
    across all 63 provinces, and 37 spending ministerial organizations, and 3 major
    departments of Hanoi city since October 2012. This has enabled the government to
    allocate, execute and monitor the state budget through a centralized financial
    management information system, on a transparent and real-time basis.

   A unified Chart of Accounts (COA) for TABMIS has been developed and applicable
    throughout all four levels of the government for treasury and budget management.
    This multi-dimensional COA with 11 segments capturing all relevant information
    required for budget management such as source of fund, location, administrative,
    economic and functional budget classifications, targeted programs, projects, spending
    units etc. provides flexibility to analyze, consolidate and report for each segment and
    for a combination of segments. Relevant segments of the COA consistent with the
    international functional and economic classifications of expenditures as provided in
    GFSM2001/ COFOG allow for GFS reporting.

   TABMIS is helping a move toward accrual accounting as large state budget
    expenditure commitments are being controlled and monitored through TABMIS. In
    addition, some accrual accounting information such debt obligations are accounted
    and recorded in TABMIS immediately when incur.

   Improved accuracy and consistency in budget control, payment processing,
    accounting and reporting is achieved through application of a unified TABMIS COA
    and a single database of TABMIS, replacing multiple COAs and multiple distributed
    treasury legacy systems located throughout the country in the past. Furthermore, data
    on government receipts and expenditures, cash and fund balances available in
    TABMIS now on a real-time basis mean that all treasury and finance offices can
    produce instant reports for management purposes.

   Payment processing thought a centralized financial management information system
    such as TABMIS has helped enforcing compliance and enhancing transparency in
    budget execution throughout all levels of government.

   Full roll out of TABMIS, which provides essential expenditure and revenue
    accounting foundation for consolidation of treasury accounts, has enabled the MOF to
    move to implement TSA since the third Quarter of 2013. At the ICRR completion
    time, TSA arrangements have been fully implemented in three out of four state-




                                            15
    owned commercial banks5 (SOCBs). As these three banks hold the majority number
    of treasury idle cash balance accounts, considerable account consolidation has been
    achieved. When TSA arrangements are fully rolled out to the remaining SOCB by
    Mid-2014, four SOCBs will provide the direct revenue collection and payment
    services through four accounts that have replaced all approximately 700 previously
    existed bank accounts. This would result in considerable rationalization of banking
    arrangement for government cash management and potentially reduce the cost of
    borrowing, thus contributing to more efficient budget execution.

PDO Indicator 2: Better planning of the State Budget and the Public Investment
Program to achieve the growth and poverty reduction goals set out in the SEDP

   The project successfully piloted the application of MTFF and MTEF in four line
    ministries (Education and Training, Health, Transport and Agriculture) and three
    provinces (Binh Duong, Vinh Long, and Hanoi City) for three budget year cycles.
    The pilot implementation has helped improving the quality of socio-economic
    forecasting and medium tern fiscal policy and public finance resources projection,
    thus contributing to improved policy and procedure formulation and fiscal
    management in pilot ministries and provinces. More importantly, the pilot has
    demostrated the benefits of the medium-term budget planning approach to
    government officials and helped build concensus for its acceptance. As a result,
    MTFF and MTEF nation-wide implementation and result/performance-based budget
    management will expectedly be institutionalized in the revised State Budget Law (to
    be enacted by the end of 2014).

   A number of benefits as reported by the pilot ministries and provinces include:
    improved analysis of expenditures, strengthened basis for setting expenditure
    baselines, incorporation of future cost implications of new policies and decisions on
    both recurrent and capital sides (e.g. minimum wage increase, social security
    programs, bond issuance out of the budget), and, at least in the initial phase, improved
    coordination between Finance and Planning Departments.

   The most important outcome of the pilot is that it helped create a team of officials in
    MOF, MPI and the pilot ministries and provinces who have a thorough grasp of
    MTFF and MTEF methodology, model and implementation modalities which will




5
 Vietnam Bank for Industry and Trade (Vietinbank), Bank for Investment and Development of Vietnam
(BIDV), Vietnam Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (VBAR), and Bank for Foreign Trade of
Vietnam (Vietcombank).


                                                16
    facilitate future nation-wide rollout once MTFF and MTEF implementation is
    institutionalized.

   It is clearly that substantial impacts on impvoved budget planning will not be
    materialzied until MTFF and MTEF is properly implemented nation-wide but this
    was not the intended target of the project at the design.

PDO Indicator 3: Greater fiscal sustainability through improved and more integrated
recording of external and domestic public and publicly guaranteed debt, improved
capacity to monitor SOE liabilities, and improved ability to assess associated fiscal risks.

   The Debt Management and External Finance Department                  (DMEFD) was
    established in 2009, leading and coordinating public debt management, information
    consolidation, public debt reporting - an advanced step in unification of public debt
    management.

   Debt management objectives were approved and published in the Strategy for public
    debt and national external borrowings for the period of 2010-2020 and with a vision
    to 2030.

   Analytical capability in debt management of relevant MOF officials, especially staff
    of the Middle Office of the DMEFD has been considerably enhanced through in-
    country and oversea training courses supported by the Project. Steady progress has
    been achieved on the technical assistance activities to enhance public debt and risk
    management capacity and reform planning. Notably, these included the development
    of:

    a. information sharing mechanism among relevant GOV agencies (MOF, SBV,
       Ministry of Planning and Investment etc.) to support the establishment of national
       credit rating. This is an important development given the rating agencies’ focus
       on the risks from banking sector and transparency of country information.

    b. framework International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA) contract for
       future derivatives transactions to manage risks. DMEFD has been negotiating the
       appendixes of the ISDA contract with Citibank. Two rounds of negotiations have
       been conducted under the support of a consultant. In the meantime, DMEFD is
       also developing a negotiation handbook for ISDA contracts to guide DMEFD
       staff in future negotiations with other counterparts.

    c. medium-term debt reform plan on the basis of 2011 DeMPA assessment. Initial
       consultancy outputs appear to be very helpful for DMEFD to better define inter-
       linkages across debt reform activities, prioritization and sequencing of reform

                                            17
       actions, performance monitoring framework, and implementation resources needs
       and arrangements.

   Domestic Debt Recording System: The installation and training of the DMFAS for
    recording and management of domestic debt was completed in 2012. DMFAS is
    being used as the debt management and recording system for both domestic and
    external debt. DMFAS is now accessible by 90 users in all five relevant departments
    in the MOF.

   An interface between DMFAS and TABMIS has been developed and is operational.
    Through this automated interface, receipt from debt issues or borrowings for on-
    lending purposes or for projects is posted directly into the TABMIS General ledger
    (GL). Payment for interest or repayment of principal for both domestic and external
    debts is interfaced into TABMIS Accounts Payable (AP).

   In August 2013, the MOF adopted a regulation on DFMAS operation which requires
    concerned departments to develop further internal operation and verification
    processes.

   The project was instrumental in making the financial information of the SOEs
    available to the public and making it more transparent. The government is taking
    strong measures for enforcing the SOEs to comply with this requirement by imposing
    penalty on those SOEs failing to comply.

3.3 Efficiency

The total project final costs are US$87.7 million which is about 22% more than the
original cost. Although the final cost exceeded the original estimates, the project could be
assessed as quite cost-effective. The increase in total funding for the project compared to
the plan was not the consequence of the cost overruns, but due to increase in TABMIS
capacity to accommodate the substantially higher number of users and amount of
transactions resulting from huge jump in public expenditure. Between design and
TABMIS full roll out, the number of system users has increased nearly three times and
the total budget expenditure processed by the system has gone up by five times.

As indicated at project appraisal, the project would be making important impacts of
governance reform, institutional strengthening and capacity building but these impacts
are intrinsically hard to quantify. The project would not generate direct income or
benefits against which costs could be compared. Nevertheless, as analyzed in previous
section, the project is realizing benefits in terms of improved operational efficiency and
effectiveness of public expenditure. Such benefits are easier to identify than quantify.
However, it could be concluded that the project cost should be more than compensated by

                                            18
savings due to better planning, implementation and control of the budget. Vietnam's total
public expenditure in 2012 was the equivalent of some US$35 billion. Efficiencies of just
a tenth of a percentage point of this amount per year (US$35 million) would be sufficient
to payback within less than three years.

In addition, there are benefits resulting from project specific activities as follows:

   1) The transformation of the 700 existing accounts because of the TSA will result in
      reduction of idle cash balances from an estimated average of some 35 to 40
      trillion Dong to some 10 to 15 trillion dong. The permanent freeing of significant
      amounts of cash provides options for the Treasury to make available cash to retire
      state debt, to invest or to increase available cash for purposes of budget execution.
      A simple gross measurement of the potential returns on these cash balances even
      at 1% return could be up to $500,000 per annum.

   2) TABMIS has facilitated transactions via interfaces, so that the processing of some
      transactions has been done directly on the computer instead of papers.

Rating: Satisfactory

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Relevance. As explained in Section 3.1, the relevance of objectives, design, and
implementation is rated as High.

Achievement of PDOs. As explained in Section 3.2, the project has many satisfactory
achievements to its credit. However, as the PDO was more broadly defined and the
indicators did not have specific measurable targets, the achievement of the PDOs is rated
as Moderately Satisfactory.

Efficiency. The analysis in Section 3.3 indicates that there were operational and
administrative efficiencies which came as a result of the project. The rating on Efficiency
is thus Satisfactory

Based on the above factors and the discussion in sections 3.1–3.3, the overall outcome is
rated Moderately Satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development



                                              19
Poverty Impacts. The project did not have a direct impact on poverty alleviation.
However, the project has enabled the government to have full control on its financial
resources and allocate resources appropriately according to government policies. This
has enabled better utilization of government resources and indirectly helped alleviate
poverty. For example, because TABMIS is a centralized system, transactions like
disbursement are quicker and faster, resulting in improved transparency in projects
related to poverty reduction and providing assistance to right beneficiaries. Further, there
is tight control on budget allocation and better monitoring on expenditure on poverty
alleviation program.

Gender Aspects. N/A

Social Development: N/A

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The project resulted in a substantial institutional development impact in the following
areas:

   TABMIS

   MTFF and MTEF

   DMFAS

   Capacity Building: Because of the training programs offered under the project on
    both technical and functional aspects, capacity of the staff of MOF and the Treasury
    has been strengthened, especially in terms of complying with international good
    practices and project management, including financial management, procurement,
    and contract management.

For details, see Section 3.2

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

Positive:

The project has produced multiple positive outcomes, as follows:

   The MOF team devoted considerable time and effort to improve their capabilities in
    relevant areas to better manage the TABMIS contract and overall change
    management process. These new capabilities will definitely help in the next project,
    when they start moving towards an integrated FMIS solution. These can perhaps be

                                            20
    considered as an unintended impact related to the strengthening of the MOF's
    institutional capacity and problem solving skills.

   For strengthening the government's capacity for public debt management at MOF,
    the Law on Public Debt Management was passed in 2009. Likewise, the DMEFD was
    established in 2009. This body within MOF would improve the overall management
    of public debt, both domestic and external borrowing.

   During the legacy time when the system was decentralized, it was difficult to recruit
    qualified IT staff to the provinces, as most of them were not willing to go to remote
    places. However, as TABMIS is a centralized system, it has become easier to recruit
    them to the State Treasury in the headquarters. The hurdles and challenges during
    implementation exceeded the preparations of the project team and leaders as well as
    local agencies but they were steady with their commitment to reforms.

Negative:

   As TABMIS includes the database of the provinces, districts and communes and
    because the number of users has increased almost three times from 5300 to 15,000,
    workload of the staff in the MOF and the Treasury for capturing more data has
    significantly increased.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder
Workshops

Not applicable

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Negligible to Low

   The ICR team considers that the risk to development outcome would be negligible to
    low because all the achievements of the project are highly sustainable. In particular,
    TABMIS is fully operational nationwide, and is the only financial management
    information system used by all the treasury offices, financial offices and spending
    units to perform expenditures financed from the public budget across the whole
    country. After TABMIS has become operational, there is no more manual processing.

   Sustainability of TABMIS has been enhanced with the additional staff recruited to the
    VST and the knowledge transfer that has occurred over the last one year of the
    project. The MOF is administering the system database and security with support
    from an outsource contractor for system administration and user support. More work


                                           21
    is, however, needed to amplify the impact of TABMIS by providing more access to
    line ministries/departments and spending units

   Along with TABMIS, DMFAS has been operational as expected and stable over a
    period, and it has resulted in a relatively low level of risk to development outcome.

   Political developments usually do not impose major changes to the country’s
    development orientations, and the risk of significant backtracking by the government
    on the reform path is low. There is also no risk that TABMIS will be soon replaced by
    another system.

   There is, however, a concern on the sustainability of TABMIS in the financial
    agencies in the provinces, districts, and communes as they belong to local
    governments. In light of this factor, the government will need to focus on getting
    financial resources for the maintenance of operation of the system in these levels of
    government.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

During preparation and appraisal, the Bank took into account the adequacy of project
design and all major relevant aspects, such as technical, financial, economic, and
institutional, including procurement and financial management. In addition, major risk
factors and lessons learned from other earlier projects in the financial sector were
considered and incorporated into the project design. A number of alternatives were
considered in arriving at the chosen design.

Project preparation was carried out with an adequate number of specialists who provided
the technical skill mix necessary to address sector concerns and a good project design.
The Bank provided adequate resources in terms of staff weeks and dollar amount to
ensure quality preparation and appraisal work. The project was consistent with the CAS
and government priorities in the sector at the time. The Bank had a consistently good
working relationship with the Borrower during preparation and appraisal.

The project was prepared and appraised to the best of technical knowledge, and in full
compliance with the Bank procedures and policies at that time. At the same time, in
hindsight it appears that the M&E could have been better formulated. In light of this


                                           22
factor, the Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the
project is rated as Moderately Satisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank's performance during the implementation of the project was satisfactory.
Sufficient budget and staff resources were allocated, and the project was adequately and
intensively supervised. The task team prepared Aide-Memoires regularly and alerted the
government and the PMU to problems with project execution and facilitated remedies in
a timely manner, in conformity with Bank procedures. In addition to periodical
supervision mission, country office-based task team oversaw closely day-to-day
operations of the project to ensure timely and quality responses to multiple requests from
the counterparts for technical inputs and management clearance. During early critical
stage of TABMIS contract implementation, the Bank TTL participated in monthly
meetings of TABMIS Project Monitoring Committee to closely monitor contract
execution and provide necessary facilitations. The Implementation Status and Results
Reports (ISRs) realistically rated the performance of the project.

In addition to regular supervision, the Bank team paid a strong focus on providing the
needed implementation support to the government throughout the project period. In
particular, specialized IT expertise within the Bank project team was made available to
ensure the quality of design and supervision of the project. When the project faced
difficult challenges, e.g. with TABMIS contractual issues, the support was intensified
through increased number of support missions (three times a year during 2010-2012) and
timely video conferences, with proactive participation of the head of the Bank’s FMIS
Community of Practices and the responsible procurement experts.

The task team strongly facilitated MOF’s active participation in peer learning events,
such as (i) FMIS workshops with Asian countries in Jakarta (2009) and in Manila (in
2011), (ii) Joint WBI-PRMPS’s Greater Than Leadership (GTL) Program for FMIS
Implementation, with Albania, Cambodia, and the Philippines; and (iii) Budget and
Treasury Communities of Practices of the Public Expenditure Management Network in
Asia (PEMNA) with Korea, China, and other ASEAN countries. These have helped the
government teams to learn from practical peer experience to address outstanding issues,
keep up with new FMIS developments and good practices elsewhere, meanwhile building
more confidence and determination along the process. The Bank’s procurement, financial
management, and disbursement staff worked closely with the MOF and PMU staff to
explain the rules and procedures to be applied during project implementation based on
the Credit Agreement. The task team also monitored fiduciary compliances.


                                           23
The task team carried out a Mid-Term Review in December 2006. The MTR team had
identified several issues that were critical at that stage of project implementation. Based
on the recommendations of the MTR, measures were taken to ensure improvement in
implementation performance.

One important aspect of the Bank's performance and contribution was availability of strong
technical expertise on the Bank side and continuity of the Task Team, including the Task
Team Leader (TTL) and other key specialists during most of the project period. This
continuity engendered consistency, depth and follow-up in the dialogue with the government
and provided expertise to help the government analyze issues and implement actions as they
emerged during supervision. Direct discussions and needed adjustments could be made
timely as issues emerged given that the task team leader(s) were based on the field. There
was a high level of support and trust between the Bank management and the task team.
Regular dialogues between Bank and MOF management had helped to maintain
Government’s leadership and guidance to overcome difficult junctures and steer the project
on-track.

The Bank also worked closely with the co-financier DFID. Officials of DFID participated
in most of the supervision missions.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

With a Moderately Satisfactory rating for quality at entry and a Satisfactory rating for
quality of supervision, overall Bank performance is rated as Moderately Satisfactory in
accordance with IEG’s harmonized rating criteria.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

As mentioned in Section 2.1, the government had shown its commitment to the objectives
of the project at the time of project preparation. The government was fully aware of the
benefits of the project and consistently maintained its commitment throughout the
implementation. The government prepared an action plan, procurement plan and
disbursement estimate, acceptable to the Bank, in order to complete the project. The
government officials worked closely with the Bank's project team on a continual basis,
and cooperated fully with the task team.



                                            24
The institutional set up such as a well-functioning steering committee was very effective
in project implementation. Appropriate levels of review and approval were usually in
place; financial accountability and follow-up was observed, and expenditures were duly
authorized before they were incurred; and documentation was maintained properly for
periodic review. The project did not suffer from any counterpart funding problems, as
the GOV took timely corrective measures and made appropriate budget provisions.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

MOF: The MOF officials demonstrated strong leadership and were fully committed to
the project. The MOF’s overall institutional and implementation arrangements were
effective, including the well-functioning Inter-Ministerial Steering Committee,
Component Technical Units, and the Project Management Unit (PMU) organized into
specialized component implementation teams.

The MOF’s serious commitment to the project during preparation was reflected by the
Bank’s task team which noted the following comment in the Aide Memoire, dated,
March 13–20, 2006: “The MOF’s project team is to be congratulated for having
competently handling this difficult procurement process. The bid evaluation report
produced by the project team was assessed by the Bank’s East Asia Regional
Procurement Manager as one of the best-presented bid evaluation reports. This enabled
the Bank’s OPCS review committee to clear it expeditiously without a single query”.

During implementation, the MOF continued to maintain its commitments to the project as
demonstrated by: (i) assigning a large number seasoned management and technical staff
to work with the contractor and consultants to carry out project activities at all levels of
the Government, (ii) investing with Government own funding on (a) setting up a country
wide dedicated telecommunication network for TABMIS operation, (b) developing
interfaces with commercial banks for TSA operation and deploying a Tax Collection
System (TCS) to interface with TABMIS for tax collection accounting/reconciliation, and
(c) training of staff on business processes and upgrade their IT skills; and (iii) issuing
necessary regulations and guidelines for TABMIS and DMFAS operation and
MTEF/MTFF piloting. The ISR rating on the ‘Progress towards achievement of PDO’
was Satisfactory throughout the 10 year project period. Implementation progress was
slowed down towards the later part of the project because of the technical and contractual
issues related to TABMIS and DMFAS. The MOF had, however, maintained its focus
and put great efforts to resolve these issues and moved to complete system
implementation.



                                            25
The PMU was well functioning and closely collaborative with MOF technical
departments. Overall, institutional and implementation arrangements remained effective,
and PMU staff supporting relevant functional and technical departments.

Financial Management (FM). The project, throughout its life cycle, had adequate
financial management system in place that could provide accurate and timely information
that Bank loan proceeds were being used for the intended purposes. The budgeting, fund
flows, financial management staffing, accounting and financial reporting, internal control
systems and external audit, and maintenance of supporting documents at the project’s
implementing agency were generally adequate.

Although financial management aspects were generally in compliance with Bank
procedures, there were a couple of issues during the earlier stage of project
implementation such as: (i) quality of interim financial reporting; and (ii) the
withhold/deduction of Foreign Contractor Withholding Tax (FCWT) on payments to
IBM – the main contractor of the TABMIS contract. The PMU subsequently took actions
to remedy these issues.

Procurement Arrangements. The overall project procurement performance is assessed as
Satisfactory. The procurement of TABMIS -- the critical backbone contract which
accounts for the overwhelming investment costs of the project, was considered a high
success story. About a month after the Credit's effectiveness, the MOF was able to submit
the draft Bidding Documents for complex TABMIS for the Bank's clearance. The Bank's
no-objection was then obtained three months after the Credit's effectiveness, making a
good start of procurement process. This impressive timeliness was made possible due to
the advance preparation of TABMIS Bidding Documents during the project preparation.
With the financing from a PHRD Grant, the MOF had hired an international consultant
who helped prepare those bidding documents.

The procurement, using two-stage bidding procedures applicable for supply and
installation of Information Systems, was completed in about 18 months, a rather
reasonable time period for such a highly complex contract, possibly one of the largest IT
contracts ever financed by the Bank. The TABMIS contract was subsequently
successfully completed despite needing several change orders and time extensions, for an
expansion of scopes of supply due to the increased number of users and beneficiaries.
The PMU, although initially lacked procurement experience, had very well handled
procurement work and fully complied with Bank requirements.

Reporting Arrangements. The PMU submitted all required quarterly and annual reports
in a timely manner. These reports were informative, and provided valuable feedback on
how the project was progressing covering all project activities. The status of


                                           26
performance indicators were incorporated in all progress reports and served as valuable
input to Bank supervision mission reports.

In light of the above factors, performance of the MOF was satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory.

With a Satisfactory rating for Government performance and a Satisfactory rating for
MOF performance, overall borrower performance is rated as Satisfactory in accordance
with IEG’s harmonized rating criteria.

6. Lessons Learned

Project Design and Implementation:

   Adequate time is needed to prepare a project such as PFMRP. Considering the
    unique budget structure in Vietnam involving four levels s of the government (centre,
    provinces, districts, and communes) and the need for harmonizing policies, practices
    and processes, the government may need to have more time for finalizing the design
    of an ICT project such as PFMRP. In addition, it will be necessary for the
    government to understand the needs of the country and get convinced that the new
    system will meet their requirements. It is normal that the new system would involve
    changes in the mindset of the officials and users, and also changes in the business
    processes. The new system may also introduce stricter control on the approval
    process to make it more transparent, build consensus, and strengthen capacity to
    understand the new process and new technology. For these reasons, the timeframe for
    the project needs to be realistic so that unnecessary extensions of the closing date can
    be avoided.

   Committed and determined staff with knowledge and skills is important for the
    implementing agency. Selection of devoted, enthusiastic and determined staff, with
    knowledge and skills as part of the core team in the MOF is essential for effective
    implementation. For the PFMRP, the MOF managed to mobilize such a core team in
    the areas of budgeting, accounting public expenditure, ICT, capital expenditure
    management and human resources. Likewise, it is essential for a PMU to have
    qualified staff with good understanding and knowledge on various aspects of the
    project, including capacity for analysis of data and resource allocation based on
    priorities. In addition, it will be useful to have a pool of consultants with good
    experience in the implementation of an FMIS project, to provide advice and guidance
    to the government whenever needed. The consultants and contractors also need to

                                            27
    understand the needs and culture of the client and cooperate with the client for
    making the project successful.

   For smooth implementation, close coordination and contact between the donors,
    including the Bank and the Government are important. The Bank together with
    the co-financier DFID have been engaged closely with the Government throughout
    the project life to provide critical and timely support to project implementation This
    support was significant on almost all dimensions of the project, such as project
    management, technical knowhow, experience from elsewhere in the world, and
    sometimes even to resolve critical issues between contractors/consultants and the
    government or even the internal issues within the government.

   It is necessary for the government to come up with measures to motivate the
    staff to be committed to pilot projects. There were difficulties in implementing the
    pilots of MTFF and MTEF. Despite efforts to integrate the MTEFs into the annual
    budget cycle, given that it was only a pilot, many staff saw this as an added task
    rather than as part of their ongoing duties. In order to earn the commitment, interest
    and participation of the staff for the implementation of pilot project, it is necessary for
    the government to come up with measures to motivate the staff to be equally
    committed to pilot projects.

Procurement:

   Advanced preparation of bidding documents helps procurement activities : As
    mentioned earlier, about a month after the Credit's effectiveness, the Borrower had
    been able to submit the draft Bidding Documents for complex TABMIS for the
    Bank's clearance. The Bank's no-objection was then obtained three months after the
    Credit's effectiveness, making a good start of procurement process. This impressive
    timeliness was made possible due to the advance preparation of TABMIS Bidding
    Documents during the project preparation. In addition, using the services of
    procurement consultants for preparing bidding documents is also desirable.

   Capacity Building, Technical Assistance, Empowerment and Delegation of
    Accountability to Implementing Agency. Providing assistance and knowledge
    transfer by international and national consultants to the PMU as well as the MOF
    leadership giving to the PMU strong and timely guidance, support and directions
    would empower it to make timely procurement decisions.

   Bank Support and Collaboration with Borrower: The Bank, (including the Task
    Team, Regional Procurement Management (RPM) and technical experts), had
    provided effective hands-on support and guidance throughout the preparation and
    implementation of the project procurement, especially TABMIS contract. Such

                                              28
    guidance and support was not only limited to timely review and provision of
    comments/clearance, but also direct communications/discussions, hands-on
    advice/guidance, regular and ad-hoc training for the Borrower. The Borrower also
    maintained excellent cooperation and collaboration with the Bank; it well respected
    and followed the Bank’s advice on procurement. This was an important factor to the
    project’s success. Another important factor was that the Bank Team received
    important constructive and innovative advice/clearance from RPM for the design of
    project procurement arrangements and subsequent bidding process for TABMIS
    contract.

Factors for the Success of a Project:

   Strong and sustained commitment of the government leadership is critical to the
    success of a project. In a project which is going to take years to implement, it is
    inevitable that there will be change in leadership and the commitment levels of
    different leaders will vary. For PFMRP, although the commitment of political leaders
    as well the leadership within the MOF varied, they ensured support to the project
    through the entirety of its implementation phase. Even though there were times when
    the project went through rough times, it was clear that the support from the leaders
    was available whether it was for retaining a capable team, resolving business
    processes (BP) issues or in tackling inter-organization issues. The project took almost
    10 years to complete, and it must have been a serious challenge to retain a reasonable
    level of commitment from political leadership for this duration. This can be termed as
    an outstanding feature of an IFMIS project anywhere in the world.

   Availability of specialized IT expertise within the Bank project team is critically
    important to assure the quality of design and supervision of the projects that
    support development of complex IT systems. For example, as mentioned in Section
    5.1 (b), specialized IT expertise within the Bank project team was made available to
    ensure the quality of design and supervision of the project.

   Continuity of the core team working on the project, both from the Bank side and
    the government side, is very important for the success of a project. Frequent
    changes in the core team would create disruption, lack of continuity and ownership,
    and different approaches to supervision. On the other hand, the continuity of the core
    team members will engender consistency, depth and follow-up in the dialogue with the
    government and provide expertise to help the government analyze issues and implement
    actions as they emerge during supervision.




                                            29
Sector-specific:

   There are advantages and disadvantages in packaging the contract and asking bids
    for a single turn-key contract. A country has to weigh all options and then decide. It
    will be helpful if the country could assess the capabilities of vendors before deciding on
    this. However, a turn-key contract does not absolve the country of its responsibilities and
    still requires considerable investment in the management of the project by the country
    itself and this should not be underestimated, as the experience in Vietnam has shown.

   The rolling out schedule needs to be realistic and should match the capabilities and
    capacities of the teams. Vietnam scaled down the number of provinces in each roll-out
    batch from 10 provinces to 3-5 based on this and it proved workable for them and did not
    overload the teams. Seasonal pressure of work in treasuries should be avoided for pilot or
    roll-out phases. For example, in Vietnam, the government did not consider November,
    December, January or February as good months since they were either end of the
    financial year or beginning of the new financial year. During this time treasuries have
    more than normal work and the introduction of a new system will unnecessarily stretch
    their capacities.

   For big system implementation with a turnkey contract like TABMIS, it is necessary
    to clearly mandate the contractor's responsibility in training and knowledge
    transfer to government staff to ensure good system operation and administration well
    before the contract ends and help the government to own/master the system right after
    taking over from the contractor.

   For big information system implementation with prolonged implementation, it is
    necessary to have adequate provision for changes which might not be foreseen during
    the project's preparation and original design. In the case of TABMIS, the number of
    system users has increased as many as nearly three times and the total budget expenditure
    processed by the system has gone up by five times between design and full roll out.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/Implementing Agencies

(b) Co-financiers

(c) Other Partners and Stakeholders

(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                            30
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a)      Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

(Total rows and percentage column will be calculated by the system)

                              Appraisal           Actual /Latest
                                                                      Percentage of
       Components             Estimate              Estimate
                                                                       Appraisal
                            (US$ million)         (US$ million)
Component 1 :
Strengthening Treasury
                                  61.42               77.94               127
and Budget
Management
Component 2:
Strengthening State
                                  4.18                3.13                 75
Budget and Investment
Planning
Component 3:
Strengthening
Management of Public              2.88                2.43                 84
Debt and Monitoring of
SOE Fiscal Risks
Component 4: Project
                                  2.97                4.22                142
Management Support
      Total Project Costs         71.45               87.72               123
Project Preparation
Facility (PPF)
Front-end fee (IBRD
only)
         Total Financing
                                  71.45               87.72               123
               Required

(b)      Co-financing

(The appraisal estimate will be pre-populated from the Financing data in SAP/AUS;
Percentage of Appraisal column will be calculated by the system)

                                      Appraisal       Actual/Latest
  Source of            Type of                                        Percentage of
                                      Estimate          Estimate
   Funds              Financing                                        Appraisal
                                    (US$ million)     (US$ million)
 Borrower                                 7.14            8.10            113


                                             31
UK: British
Department
for
                9.99    10.46   105
International
Development
(DFID)
International
Development
                68.33   69.15   101
Association
(IDA)




                   32
Annex 2. Outputs by Component


Component 1: Strengthening Treasury and Budget Management

The project activities included in Component 1 contributed to the following main
aspects:

-   A Treasury and Budget Management Information System (TABMIS) has been
    developed, implemented and used by all treasury offices and financial agencies of all
    levels in the whole country as well as selected large ministries and government
    agencies.
-   A unified Chart of Accounts (COA) has been developed and applicable throughout
    the government for treasury and budget management; large state budget expenditure
    commitments are controlled and monitored through TABMIS.
-   Capacity building in treasury and budget management has been provided to
    functional and technical staff.
-   A study on a model and implementation roadmap of TABMIS Portal for linking
    TABMIS with SUs and a study on a model and roadmap towards a government
    financial management information system (GFMIS) have been done.

TABMIS implementation has been accompanied by a number of TA activities for
capacity building, BP modernization, COA reforms. Different stages of BA analysis,
system design, testing were undergone from 2006 to April 2009. From April 2009 to end
2012, TABMIS was rolled out in all treasury offices and financial agencies of all levels in
the whole country as well as selected large ministries and government agencies (the
treasury and financial agency at the central level, treasury offices and financial agencies
of 63 provinces, over 600 districts, 37 central ministries and 3 departments of Hanoi city.
The total number of implementation sites was 1,593). With a unified COA across the
government, TABMIS has actively supported treasury and budget management of the
central and local governments through process monitoring, data supply, timely and
accurate budget execution reports.

In addition to TABMIS implementation, there were a number of TA activities towards a
government financial management information system. The outputs of these activities
included a draft model and roadmap of TABMIS Portal; a model and roadmap towards a
government financial management information system (GFMIS) with support from
consultants. These products will be further studied and improved by MOF to submit to
higher management level for approval.

Component 2: Strengthening State Budget and Investment Planning

-   A methodology for making State budget and investment plans was established via a
    successful pilot implementation of MTFF and MTEF. It is expected that MTFF and
    MTEF models will be institutionalized in the highest legal document - the revised
    State Budget Law for nation-wide rollout in the coming time.

                                            33
-   Capacity building in budgeting has been provided to staff of both central and local
    levels via a number of training courses. Templates (manual) in MTFF and MTEF
    have been developed.
From 2005 to 2010, MTFF was successfully piloted at MOF, MPI while MTEF was also
successfully piloted at 4 ministries and 4 provinces, with relevant staff trained. The
rollout of these frameworks will require institutionalization and will be considered
together with the revision process of the State Budget Law.

Component 3: Strengthening Management of Public Debt and Monitoring of SOE
Fiscal Risks
-   The Law on Public Debt Management was developed and issued in 2009.
-   The Department of Debt Management and External Finance was established within
    MOF to lead coordination and consolidation of public debt information.
-   The strategy for public debt and national external borrowings for the period of 2010-
    2020, with a vision to 2030 was issued and published.
-   Risk management capacity of public debt has been enhanced.
-   The Debt Management and Financial Analytical System (DMFAS) has been
    implemented for domestic debt management and integration of domestic and external
    debt databases.
-   The regulations on monitoring SOEs' fiscal risks have been developed and recently
    issued under a Government's Decree.
Prior to 2009, there were TA activities, including consulting services, training and study
tours, supporting development and approval of the Law on Public Debt Management and
establishment of the Department of Debt Management and External Finance to lead
coordination and consolidation of public debt information. From 2009 to 2013, the
component supported development and issuance of the long-term debt strategy, capacity
building (in both institutional arrangements and human resources) in risk management of
public debt. Particularly, focus was made to capacity building of the Middle Office of the
Department of Debt Management and External Finance.
The Debt Management and Financial Analytical System (DMFAS) was implemented for
external debt management in 2003, outside the framework of PFMRP. From 2009 to
2013, the project supported DMFAS implementation for domestic debt management and
integration of domestic and external debt databases. An intermediate program has been
built for data exchanges between DMFAS and TABMIS.
Consultants have actively supported development of the regulations on monitoring SOEs'
fiscal risks and other legal documents including a manual providing guideline to the
implementation of the regulations as well as training courses for capacity building of
relevant staff.
Component 4: Project Management Support
-   Coordination of project activities, development of the project implementation plan,

                                           34
    project procurement plan and logistics have been well done.
-   Procurement, contract management, accounting and financial management of
    funding have fully observed procedures and processes of both the Government of
    Vietnam and the donors.
-   Project revisions, extensions and expansions have been undertaken and then timely
    implemented to facilitate the success of the project implementation.
Activities within Component 4 have been undertaken by the PMU. Project revisions,
planning, coordination and logistic arrangements have been well done to contribute to the
success of the project.
For procurement and contract management, in 2003-2011, 85 packages, including
TABMIS contract which was worth US$ 53 million and undergone two-stage bidding,
were undertaken. In 2011-2013, 107 packages have been undertaken with hundreds of
contracts monitored and accepted.
For financial management, throughout 10 years of implementation, procedures and
processes relating to disbursement, accounting, regular reporting, auditing, ... have
always been fully met.




                                            35
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
See Section 3.3


Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision
Processes

(a) Task Team members
           Names                               Title                    Unit
Ed Mountfield                  Manager (TTL until June 2005)           OPSPQ
Gloria M. Elmore               Temporary                               EASPR
                               Sr. Financial Management
Robert J. Gilfoyle                                                     EASFM
                               Specialist
                               Sr. Financial Management
Hung Viet Le                                                           EASOS
                               Specialist
                               Senior Economist (TTL June 2005-
Minh Van Nguyen                August 2009 and between Aug.            EASPV
                               2011-Dec.2011 )
Hoang Xuan Nguyen              Procurement Specialist                   EASR2
                               Sr. Financial Management
Cung Van Pham                                                          EASFM
                               Specialist
Quynh Xuan Thi Phan            Financial Officer                      GEFOB
Tuyet Thi Phung                Program Assistant                      EACVF
Ronald Points                  Consultant                             EASPC
Ramesh Sivapathasundram        Lead Information Officer               TWICT
Nguyen Chien Thang             Senior Procurement Specialist         EASRP-HIS
Jennifer K. Thomson            Chief Financial Management Off         OPSOR
                               Economist (TTL since August
Quyen Hoang Vu                                                         EASPV
                               2009 )
L. S. Christine Wong Shui
                               Operations Officer                      EASPW
Wan
Cem Dener                      Senior Public Sector Specialist         PRMPS
Anna L. Wielgorska             Senior Procurement Specialist           EASR1
Bruce Pollock                  ICT System Consultant                   EASPV


b) Staff Time and Cost
                                             Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
      Stage of Project Cycle                                      USD Thousands (including
                                           No. of staff weeks
                                                                  travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY02                                              38                       261.55
  FY03                                              38                       135.28
  FY04                                              14                        57.05

                                               36
  FY05                                5             28.91
  FY06                                4             22.87
  FY07                                2             15.69
  FY08                                               0.00
                    Total:        101              521.35
Supervision/ICR
  FY02                                               0.00
  FY03                                               0.00
  FY04                              21              57.13
  FY05                              40             111.27
  FY06                              14              36.28
  FY07                              16              37.43
  FY08                              27              57.50
  FY09                              10               0.00
  FY10                             17.2             87.8
  FY11                             20.4             76.3
  FY12                            16.42             63.7
  FY13                              22              65.9
  FY14                              10              67.5
                    Total:         214             660.8



Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
N/A

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
N/A




                                 37
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

A. Borrower's comments on the draft ICR:




Note: Borrower's comments have been incorporated into the final draft of ICR.




                                          38
B. Borrower's ICR:

                         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
           OF PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT REFORM PROJECT (PFMRP)


A. OVERVIEW OF PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT REFORM PROJECT

     A. OVERVIEW OF PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT REFORM
PROJECT
       I. Legal Basis and Project Implementation Apparatus
       1. Legal Basis:
        The Public Financial Management Reform Project (PFMRP) was established
according to the Prime Minister's Decision No. 432/QD-TTg dated 21/4/2003 which
approved the Feasibility Study of the Project; the Prime Minister's Decision No. 974/QD-
TTg dated 28/8/2003 on the implementation of the Public Financial Management Reform
Project; the International Development Credit Agreement No. 3767-VN dated 06/6/2003
and the Credit Agreement No. 4863 dated 07/4/2011; the Non-Refundable Assistance
Agreement from DFID Trust Fund No. TF 050988 dated 06/6/2003; the Amendment to
Financing Agreement dated 19/9/2013; the Decision No. 3286/QD-BTC dated
17/12/2010 of the Minister of Finance to approve the revision, addition and extension of
the implementation time of the Public Financial Management Reform Project; the
Decision No. 1878/QD-BTC dated 25/7/2012; the Decision No. 573/QD-BTC dated
25/3/2013; the Decision No. 2354/QD-BTC dated 19/9/2013 of the Minister of Finance
on revisions of the project plan during its implementation.
        2. Project Implementation Appratus: The project implementation apparatus
consists of a Project Management Unit (PMU) and component/sub-component
implementation units. The PMU and component implementation units are directly set up
and run by the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and responsible before the Ministry for the
implementation results of the duties delegated to them in their incorporation decisions, i.
e.:
        - The PMU: has the functions and duties of coordinating activities of the PMU
and component/sub-component implementation units; making, organizing for
undertaking and monitoring the project implementation plan; representing the MOF in
relations with individuals and organizations, foreign partners and donors for issues
relevant to the project implementation; organizing management over fund sources,
payment, procurement and logistics for the project's activities; organizing assessment and

                                            39
preparing project completion report; carrying out project final-accounting and handing
over the project's assets to relevant agencies.
        - Component/Sub-component implementation units: have the duties of making
plans and organizing for implementation of the activities within the framework of their
assigned components/sub-components; collaborating with contractors and consultants in
undertaking the activities within the framework of their respective components/sub-
components; monitoring and making assessment on the progress and implementation
effects of their components/sub-components.
       II. Objectives, design and basic activities of the project
        1. Overall Objectives: The PFMRP aims to (i) modernize State budget
management from planning, execution, reporting to strengthen budget accountability and
management responsibility of the MOF; improve transperancy in public finance
management; reduce negative actions in budget utilization; ensure financial security in
the national development and integration process; (ii) strengthen links between budget
management requirements and financial development objectives and macro-economic
norms by making medium-term fiscal and expenditure frameworks; (iii) strengthen the
Government's capacity in debt management at the MOF.
       2. Scope of Implementation: Ministry of Finance (MOF), Ministry of Planning
and Investment (MPI), 06 Ministries and 04 provinces piloting the medium-term fiscal
and expenditure frameworks, treasury offices and financial agencies of 63 cities and
provinces.
        3. Timeframe for Implementation: The PFMRP was started in October 2003
with the initial timeframe of 05 years. This has been extended three times and the project
closed on 31/10/2013. The total time of the project implementation is 10 years with two
phases: Phase 1: from October 2003 to the end of February 2011; Extension Phase
(project extension, restructuring and additional financing): from March 2011 to the end of
October 2013.
        4. Overall Design: The Project comprises of four following components:
        - Component 1 - Investing in a Treasury and Budget Management Information
System (TABMIS)
        - Component 2 - Support the modernization of State budget and investment
planning
       - Component 3 - Technical Assistance to the modernization of debt management
and monitoring of SOEs' fiscal risks


                                           40
          - Component 4 - Project management support
      5. Fund Sources: According to the Prime Minister's approval at the Decision No.
974/QD-TTg dated 28/8/2003 on the implementation of the Public Financial
Management Reform Project, the initial fund sources of the project consisted of:

                                                                     Unit: million USD
 No.                      Fund Source                                Equivalent to USD
    1     The World Bank's IDA                                                             54.33

    2     DFID's non-refundable financing                                                      9.99

    3     Counter-part fund                                                                    7.14

          Total                                                                            71.46


         The Minister of Finance issued on 17/12/2010 the Decision No. 3286/QD-BTC
to approve the documentation on amendment, addition to and extension of the
implementation timeline of the Public Financial Management Reform Project which
increased the total investment capital of the project to USD 96.13 million, i.e.:

                                                                      Unit: million USD
                                                 Increased Capital
                         Original                                                   Revised
No. Fund Source         investment      Exchange                                  Investment
                                                    Additional
                          capital          rate                       Total         Capital
                                                    Financing
                                         surplus

1       IDA                    54.32         6.34            14        20.34           74.67

2       Grant                    9.99        1.32                        1.32          11.31

3       Counter-part             7.14                         3               3        10.14
        fund

        Total                  71.46         7.67            17        24.67           96.13




                                            41
    B. ASSESSMENT OF IMPLEMENTATION                             RESULTS       AS    PER
APPROVED OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN:
     I. Component 1: Investing in the Installation of a Treasury and Budget
Management Information System (TABMIS):
       1. Objectives and Design of Activities
        a. Objectives: Component 1 aimed to invest in the installation in the system of
treasury from the central to district levels an integrated Treasury and Budget
Management Information System (TABMIS) which would be connected to the Ministry
of Planning and Investment, spending ministries, financial agencies of different levels,
implement and operate effectively in the nation-wide to meet budget management
requirements and efficiency in the direction of reform with consideration of special
characteristics of Vietnam. In addition, Component 1's target was to identify the
orientation and overall roadmap for public financial management modernization and
reform with the model of a Government financial management information system.
       b. Detailed Design and Undertaken Activities:
        Component 1 consisted of 7 sub-components, from 1(a) to 1(g), including
building and implementation of a Treasury and Budget Management Information System
- TABMIS, technical assistance activities such as international and local consulting
services, training, workshops, study tours, ... to support TABMIS implementation
(procurement support, independent validation and verification, monitoring of hardware
upgrading, implementation result assessment, study of optimization of communication
network, ...) and technical assistance to reforms of management policies, accounting
policies as well as studies of orientation forward for TABMIS Portal and a Government
financial management information system (GFMIS). Component 1 completed 127 out of
143 planned activities, including TABMIS contract.
         In Component 1, the main activities included building and implementation of
TABMIS in all treasury offices and financial agencies of the central, provincial and
district levels; roll-out of Budget Allocation Module to large ministries/ministerial
agencies at the central level, including the Ministry of Planning and Investment. Key
activities were: re-engineering business processes, defining requirements for software
customization, designing and developing the system software, issuance of management
and accounting policies as legal basis for TABMIS implementation; taking-over
equipment, software and establishment of system environments; organizing testing of
system functionalities at the centre, pilot implementation at the central treasury, Hai
Phong and Ha Nam (April-September 2009); roll-out to the remaining treasury offices
and financial agencies in the whole country as well as 37 ministries/ministerial agencies
                                           42
of the central level and 3 large departments of Hanoi city (including general departments
(level-2 spending units) of large ministries). By the end of 2012, TABMIS roll-out was
fully completed in 1,593 units/agencies.
       MOF (TABMIS Implementation Unit-State Treasury) has taken over the system
from the contractor since 30/09/2013 and has formally been undertaking system
operation and administration. On 30/10/2013, MOF organized system final acceptance.
Generally, all parties have completed the establishment, implementation, take-over and
administration of TABMIS as per the signed contract and MOF's requirements.
        Till now, TABMIS is operating stably at all treasury offices and financial
agencies nation-wide. Ministries, ministerial agencies, general departments of the central
budget as well as 03 departments of Hanoi city are undertaking budget allocation in the
system and exploiting information from the system. The system has supported accounting
and recording in an accurate, timely and sufficient manner budget execution, control and
payment; produced State budget revenue and expenditure reports, management reports
serving budget management requirements; provided fast and accurate information of
budget execution status at any point of time; assured budget data synchronization
between the State Treasury and tax, customs agencies. Financial agencies of different
levels can get State budget revenue and expenditure reports directly from the system and
carry out budget appropriations management of all levels.
       2. Assessment of Results and Impacts
        a- The implementation of TABMIS required reforms of management mechanism,
business processes, accounting policies in State budget management: With business
processes and functionalities of the system, MOF has undertaken a number of reforms in
State budget management (reducing the time for budget adjustment, establishing budget
allocation process at different levels and payment order procedures in the system,
accounting policy, commitment control, ...), implementation of borrowing plans in the
system.
         b- TABMIS application was developed with functionalities and business
processes which could meet MOF's requirements and towards good public financial
management practices and standards in the region and the world with adjustments for
more suitability to Vietnam. TABMIS is currently operating with 6 modules: General
Ledger (GL), Budget Allocation (BA), Accounts Payable (AP), Accounts Receivables
(AR), Purchase Order (PO), Cash Management (CM), reports and interfaces with other
systems. All treasury offices and financial agencies from the central to provincial and
district levels as well as level-1 supervising agencies of the central budget can commonly
use the system in their daily transactions, exploitation of data and reports to timely serve

                                            43
management work of their leaders.
       Since this is a centralized system, budget execution processes and the way to
record revenue and expenditure is unified across different budget levels with clear roles
of different agencies in budget execution. All information of budget revenue and
expenditure of all levels is recorded in a real-time, integrated and centralized manner.
        c- TABMIS implementation has created a step forward in technology
modernization in public financial management with the use of an integrated and
centralized software, a centralized national database, connections with different agencies,
modern and powerful infrastructure, a DR centre for data security, 3,200 sets of PCs for
all units joining the system. The financial sector has approached and been professionally
operating a big, modern and centralized system of regional and global standards. At the
same time, MOF has upgraded and expanded its communication lines to all treasuries
offices and financial agencies from the central to the district levels as well as other
information technology application infrastructures in the financial sector.
        d- TABMIS implementation has made great impacts on the organizational
structure, supported and pushed forward the improvement of human resource quality,
especially staff of MOF and local treasury offices via communication, IT basic and
advanced training courses, system use training. It has helped to improve the collaboration
among agencies in budget execution, enhance staff knowledge and capacity, adjust the
organizational structure for TABMIS operation such as the establishment of the Central
Team at the Central State Treasury and a unit carrying out the duties of the Central Team
at the provinces for support system operation, the help-desk.
        e- Based on the results achieved from TABMIS implementation, it is possible to
define the next steps forwards through a study of the model and roadmap of a
Government Financial Management Information System (GFMIS): the project hired an
international consulting firm to support the Department of Financial Informatics and
Statistics in developing a model and roadmap of a Government Financial Management
Information System (GFMIS) in the specific circumstance of Vietnam to submit to the
Minister of Finance for approval.
      II. Component 2: Support the Modernization of State budget and investment
planning
       1. Objectives and Design of Activities
        a. Objectives: Component 2 aimed to support the establishment of the medium-
term fiscal framework and the medium-term expenditure framework for MOF and MPI to
contribute to the efficient use of resources, implementation of the strategy on sustainable

                                            44
growth and poverty reduction; undertake pilot implementation of the medium-term
expenditure framework in some ministries and provinces; move towards
institutionalization of the medium-term fiscal framwork and the medium-term
expenditure framework; support development of the model and roadmap for development
and implementation of a budget preparation system.
       b. Detailed Design and Undertaken Activities: The Component comprised of 5
sub-components, from 2(a) to 2(e), with the following activities: support preparation of
the medium-term fiscal framework and the medium-term expenditure framework at MOF
and MPI, with pilot implementation of the medium-term fiscal framework and the
medium-term expenditure framework in some ministries and provinces; training to
support development of the medium-term fiscal and expenditure frameworks; support
development of guidelines on the medium-term fiscal and expenditure frameworks
implementation; support preparation of a budget preparation system. Component 2
completed 58 out of 60 planned activities, including international and local consulting
services, workshops and training.
       - To implement the establishment and pilot implementation of the medium-term
frameworks, MOF mobilized staff of MPI, pilot ministries (Ministry of Education and
Training (MOET), Ministry of Health (MOH), Ministry of Agriculture and Rural
Development (MARD) and Ministry of Transport (MOT)) and pilot provinces (Hanoi, Ha
Tay, Binh Duong and Vinh Long). During the period of 2005-2010, the medium-term
fiscal framework and the medium-term expenditure framework were developed for the
medium term of 03 years and on a rolling basis. Publications of the pilot medium-term
fiscal framework and the medium-term expenditure framework were made for the period
of 2009-2011 and had been improved. Their templates, manual and training materials
were developed, improved and accepted.
      MOF organized in Februar 2011 a review workshop on the pilot implementation of
the medium-term fiscal framework and the medium-term expenditure framework to make
assessment on results gained, advantages and difficulties during the pilot implementation
and propose for future steps.
      - In the project's extension phase of 2011-2013, 03 consultants (01 international and
02 local consultants) were hired to support the institutionalization of the medium-term
fiscal framework and the medium-term expenditure framework, make proposals of the
model for implementing the medium-term fiscal framework and the medium-term
expenditure framework in Vietnam in the new stage, improve forms and templates.




                                            45
       2. Assessment of Results and Impacts
        - Results achieved: The pilot implementation of the medium-term fiscal
framework and the medium-term expenditure framework has made great impacts on the
improvement of forecasting socio-economic indicators, fiscal policies and public
financial resources in the medium term as well as budget-financial planning and
management. The methodology of the medium-term fiscal framework and the medium-
term expenditure framework has been set up in combination of the experiences of
advanced countries and the specific characteristics of Vietnam, contributing to the
improvement of legal basis for future implementation. Pilot ministries and provinces have
clearly realized the benefits, necessity and rationale of the implementation of these
frameworks and their impacts on the annual budgeting cycle. State officials taking part in
the pilot implementation have grown up and will be key forces in this area.
         - Shortcomings: Since the medium-term fiscal framework and the medium-term
expenditure framework were only piloted, supporting legal documents were not issued so
the pilot implementation met with confusion and there was lack of information at both
central and local levels. In addition, the nature of State budget subsidization was still
there in the medium-term fiscal framework and the medium-term expenditure framework.
The medium-term expenditure framework was still over the budget ceilings. There was
still lack of creativeness and self-motivation in studying and suggesting measures for
deficiencies.
     III. Component 3 - Technical Assistance to the Modernization of Debt
Management and Monitoring of SOEs' Fiscal Risks
       1. Objectives and Design of Activities
       a. Objectives: Component 3 aimed to strengthen the Government's capacity for
debt management at MOF through effective public debt management, improvement of
debt analytical skills, including classification, assessment and monitoring of SOEs' risks,
development of public debt strategy.
         b. Detailed Design and Undertaken Activities: Component 3 comprised of 3 sub-
components, from 3(a) to 3(c), including technical assistance activities to strengthening
of public debt management (mainly support to development of the legal framework,
institutional reforms for public debt management and risk management); implementation
of debt management information system; development of a plan for developing debt and
risk management information system in the future; strengthening monitoring capacity
over SOEs' fiscal risks. This Component completed 59 out of 67 planned activities.



                                            46
         - Through technical assistance activities such as consulting services, training,
workshops, study tours, MOF developed and submited to the Government in order to
submit to the National Assembly for approval the Law on Public Debt Management.
They also helped to support public debt management reform by developing a plan for
public debt reform according to DeMPA, development of debt management tools (public
debt strategy and national external borrowings for the period of 2011-2020, public debt
review for 2006-2010 and the borrowing plan for 2011-2015), strengthening risk
management capacity of public debt (risk management of public debt portfolio, ISDA
negotiations and manuals, ...), development of a plan to improve the national credit
rating, ...
       - In the period of 2006-2013, the implementation of a debt management
information system for domestic debt for integration of external and domestic debt
databases has been completed with UNCTAD-developed DMFAS at MOF. DMFAS has
been deployed in MOF's relevant units. An integrated external and domestic database was
set up. There was an intermediate program developed for data exchange between
DMFAS and TABMIS. The project also supported development of a plan for developing
debt and risk management information system in the future.
        - In monitoring SOEs' financial risks, the project supported assessment of SOEs'
financial risks, improvement of a legal framework for and capacity building for officials
in charge of SOEs' financial monitoring (developing the regulations on SOEs' financial
monitoring, the manual for SOEs' financial monitoring, training on SOEs' finanical
management capacity for 200 officials of management agencies of the central and local
levels and big SOEs).
       2. Assessment of Results and Impacts
        - The activities of Component 3 have closely followed the objective "to
strengthen the Government's capacity for public debt management at MOF" through
contributions to the development of the Law on Public Debt Management issued in 2009,
the unification of efficient public debt management (with the establishment of the Debt
Management and External Finance Department in 2009), the development of the national
public debt and external borrowing strategy for 2011-2020 with vision to 2030,
enhancement of debt analytical skills (including clasification, assessment of SOEs'
financial risks).
       - The activities of Component 3 during the last 10 years have made big
contributions to the strengthening of public debt management, including support to the
development of a legal framework, institutional reforms; development of public debt
management information system (DMFAS) and development of a plan for developing

                                           47
debt and risk management information system in the future; capacity building in debt and
risk management.
       IV. Component 4 - Project Management Support
       1. Objectives and Design of Activities
       a. Objectives: This Component aimed to organize activities for project
coordination and management.
       b. Detailed Design and Undertaken Activities:
       Component 4 comprised of 3 sub-components, from 4(a) to 4(c), including: a
team of consultants supporting project management according to the regulations of the
World Bank and the Government of Vietnam, which consisted of coordinators,
procurement specialists, financial specialists, interpreters, short-term consultants
supporting the PMU in TABMIS contract management, international and local
consultants supporting preparations for project closing and evaluation, development of
the next project, operation cost management and office management. This Component
completed 65 out of 69 planned activities.
       - Organizing coordination of the activities of the project and each component,
collaborating with component implementation units, the donors in developing
implementation plans, procurement plans and other relevant activities.
        - Organizing procurement - contract management: In the period of 2003-2011, the
project held 85 bidding packages, including TABMIS which was worth US$ 53 million
with two-stage bidding. In the period of 2011-2013, the project organized 107 bidding
packages. The PMU collaborated with implementation units to control the
implementation of contracts, carry out contract management and acceptance as well as
participated in developing MOF's regulations on procurement procedures for WB-funded
projects.
         - Organizing project extension and amendment: There have been three revisions
to the Agreement signed with the World Bank (once for time extension, once for
additional financing and activity adjustment and once for time extension and activity
adjustment). The PMU submited to MOF for approval the adjustments to the project's
activities and scope during implementation for feasibility and suitable to actual
implementation (revisions of implementation plan, detailed procurement plan,...).
        - The PMU undertook management of the project's funding sources, payment
control, accounting, auditing and final accounting; produced regular reports and assured



                                          48
logistics, translation and interpretation for all project activities, including TABMIS
rollout in the whole country.
         2. Assessment of Results and Impacts
        The activities of Component 4 have made big contributions to the implementation
results of other components. Generally, Component 4 has well fulfiled its duties to assure
successful implementation of the project. However, since all project management tasks
concentrated at one point, the volume of work for Component 4 was very great,
especially in the situation that ODA project running and management must follow the
regulations of both the donors and the Government with a lot of complicated procedures
to complete, particularly when they were not identical.
         3. Disbursement Results as of end of February 2014

               Disbursements per components as of end of February 2014

                                         Accumulated               Planned
                          Total
                                      Disbursement as of       Disbursement to           Rate
    Component            Capital
                                          31/12/2013           February 2014             (%)
                       (1000 USD)
                                         (1000 USD)              (1000 USD)
 Component 1                84.544                 76.771                  77.588                 92

 Component 2                  3.871                 3.119                   3.119                 81

 Component 3                  3.385                 2.301                   2.321                 69

 Component 4                  4.331                 4.088                   4.127                 95

               Total        96.130                 86.281                  87.157                 91

               Disbursements per fund sources as of end of February 2014

                          Total        Accumulated              Planned
                         Capital      Disbursement as       Disbursement to           Rate
   Fund Source
                          (1000        of 31/12/2013        February 2014             (%)
                          USD)          (1000 USD)            (1000 USD)
 IDA Credit                 74.675                67.789                68.637               92

 Grant                      11.315                10.461                10.461               93

 Counter-part               10.140                 8.029                  8.058              79

                                           49
 Fund

        Total               96.130                86.281                87.157               91



    C. OVERALL ASSESSMENT ON THE RESULTS OF THE PROJECT,
ADVANTAGES, DIFFICULTIES AND PROPOSALS
      1. Overall Assessment on the Results of the Project after 10 years of
Implementation:
        a. The project was correspondent to and met the objectives and activities of
strategies and programs launched by the Government and the financial sector relating
to public finance reform:
       - The master programs on State administration reform for the period of 2001-2010
and the period of 2011-2020 cover 4 areas: institutional reform, State organizational
reform, renovation and enhancement of State cadres, public finance reform and towards a
modern administration with effective application of development advances of science and
technology, especially information technology.
        - Development strategy of the financial sector: the financial sector development
strategy for the period of 2001-2010 and the 11th program aimed to carry out
administration reform and capacity building of national financial management, including
study and undertaking duties on organizational improvement, improvement of business
processes, informatic application and modernization of budget and financial management
technology, training and refreshment. The financial sector development strategy for the
period of 2011-2020 defines “to push up administration reform with modernization of
management technology, especially information technology; to form a modern, effective
and professional national finance ...".
         - The national program on IT application in the operations of State agencies in
the period of 2011 – 2015: one of the specific objectives is to implement the Treasury and
Budget Management Information System (TABMIS) in 100% cities and provinces. The
list of projects and nation-level duties assigns MOF to build a Government Financial
Management Information System (GFMIS).
         b. The project has basically completed according to the defined objectives,
activities, plan and outputs approved by the Prime Minister at the Decision No. 432-
QD/TTg, the Credit Agreement and MOF's Decisions:
        - In comparison to the defined objectives and outputs:


                                            50
          + Regarding objectives, the PFMRP has basically obtained the project's overall
objectives: the implementation of TABMIS has been a great step forward in State budget
management modernization, from allocation, organization for budget collecting and
spending to reporting. It has helped to increase budget accountability of MOF and other
ministries/ministerial agencies, financial agencies and local authorities; clearly assigned
the functions and duties of different agencies in budget execution; improved the
transparency in public financial management; assured fiscal security in the national
development and integration process; reduced errors and negation actions in budget
utilization. The development of the medium-term fiscal and expenditure frameworks has
improved the quality of forecasting of fiscal policies, public financial resources in the
medium term; strengthened the links between budget management requirements and
development financial targets and economic-technical norms. Technical assistance to
public debt management and implementation of DMFAS has made remarkable
contributions to the enhancement of public debt management capacity at MOF,
unification of effective debt management, development of public debt strategy, public
debt management reform program, formulation of a public debt database, improvement
of debt analytical skills, including classification, assessment and monitoring of SOEs'
fiscal risks.
       + Regarding outputs as per the Credit Agreement and the Project Document: in
comparison to the 2013 revised output framework, the project has basically obtained the
intermediate outcomes committed with the World Bank. Some incomplete outputs such
as development of a model and roadmap for the implementation of a cash management
system and establishment of a Treasury Single Account (TSA), the guidelines for the
nation-wide implementation of the medium-term fiscal and expenditure frameworks are
due to the process of revising the State Budget Law and the issuance of the Decree on
Cash Management. In addition, the publication of budget execution results from
TABMIS as committed will be done after the approval of the revised State Budget Law.
         - In comparison to the design and action plan: The total number of completed
activities is 309 out of 339 planned activities, accounting for 91%, including the
implementation of the two information systems, TABMIS and DMFAS, and technical
assistance activities such as international and local consulting, training, workshops and
study tours. Some activities which were revised or not carried out were mainly technical
assistance activities since they were funded by other sources or duplicated or defined by
the beneficiary agencies to be unnecessary or unsuitable with the reality or it was
impossible to select qualified consultants or there was not sufficient time for undertaking.
       - Disbursement has been completed (while payments will be done till the end of
February 2014 for completed activities). It reached US$ 87.157 million, equivalent to
                                            51
91% of the total capital, of which IDA reached 92%, grant reached 93% and counter-part
fund reached 79%. Of the total amount disbursed, the cost of the two information systems
accounted for 77% (TABMIS - USD 66.809 million and DMFAS - USD 0.407 million).
        c. The project has made considerable impacts on the reform and modernization
of the financial sector and regular operations of agencies/units:
        Different aspects of administration reform and modernization have been shown
right from the project design. Though it has not yet covered all aspects of public financial
management that MOF is in charge, the results achieved have had clear impacts on public
financial management, i.e.: treasury and budget management reform in Component 1,
medium-term planning methodology in Component 2 and institutional, strategical and
regulatory reforms in public debt management and monitoring of SOEs' fiscal risks in
Component 3.
         In addition, with support to the establishment of a public debt management office
in MOF, the process of budget execution in the system (budget allocation, payment order,
recording, borrowing accounting and debt service, ...), the project has made considerable
impacts on organizational structure reform of different agencies of MOF, local financial
agencies and other ministries in the direction of professionalism and clearer assignment
of responsibilities. The volume of training carried out within the framework of the project,
including training courses for over 15,000 TABMIS users, in house and abroad functional
and technical training courses of all components for thousands of staff as well as the
working environment with international contractors and consultants have improved the
knowledge, mindset, qualifications and work skills of MOF staff, especially at the local
level, technicians and project managers at the central level.
        Regarding technical infrastructure and technology, thanks to the two operating
management information systems, TABMIS and DMFAS, budget management and debt
management have been considerably modernized in the direction of centralization,
integration and towards the current global financial management tendency. Equipment
installed and supplied in the nation-wide scale, thorough connection line throughout all
agencies and units in the financial sector, upgraded relevant applications, improved
technical infrastructure and technology for compatibility to TABMIS, ... are great
impacts that the project has made on technical infrastructure and technology
modernization of the financial sector. These results are not merely of the project but also
push up other relevant aspects of MOF and the State Treasury.
       As mentioned above, the project has made positive effects on the regular
operations of relevant agencies; improved the performance efficiency of different units;
created high initiativeness in information exploitation, budget monitoring and

                                            52
management, especially of financial and level-1 supervising agencies, a new advance
ever. Moreover, these results and impacts have created the impetus for next steps of
reform and modernization in the financial sector.
       d. The role and acknowledgement of the international arena of the project's
success, results and impacts
        - The World Bank: During the whole implementation process of the project, in
addition to providing the credits, the World Bank has made a lot of support to the
project's different aspects, from designing, technical and functional consulting to close
monitoring of the project's activities according to the Bank's regulations and the signed
Agreement. The World Bank has assessed that the PFMRP has been successful and
highly appreciated the implementation of TABMIS - a system which the Bank considers
"one of the largest financial management information system implementations in the
world" as well as the achievement of the project's expected results and intermediate
outputs. In its last supervision mission in October 2013, the Bank has confirmed this and
highly appreciated the strong determination of MOF, commitment and devotion of the
project team (please kindly see the management letter signed by Ms Keiko Sato – Acting
Country Director of the World Bank in Vietnam and the Aide Memoire of the Mission).
        - A study of financial management information systems in several member
countries of the Public Expenditure Management Network in Asia (PEMNA) made
assessment on FMIS projects in 4 countries: Indonesia, Vietnam, Mongolia and Timor
Leste. According to the study results, TABMIS implementation has been evaluated
successfully with many findings and lessons learnt from the project implementation in
strategic vision, organization for implementation, methods and actual decisions on
functional, technical, system administration and long-term development aspects. The
lessons from Vietnam are good experiences for countries which are or being implement
similar information systems (please see extraction of comments and lessons learnt from
Vietnam).
      e. The project has created the premise, experience and capacity for
implementation of future large projects of the sector:
        Throughout 10 years of implementation, the results achieved, the experience
gained during implementation, the improved qualifications and capacity of staff have
formed firm basis and confidence for MOF in organizing and implementing coming
projects. They also help MOF to properly define next steps in the process of reform and
modernization of the financial sector.




                                           53
       2. Advantages, Difficulties and Lessons Learnt:
       a. Advantages:
        - The project has met the requirements for administration reform and
modernization and conformed to the sector's development orientations and strategies so it
was highly feasible and has received strong support and consent of the donors and the
leaders of different levels.
       - The project has always received the attention and unified instructions of all
MOF's leaders. MOF's leaders have always expressed the determination to implement
and complete the project. At the local level, the project has also received attention and
support of provincial leaders in TABMIS implementation and pilot implementation of the
medium-term frameworks.
        - The project has established a project team with diligent and devoted staff,
especially treasury staff in TABMIS implementation. Component/Sub-component
implementation units have been responsible and active in undertaking their assigned tasks.
Relevant units/agencies within MOF have been very collaborative and supportive in
resolving difficulties, active implementation of project activities and facilitating the
project implementation. Agencies directly implemented TABMIS, especially provincial
treasury officies and financial agencies, actively took part in TABMIS rollout.
       - TABMIS contractor was capable in system implementation, tenacious, patient
and adaptive to the circumstance of Vietnam and very cooperative, particularly in later
years of the project.
       - During the project implementation, the donors, especially the World Bank, have
always been supportive and closely monitored all aspects of the project to push up the
implementation progress and the achievement of the project's objectives.
       b. Difficulties/Short-comings:
       - Issues relating to the project's scope, nature and design:
        + The scope of the project was very large, covering many aspects of public
finance (budget management, public debt management, monitoring of SOEs' fiscal risks).
The implementation of TABMIS stretched out in a very large scale (financial sector,
planning and investment sector and originally spending units), in the whole country; the
original design of the project intended to implement a budget preparation system, a debt
management system, together with institutional reform and capacity building.
       + Complexity: this is an integrated system with unified processes, new technology
in the circumstance of special characteristics of the matrioska-doll budget system of

                                             54
Vietnam (other projects in the world are mainly for one budget level). Institutional and
business process reforms did not happen before but in parallel with the system
implementation.
        + The implementation timeframe of the project was not suitable with its scope and
nature. The original design seemed ambitious with rather large objectives and did not
account for its complexity, resulting in delays and several revisions/extensions of the
project.
        - Issues relating to the special characteristics of business processes and
management mechanism of Vietnam: the matrioska-doll budget system of Vietnam,
budget decentralization and revenue sharing, budget regulating mechanisms such as
budget advances, budget transfers, accounting policies, reporting policies, orientations for
revision of the State Budget Law greatly affected the implementation of such a
centralized system as TABMIS as well as the medium-term frameworks.
        - Issues relating to project team members and users: at the beginning, MOF's staff
was inexperienced and lack of knowledge in both international financial management and
technology practices, project management, foreign language and work skills with
international contractors. Human resources of the project team of all parties experienced
frequent changes or could not arrange sufficient time for the project. The number of users
was great with inequitable knowledge, experience and skills. Moreover, they were not
familiar with the working habbits in a centralized system. All these affected the
implementation and operation of TABMIS.
        - External issues: the close monitoring of the World Bank basically supported and
pushed up the project's progress. However, it sometimes created difficulties, due to
different points of view and insufficient understanding of the special management
characteristics of Vietnam. At the beginning, the international contractor was very
different in knowledge, culture, point of view and objectives so it took a long time to
improve this relationship and have good cooperation with the contractor. International
and local consultants were limited so it took a long time for selecting qualified
consultants or the results were not as expected or it was impossible to find consultants for
certain complicated assignments.
      - Issues relating to the project preparation work and organization for
implementation:
       + Project implementation structure: with the scope of the PFMRP, the project
implementation apparatus consists of a PMU which acts as the point for project
management and component implementation units. They could share work and
responsibilities but sometimes had to undergo lengthy procedures which required very
                                            55
close and united collaboration. There have been many changes and improvements to the
project implementation apparatus.
       + Legal regulations: There have been complexity and difficulties in observing
both the law of Vietnam and regulations of the World Bank as stated in the Credit
Agreement. At the beginning, there was no designated financial policy for ODA projects
which greatly affected support to implementation.
        + Organization for implementation: Due to the lack of experience in
implementing such a large and complex project, the organization for implementation was
still confused, especially in the beginning time. There was not enough attention to
planning and monitoring. Collaboration among different units/agencies was not very
good, particularly at the beginning of the project implementation.
       c. Lessons Learnt:
        - Preparation is fundamental for implementing a reform and modernization project.
It should be done carefully with an overall strategy and detailed steps in order to master
the objectives, requirements, measures and implementation plan. These are very
necessary conditions for the project to be in the right path and feasible as well as to
minimize adjustments to and extensions of the project. It is very essential to prepare good
legal basis, organization, human and other resources for the project.
        - Communication and reporting to the leaders of different levels should be
attentive in order not only to have their approval for the project but also to have their
commitment and determination for the project's implementation.
       - A key factor for good implementation of the project's activities is the selection
of a project team with sufficient capacity, determination and endurance to overcome
challanges of the project.
       - Good lessons are also for training, communication and stakeholder management.
       - Implementation organization and management: It is necessary to pay attention to
implementation planning, clear assignment of the roles and responsibilities of
stakeholders, flexible coordination and monitoring of project activities with timely
adjustments, building of effective collaboration among relevant agencies to minimize
delays and obtain good results. It is essential to undertake effective procurement, contract
management, contractor management according to the donors' regulations and the law of
Vietnam while being flexible, cooperative to protect the maximum interests of the
Government and select qualified contractors for complicated tasks in the implementation
of a big system. It is also necessary to organize and manage financial and accounting
work, management of fund sources, asset management, logistics, translation and

                                            56
interpretation, in a prudent and accurate manner to ensure compliance to the State
regulations, financing structure, donors' regulations but help saving the State budget and
making no efffects on the implementation of the project's activities.
       3. Project Closing Plan and Next Steps
       a. Project Packaging and Closing:
      After the closing date of 31/10/2013, work remained include making payments for
completed activities and closing the project according to the regulations of the World
Bank and the Government, i.e.:
      - Completing payments for completed activities, completing final accounting of
WB's IDA and closing the accounts: February 2014 (PMU).
      - Preparing report on the project's results to report to MOF's leaders: January 2014
(PMU and component implementation units).
        - Collaborating with the World Bank for the project implementation completion
report: February-April 2014 ((PMU and component implementation units).
      - Completing hand-over of project assets to other units: February-March 2014
(PMU, component implementation units and relevant units).
      - Completing final accounting report for the whole project: March-April 2014
(PMU).
       - Completing selection and implementing independent auditing package for the
whole project final accounting report: January-April 2014 (PMU).
        - Completing document correction and edition to hand-over to MOF's Ministerial
Office: February-April 2014 (PMU).
       - Collaborating with the Department of Personnel and Training and relevant units
to make a plan for arranging the PMU's staff after the project closing to submit to MOF's
leaders for approval: January-March 2014.
        Since the volume of work in the 10-year implementation is       very great, it is
difficult for the PMU to complete the project closing timely so it      needs the active
participation and support of MOF relevant units in such work as         asset hand-over,
document hand-over, settlement of tax issues, final accounting,         project closing,
arrangement of PMU's staff after project closing, ...
       b. Continuous Improvement and Promotion of the Project's Results:
       Besides closing the project, in order to promote the results obtained, MOF
(professional units) should continuously improve and sustain the project's results, i.e.:



                                           57
         - To continuously study for improving the policies and regulations relating to the
activities of the project.
       - To continuously and unceasingly enhance the capacity of the users and
administrators of TABMIS and DMFAS.
       - To quickly study for additional procurement of maintenance services of
TABMIS hardware and applications. To improve reporting and data exploitation
functionalities of the system.
      c. Expansion of Reforms and Modernization towards a Government Financial
Management Information System (GFMIS):
       - Relevant agencies (the Department of Financial Informatics and Statisitcs, the
Debt Management and External Finance Department) should continue to improve studies
of the model of a GFMIS, the public debt and risk management system in order to
develop a specific roadmap and plan to submit to MOF's leaders for approval.
       - The State Treasury should continue to study the model of a cash management
system and push up the drafting of a Decree on Cash Management.


                PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT REFORM PROJECT




                                            58
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other
Partners/Stakeholders
        DFID is content with the assessment in the report. The project has impressively
achieved its expected objectives within a reasonable timeframe. We are satisfied with the
Bank’s and Government’s performance during the duration of the project. The
government strong ownership and commitment were definitely key factors to the
project’s achievement. Close and timely technical support by the Bank’s project team and
specialists were instrumental to guide the implementation of the project in general and
TABMIS development in particular. We shared the lessons learnt, which will be very
useful for similar projects of such large scale. We are also satisfied with close
collaboration between the Bank’s project team and DFID during the implementation and
evaluation of the project.

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents
      Project Implementation Plan

      Project Appraisal Document for the Socialist Republic of Vietnam: Public
       Financial Management Reform Project (PFMRP) dated April 24, 2003 (Report
       No: 25480-VN)

      Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Implementation Status Reports.

      Project Progress Reports.

      Borrower's Evaluation Report dated February 2014

*including electronic files




                                           59
Annex 10. Results Framework Analysis
Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The objective of the PFMRP was to strengthen budget planning, execution, reporting and
accountability.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving
authority)

The objective was not revised.
(a) PDO Indicator(s)


                                                   Original Target                              Actual Value
                                                    Values (from              Formally Revised  Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                      approval                 Target Values Completion or Target
                                                    documents)                                     Years
                   Accuracy, timeliness, relevance, transparency and compliance with international best practices in budget
 Indicator 1 :     execution and reporting at each level of government.

                                                                              -           Utilization   - Utilization of a unified
                                                                              throughout                COA for treasury and
                                                  -            Utilization    government of a           budget management is in
                   - Lack of a unified COA
                                                  throughout                  restructured       and    place at all treasury
                   applicable    for   treasury
                                                  government of an            integrated chart of       offices and financial
                   offices, financial agencies
                                                  unified     chart     of    accounts for treasury     agencies at each level of
                   and spending units resulting
                                                  accounts for treasury       and             budget    government.
                   in            budget/finance
                                                  and              budget     management,
                   information     which    are                                                         - A centralized TABMIS
                                                  management           and    consistent         with
                   inconsistent and hard to                                                             in place and operational
                                                  spending           units,   appropriate
                   compare ;                                                                            in treasury offices and
                                                  consistent          with    international
                                                                              standards (by end         financial agencies of all
                   - Lack of a centralized        appropriate
                                                                              2012);                    government         levels,
                   information system from        international                                         selected large ministries
                   central to local levels,       standards;                  -    A     centralized    and some large general
                   among financial agencies,
 Value                                            -     A     centralized     TABMIS in place and       departments/ departments
                   treasury offices and tax
                                                  TABMIS in place and         operational in all        of the ministries (BA
 quantitative or   agencies makes report on
                                                  operational in all          central,    provincial    Module)            helped
                   budget     revenues     and
 Qualitative)                                     central, provincial and     and district treasury     centralizing integrated,
                   expenditures      untimely,
                                                  district treasury and       and financial offices     timely, accurate revenue
                   inaccurate and inconsistent,
                                                  financial offices and       and large central         and            expenditure
                   creating difficulties for
                                                  large          selected     ministries         and    information           and
                   management;
                                                  spending units;             Government agencies       compliance control in
                   - Absence of a TAS coupled                                 (BA Module);              better budget execution.
                   with     a     decentralized   - Progress on the road
                                                  from cash to accruals       - Progress on the road    -More accurately defining
                   information system gives
                                                  accounting;                 from cash to accruals     of budget revenue and
                   rise to lack of timely and
                                                                              accounting; Unified       expenditure coverage.
                   accurate information for       - Progress on the road      Chart of Accounts for
                   cash      operation      and   to a Treasury Single                                  -      Treasury      Single
                                                                              consolidation of state
                   management.                    Account (TSA)                                         Account       arrangements
                                                                              accounting
                                                                              information               were introduced in Q3 of
                                                                              developed;                2013 and expected to be
                                                                                                        fully rolled out by the end
                                                                              -   Treasury    Single    of 2014.

                                                      60
                                                                           Account        (TSA)
                                                                           introduced.


Date achieved     31-Jan-2003                      31-October-2013                                  15-Oct-2013
                  •        A Treasury and Budget Management Information System (TABMIS) has been developed,
                  implemented with a commercial of the self-software solution Oracle Financials and served as a common
                  platform to all treasury offices and financial agencies at all four levels of the Government for budget
                  allocation and control, payment and receipt processing, expenditure and revenue accounting and reporting.
                  TABMIS is fully operational in all intended 1,500 treasuries and financial agencies across all 63 provinces,
                  and 37 spending ministerial organizations, and 3 major departments of Hanoi city since October 2012. This
                  has enabled the government to allocate, execute and monitor the state budget through a centralized financial
                  management information system, on a transparent and real-time basis.
                  •        A unified Chart of Accounts (COA) for TABMIS has been developed and applicable throughout all
                  four levels of the government for treasury and budget management. This multi-dimensional COA with 11
                  segments capturing all relevant information required for budget management such as source of fund, location,
                  administrative, economic and functional budget classifications, targeted programs, projects, spending units
                  etc. provides flexibility to analyze, consolidate and report for each segment and for a combination of
                  segments. Relevant segments of the COA consistent with the international functional and economic
                  classifications of expenditures as provided in GFSM2001/ COFOG and IPSAS allow for GFS reporting.
                  •       TABMIS is helping a move toward accrual accounting as large state budget expenditure
                  commitments are being controlled and monitored through TABMIS. In addition, some accrual accounting
                  information such debt obligations are accounted and recorded in TABMIS immediately when incur.
Comments          •       Improved accuracy and consistency in budget control, payment processing, accounting and reporting
(incl. %          is achieved through application of a unified TABMIS COA and a single database of TABMIS, replacing
                  multiple COAs and multiple distributed treasury legacy systems located throughout the country in the past.
achievement)      Furthermore, data on government receipts and expenditures, cash and fund balances available in TABMIS
                  now on a real-time basis mean that all treasury and finance offices can produce instant reports for
                  management purposes.
                  •        Payment processing thought a centralized financial management information system such as
                  TABMIS has helped enforcing compliance and enhancing transparency in budget execution throughout all
                  levels of government.
                  •        Full roll out of TABMIS, which provides essential expenditure and revenue accounting foundation
                  for consolidation of treasury accounts, has enabled the MOF to move to implement TSA since the third
                  Quarter of 2013. At the ICRR completion time, TSA arrangements have been fully implemented in three out
                  of four state-owned commercial banks (SOCBs). As these three banks hold the majority number of treasury
                  idle cash balance accounts, considerable account consolidation has been achieved. When TSA arrangements
                  are fully rolled out to the remaining SOCB by Mid-2014, four SOCBs will provide the direct revenue
                  collection and payment services through four accounts that have replaced all approximately 700 previously
                  existed bank accounts. This would result in considerable rationalization of banking arrangement for
                  government cash management and potentially reduce the cost of borrowing, thus contributing to more
                  efficient budget execution.
                  The targets under this indicator has been largely achieved as compared to Formally Revised Target Values


                  Better planning of the State Budget and the Public Investment Program to achieve the growth and poverty
Indicator 2 :
                  reduction goals set out in the SEDP.

                  - Lack of a medium term          - 5 year MTFFs and      - 3 year MTFFs and
                  fiscal framework, spending       MTEFs piloted as part   MTEFs piloted as
                  plans with due regards to        of 2005 budget cycle;   part of budget cycle     - A methodology for
Value                                              and    rolled   over,                            budget and investment
                  medium term         resources                            in four sectors and
quantitative or   constraints,          creating   updated and published   four provinces; and      planning      established
                  uncertainty about budget         as part of each         rolled over, updated     through succesful pilot
Qualitative)      resource availablities ; lack    subsequent    budget    and published as part    implementation of MTEF
                  of links between annual          cycle.                  of each subsequent       and MTFF betweem 2005
                  budget and development                                   budget cycle.            and 2009.
                                                   - MTEFs successfully

                                                      61
                  priorities set out in the      piloted in four sectors
                  SEDP.                          and four provinces.                                - Guidelines for MTFF
                                                                                                    and     MTEF         pilot
                                                 - A budget preparation    -    Guidelines for      implementation
                                                 system implemented.       nationwide               developed and finalized.
                  -     Inconsistencies     in                             implementation   of
                  management,      accounting                              MTFF and MTEF
                  and reporting of budget                                  finalized.          - the implementation of
                  revenue and expenditure .                                                    the medium term budget-
                                                                                               fiscal framework (including
                  - Lack of a comprehensive,                                                   the medium term
                  unified    and     complete                                                  expenditure framework)
                  database for accurate and                                                    and output-based budget
                  necessary reports, timely                                                    management principles
                  serving decision-making in                                                   incorporated in draft
                  budgeting process.                                                           revisions of the State
                                                                                                    Budget Law
                                                                                                    - A centralized TABMIS
                                                                                                    with unified COA for
                                                                                                    treasury offices, financial
                                                                                                    agencies and spending
                                                                                                    units     (SUs)     (budget
                                                                                                    classification       codes)
                                                                                                    successfully implemented
                                                                                                    at all treasury offices and
                                                                                                    financial agencies of all
                                                                                                    government            levels
                                                                                                    assured provision of
                                                                                                    timely      and    accurate
                                                                                                    information of budget
                                                                                                    utilization to effectively
                                                                                                    support decision-making
                                                                                                    in budgeting process.
Date achieved     31-Jan-2003                    28-Feb-2009                                        31-Oct-2013
                  - The pilot implementation has made great impacts on improvement in the quality of socio-economic
                  forecasting and medium tern fiscal policy and public finance resources projection, thus contributing to
                  improved policy and procedure formulation and fiscal management. As the result, MTFF and MTEF nation-
                  wide implementation and result/performance-based budget management will expectedly be institutionalized in
                  the revised State Budget Law (to be enacted by end of 2014).
                  - The pilot implementation has helped create a team of officials in MOF, MPI and the pilot ministries and
Comments          provinces who have a thorough grasp of MTFF and MTEF methodology, model and implementation
                  modalities which will facilitate future nation-wide rollout once MTFF and MTEF implementation is
(incl. %
                  institutionalized.
achievement)
                  The target of the first phase for MTFF and MTEF establishment and pilot implementation has been achieved.
                  The guidlelines for the MTFF and MTEF pilot have been developed, adapted to Vietnam context and futher
                  improved though several rounds of pilot. During 2010-2013, an assessment was made on suitablity of MTEF
                  to existing budgetary and planning processes and the type of MTEF model that would best suit Vietnam’s
                  needs and capacity. While the work on development of guidelines for nation-wide implementation was
                  initiated but because it is subject to progress in revision of the State Budget Law (which goes beyond the
                  timeframe of the Project), the guidlines have not be finalized.
                  Greater fiscal sustainability through improved and more integrated recording of external and domestic public
Indicator 3 :     and publicly guaranteed debt, improved capacity to monitor SOE liabilities, and improved ability to assess
                  associated fiscal risks.

Value             - Lack of an agency leading    - Effective public debt   - Effective public       - The Department of Debt
                  and coordinating public debt   management unified        debt      management     Management           and
quantitative or   management               and   by identification of a    unified           by     External Finance was
                  consolidation of public debt   lead department in        identification of a      established  in 2009,
Qualitative)      data while      public debt    MOF to direct debt        lead department in       leading and coordinating

                                                     62
management is managed by           management        across     MOF to direct debt        public debt management,
a number of agencies with          Government.                  management across         information
and within MOF.                                                 Government.               consolidation, public debt
                                   -    Approval         and                              reporting - an advanced
- A number of important            publication of       debt    -    Approval    and      step in unification of
tasks in debt management           management                   publication of long-      public debt management.
such as development of debt        objectives.                  term debt strategy,
strategies, risk analysis and                                   including       debt      -    Debt    management
management of publid debt,         -    Domestic     debt       management                objectives were approved
nation-wide debt accounting        recording system (able       objectives.               and published in the
not yet clearly defined and        to             provide                                 Strategy for public debt
assigned       to     specific     consolidated    public       -          Analytical     and national external
agencies.                          debt data, including         capability in debt        borrowings for the period
                                   external         debt)       management                of 2010-2020 and with a
- Nation-wide debt recording       established.                 enhanced with critical    vision to 2030;
and accounting not yet                                          staff identified and
provided a comprehensive           -     SOE      liabilities   trained,       Middle     - Analytical capability in
and true picture of domestic       monitoring practices         Office        capacity    debt management of
and external borrowings. A         established           and    enhanced.                 relevant MOF officials,
debt            management         operational, with key                                  especially staff of the
information system only            staff trained in the use     -    Domestic     debt    Middle Office of the
implemented for external           of this information to       recording      system     Department of Debt
debt.     No      intergrated      make        preliminary      (able    to   provide     Management               and
database of domestic and           assessments             of   consolidated public       External Finance has
external debts.                    associated fiscal risks.     debt data, including      been          considerably
                                                                external         debt)    enhanced through in-
-         No attention to                                       established.              country and oversea
management of contingent                                                                  training    courses.      In
liabilities arisen out of                                       - Legal framework
                                                                and        monitoring     addition,      institutional
SOEs'        liabilities     and                                                          capacity     in         risk
Government            guaranteed                                indicators adopted (in
                                                                2013);       analytical   management of public
debts. No regulations for                                                                 debt has been enhanced
effective management of                                         capability enhanced
                                                                for monitoring of         byissuance               and
these risks.                                                                              implementation of the
                                                                SOEs fiscal risks.
                                                                                          regulations     on      risk
                                                                                          management of public
                                                                                          debt portfolio.
                                                                                          - An information system
                                                                                          for     domestic     debt
                                                                                          management           was
                                                                                          established,         with
                                                                                          integrated domestic and
                                                                                          external debt databases.
                                                                                          This, together with the
                                                                                          leading role of the
                                                                                          Department of Debt
                                                                                          Management            and
                                                                                          External     Finance   in
                                                                                          public debt information
                                                                                          consolidation         and
                                                                                          reporting, have helped
                                                                                          improve public debt
                                                                                          reporting.
                                                                                           -     Regulations      on
                                                                                          monitoring of SOEs fiscal
                                                                                          risks were established,
                                                                                          with     relevant     staff
                                                                                          trained. These helped
                                                                                          enhance institutional and
                                                                                          human             resource
                                                                                          capacities in monitoring
                                                                                          of SOEs fiscal risks.

                                       63
Date achieved     31-Jan-2003                     28-Feb-2013                                         15-Oct-2013
                   - The activities of Component 3 have closely followed the objective "to strengthen the Government's capacity
                  for public debt management at MOF" through contributions to the development of the Law on Public Debt
                  Management innacted in 2009, the unification of efficient public debt management (with the establishment of
                  the Department of Debt Management and External Finance in 2009), the development of the national public
                  debt and external borrowing strategy for 2011-2020 with a vision to 2030, enhancement of debt analytical
Comments          skills (including clasification and assessment of SOEs debts).
(incl. %          - The activities of Component 3 during the last 10 years have made big contributions to strengthening of
                  public debt management, including support to development of a legal framework, institutional reforms;
achievement)      development of public debt management information system (DMFAS) and development of a plan for
                  developing debt and risk management information system in the future; capacity building in public debt and
                  risk management. Some of achievements under this indicator such as the passing of the Law on Public Debt
                  Managment and the creation of the debt management office were not foreseen at the project design.
                  The targets under this indicator have exceeded expectations.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)


                                                  Original   Target                          Actual       Value
                                                                          Formally
                                                  Values      (from                          Achieved        at
Indicator         Baseline Value                                          Revised
                                                  approval                                   Completion      or
                                                                          Target Values
                                                  documents)                                 Target Years
                  Utilization throughout government of a restructured and integrated chart of accounts for treasury
Indicator 1 :
                  and budget management, consistent with appropriate international standards (by end 2012).
                                                                                             - Utilization of a
                                                                                             unified COA for
                                                                                             treasury and budget
                                                                                             management in all
                                                                                             treasury offices and
                                                                                             financial agencies.
                                                                                             The         accounting
Value                                                                                        system of spending
                                                                                             units, sharing the
(quantitative
                                                                                             same            budget
or Qualitative)                                                                              classification codes
                                                                                             with       COA      of
                                                                                             treasury and budget
                                                                                             accounting system,
                                                                                             facilitates     budget
                                                                                             spending          data
                                                                                             reconciliation     and
                                                                                             consolidation.
Date achieved                                                                                31-Dec-2012
Comments
(incl. %          100% achieved.
achievement)
                  Implementation of TABMIS in treasury head office, MOF and two pilot provinces (by June
Indicator 2 :
                  2009), with relevant staff trained.
Value                                                                                         TABMIS          was
                                                                                             piloted in Hai Phong
(quantitative
                                                                                             and Ha Nam in
or Qualitative)                                                                              April-September


                                                      64
                                                                                             2009; in MOF and
                                                                                             Treasury      Head
                                                                                             Office    in  May-
                                                                                             September    2009.
                                                                                             Relevant functional
                                                                                             and technical staff
                                                                                             was trained.
Date achieved                                                                                30-Sep-2009
Comments
                  After pilot implementation, TABMIS was adjusted and rolled out nation-wide. Lessons learnt
(incl. %
                  from pilot implementation were good experiences in the rollout. 100% achieved.
achievement)
                  Roll-out of TABMIS to all Treasury and Finance Offices in provinces and districts (by end
Indicator 3 :
                  2011), with relevant staff trained.
                                                                                             Roll-out of TABMIS
Value                                                                                        was fully completed
                                                                                             in October 2012.
(quantitative
                                                                                             Relevant functional
or Qualitative)                                                                              and technical staff
                                                                                             was trained.
Date achieved                                     31-Dec-2008             31-Dec-2011        31-Dec-2012

Comments          TABMIS roll-out was delayed since MOF and the Contractor had to upgrade the system in
                  2011-2011 to meet the actual volume of transactions which was many times higher than the
(incl. %          original estimate at the project design.
achievement)      100% achieved.
                  Implementation of budget allocation module in 40 large central ministries and government
Indicator 4 :
                  agencies (by end 2011), with relevant staff trained.
                                                                                             In 2010-2012, BA
                                                                                             module
                                                                                             implementation was
                                                                                             carried out in 37
                                                                                             ministries and 3
Value                                                                                        departments of
                                                                                             Hanoi City and some
(quantitative
                                                                                             large general
or Qualitative)                                                                              departments/
                                                                                             departments of the
                                                                                             ministries. Relevant
                                                                                             functional and
                                                                                             technical staff was
                                                                                             trained.
Date achieved                                                             End 2011           31-Dec-2012
Comments
                  The reason for delay in the achievement of this indicator was the same as for Indicator 3 above.
(incl. %
                  100% achieved.
achievement)
                  All large state budget expenditure commitments and associated contracts (above VND 100
Indicator 5 :     million and 500 million for recurrent and capital expenditures respectively) are controlled and
                  monitored through TABMIS (by end 2013).

Value                                                                                        Regulations     on
                                                                                             control        and
(quantitative                                                                                monitoring through


                                                      65
                                                                                            TABMIS             of
or Qualitative)                                                                             commitments (above
                                                                                            VND 100 million
                                                                                            and 500 million for
                                                                                            recurrent and capital
                                                                                            expenditures
                                                                                            respectively)   were
                                                                                            issued in November
                                                                                            2008 and in force
                                                                                            since June 2013 after
                                                                                            TABMIS was fully
                                                                                            rolled out and stably
                                                                                            operational in the
                                                                                            nation-wide.
Date achieved                                                            End 2013           June 2013
Comments
(incl. %          100% achieved
achievement)
                  Budget execution results directly obtained from TABMIS are published on MOF website on a
Indicator 6 :     monthly basis within 15 days after the end of the month (after the revised State Budget Law is
                  adopted by the Recipient’s National Assembly).
                                                                                            TABMIS provides
                                                                                            timely and accurate
                                                                                            budget revenue and
                                                                                            expenditure      data,
                                                                                            serving        budget
Value                                                                                       management.       The
                                                                                            publication of budget
(quantitative                                                                               execution      results
                                                                                            could only be done
or Qualitative)                                                                             once the revised
                                                                                            State Budget Law
                                                                                            (which is now under
                                                                                            submission process
                                                                                            for adoption) states
                                                                                            that.
Date achieved

Comments          Though it is impossible to assess achievement of this indicator because the revised State Budget
                  Law has not yet been adopted, publication of budget execution reports has seen clear
(incl. %          improvement. From publication of annual budget appropriations and final accounts approved by
                  the National Assembly since 2003, MOF has now been publishing quarterly budget execution
achievement)      results within 15 days after the quarter's end.
                  Preservation of at least 30 dedicated and properly trained technical specialists at central, to
Indicator 7 :     manage TABMIS databases, system security, user access, and to provide technical support to
                  end users.
                                                                                            MOF established the
                                                                                            Centre Team to
                                                                                            provide      technical
Value                                                                                       support to the end
                                                                                            users,      organized
(quantitative
                                                                                            training courses for
or Qualitative)                                                                             existing staff as well
                                                                                            as newly recruited
                                                                                            staff,       recruited
                                                                                            qualified         and


                                                      66
                                                                                       experienced
                                                                                       technical experts to
                                                                                       maintain       database
                                                                                       administration,
                                                                                       TABMIS           users’
                                                                                       management          and
                                                                                       support.      At     the
                                                                                       moment, the number
                                                                                       of            technical
                                                                                       specialist is over 30.
Date achieved                                                                          15-Oct-2013
Comments
(incl. %           100% achieved.
achievement)
                   Progress on the road from cash to accruals accounting; Unified Chart of Accounts for
Indicator 8 :
                   consolidation of state accounting information developed (by March 2013).
                                                                                       TABMIS has been
                                                                                       applying    modified
                                                                                       cash      accounting
                                                                                       towards     accruals.
                                                                                       Certain transactions
                                                                                       which have been
                                                                                       done on accrual basis
Value                                                                                  are:        Account
                                                                                       Payables       (AP),
(quantitative                                                                          Account Receivables
or Qualitative)                                                                        (AR), and Purchase
                                                                                       Order (PO).
                                                                                       A project on State
                                                                                       Accounting General
                                                                                       Establishment      is
                                                                                       under development,
                                                                                       with        expected
                                                                                       completion in 2015.
Date achieved
Comments
                   Basically completed, in which the first activity has been completed with the new COA for
(incl. %
                   TABMIS while the second activity is ongoing.
achievement)

                  Model, roadmap for development and implementation of cash management system adopted (by
Indicator 9 :     end 2013); and Treasury Single Account introduced (by October 2013).

                                                                                       -          Centralized
                                                                                       payment – TSA was
                                                                                       introduced       since
                                                                                       Quarter 3 of 2013
Value                                                                                  and expected to be
                                                                                       fully rolled out to all
(quantitative                                                                          service banks in
or Qualitative)                                                                        2014
                                                                                       - A model and
                                                                                       roadmap         for
                                                                                       development    and
                                                                                       implementation   of

                                                    67
                                                                                           cash     management
                                                                                           system have not yet
                                                                                           been completed due
                                                                                           to           ongoing
                                                                                           establishment     of
                                                                                           legal basis for cash
                                                                                           management.


Date achieved                                                                              15-Oct-2013
Comments
                   Partly achieved.
(incl. %
achievement)
                  Model, implementation roadmap, technical requirements and bidding document for TABMIS
Indicator 10 :    portal developed.

                                                                                           Model,
                                                                                           implementation
Value                                                                                      roadmap, technical
                                                                                           requirements     and
(quantitative                                                                              bidding     document
                                                                                           for TABMIS portal
or Qualitative)                                                                            have been developed
                                                                                           with support from
                                                                                           consultants.
Date achieved                                                                              30-Oct-2013
Comments
(incl. %           100% achieved.
achievement)
                  Model and implementation roadmap for a government financial management information system
Indicator 11 :    developed.

                                                                                           Model            and
                                                                                           implementation
Value                                                                                      roadmap      for   a
                                                                                           government financial
(quantitative                                                                              management
                                                                                           information system
or Qualitative)                                                                            have been developed,
                                                                                           with support from
                                                                                           consultants.
Date achieved                                                                              30-Oct-2013
Comments
(incl. %           100% achieved.
achievement)
                   3 year MTFFs and MTEFs piloted as part of budget cycle in four sectors and four provinces;
Indicator 12 :     and rolled over, updated and published as part of each subsequent budget cycle (starting from
                   fiscal year 2005 until fiscal year 2008).
Value                                                                                      3 year MTFFs and
                                                                                           MTEFs piloted and
(quantitative
                                                                                           rolled over starting
or Qualitative)                                                                            from fiscal year 2005


                                                      68
                                                                                          until 2009, covering
                                                                                          four       three-year
                                                                                          circles: 2006-2008,
                                                                                          2007-2009,     2008-
                                                                                          2010 and 2009-
                                                                                          20011.
Date achieved                                                                             31-Dec-2008
Comments
(incl. %          100% achieved.
achievement)
                  Workshops on medium-term budget planning provided to relevant senior National Assembly
Indicator 13 :    deputies and government officials (by 2008), with consensus for wider roll-out of medium-term
                  budget planning emerging.
                                                                                          Many workshops on
                                                                                          medium-term budget
                                                                                          planning provided to
                                                                                          relevant        senior
                                                                                          National Assembly
                                                                                          deputies          and
                                                                                          government officials
Value                                                                                     in 2008. Roll-out of
                                                                                          medium term budget
(quantitative
                                                                                          planning is being
or Qualitative)                                                                           agreed to be included
                                                                                          in the draft revision
                                                                                          of the State Budget
                                                                                          Law which will
                                                                                          formally
                                                                                          institutionalize this
                                                                                          modern       budgeting
                                                                                          approach in Vietnam.
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %          100% achieved.
achievement)

Indicator 14 :    Guidelines for nationwide implementation of MTFF and MTEF finalized (by October 2013).
                                                                                          A set of templates
                                                                                          (manual)           and
                                                                                          training      materials
                                                                                          completed.      These
                                                                                          have been used and
Value                                                                                     further      improved
                                                                                          during the pilot
(quantitative                                                                             period.          Draft
                                                                                          guidelines for nation-
or Qualitative)                                                                           wide roll-out have
                                                                                          not      yet      been
                                                                                          completed because it
                                                                                          depends      on     the
                                                                                          revision of the State
                                                                                          Budget Law.
Date achieved



                                                     69
Comments
(incl. %          Partly achieved.
achievement)
                  Identification of a lead department in MOF to direct debt management across Government, with
Indicator 15 :
                  appropriate regulations issued (by mid 2009).
                                                                                              The Department of
                                                                                              Debt Management
                                                                                              and External Finance
Value                                                                                         was established in
                                                                                              2009, leading and
(quantitative
                                                                                              coordinating public
or Qualitative)                                                                               debt    management,
                                                                                              public debt data
                                                                                              consolidation    and
                                                                                              reporting.
Date achieved                                                                                 30-Jun-2009
Comments
(incl. %          100% achieved.
achievement)
                  Approval and publication of a long-term debt management strategy including debt management
Indicator 16 :
                  objectives (by end 2011).
                                                                                              The strategy on
                                                                                              public debt and
Value                                                                                         national      external
                                                                                              borrowings for the
(quantitative                                                                                 period of 2010-2020,
                                                                                              with a vision to 2030
or Qualitative)                                                                               was approved and
                                                                                              published          on
                                                                                              18/4/2012.
Date achieved                                                                                 18-Apr-2012
Comments
(incl. %          100% achieved.
achievement)
                  Analytical capability in debt and risk management enhanced with critical staff identified and
Indicator 17 :    trained. Middle Office capacity is sustained by, among other things, preservation of at least five
                  staff of appropriate qualification and experience.
                                                                                              -            Analytical
                                                                                              capability in debt and
                                                                                              risk management of
                                                                                              critical staff has been
                                                                                              enhanced via in-
Value                                                                                         country and oversea
(quantitative                                                                                 training courses and
                                                                                              study tours organized
or Qualitative)                                                                               within              the
                                                                                              framework of the
                                                                                              PFMRP.
                                                                                              - The Middle Office
                                                                                              is now having 06


                                                       70
                                                                                        staff    with    good
                                                                                        qualifications    and
                                                                                        experience.
Date achieved                                                                           15-Oct-2013
Comments
(incl. %          100% achieved.
achievement)
                  Domestic debt recording system (able to provide consolidated public debt data, including
Indicator 18 :    external debt) established and operational (by end 2013), with key staff trained in new
                  systems/practices.
                                                                                        DMFAS has been
                                                                                        operating at the
                                                                                        Department of Debt
                                                                                        Management        and
                                                                                        External     Finance
                                                                                        since     2003     for
                                                                                        external debt (out of
                                                                                        the framework of the
                                                                                        PFMRP).          The
                                                                                        PFMRP             has
                                                                                        supported DMFAS
                                                                                        implementation for
                                                                                        domestic debt and
                                                                                        integration         of
                                                                                        domestic          and
Value
                                                                                        external         debt
(quantitative                                                                           databases at MOF.
or Qualitative)                                                                         In     addition,   an
                                                                                        intermediate program
                                                                                        has been built to
                                                                                        interface     DMFAS
                                                                                        with TABMIS for
                                                                                        data exchanges.
                                                                                        During          this
                                                                                        implementation,
                                                                                        relevant functional
                                                                                        and technical staffs
                                                                                        were trained and are
                                                                                        now     capable   to
                                                                                        operate         and
                                                                                        administer       the
                                                                                        System.
Date achieved                                                                           September 2013
Comments
(incl. %          -      100% achieved.
achievement)

Indicator 19 :    Strategy for debt and risk management information system developed (by September 2013).
                                                                                        A strategy for debt
Value                                                                                   and risk management
                                                                                        information system
(quantitative
                                                                                        has been developed
or Qualitative)                                                                         with support from
                                                                                        consultants.

                                                    71
Date achieved                                                                            30-Oct-2013
Comments
(incl. %          100% achieved.
achievement)

Indicator 21 :    DeMPA self-assessment on public debt management performance conducted (by Mid 2012).
                                                                                         In collaboration with
                                                                                         a     World      Bank
                                                                                         mission,      DeMPA
                                                                                         self-assessment on
                                                                                         public            debt
Value                                                                                    management
                                                                                         performance       was
(quantitative                                                                            conducted in 2011. A
                                                                                         plan for public debt
or Qualitative)                                                                          management reform
                                                                                         was developed in
                                                                                         June 2012, based on
                                                                                         the        assessment
                                                                                         results            and
                                                                                         recommendations.
Date achieved                                                                            31-Dec-2011
Comments
(incl. %          Exceeding expectations. 100% achieved.
achievement)
                  Legal framework and monitoring indicators adopted (in 2013); analytical capability enhanced,
Indicator 22 :
                  for monitoring of SOEs fiscal risks.
                                                                                         - The regulations on
                                                                                         monitoring of SOEs'
                                                                                         fiscal risk with a
                                                                                         system of monitoring
                                                                                         indicators      were
                                                                                         issued in 2013.
                                                                                         -           Analytical
                                                                                         capability          for
                                                                                         monitoring       SOEs'
                                                                                         fiscal risks of the
                                                                                         staff of financial
Value                                                                                    agencies of all levels
                                                                                         as well as staff of
(quantitative                                                                            SOEs       and     line
or Qualitative)                                                                          ministries has been
                                                                                         enhanced       through
                                                                                         training courses in
                                                                                         analysis           and
                                                                                         management           of
                                                                                         SOEs' fiscal risks. A
                                                                                         manual on analysis,
                                                                                         monitoring         and
                                                                                         management           of
                                                                                         SOEs' fiscal risks has
                                                                                         been        developed
                                                                                         within              the
                                                                                         framework of the


                                                    72
                                                                                           PFMRP.
Date achieved                                                                              30-Aug-2013
Comments
(incl. %          100% achieved.
achievement)
                  Key project staff and equipment in place by 2004 and throughout project implementation
Indicator 23 :
                  period.
                                                                                           Key project staff and
Value                                                                                      equipment in place
                                                                                           by 2004 at the PMU
(quantitative                                                                              and      maintained
                                                                                           throughout project
or Qualitative)                                                                            implementation
                                                                                           period.
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %          100% achieved.
achievement)

Indicator 24 :    Full compliance with procurement, financial management and reporting requirements.
                                                                                           The Project has been
                                                                                           fully complied with
                                                                                           procurement,
                                                                                           financial
                                                                                           management         and
                                                                                           reporting
                                                                                           requirements
Value                                                                                      throughout project
                                                                                           implementation
(quantitative
                                                                                           period. All World
or Qualitative)                                                                            Bank       supervision
                                                                                           missions         were
                                                                                           satisfied with the
                                                                                           project's
                                                                                           procurement,
                                                                                           financial
                                                                                           management         and
                                                                                           reporting.
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %          100% achieved.
achievement)

Indicator 25 :    International project and contract management consultant(s) in place (by March 2011).

Value                                                                                      International project
                                                                                           and          contract
(quantitative                                                                              management
                                                                                           consultants in place
or Qualitative)                                                                            in 2011.
Date achieved



                                                     73
Comments
(incl. %          100% achieved.
achievement)
                  Study on follow-on public financial management reforms and systems development conducted
Indicator 26 :
                  (by October 2013).
                                                                                      A study on follow-on
                                                                                      public      financial
                                                                                      management reforms
                                                                                      and          systems
                                                                                      development has not
                                                                                      yet been conducted,
Value                                                                                 subject    to     the
                                                                                      development of a
(quantitative                                                                         model and roadmap
                                                                                      towards             a
or Qualitative)                                                                       Government
                                                                                      financial
                                                                                      management
                                                                                      information system
                                                                                      (GFMIS) as well as
                                                                                      the revised State
                                                                                      Budget Law.
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %          Unachievable due to limited timeframe of the project.
achievement)




                                                      74
MAP




      75
