F OFFICIAL                      -4V
DOCUMENTS
The World Bank                                  1818 H Street N.W.         (202) 477-1234
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DE:VELOPMENT  Washington, D.C. 20433  Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION           U.S.A.                     Cable Address: INDEVAS
September 19, 2013
His Excellency Nguyen VAn Bini
Governor
State Bank of Vietnam
Hanoi
Socialist Republic of Vietnam
Re:    Vietnam - Public Financial Management Reform Project
(Credit 3767-VN and Credit Number 4863-VN)
Amendment to Financing Agreement
and Supplemental Letter on Performance Indicators
Excellency:
We refer to the Financing Agreement ("Agreement") dated April 7, 2011 between the
Socialist Republic of Vietnam ("Recipient") and the International Development Association
("Association") and its attached Supplemental Letter on Performance Indicators ("Supplemental
Letter"), Amending and Restating the Development Credit Agreement for the Public Financial
Management Reform Project ("Project"), as amended. We further refer to: (a) a letter dated January
31, 2013 from Mr. Le Minh Hung, Deputy Governor of State Bank of Vietnam, on behalf of the
Recipient, requesting certain modifications to the Agreement and the Supplemental Letter; and (b)
further discussions between the Association's task team and the Recipient's line ministry.
We are pleased to inform you that the Association concurs with your request and to give
effect to such request agrees to amend the Agreement and Supplemental Letter as follows:
1.    Item (a) of Part A. I of Schedule I to the Agreement is amended to read as follows:
"1.    (a) Procurement, development, and deployment of TABMIS, and rolling-out of TABMIS
deployment to all treasury and financial offices at central, provincial, and district levels, including
hardware, software, and services;"
2.     Part B.5 of Schedule I to the Agreement is amended to read as follows:
"5.    Deleted."
3.     The Annex on 'Key Performance Indicators' of the Supplemental Letter is hereby amended
to read as per the Attachment to this letter.
Except as specifically amended herein, all other provisions of the Agreement remain in full
force and effect.
Please confirm your agreement with this amendment by countersigning, dating and
returning to us the enclosed copy of this letter. Upon receipt by the Association of the
-1-


﻿countersigned copy of this letter, this amendment shall become effective as of the date of the
countersignature.
Sincerely Yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By____
Victoria Kwakwa
Country Director for Vietnam
East Asia and Pacific Region
CONFIRMED:
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
By:
Name:          0V. I1     H 1,L4C
Title: Dlert     C0 ver in( r- -fe      gQ4t,V-ehCW
Date: Or-tfo 6;,          2 0 41
-2-


﻿ATTACHMENT
Key Performance Indicators
Sector Indicators
(a)  Development of a sustainable and publicly disclosed Medium-Term Fiscal Framework
(MTFF).
(b)  Development of sector-level and provincial-level Medium-Term Expenditure Frameworks
(MTEFs) increasingly aligned with MTFF and Socio-Economic Development Plan (SEDP)
goals.
(c)  Reduced discrepancies between budget plans and end-year out-turns.
(d)  Timely, annual publication of detailed and accurate budget data and budget out-turns at each
level of government.
(e)  Reduced corruption and reduced perception of corruption in use of state budget
(f)  Progress against SEDP goals though better budget management.
(g)  Sustainable public debt ratios, with portfolio reflecting an appropriate debt and fiscal risk
strategy.
Outcome/Impact Indicators:
(a)  Accuracy, timeliness, relevance, transparency and compliance with international best
practices in budget execution and reporting at each level of government.
(b)  Better planning of the State Budget and the Public Investment Program to achieve the
growth and poverty reduction goals set out in the SEDP.
(c)  Greater fiscal sustainability through improved and more integrated recording of external and
domestic public and publicly guaranteed debt, improved capacity to monitor SOE liabilities,
and improved ability to assess associated fiscal risks.
Output Indicators
Part A of the Proiect: Strengthen Treasury and Budget Management
(a)  Utilization throughout government of a restructured and integrated chart of accounts for
treasury and budget management, consistent with appropriate international standards (by end
2011).
(b)  Implementation of TABMIS in treasury head office, MOF and two pilot provinces (by June
2009), with relevant staff trained.
(c)  Roll-out of TABMIS to all Treasury and Finance Offices in provinces and districts (by end
2011), with relevant staff trained.
-3-


﻿(d)  Implementation of budget allocation module in 40 large central ministries and government
agencies (by end 2011), with relevant staff trained.
(e)  All large state budget expenditure commitments and associated contracts (above VND 100
million and 500 million for recurrent and capital expenditures respectively) are controlled
and monitored through TABMIS (by end 2013).
(f)  Budget execution results consolidated from TABMIS are published on MOF website on a
monthly basis within 15 days after the end of the month (after the revised State Budget Law
is adopted by the Recipient's National Assembly).
(g)  Preservation of at least 30 dedicated and properly trained technical specialists at central, to
manage TABMIS databases, system security, user access, and to provide technical support to
end users.
(h)  Progress on the road from cash to accruals accounting; Unified Chart of Accounts for
consolidation of state accounting information developed (by March 2013).
(i)  Model, roadmap for development and implementation of cash management system
completed (by end 2013); and Treasury Single Account introduced (by October 2013).
(j) Model, implementation roadmap, technical requirements and bidding document for TABMIS
portal developed.
(k)  Model and implementation roadmap for a government financial management information
system developed.
Part B of the Proiect: Strengthen State Budget and Investment Planning
(a)  3 year MTFFs and MTEFs piloted as part of budget cycle in four sectors and four provinces;
and rolled over, updated and published as part of each subsequent budget cycle (starting from
fiscal year 2005 until fiscal year 2008).
(b)  Workshops on medium-term budget planning provided to relevant senior National Assembly
deputies and government officials (by 2008), with consensus for wider roll-out of medium-
term budget planning emerging.
(c)  Guidelines for nationwide implementation of MTFF and MTEF finalized (by October 2013).
Part C of the Project: Strengthen the Management of Public Debt and Monitoring of SOEs Fiscal
Risks
(a)  Identification of a lead department in MOF to direct debt management across Government,
with appropriate regulations issued (by mid 2009).
(b)  Approval and publication of a long-term  debt management strategy including debt
management objectives (by end 2011).
(c)  Analytical capability in debt and risk management enhanced with critical staff identified and
trained. Middle Office capacity is sustained by, among other things, preservation of at least
five staff of appropriate qualification and experience.
-4-


﻿(d)  Domestic debt recording system (able to provide consolidated public debt data, including
external debt) established and operational (by end 2013), with key staff trained in new
systems/practices.
(e)  Strategy for debt and risk management information system developed (by September 2013).
(f)  DeMPA self-assessment on public debt management performance conducted (by mid 2012).
(g)  Legal framework and monitoring indicators adopted (in 2013); analytical capability
enhanced, for monitoring of SOEs fiscal risks.
Part D of the Proiect: Project Implementation Support
(a)  Key project staff and equipment in place by 2004 and throughout project implementation
period.
(b)  Full compliance with procurement, financial management and reporting requirements.
(c)  International project and contract management consultant(s) in place (by March 2011).
(d)  Study on follow-on public financial management reforms and systems development
conducted (by October 2013).
-5-


