Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.: AB3003 
Operation Name 
Third Lao PDR Poverty Reduction Support Operation Grant 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
General public administration sector (60%);Health (10%);General 
education sector (10%);Roads and highways (10%);General 
finance sector (10%) 
Project ID 
P096710 
Borrower(s) 
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
February 23, 2007 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
March 27, 2007 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 31, 2007 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
The aspiration of the Lao PDR Government is to be able to allocate increasing amounts of public resources 
towards the improvement of social outcomes. The Government of Lao PDR aims to achieve rapid economic 
growth in order to improve the living conditions of its poor people. It is committed to reduce poverty by 
half by 2015 and graduate from its status of least-developed country by 2020. The development strategy to 
achieve these goals has been articulated in the Fifth National Socio-Economic Development Plan (NSEDP5 
2001-05) and the National Growth and Poverty Eradication Strategy (NGPES).  
 
The NGPES and NSEDPs establish a framework for future, deeper reforms and makes Government 
development priorities more explicit and transparent. These priorities are consistent with the multi-
dimensional nature of poverty alleviation. The current strategy, in particular, seeks to:  
 
¾
Maintain macroeconomic stability by increasing revenue and ensuring appropriate fiscal and monetary 
policy;  
 
¾
Deepen structural reforms in the following areas: public expenditure management, financial sector, 
state-owned enterprises, private sector, trade, and development of the legal system; 
 
¾
Invest in the social sectors to expand access and improve social sector outcomes; 
 
¾
Invest in infrastructure such as roads, power, and water supply, and expand access to these services; 
 
¾
Invest in rural development and natural resource management
—including support for agricultural, 
mining, forestry and hydropower development; and 
 
¾
Strengthen capacity. 
 
Building on the NGPES and NSEDP5, Lao PDR’s First and Second Poverty Reduction Support Operations 
(PRSC1 and PRSO2) laid out a policy reform matrix and performance assessment framework for a series of 
three annual Poverty Reduction Support Operations (PRSOs). PRSO1, in the credit amount of SDR 3 
million (US$ 4.5 million equivalent) and grant amount of SDR 3.6 million (US$ 5.5 million equivalent), 
was approved by the World Bank’s Board in March 2005, and PRSO2, in the grant amount of SDR 5.6 
million (US$ 8.0 million equivalent), was approved by the World Bank’s Board in April, 2006. 
Page  2
Subject to maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic framework, satisfactory implementation of the 
National Growth and Poverty Eradication Strategy (NGPES) and satisfactory progress against actions 
agreed in the policy matrix, the Third Poverty Reduction Support Operation (PRSO3) would provide further 
budgetary support to Lao PDR in the grant amount of US$7 million on standard IDA grant terms. 
2. Proposed 
objective(s) 
 
The objective of the proposed Third Poverty Reduction Support Operation, the last in a program of three 
such operations, is to assist the Government in making monitorable progress in realizing its National 
Growth and Poverty Eradication Strategy (NGPES). The policy reform program articulated in the operation 
and program focuses in a selective fashion on key areas of the NGPES, and in particular aims to improve 
the efficiency, effectiveness and transparency of the national budget process as the central mechanism for 
channeling public resources toward poverty reduction. In addition, the operation and program support the 
Government’s objective to maintain a sound macroeconomic environment and accelerate growth by 
providing external resources for the execution of the Government’s budget.  
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
Jointly prepared by the Government and IDA in collaboration with other donors, the Third Poverty Reduction 
Support Operation (PRSO3) supports the implementation of Lao PDR’s Poverty Reduction Strategy called 
National Growth and Poverty Eradication Strategy (NGPES). The next proposed programmatic series of PRSO4-
7
will support the Sixth National Socio-Economic Development Plan (NSEDP) which successfully incorporates 
the key principles of NGPES/PRS and is being submitted as a new Poverty Reduction Strategy at this time. The 
financial support provided through PRSO3 will help finance the costs of implementing key elements of these 
strategies, together with other domestic and external financing available to Government.  
 
The last in a program of three PRSOs, PRSO3 focuses on three broad policy areas consistent with the goals and 
strategies identified by Government in its Poverty Reduction Strategy, and reflected in IDA’s Country Assistance 
Strategy. PRSO3, and the policy dialogue, policy matrix and performance assessment framework which underpins 
the program of PRSOs, is supporting the delivery of further benefits in three broad categories: 
 
(i) 
Better public resource management: 
continued progress with implementation of the public expenditure 
management strengthening program; improved public policy analysis and stronger mechanisms to 
improve alignment of budget allocations to NGPES priorities; the drafting of a new revised Budget Law 
and Treasury Decree; the revision of the government chart of accounts, realignment of the Budget 
Nomenclature, and developing a functional classification of the budget that is consistent with the 
Government Financial Statistics; the piloting of quarterly consolidated budget execution reports through 
the Government Financial Information System; increasing the efficiency of public procurement; 
strengthened monitoring of state owned companies including commercial banks; and implementation of 
further phases of the power sector action plan;
 
(ii) 
Public expenditure policy reforms: 
consolidating the level in the timeliness of payment of salaries to 
teachers and health workers; further increases in the fuel levy to fund road maintenance; and finalization 
and subsequent publication of PETS and PER reports that lay out the analytical background for future 
improvements in prioritization of social spending and better execution of public expenditures program 
consistent with Government priorities enshrined in the PRS;
 
(iii) 
More sustainable growth and enhanced revenue generation:  
making progress with implementation of 
the new Enterprise Law based on international best practice in business regulation, and the revised 
Customs Law; further progress towards WTO accession and staying on track with AFTA commitments; 
and preparation of a forest industry restructuring plan to rationalize industrial capacity and resource 
supply.
 
Progress in these policy areas in turn will support a continuation of the good macroeconomic situation (with 
growth of 7 percent in 2005, average annual inflation rate at 7.2 percent in 2006, and improved revenue 
performance); and continued progress with poverty reduction (building on the decline in the headcount poverty 
Page  3
ratio from 46 to 33 percent between 1992/3 and 2002/3). As programmatic budget support, the PRSO series is 
contributing to increased predictability of funding, and the associated dialogue between Government and donors 
to strengthened policy prioritization and donor coordination.  
 
4. 
Next programmatic series 
 
The recent National Socio-Economic Development Plan (NSEDP6 for 2006-10) came out in November 
2006 and was presented at the Round Table Meeting, and is now being submitted as a Poverty Reduction 
Strategy. The Government expressed interest in receiving further support from the WB and other donors-co-
financiers for the next programmatic series of operations PRSO4-7. It is expected that this next PRSO series 
(PRSO4-7) will be aligned with the PRS/NSEDP6. Current PRSO3 dialogue thus involves discussions on 
future policy reforms which would “trigger” the next series of PRSOs (PRSO4), as well as a broad strategy 
for the next series (PRSO4-7). The PRSO4-7 concept note will be submitted separately, and it is expected 
that PRSO4 operation will go to the IDA Board in May 2008.  
 
5. Environment 
Aspects 
 
The PRSO program supports a number of actions aimed at institutional and policy reform in environment. 
Those reforms are being supported in environmental assessment, policy development and capacity building, 
with special emphasis on forest management. The Bank has undertaken analytical work in environment 
with respect to the policies and the institutional changes being proposed in the above-mentioned areas, in 
cooperation with the authorities. 
 
6. Tentative 
financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
IDA Grant 
7.0 
 Total 
7.0 
 
7. Contact 
point 
 
Contact: Ms. Ekaterina Vostroknutova 
Title: Economist 
Tel: 5784-221 
Fax: (856)-21-414210 
Email: evostroknutrova@worldbank.org 
 
