Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H299-LA 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Third Poverty Reduction Support Operation/Program) 
 
between 
 
LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated September 5, 2007 
 
Page  2
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated September 5, 2007 entered into between 
LAO PEOPLE’S 
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the 
Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Association has decided to 
provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of the Recipient’s maintenance of an 
appropriate macro-economic policy framework.  The Recipient and the Association 
therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
–
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
–
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to six 
million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 6,700,000) 
(“Financing”).  
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the 
Program in accordance with Section II of the Schedule to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are April 1 and October 1 in each year. 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is United States Dollars. 
Page  3
2
ARTICLE III 
–
PROGRAM 
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment, a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any 
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Financing 
which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program, or any action taken under the Program including any action 
specified in Section I of the Schedule to this Agreement.  
 
ARTICLE IV 
–
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: a situation has 
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, 
will be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE V 
–
EFFECTIVENESS
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
–
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Recipient’s Minister of Finance. 
 
Page  4
3
6.02. The 
Recipient
’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
23 Singha Road 
Post Box No. 46 
Vientiane 
Lao PDR 
 
Facsimile: 856-21-412142 
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  
 
Page  5
4
AGREED at Vientiane, 
Lao People’s Democratic Republic, as of the day and 
year first above written. 
 
LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC 
 
By /s/ H.E. Mrs. Viengthong Siphandone 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By /s/ Ian Porter 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE  
 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
A. 
Actions Taken Under the Program.
 
The actions taken by the Recipient under 
the Program include the following: 
 
1. 
The Recipient has approved an updated Public Expenditure Management 
Strengthening Program and an implementation plan for FY2006-07 based on FY2005-06 
Public Expenditure Review analysis in respect of such Program, and has demonstrated 
ongoing progress with implementation of the said plan, including capacity building 
activities. 
 
2. 
The Recipient has prepared its FY2006-07 budget with:  (a) administrative 
classification; (b) priority expenditure sectors; and (c) summary data on statutory funds; 
and published said budget within the first half of the Fiscal Year. 
 
3. 
The Recipient has submitted to the National Assembly a revised Budget Law and 
has adopted Prime Ministerial Decree No. 80/PM on the Organization and Operation of 
the Ministry of Finance on February 28, 2007, and drafted a ministerial instruction on the 
Position, Role, Duties, Authority and Organizational Structure of the National Treasury. 
 
4. 
The Recipient has approved a revised chart of accounts structure compatible with 
Government Finance Statistics guidelines, a budget nomenclature and an implementation 
strategy for the revised chart of accounts structure, following consultations with key 
stakeholders. 
 
5. 
The Recipient has approved budget execution quarterly reporting formats 
consistent with the revised Budget Law. 
 
6. 
The 
Bank 
Restructuring 
Implementation 
Committee 
has 
submitted 
to           
MOF, two (2) consecutive evaluation reports of the 
Banque du Commerce Extérieur du 
Laos
 and the Lao Development Bank performance with respect to operational and 
financial targets covering the period between January and September 2006 and October 
to December 2006, including recommendations to the banks for the targets that are not 
achieved.  
 
7. 
The Business Promotion Office has carried out monitoring and evaluation of the 
implementation of the restructuring plans for State Owned Enterprises between March 
2006 and February 2007 and submitted, in June 2006 and March 2007, to the Prime 
Minister’s Office two semi-annual evaluations of progress against approved restructuring 
Page  7
6
plans for State Owned Enterprises, including recommendations on corrective actions for 
said Enterprises. 
 
8. 
The Recipient and EdL
 
have implemented succeeding phases of the Power Sector 
Action Plan, including tariff increases, measures to increase Ed
L’s operational efficiency, 
a
schedule of settlement of the stock of arrears accumulated prior to September 2005, 
timelines for agreement on settlement of the arrears for FY2006, and a preliminary plan 
for reducing future arrears.  
 
9. 
The Recipient has improved the timeliness of payment of salaries to teachers and 
health workers. 
 
10. 
The Recipient, through the issuance of the Prime Minister Order for Enterprise 
Law Implementation issued on October 24, 2006 (PM order No. 37), has made progress 
in the implementation of the new Enterprise Law.  
 
11. 
The Recipient has adopted a Forest Industry Restructuring Plan to rationalize 
industrial capacity and resource supply. 
 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the 
Association may specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in a 
single tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in the 
table below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
 
Single Tranche 
6,700,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
6,700,000 
C.   
Deposit of Financing Amounts.
 
1. 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree:   
 
(a) 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable 
to the Association; and 
 
Page  8
7
(b)  
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the 
Financing into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the 
Recipient’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the 
Association. 
 
2. 
The Recipient shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request 
for withdrawal from the Financing Account, and thereafter maintain a deposit account in 
United States Dollars at the Bank of Lao PDR designated by the Recipient and on terms 
and conditions satisfactory and acceptable to the Association. 
 
3. 
The Recipient shall confirm to the Association:  
 
(a)  
the name and number of the bank account mentioned in paragraph 1(a) 
above; 
 
(b)  
the foreign currency amount received in the designated deposit account 
referred to in paragraph 2 above; 
 
(c)  
the foreign currency amounts withdrawn from the said designated 
deposit account at the Bank of Lao PDR, and, where funds are 
transferred into local currency, the equivalent amounts credited in local 
currency to the Central Treasury Account to finance budgeted 
expenditures; and  
 
(d) 
 the date and name, and/or  number of the Central Treasury account to 
finance budgeted expenditures into which the local currency amounts 
have been deposited. 
 
D. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures.  If the Association 
determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a payment for 
an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Association.  
Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be cancelled. 
 
E. Audit.
 
Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall: 
 
1. 
have the Deposit Account audited by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association; 
 
2. 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four 
(4) months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy of 
Page  9
8
the report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request; and  
 
3. 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and its audit as the Association shall reasonably request. 
 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is March 31, 2008. 
Page  10
9
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. Definitions 
 
1. 
“Bank Restructuring Implementation Committee” [0][0]means the committee 
chaired by the deputy governor of the Bank of Lao PDR and comprising 
representatives of Bank of Lao PDR, the MOF and chairs of the board of 
directors of the state owned commercial banks. 
 
2. 
“Business Promotion Office” means the [0]office in the Prime Minister’s Office 
in charge of   state owned enterprises reform and business improvement under 
the supervision of the Minister to the Prime Minister’s Office responsible for 
business development, and any successor thereto. 
 
3. 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section II(C)2 of the 
Schedule to this Agreement. 
 
4. 
“EdL” means the state-owned enterprise 
Electricité du Laos
,
a
state-owned 
enterprise, established and operating pursuant to the Charter of 
Electricité du 
Laos
,
as such Charter was approved by the Ministry of Industry and Handicrafts 
and the Board of Directors of 
Electricité du Laos
 on
December 29, 1997. 
 
5. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or 
loan; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or sub-groups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Recipient: 
 
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122  
Tobacco, manufactured 
Page  11
10 
 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, unworked 
or worked 
718 718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, for 
nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing machinery 
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals (except 
watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
971 
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding 
gold ores and concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international 
agreements to which the Recipient is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the 
Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Association to address such practices when they 
occur. 
 
6. 
“Forest Industry Restructuring Plan” means the Prime Minister order issued on 
August 23, 2006, (PMO number 31) for the controlled management of forestry 
and the timber industry aiming to promote the wood processing industry and 
sustainable development. 
Page  12
11 
 
7. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix.  
 
8. 
“MIH” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Industry and Handicrafts or any 
successor thereto. 
 
9. 
“MOF” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance or any successor thereto. 
 
10. 
“Power Sector Action Plan” means the action plan signed on November 22, 2005 
by the MIH, the MOF, and EdL. 
 
11. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the letter dated May 2, 2007, from the Recipient to the Association 
declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program during its 
execution. 
 
12. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category 
entitled “Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of the 
Schedule to this Agreement. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for 
Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as 
follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
Page  13
12 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient 
shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by 
the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under 
the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Financing. 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Financing Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in 
support of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” 
Page  14
13 
 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program”.
 
