Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3090 
Operation Name 
Third Lao PDR Poverty Reduction Support Operation Grant 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
General public administration sector (60%); Health (10%); 
General education sector (10%); Roads and highways (10%); 
General finance sector (10%) 
Project ID 
P096710 
Borrower(s) 
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
April 25, 2007 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
March 27, 2007 
Date of Board Approval 
May 31, 2007 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
The aspiration of the Lao PDR Government is to be able to allocate increasing amounts of public 
resources towards the improvement of social outcomes. The Government of Lao PDR aims to 
achieve rapid economic growth in order to improve the living conditions of its poor people. It is 
committed to reduce poverty by half by 2015 and graduate from its status of least-developed 
country by 2020. The development strategy to achieve these goals has been articulated in the Fifth 
National Socio-Economic Development Plan (NSEDP5 2001-05) and the National Growth and 
Poverty Eradication Strategy (NGPES).  
 
The NGPES and NSEDPs establish a framework for future, deeper reforms and makes Government 
development priorities more explicit and transparent. These priorities are consistent with the multi-
dimensional nature of poverty alleviation. The current strategy, in particular, seeks to:  
 
¾
Maintain macroeconomic stability by increasing revenue and ensuring appropriate fiscal and 
monetary policy;  
 
¾
Deepen structural reforms in the following areas: public expenditure management, financial 
sector, state-owned enterprises, private sector, trade, and development of the legal system; 
 
¾
Invest in the social sectors to expand access and improve social sector outcomes; 
 
¾
Invest in infrastructure such as roads, power, and water supply, and expand access to these 
services; 
 
¾
Invest in rural development and natural resource management
—including support for 
agricultural, mining, forestry and hydropower development; and 
 
¾
Strengthen capacity. 
 
Building on the NGPES and NSEDP5, Lao PDR’s First and Second Poverty Reduction Support 
Operations (PRSC1 and PRSO2) laid out a policy reform matrix and performance assessment 
framework for a series of three annual Poverty Reduction Support Operations (PRSOs). PRSO1, in 
the credit amount of SDR 3 million (US$ 4.5 million equivalent) and grant amount of SDR 3.6 
Page  2
million (US$ 5.5 million equivalent), was approved by the World Bank’s Board in March 2005, and 
PRSO2, in the grant amount of SDR 5.6 million (US$ 8.0 million equivalent), was approved by the 
World Bank’s Board in April, 2006. 
Subject to maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic framework, satisfactory implementation of 
the National Growth and Poverty Eradication Strategy (NGPES) and satisfactory progress against 
actions agreed in the policy matrix, the Third Poverty Reduction Support Operation (PRSO3) 
would provide further budgetary support to Lao PDR in the grant amount of US$7 million on 
standard IDA grant terms. 
 
2. Operation Objectives 
The objective of the proposed Third Poverty Reduction Support Operation, the last in a program of 
three such operations, is to assist the Government in making monitorable progress in realizing its 
National Growth and Poverty Eradication Strategy (NGPES). The policy reform program 
articulated in the operation and program focuses in a selective fashion on key areas of the NGPES, 
and in particular aims to improve the efficiency, effectiveness and transparency of the national 
budget process as the central mechanism for channeling public resources toward poverty reduction. 
In addition, the operation and program support the Government’s objective to maintain a sound 
macroeconomic environment and accelerate growth by providing external resources for the 
execution of the Government’s budget.  
 
The last in a program of three PRSOs, PRSO3 and the policy dialogue, policy matrix and performance 
assessment framework which underpins the program of PRSOs, is supporting the delivery of further 
benefits in three broad categories: 
 
(i) 
Better public resource management: continued progress with implementation of the public 
expenditure management strengthening program; improved public policy analysis and stronger 
mechanisms to improve alignment of budget allocations to NGPES priorities; the drafting of a 
new revised Budget Law, Prime Ministerial Decree on Ministry of Finance functions and draft 
roles and responsibilities of the centralized National Treasury; the revision of the government 
chart of accounts, realignment of the Budget Nomenclature, and development of a functional 
classification of the budget that is consistent with the IMF Government Finance Statistics; the 
development of quarterly budget execution report formats; increasing the efficiency of public 
procurement; strengthened monitoring of state owned companies including commercial banks; 
and implementation of further phases of the power sector action plan; 
(ii) 
Public expenditure policy reforms: consolidating progress in the timeliness of payment of salaries 
to teachers and health workers; further increases in the fuel levy to fund road maintenance; and 
finalization of PETS and PER that lay out the analytical background for future improvements in 
prioritization of social spending and better execution of public expenditures program consistent 
with Government priorities enshrined in the PRS; 
(iii) 
More sustainable growth and enhanced revenue generation:  making progress with 
implementation of the new Enterprise Law based on international best practice in business 
regulation, and the revised Customs Law; further progress towards WTO accession and staying 
on track with AFTA commitments; and preparation of a forest industry restructuring plan to 
rationalize industrial capacity and resource supply. 
 
Progress in these policy areas in turn will support a continuation of the good macroeconomic situation 
(with growth of 7.1 percent in 2005, average annual inflation rate at 7.6 percent in 2006, and improved 
revenue performance); and continued progress with poverty reduction (building on the decline in the 
headcount poverty ratio from 46 to 33 percent between 1992/3 and 2002/3). As programmatic budget 
Page  3
support, the PRSO series is aimed at increased predictability of funding and the associated dialogue 
between Government and donors, sharper policy prioritization and strengthened donor coordination.  
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
The present CAS was designed to support the Government’s National Growth and Poverty Eradication 
Strategy (NGPES). Specifically, the first two objectives of the CAS aim to support the implementation of 
NGPES priorities by: (i) sustaining growth through improving management of key drivers – regional 
integration and private sector development, rural development, and natural resource management; and (ii) 
improving social outcomes and reducing vulnerability through strengthened public financial management 
and service delivery capacities and targeted poverty reduction programs. In achieving these first two 
objectives, the CAS will also focus on its third and fourth complementary objectives, namely: (iii) 
adopting a strategic approach to capacity development and partnerships to yield better NGPES results; 
and (iv) supporting the implementation of NT2 as an example of an area-based, sustainable natural 
resource development program that contributes to growth, social outcomes, capacity development and 
stronger partnerships.  
The PRSO program is an integral component of the CAS, supporting the key policy and institutional 
reforms targeted in both the NGPES and the CAS. The CAS includes a mixture of programmatic policy-
based lending (through PRSOs), investment lending and analytical and advisory (AAA) services. The 
CAS was presented to the IDA Board at the same time as PRSO1, and included a grant provision of US 
$8 million for the current PRSO3, plus a further US $8 million for a possible PRSO4 (which would be the 
first in a second series of PRSOs). The actual amounts were US $10 million for PRSC1, US $8 million 
for PRSO2, and a proposed US $10 million for PRSO3. The proposed CAS update includes a provision of 
$10 million for each of the PRSOs 4-7. 
The PRSO program plays a key role in supporting other Bank operations, both ongoing and as envisaged 
in the CAS; and in turn is supported by other Bank operations. PRSOs are a complement rather than an 
alternative to sectoral investment operations:  over time, a satisfactory policy-based operation may 
provide IDA evidence that country policies and institutions are improving and allow more resources to be 
made available for both sectoral investment operations and budget support. In particular, the World 
Bank’s financed Financial Management Capacity Building Credit (FMCBC) is assisting the government 
in implementation of the PEMSP implementation to NT2 revenue management arrangements. 
PRSOs are a critical complement to the Bank’s support for NT2. The World Bank decision to support the 
NT2 project was based on a decision framework with three key elements:  (i) Lao PDR establishing and 
implementing viable development policies, characterized by concrete performance, and national programs 
for poverty reduction and social and environmental protection; (ii) the technical, financial, economic and 
implementation aspects of the proposed project, as well as the design and implementation of safeguards 
policies, being sound; and (iii) wider understanding and broader support from the international donor 
community and global and local civil society for Lao PDR's development framework and the proposed 
project. The PRSOs support the implementation of development policies, and national programs for 
poverty reduction and social and environmental protection, as referenced in the first element of the NT2 
decision framework. The links to NT2 entail a high degree of scrutiny of the reform program, including 
the PRSO program, through annual consultations with NT2 partners, the International Advisory Group 
and ultimately through dissemination of information to the donor community and the wider public.  
4. Financing 
Grant financing in the amount of SDR 6.7 million or $10 million equivalent.  
 
5.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
Page  4
The implementation of the PRSO program is led by the PRSO Steering Committee, which is chaired by 
the Minister of Finance. The Steering Committee is supported by a PRSO Technical Secretariat, which is 
chaired by the Director General of the External Finance Relations Department of the Ministry of Finance 
and includes representation from various ministries. In particular, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Committee 
for Planning and Investment and its National Statistics Center, Ministries of Education and Health, 
Ministry of Energy and Mining, Ministry of Industry and Commerce, Ministry of Agriculture and 
Forestry, MTCPC, Bank of Lao PDR, Prime Minister Office and its Business Promotion Office, PACSA, 
and other agencies. 
Progress with the PRSO program implementation is monitored with reference to the PRSO Program 
Matrix, updated annually as part of PRSO negotiations. Accordingly, this Program Document in the series 
of three PRSOs includes a revised policy reform matrix, building on that developed for PRSO1-2 but 
updated jointly by Government, IDA and other donors, to reflect evolving policies and the pace of 
implementation of the NGPES and NSEDP and the current status of progress (
Error! Reference source 
not found.
). In addition to monitoring of progress against policy actions, there is close monitoring of 
macroeconomic developments, as well as poverty and social indicators. Sub-component 2.2 of the PRSO 
Program Matrix includes measures to strengthen such monitoring indicators.  
As is standard practice for PRSOs, the impact of this PRSO series is evaluated in accordance with a 
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) framework covering all three operations in the series and established 
by the Government and IDA at the time of PRSO1. Although some adjustments have been made to the 
policy actions in the Program Matrix, these actions remain consistent with the end-of-series outcomes 
which were agreed and fixed in the first Program Document of the series and which remain unaltered. The 
progress on the end-of-series outcomes and indicators is evaluated in Section III and in particular in sub-
section on “Other end-of-series outcomes”, and details are presented in Annex 4 “Indicators and 
Outcomes”.  
M&E activities are coordinated by the PRSO Steering Committee and Technical Secretariat, supported by 
the National Statistical Center (NSC), with participation of other development partners. However, the 
World Bank and other donors monitor progress through continuous dialogue throughout the year, 
including periodic supervision missions. The IMF continues to conduct enhanced supervision, 
supplementing annual Article IV missions with mid-year assessments. Regular discussions also take place 
with the donor community within the Macroeconomic, Private Sector Development and Trade Working 
Group as part of the RTM process, as well as separate and more detailed discussions on each part of the 
PRSO in other RTM working groups. Donors, especially co-financing donors, participate in missions, and 
retreats. The WB drive for joint AAA work has also contributed to consensus building among the donor 
community and led to more efficient use of resources.  
6.  Benefits and Risks 
The benefits of the PRSO include standard benefits of budget support operations, including: providing 
financial assistance directly to a partner country’s budget on a regular basis, use of the country’s own 
financial management systems and budget procedures; providing rapidly disbursing financing which is 
policy rather than project based. It is also been observed that budget support instruments and the 
accompanying assistance that they bring with them have improved predictability of funding, reduced 
transaction costs, and have been encouraging greater results orientation. PRSOs proved to be a great 
vehicle of donor coordination and harmonization. The policy reforms that the Government undertakes 
under the PRSO3 will support faster and deeper poverty reduction; help accelerate growth; as well as 
guard against fiduciary risks through a broad based public financial management reforms.  
Overall, the Lao PDR PRSO series remains a high risk program. Five main risks have been identified 
which could affect the impact of the proposed operation and PRSO program.  Weak public financial 
Page  5
management systems indicate high fiduciary risk. The severe capacity constraints in the civil service 
exist, due to the lack of qualified personnel and low pay and incentives. Provincial autonomy coupled 
with inadequate accountability and monitoring framework hinders implementation of national policies 
and an equitable distribution of resources. Continuing fiscal risks could result in the diversion of PRSO 
funds away from NGPES/NSEDP priorities and to cover losses of SOCBs and SOEs. In particular, 
SOCBs are still vulnerable to pressures to extend credits on a non-commercial basis. Uneven commitment 
to reforms in earlier years has resulted in poor policy implementation performance. These risks are 
mitigated through policy reforms under PRSO, increased monitoring, capacity building efforts, 
adjustment of the WPA, and more intense than usual policy dialog on the actions and triggers. More 
detailed risks mitigation arrangement are described in the Program Document.  
7.  Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
Several beneficiary-related outcomes of the undertaken reforms stand out based on the results of 
recent AAA work done by the country team. Overall, economic growth and improvements in 
infrastructure and social sphere have benefited poor the most. Poverty was reduced the most within 
the poorest districts. Impact incidence shows that minorities, while still remained disadvantaged, have 
benefited on average more than other groups. Infrastructure and moved into poorer districts through 
increased public and ODA spending. The ongoing studies will nuance this picture. In particular: 
The 
Lao Poverty Assessment (LAOPA)
 was completed in 2006. It finds strong evidence of a relationship 
between poverty and certain characteristics in Lao PDR. The
 2005/6 Public Expenditure Review 
is 
completed and has conducted analysis of poverty impact of social sector spending. The 
2006
Public 
Expenditure Tracking Survey,
 report is currently being prepared and is focusing on education and 
health sector expenditures and provides information on education and health outcomes, describes 
budget process and flows of funds between different administrative levels (provincial, district, and 
facility), identifies public financial management issues that constrained service delivery in social 
sectors (such as low level and frequent delay of salary payment that may lead to absenteeism). 
Poverty and Social Impact Analysis (PSIA)
 was initiated to understand more about how Government's 
poverty reduction strategies are translated into implementation at community level, and the degree to 
which they are effective in closing poverty gaps between ethnic groups, and between men and 
women.   
8. Contact point 
Contact: Ekaterina Vostroknutova 
Title: Economist 
Tel: 5784+221 
Fax:  
Email: evostroknutova@worldbank.org 
Location: Vientiane, Laos (IBRD) 
 
9.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
Page  6
