RESTRICTED
Report No. P-598
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE GOVERNMENT OF CEYLON
FOR A LIFT IRRIGATION PROJECT
May 15,     1968



INTERNATIONAL DEVELORHENT ASSOCIATION
PRESIDENT'S REPORT AND RECONvENDATION
TO THE EXECUTI'VE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED CREDIT TO TIE
GOVER1èENIT OF CEYLON FOR
A LIFT IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.          I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$2 million to the
Government of Ceylon for a Lift Irrigation Project.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.          The proposed credit would be IDAts first credit and the Bank
Group's fifth lending operation in Ceylon.   In 1965, after about four
years during which Ceylon's economic policies precluded Bank or IDA lending,
the Bank Group, at the request of the Government, sent a number of missions
to Ceylon to review the different sectors and identify possible projects
for financing.   One of these missions, under the FAO/IBRD Co-operative
Program, visited Ceylon in October and November of that year and identified
a number of projects in the agricultural sector.   The present project was
one of those identified.   Further work was then done on the project which
was reviewed again by another FAO/IBRD mission to Ceylon in June and July
1966 in the course of an examination of the whole irrigation program.    This
mission suggested that some more preparation was needed before the project
could be appraised by IDA.
3.          The project was submitted formally to IDA for financing last
June and appraised by a mission in September and October.    The appraisal
mission recommended that the youth settlement portion of the project be
substantially reduced.   The Government agreed to the smaller project in
February and negotiations were held in lWashington between April 29 and
May 3.   The Government was represented by Mr. David Loos, Director of Foreign
Aid and lir. T. Sivagnanam, of the Ministry of Lands, Irrigation and Power.
4.          The Bank's first three loans to Ceylon were for power and were
made between 1954 and 1961.   These loans are now fully disbursed.    Last
November a $4 million loan was made to the Development Finance Corporation
of Ceylon.   Since the loan became effective at the end of February 1968
the loan account has been credited for six sub-projects totalling over
$200,000.   The following is a summary statement of Bank loans to Ceylon
as at April 30, 1968.



-2-
Amount (US$ million)
Loan No.  Year        Borrower          Purpose         Bank     Undisbursed
101 CE    1954  Government of Ceylon     Power         15.9           -
209 CE    1958  Government of Ceylon    Power            7.3          _
283 CE    1961  Government of Ceylon    Power          14.1           -
520 CE    1967  Development Finance     Industrial
Corporation of Ceylon   Finance         4.0         4.0
Total (less cancellations)             41.3
of which has been repaid
to Bank and others                    9.1
Total now outstanding                  32.2
Amount sold                3.3
of which has been repaid 2.5          0.8
Total now held by Bank                 31.h
Total undisbursed                                   4.0
IFC has made no investments in Ceylon.
5.        A highway maintenance and bridge construction project has been
prepared with the help of consultants financed by a Bank Technical Assistance
grant. A proposed credit for this project is likely to be presented to the
Executive Directors later this summer.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
6.        Bbrrower:                     Government of Ceylon.
Purpose:                      To increase production of high value
crops, primarily chillies and onions,
on 6,500 acres in the dry zone of
Ceylon.
Amount:                       Various currencies equivalent to
US$2.0 million.
Amortization:                 Repayment in fifty years including
ten years grace. Payments will be
made in semi-annual installments
on January 15 and July 15, commencing
July 15, 1978 and ending January 15,
2018.
Service Charge:               3/4%.



- 3 -
PART III - THE PROJECT
7.        An appraisal report entitled "Lift Irrigation Project - Ceylon"
(TO-635a) is attached.
8.        Tne project is designed to increase the production of high value
subsidiary food crops in the dry zone of Ceylon. At present it is assumed
that these crops will be primarily chillies and onions, which are important
items in the Ceylon diet and which are now imported in substantial quantities.
The project would be part of a massive Government effort to increase food
production in Ceylon in order to achieve self-sufficiency by the mid-1970's.
This effort has already had considerable success in increasing production of
both paddy and subsidiary food crops.
9.        The proposed credit would help finance the development of
irrigation through low lift pumps on 6,500 acres of land in the dry zone.
6,100 acres are located on existing colonisation schemes at four different
locations. At present most farmers on these schemes are able to cultivate
only those parts of their holdings which lie below the level of the irrigation
canals. These low lying areas are used exclusively for paddy. The installa-
tion of the low lift pumps will enable water to be pumped from the canals to
irrigate the land around the homestead sites which are between 15 and 50 feet
above the canals. With irrigation, this land is very suitable for growing
chillies and onions. At present prices the return per acre will be consi-
derably higher than from paddy and will permit a substantial increase in net
farm incomes. The project also includes 400 acres of youth settlement schemes
under a plan for settling unemployed educated youth in the 17-21 year age
group on 2racre lift irrigated plots. These 400 acres would be adjacent to
one of the colonisation schemes. This type of youth scheme was first intro-
duced in Ceylon in 1965 and they are still relatively untried. However, it is
proposed to include these 400 acres to acquire more experience of this kind
of scheme which, if successful, could make a major contribution to the
solution of Ceylon's unemployment problems.
10.       The proposed credit of $2 million would cover some 60% of the
total cost of the project, amounting to $3.3 million, the remaining 40%
being covered locally. The proposed credit would cover the foreign exchange
expenditure on the project, estimated at $1.3 million, the remaining $0.7
million being disbursed against local expenditure, a step which is justified
by the present acute shortage of development capital in Ceylon.
11.       Disbursements under the credit would be against the c.i.f. costs
of imported equipment, spare parts and material and the foreign exchange
costs of an agricultural specialist to help train extension workers assigned
to the project. The Government has agreed to employ such an expert within 12
months of the effective date of the Credit Agreement. Disbursements would also
be made on a percentage basis against the local cost of installation of pumps,



the construction and maintenance of the distribution system during the initial
four years and land development.   Imported equipment would be purchased
under international competitive bidding.   Pump installation and other civil
works would be carried out directly by the forces of the Departmsnt of
Irrigation of the Ministry of Lands, Irrigation and Power, which would be
the agency responsible for executing and managing the project.   The Depart-
ment has well qualified staff wfith experience of similar works elsewhere
in the country.   The Rinistry of Agriculture and Food would be responsible
for agricultural extension.
12.       The project would be constructed over a four-year period, the
installation of the pumps being phased so that all the farmers to benefit
from the project would be receiving water by the end of the fourth year.
Water charges will be imposed on farmers gradually so that by the fifth year
after the installation of lift irrigation pumps in each block, charges will
be sufficient to cover at least operation and maintenance and replacement of
pumps and engines.   At present the legislation on water rates permits the
Government to impose these charges only with the consent of a majority of the
farmers concerned.   The Government has published temporary regulations wihich
empower it to impose charges without the consent of the farmers, but these
regulations have to be renewed each month. Amending legislation is before
Parliament which would give the Government permanent pouers to impose charges
without the farmers' consent.   The Government has assured the Association
that by June 30, 1969 it will either have secured the agreement of a majority
of the farmers benefiting from the project to the proposed charges or will
have acquired powers under appropriate legislation to impose these charges
without such agreement.
13.       The project will permit agricultural production in the dry zone to
be diversified and provide a substantial increase in farm incomes.   The pro-
ject will also provide the experience on which to plan the development of
subsequent stages.   At full agricultural development the annual gross value
of production from the 6,5oo acres benefiting from the project is expected
to increase from its present negligible level to about $2.3 million per year
which represents a substantial saving in imports.   The discounted rate of
return to the economy exceeds 25%.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRhMENTS AND AUTHORITY
1L.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Government of
Ceylon and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for under Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Asso-
ciation, are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
15.       The draft Development Credit Agreement contains in Article V an
additional event which will permit the Association to suspend disbursements
if, by June 30, 1969, the Government shall have not secured the agreement of
the farmers benefiting from the project to the water charges agreed upon



- 5 -
between the Government and the Association or acquired powers under
appropriate legislation to impose these charges without such agreement.
PART V - THE ECDNOMY
16.       The economic report entitled "The Problem of Fbreign Ecchange and
Long Term Growth of Ceylon" (AS-134a) was distributed to the Ececutive
Directors on February 5, 1968.
17.       That report concludes that the Government has made good progress
in overcoming the economic crisis which it faced in 1965, and launching a
development effort. However, it also draws attention to two areas in which
major obstacles still stood in the way of more efficient use of resources
and more rapid growth of production. One was manufacturing for whose
development no clear policy had yet emerged and where more efficient use of
existing capacity in the private sector was hampered by the procedures of
allocating imports and the generally insufficient supply of imported materials.
The other was the Government's excessive reliance on administrative controls
rather than market forces, particularly in the management of the balance of
payments where a heavily overvalued exchange rate made it necessary to
allocate foreign exchange by administrative means. This became increasingly
difficult to do efficiently both within various categories of imports and
between productive activities for the domestic market and for export.
18.       In November 1967 Ceylon devalued by 20% to a rate of Rs.5.95 to
the dollar. Earlier this month the Government announced a further exchange
reform. It established a market where the exchange rate would be determined
by supply and demand for about one quarter of all exchange transactions.
The rest would continue to be governed by the present par value. This reform
would, on the one hand, create incentives for increasing exchange earnings
and, on the other, permit liberalization of imports. Since this scheme has
just been put into effect, it is not yet possible to judge where the new
effective rate might settle and how effective it will be in giving new
impetus to exports and in allocating exchange more efficiently, particularly
with respect to imports by the manufacturing sector.   However, the IIF regards
this reform as a significant step towards "a unified and stable exchange rate
for the Ceylon rupee at a realistic level." It approved a standby credit
of US$19.5 million to support the reform.
19.       Over the longer run, there is considerable scope for Ceylon
to accelerate economic growth and improve the balance of payments by expand-
ing production of foodstuffs as well as a fairly wide range of manufactured
products for the domestic market and by developing new export activities.
However, to be able to effect the necessary structural changes in the
economy, while providing the current imports needed to sustain consumption
at a politically tolerable level, Ceylon will require large amounts of



-6-
foreign assistance through the early 1970's. Considering the way in which
the Government has dealt with obstacles to development within its control,
further assistance from the Bank Group is justified.
1/
20.       Members of the Aid Group  recognize the need for substantial amounts
of foreign assistance. As a result of the first three meetings of the Group,
approximately US$120 million in financial assistance was committed of which
roughly US$100 million has now been disbursed. Bilateral negotiations follow-
ing the fourth meeting, held in Paris on March 7, 1968, are still underway.
Present indications are that new commitments will come roughly to US$50
million. Thus, the Aid Group has committed sizeable amounts to assist Ceylon's
economic recovery, but initially disbursements were very slow. These delays
and the continuing decline in export prices caused Ceylon to rely heavily on
the IMF and suppliers' credits to sustain the economy and to provide resources
for an expansion of economic activity. Productive activity in fields other
than the traditional exports has picked up markedly over the past two years.
However, during this period Ceylon also assumed fairly heavy debt service
obligations for the medium-term future. Drawings on the IMF now total US$109
million which is considerably more than official reserves of about US$40
million at the end of March. In addition, Ceylon had contracted about US$60
million in suppliers' credits as of the end of 1967. In view of the acce-
lerating pace of disbursements from official assistance and in order to avoid
excessive debt service obligations, the Government is presently considering
placing a ceiling on short- and medium-term credits.
21.       Although Ceylon's present debt service is only 5% of exchange
earnings, members of the Aid Group appreciate that her current debt structure
and continuing exchange needs require that the bulk of external assistance
to Ceylon be made available on concessional terms. They also recognize that
the magnitude and urgency of Ceylon's exchange requirement are such that it
would not be possible to channel the required assistance through project
loans. Therefore Aid Group assistance has very largely taken the form of
quick disbursing commodity aid. In the next few years it will continue to
be impossible to achieve the capital inflows needed unless members of the
Group continue to provide a significant portion of this aid in this form.
As far as the Bank Group is concerned it can also make a contribution to
the financing of Ceylon's current import needs to the extent that its loans
and credits cover, in appropriate cases, part of the local currency expendi-
tures on development projects.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
22.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
1/   The present members of the Group are: Australia, Canada, France, Germany,
Japan, United Kingdom and the United States. In addition, India and
Italy send observers to meetings of the Group.



-7-
PART VII - RECOH1,0DATION
23.      I reconmend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
RESOLUTION No. IDA
Approval of Development Credit to the Government of Ceylon
in an amount equivalent to U.S $2,000,000.
RESOLVED:
THAT the Association shall grant a development credit to the
Government of Ceylon in an amount in various currencies equivalent
to two million United States dollars (U.S. $2,000,000) to mature
on and prior to January 15, 2018, to bear a service charge at the
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum, and
to be upon such other terms and conditions as shall be substantially
in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the form
of Development Credit Agreement (Lift Irrigation Project) between
the Government of Ceylon and the Association, which has been
presented to this meeting.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
I4ay 15, 1968
Washington, D.C.



