CREDIT NUMBER 121 CE
Development Credit
Agreement
(Lift Irrigation Project)
BETWEEN
GOVERNMENT OF CEYLON
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 19, 1968


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 121 CE
Development Credit
Agreement
(Lift Irrigation Project)
BETWEEN
GOVERNMENT OF CEYLON
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 19, 1968


﻿AGREEMENT, dated June 19, 1968, between the Gov-
ERNMENT OF CEYLON (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
ARTICLE I
Credit Regulations
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of Development Credit Regulations No. 1
of the Association dated June 1, 1961 as amended Febru-
ary 9, 1967 (said Development Credit Regulations No. 1
being hereinafter called the Regulations), with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein.
SECTION 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
term "Project Area", wherever used in the Development
Credit Agreement means: The areas of the Colonisation
Schemes of Vavunikulam, Mahakanadarawa, Rajangana
and in the Polonnaruwa District and the proposed Youth
Settlement Schemes in the Polonnaruwa District as of
January 1, 1968.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to make available
to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, a devel-
opment credit in an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to two million dollars ($2,000,000).
SECTION 2.02. The Association shall open a Credit Ac-
count in the name of the Borrower and shall credit to such
0


﻿4
Credit Account the amount of the Credit. The amount of
the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account as
provided in, and subject to the rights of cancellation and
suspension set forth in, the Development Credit Agreement.
SECTION 2.03. Except as the Borrower and the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall be entitled
to withdraw from the Credit Account:
(a) such amounts as shall have )een expended for the
reasonable foreign currency cost of the goods re-
quired to carry out the Project;
(b) the equivalent of a percentage or percentages as
may be established from time to time by agreement
between the Borrower and the Association of such
amounts as shall have been expended for the rea-
sonable cost of goods required for carrying out the
Project and not included in the foregoing sub-section
(a); and
(c) if the Association shall so agree, suei amounts as
shall be required. by the Borrower to meet payments
under the foregoing sub-seetion (a);
provided, however, that no withdrawals shall be made on
account of expenditures made prior to the date of this
Agre ment.
SECTION 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (% of   L '   ) per anumiti on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from fime to iime.
SECTION 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
SECTION 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account
0


﻿5
in semi-annual installments payable on each January 15
and July 15 commencing July 15, 1978 and ending Jan uary
15, 2018, each installment to and including the installment
payable on January 15, 1988 to be one-half of one per cent
( /: of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (11/,%) of such
principal amount.
SFCTfrox 2.07. The currency of the United Kingdom of
Oreat Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for
purposes of Section 3.02 of the Regulations.
ARTICLE III
Use of the Proceeds of the Credit
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall apply the proceeds
of the Credit in accordance with the provisions of the De-
velopment Credit Agreement to expenditures on the Project
described in the Schedule to this Agreement. The specific
allocation of the proceeds of the Credit, and the methods
and procedures for procurement of the goods to be financed
out of such proceeds, shall be determined by agreement
between the Borrower and the Association, subject to
modification by further agreement between them.
SECTION 3.02. Except as the Borrower and the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause all
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be uised
in the territories of the Borrower exclusively in the carry-
ing out of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SECTION 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with sound administrative, agricultural, engineering, and


﻿0
6
financial practioes, and shall make available, promptly as
needed, all funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall, in the carrying out of the Proj-
ect, employ qualified and experienced staff.
(c) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished
to the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the
reports, plans, specifications, contract documents and work
schedules for the Project and any material modifications
subsequently made therein, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request.
SECTION 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to identify the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, to disclose the
use thereof in the Project and to record the progress of
the Project (including the cost thereof) and shall enable
the Association's representatives to inspect the Project, the
goods and any relevant records and documents; and shall
furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit,
the Project, the goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and the operations with respect to the Proj-
ect of the Ministries of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project.
SECTION 4.03. (a) The Borrower and the Association
shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each of them
shall furnish to the other all such information as it shall
reasonably request with regard to the general status of the
Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such information shall
include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower and the inter-
national balance of payments position of the Borrower.


﻿7
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time
to time exchange views through their representatives with
regard to matters relating to the purposes of the Credit
and the maintenance of the service thereof. The Borrower
shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit or the main-
tenance of the service thereof.
(c) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity
for accredited representatives of the Association to visit
any part of the territories of the Borrower for purposes
related to the Credit.
SECTION 4.04. The Borrower shall establish and main-
tain separate accounts for the Project and shall cause
such accounts relating to the Project to be audited at least
once a year by an independent auditor acceptable to the
Association, and, unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, not later than five months after the end of the Bor-
rower's fiscal year transmit to the Association certified
copies of such accounts and a certified copy of such audi-
tor's report.
SECTION 4.05. The Borrower shall at all times provide
or cause to be provided such production credit to the
farmers as shall be necessary for the carrying out of the
Project.
SECTION 4.06. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree:
(a) The Borrower shall, in allocating water available in
the Project Area, give priority to the water require-
ment of the Project and shall not reduce the amounts
of water allocated to the Project below the amounts
required therefor.


﻿80
(b) The Irrigation Department of the Borrower shall
have sole jurisdiction over the distribution of water
allocated to the Project and shall operate and main-
tain the irrigation facilities included in the Project.
SECTION 4.07. The Borrower shall cause all works, facil-
ities and equipment related to the Project to be adequately
maintained and from time to time shall cause all necessary
renewals and repairs thereof to be made in accordance
with sound agricultural and engineering practices.
SECTION 4.08. The Borrower shall impose and collect
levies on water provided under the Project at rates to be
agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
SECTION 4.09. Except as the Borrower and the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, the Borrower undertakes to
insure the imported goods to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit against marine, transit and other haz-
ards incident to acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely useable by the Borrower to replace or repair such
goods.
SECTION 4.10. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions, imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in offect in its
territories.
SECTION 4.11. The Development Credit Agreement shall
be free from any taxes that shall be imposed under the
laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories on
or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration
thereof.


﻿0
9
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 5.01. (i) If any event specified in paragraph (a)
or paragraph (c) of Section 5.02 of the Regulations shall
occur and shall continue for a period of thirty days, or
(ii) if any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.02
of the Regulations shall occur and shall continue for a
period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have boen
given by the Association to the Borrower, then at any sub-
sequent time during the continuance thereof, the Associa-
tion, at its option, may declare the principal of the Credit
then outstanding to be due and payable immediately, and
upon any such declaration such principal shall become due
and payable immediately, anything in the Development
Credit Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding.
SEcTIoN 5.02. The following is specified as an additional
event for the purposes of paragraph (k) of Section 5.02
of the Regulations:
On June 30, 1969, the proprietors of lands included in
the Project Area shall have failed to approve, pursuant
to Sections 35 and 58 of the Irrigation Ordinance (Chap-
ter 453) of the Borrower, the rates referred to in Section
4.08 of this Agreement, unless before that date the pro-
visions of said Irrigation Ordinance relating to irrigation
rates shall have been amended by appropriate legislation
to provide for ihe imposition of such rates without such
approval.
ARTICLE VI
Termination; Miscellaneous
SECTIoN 6.01. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1973,
or such other date as may from time to time be agreed
between the Borrower and the Association.


﻿0
10
SECTION 6.02. If the Development Credit Agreement
shall not have come in force and effect by August 20, 1968
the Development Credit Agreement and all the obligations
of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the Asso-
ciation, after consideration of the reasons for the delay,
establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section.
The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of
such date.
SECTIoN 6.03. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Regulations:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planing and Economic Affairs
Central Bank Building, 8th Floor
Colombo 1, Ceylon
Alternative address for cables:
Seeminplan
Colombo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cables:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
SECTION 6.04. The Permanent Secretary of the Ministry
of Planning and Economic Affairs of the Borrower is des-
ignated for the purposes of Section 7.03 of the Regulations.


﻿11
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representafives therounto duly authorized, have
caused this Development Credit Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of
Colunbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
GOVERNMENT OF CEYLON
By /s/ OLIVER WEERA INGIE
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssoCIATION
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President


﻿0
12
SCHEDULE
Description of the Project
The purpose of the Project is to increase the production
of high value crops, primarily chillies and onions, in the
Project Area. The Project includes:
1. The acquisition, installation and use of low lift pumps
in the Project Area.
2. The construction of an irrigation system to serve
about 6,500 acres in the Project Area.
3. Land leveling of the 6,500 acres and mechanized jun-
gle clearing in the youth settlement areas at Polonnaruwa.
4. The construction of about 200 cottages in the youth
settlement areas at Polonnaruwa.
5. The provision of technical services to assist in the
training of extension workers assigned to the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1972.


