Documt of
The World Bank
FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4025-PAK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PrOPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT OF US$100 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR THE
FIFTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
June 19, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their otficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Pakistan (Rs)
US$1.00 = Rs 16.8
Rs 1.0 = US$0.06
FISCAL YEAR
July I - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB      -    Asian Development Bank
CTI      -    Carrier Telephone Industries
DEL      -    Direct Exchange Line
ECNEC    -    Executive Committee of the National
Economic Council
COP      -    Government of Pakistan
ITU      -    International Telecommunications Union
KfW      -    Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (Federal Republic
of Germany (FRG))
OECF     -    Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
PC-1     -    Planning Commission Proforma No. 1
TIP      -    Telephone Industries of Pakistan
T&T      -    Telegraph and Telephone Department



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
FIFTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Amount:                  US$100 million equivalent
Terms:                   Twenty years, including five years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Project                  The project would encompass the entire FY8J-90
Description:           investment program for Pakistan's Telegraph and
Telephone (T&T) Department. It would expand
local, long-distance, and international telephone
and telex networks, while increasing the
management, organizational, and implementation
capacity of T&T. This growth would be reinforced
with a program of rehabilitation, replacement, and
improved operations and maintenance. In
strengthening the telecommunications system, the
project would address one of the chief bottlenecks
to future economic and social development. While
business and government subscribers would benefit
most from the improvement in long distance,
nationwide dialling, international and telex
facilities, the provision of new subsidiary
routes, rural exchanges, and public call offices
would benefit currently unserviced rural areas.
Since the technology to be employed has been well
tested elsewhere, the major risk is one of inade-
quate implementation capacity on the part of T&T.
To reduce this risk, the project would focus on
the institutional aspects of expansion and
modernization. This emphasis would be ensured by
regular review with the Bank of progress in meet-
ing a series of physical and managerial targets
and service quality indicators.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World BDnk authoriation.



Estimated Cost: [
(US$ millions)
Item                         Foreiatn     Local Ij        Total
Local Telephone Network                  209.4         158.8          368.2
Long Distance Network                     20.8          16.5           37.3
Transission                               32.1          19.7           51.8
International Network                     28.8          15.4           44.2
Telex, Telegraph and Data Netorks         33.8          19.6           53.4
Rural Network                             22.1          17.5           39.6
Replacements                              37.0          25.9           62.9
Miscellaneous                             19.6          33.5           53.1
Technical Assistance and Training          5.5          3.3             8.8
Total Base Cost                        409.1        310.2           719.3
Physical Contingencies                    23.1          20.3           43.4
Price Contingencies                       29.9          24.5           54.5
Total Proiect Cost                    462.2        355.0           817.2
Financins Plan:                                    (US$ millions)
Foreija      Local          Total
[BRD  Loan                               100.0                       100.0
Asian Development Bank                    73.0                        73.0
Japan (OECF)                              12.0                        12.0
UNDP                                       3.5                         3.5
Federal Republic of Germany (WfI)
- Mixed Credits                        112.0                       112.0
Other Export Credits                      64.8                        64.8
GOP/T&T                                   96.9        355.0          451.9
Total             462.2        355.0         817.2
.L Including US$161.3 million in customs duties.



-iii-
Estimated                                             (US$ mil-Lions)
Disbursements:         IDA FY          FY86     FY87      FY88    FY89   FY90
Annual          3.0      26.0      31.0    29.0   11.0
Cumulative      3.0      29.0      60.0    89.0  100.0
Rate of Return:    22X.
Appraisal Report:  No. 5483-PAK, dated June 17, 1986
Map: IBRD - 18739



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC CF PAKISTAN
FOR A FIFTH TELECOMKUNICATIONS PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for the equivalent of US$100 million to
help finance a Fifth Telecommunications Project. The loan would have a term
of 20 years, including five years of grace, at the standard variable interest
rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      The most recent economic report, "Pakistan:  Economic and Social
Development Prospects" (No. 5962-PAK, dated February 18, 1986), was dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors on March 3, 1986.
3.      Economic growth rebounded strongly in FY85 after the slowdown in the
previous year. Assisted by a strong recovery in the agricultural sector,
real GDP increased by 8.4%, compared to 3.5% in FY84. Value added in agricul-
ture grew by 9.9% and in manufacturing by 8.6Z. Both fixed investment and
private investment rose by about 12Z. Improved availability of agricultural
commodities helped to reduce the rate of inflation to 7.5Z from 8.4Z in FY84.
On the other hand, the budget deteriorated markedly, national savings
decreased, and the balance of payments came under pressure. Government
current revenues fell short of the budgeted amount while expenditures sub-
stantially exceeded the budgeted amounts. As a result, government borrowing
from the domestic banking system increased from 1.9% of GDP in FY84 to 3.9Z
of GDP. Reflecting largely the sharp drop in public savings, national
savings fell from 12.8Z to 11.2Z of GNP. Although the immediate growth
prospects are good, budgetary and balance of payments developments will need
to be carefully watched.
4.      The balance of payments deteriorated in FY85.  The current account
deficit stood at US$1.6 billion, compared to US$1 billion in FY84. Lower
exports and remittances were the main contributing factors. Exports declined
by 7.3% as the country's major exports, cotton and rice, suffered the effects
of lower prices and lower volumes, respectively. Furthermore, remittances
declined for the second successive year, falling by 10.6% in FY85. According
to recent projections, net migration is expected to decline and thus remit-
1/ Parts I and II are substantially the same as Parts I and II of the
President's Report P-4302-PAK (Kot Addu Combined Cycle Power Project)
dated M&v 5, 1986.



-2-
tances will be lower over the medium term. As a result of the higher current
deficit and low net capital flows, the reserve drawdown reached US$960
milLion. Gross official gold and foreign exchange reserves were US$1.2
billion at the end of FY85, which was equivalent to 2 months of imports of
goods and services.
5.      The process of gradually eliminating interest rates from the economy,
initiated in 1980, was completed in July 1985. All transactions are now
based on new financing modes consistent with Islamic principles. Existing
interest-based commitments have been honored ard transactions with foreign
governments and financial institutions are not affected. It is too early to
determine with any certainty the potential costs of Islamization.
Undoubtedly, the operation of the new system will initially involve some
costs, but whether long-run efficiency will be affected will depend on how
the system is applied. To date, the Government has proceeded cautiously,
and new financing modes have been applied flexibly and developments monitored
closely.
6.      The strong recovery in GDP growth in FY85 meant that the overall
growth ratio achieved in the first two years of the Sixth PLan was consistent
with the improved performance achieved during the Fifth Plan period
(FY79-83). Growth in national output (6.5Z), agriculture (4.2%), manufactur-
ing (10.4%), exports (112), and private investment (6.7%), though below Sixth
Plan targets, was well above the rates achieved during FY70-78 and very
respectable compared with the growth rates of other developing countries.
Growth during this period--coupled with increased remittances--benefited
large segments of the population. Performance improved despite a number of
adverse factors: (a) a world recession; (b) a 30% decline in the external
terms of trade after 1979; and (c) the Afghanistan crisis with its attendant
expenditures for increased defense and refugee assistance.
7.      Fiscal performance and the balance of payments improved significantly
during the Fifth Plan. The overall budget deficit and Government bank
borrowing, which in FY79 stood at 8.8% and 4.3% of GDP respectively, fell to
6.4% and 1.7% by FY83. As the levels of Government borrowing from banks
dropped and overall credit expansion was restrained, the growth of the money
supply slowed down and inflationary pressures lessened; inflation dropped
from 8% to 5% by the end of the Plan period. The improved fiscal performance
was largely the result of expenditure restraint rather than better revenue
performance. Real expansion in current expenditures on economic and social
services barely kept pace with population growth, and development expenui-
tures declined relative to GDP. Government revenues remained constant at 16%
of GDP, and public savings, having risen in the first half of the Plan period
from 1% to 3.8% of GNP, dropped to 1.6% by FY83. Assisted by remittances,
but also strong export growth, the current account deficit fell from 5% of
GNP to 2% by the end of the Plan Period. Gross reserves increased from 3.5
to 4.5 months of imports of goods and services.



-3-
8.      In addition to improving economic management through fiscal and
monetary policies, the Government took measures to improve performance in
the commodity-producing sectors. In agriculture, all major crops reached
record output Levels, with wheat and sugar achieving self-sufficiency.
Subsidies on pesticides were virtually eliminated, while fertilizer prices
were raised to reduce the subsidy burden. Crop procurement prices were
adjusted to bring them closer to world prices. Provincial allocations for
operations and maintenance in irrigation were increased, along with water
charges. Encouraged by improved policies and incentives, private manufactur-
ing investment grew by 10.9% per annum. Areas open to the private sector
were widened, most agricultural processing units were denationalized, and
sanctioning limits increased. A flexible exchange rate policy adopted in
1982 was instrumental in stimulating manufactured exports, while import
liberalization increased the availability of raw materials and capital goods.
In energy, measures were taken to accelerate the development of domestic
resources, rationalize prices, and improve policy formulation and energy
planning capabilities.
9.      The developments in Pakistan's economy since FY78 represent welcome
steps toward the solution of problems that are essentially structural and
long-term in nature. Nevertheless, further wide-ranging measures must be
introduced to address structural issues. Pakistan's long-term growth
prospects depend on the resolution of two such issues: (a) the need to
increase the level and efficiency of public investment; and (b) the need to
encourage export expansion and efficient import substitution. If Pakistan
is to sustain high economic growth, it must make major infrastructure
investments, upgrade existing facilities, and strengthen its neglected social
base. The last has fared badly as a result of resource constraints, as is
reflected in Pakistan's social indicators, which lag seriously behind those
of other developing countries at comparable levels of development. It will
not be possible to increase public investment and recurrent allocations
without a major domestic resource mobilization effort. Although Pakistan
should give priority to reforming indirect taxation through a broad-based
saLes tax, it should also rely more on user charges, should curtail
subsidies, and increase self-financing by public enterprises. Given the
continuing constrained outlook for official assistance and the likelihood of
lower remittance flows, sustained improvements in both export expansion and
efficient import substitution will be necessary to support high growth with
sustainable external capital requirements. If trade performance is to be
improved, structural adjustment must be continued and strengthened in the
key sectors of agriculture, industry, and energy. Both agriculture and
industry have considerable potential for increased exports and some degree
of efficient import substitution. In energy, the accelerated development of
Pakistan's under-exploited resources can contribute considerably to the
reduction of energy imports.
10.     In agriculture, high growth has been largely the result of increased
acreage; yet average yields remain low by world standards and by those of
progressive farmers within Pakistan. Before agricultural productivity and



-4-
diversification can be increased, institutional support must be strengthened,
appropriate pricing policies must be put in place, and the core investment
program identified and implemented. More effective institutional support
should be sought through improvements in the quality and quantity of services
to farmers. In particular, strengthening the seed program requires more
efficient seed multiplication and dissemination, increased efficiency in
public sector plants, and a greater role for the private sector. The
delivery of agricultural credit also needs to be improved to ensure that it
actually reaches small farmers and tenants, whose credit needs are greatest.
Furthermore, marketing costs need to be reduced and research and extension
services strengthened. Agricultural pricing policies should create
appropriate incentives to farmers, while minimizing subsidies. Multicrop
approaches to pricing should complement the single-crop, cost-of-production
approach currently used. Finally, a core investment program in agriculture
and water is needed to reduce the possibility of distortions in investment
priorities. Low cost programs that yield quick returns should be emphasized
along with critical infrastructure investments that raise farm productivity.
Greater emphasis on the complementarity of investment programs, especially
between agriculture and water, would ensure that priority is accorded to
programs that increase agricultural productivity rather than merely augment
the supply of physical infrastructure.
11.    Despite fairly rapid industrial growth accompanied at times by rapid
expansion of manufactured exports in recent years, there are a number of
issues the Government must address if this performance is to be sustained.
High levels of protection have led to high cost, low quality domestic produc-
tion both by raising input prices and by reducing the demand for new technol-
ogy to raise productivity and improve product quality. If Pakistan is to
increase and diversify its manufactured export base and encourage efficient
import substitution, industrial incentives must be rationalized to reduce
both the level and dispersion of effective protection rates. The objective
here is to increase the efficiency of the industrial sector by exposing
protected producers to greater foreign competition and to reduce the anti-
export bias inherent in the present incentives. In addition, the Government
should reform the regulations affecting investment sanctioning and cost-plus
pricing in order to improve competition among domestic firms. It should
limit sanctioning to a few cases of strategic importance, leaving most
investment decisions to the private sector, which is better able to assess
investment opportunities. Cost-plus pricing arrangements with a number of
key private and public manufacturing enterprises, which provide insufficient
incentives to minimize costs or allocate capital efficiently, shouLd be
replaced by market-oriented approaches, which better reflect supply/demand
conditions and provide adequate incentives for reinvestment and operational
efficiency.
12.     Issues that needed to be and are being addressed in the energy sector
pertain to three broad areas: (a) investment and development; (b) pricing;
(c) institutional strengthening. In the power subsector, the Government has
formulated a least-cost development plan for the period 1986-2005 and has



-5-
outlined a core investment program of Rs 30 billion consisting of high
priority projects to be implemented during FY86 to FY88. Given the
likelihood of domestic resource constraints and persistent power shortages,
the Government is also undertaking a number of measures including tariff
increases to ensure that a large portion of this investment program would be
financed from the Water and Power Development Authority's self-generated
resources. The gas producer pricing formula for new discoveries has been
adjusted to provide adequate incentives to attract private sector
exploration. Because consumer gas prices were kept artificially low to
encourage the substitution of gas for imported oil, relative prices became
distorted and the use of gas uneconomic. Since 1982, the Government policy
has been to progressively increase consumer prices of gas in order to reach
two-thirds of fuel oil parity by 1988; the FY86 budget increased the average
gas price by over 50Z. Assisted by domestic price increases and lower inter-
national prices for fuel oil, the Government's target has been realized. The
Government should continue the policy of gradually adjusting gas prices with
a view to reaching full parity as early as possible. Electricity tariffs,
which are currently below the long-run marginal cost, should be adjusted to
reflect this cost, not only to ensure the efficient use of electricity and
encourage energy conservation, but also to mobilize the substantial addi-
tional funds required by the power investment program. Finally, the
Covernment should consider increasing the autonomy of public enterprises in
the energy sector to improve their efficiency and should continue to
strengthen energy planning and policy coordination.
13.     The Sixth Five-Year Plan (FY83-88) articulates a pragmatic strategy
for Pakistan's continued rapid development that includes an expanded role
for the private sector, increased public development expenditures, and
increased allocations for energy, agriculture, irrigation, and the social
sectors. Although the size and composition of the Plan are appropriate,
development expenditures during the first two years of the Plan have been
8.5X lower than the amounts projected because of insufficient domestic
resources. Although this would not appear overly large, the way in which
sectoral shortfalls have been distributed contradicts Plan priorities.
Education, energy, health, and agriculture have received considerably lower
allocations than called for in the Plan. Furthermore, without a predefined
core investment program, there is a tendency to distribute shortfalls evenly
over a large number of projects within a sector; thus too many projects have
been initiated, and projects that should receive priority are underfunded.
To address this issue, the Government has re-introduced a Three-Year Priority
Investment Program (FY86-88). The Government has emphasized that the adop-
tion of a rolling medium-term program does not mean that plan strategies and
priorities are being revised, or that shortfalls are considered inevitable.
The program will merely identify sectoral core investment programs to be
given priority in annual plans. If priority investments, especially in key
areas, could be protected, the public investment program would become more
effective and its priorities would be sharpened.



-6-
14.     The improved performance and policy framework of the Fifth Plan,
which the Government intends to continue during the Sixth Plan, have improved
Pakistan's creditworthiness for a blend of Bank and IDA borrowing and commer-
cial borrowing. At the end of 1984, Pakistan's external public debt (excLud-
ing the undisbursed pipeline) stood at US$9.9 billion, of which US$4.6 bil-
lion was owed to bilateral members of the Pakistan consortium, US$1.2 billion
to OPEC, US$2.3 billion to multilateral agencies, and the balance to other
bilateral and private lenders. At the same time, the Bank Group's share in
Pakistan's external public indebtedness was 16.2%, and in external debt
service it was 8.0%. According to Bank projections, if recent policy
improvements are sustained and structural issues addressed, Pakistan's debt
service will remain about 20% during the remainder of the 1980s, even with
somewhat higher levels of commercial borrowing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
15.     As of March 31, 1986, the cumulative total of Bank/IDA commitments to
Pakistan (exclusive of Loans and Credits or portions thereof that were dis-
bursed in the former East Pakistan) amounted to approximately US$4.0 billion,
and IFC's investments totalled $239.9 million.  (Annex II contains a summary
Statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments.)
16.     During its long association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been
involved in most sectors of the economy. For example, it has participated
with other donors, over a 25-year period, in a major program of works to
develop the water resources of the Indus Basin. Approximately 30% of total
Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan have been for agriculture and irrigation;
28Z for industry, including import program credits; 18% for transport,
telecommunications, and public utility services; 14% for energy, including
power, gas pipelines, and petroleum; 5% for social programs in education,
population, and urban development; and 5% for structural adjustment lending
and technical assistance.
17.     Currently, the Bank's assistance strategy is primarily to support the
Government of Pakistan's efforts to formulate and implement policy reforms
in three sectors--energy, industry, and agriculture--which shape the struc-
tural adjustment of the economy. To ensure that the gains from adjustment
are sustained in the long term and shared more broadly, the strategy also
includes investments in physical infrastructure and the social sectors
(education, population, etc.) that have been neglected in Pakistan's develop-
ment efforts. If this strategy is to succeed, the full range of traditional
instruments of Bank support must be flexibly deployed--from sector work and
active policy dialogue, to policy- and project-based lending, technical
assistance and aid coordination. The Bank Group's lending program comprises
two components, the larger of which supports specific high-priority invest-
ments in productive sectors and physical and social infrastructure. The
smaller but nonetheless strategic component focuses on policy reforms in the
key sectors of agriculture, industry, and energy and relies heavily on high-
quality economic and sector work. The program includes a series of technical



-7-
assistance credits to finance studies and formulate action programs for
policy reform. The experience with the first of these has been extremely
positive. In addition, through its annual Country Economic Memorandum, the
Bank Group tries to foster greater understanding on the part of Consortium
members of the Government's structural adjustment program and aid
requirements. This effort, coupled with increased cofinancing, should
enhance the policy relevance and effectiveness of other official aid and help
attract additional resources to Pakistan from nonconcessional sources.
18.     Historically, the Bank Group has placed special emphasis on lendirng
for agriculture, which is the mainstay of Pakistan's economy. The Bank and
the Government have agreed that the main objective of the agricultural
strategy and, consequently, lending to the sector should be to increase
agricultural productivity through improvements in the efficiency of the
irrigation system and supporting agricultural services. Among the issues
being addressed are: the balance between short-gestation projects and
projects with a longer-term focus, rationalization of input and output
prices, marketing, improvements in operation and maintenance, cost recovery,
and a wider role for the private sector. Projects in the sector have ranged
from irrigation/drainage to agricultural inputs, research, and extension and
have included institution-building components. Overall, progress in agricul-
ture has been satisfactory.
19.     In industry, the strategy has two complementary aspects:  to
strengthen and broaden the structural adjustment in Pakistan's industrial
sector and to support the Government's efforts to revitalize the private
sector through industrial financing. The industrial reform program has been
designed to improve the competitiveness of the sector with a view to promot-
ing export expansion and import substitution. Issues being addressed
include trade and industrial incentives, deregulation, efficiency of public
enterprises, pricing decontrol, and improvements in the credit delivery
system. Lines of credit extended to development finance institutions and
other financial intermediaries have been mainly for the private sector.
Direct lending for industry has also included assistance to three large
fertilizer plants and a refinery engineering loan. IFC's investments in 18
Pakistan enterprises were by way of loans (US$228.6 million) and equity
participation (US$11.3 million). Although individual operations have
generally achieved their objectives, the agenda for overall industrial reform
remains formidable.
20.     As a result of the progress under the Structural Adjustment Loan
(SAL) in 1981/82 and the Energy Sector Loan in 1985, our lending program in
energy is expanding rapidly. The overall objective here is to expand the
domestic supply from all energy subsectors and simultaneously increase the
efficiency of energy use through appropriate pricing, conservation, and other
methods of managing demand. No less central have been the efforts to
strengthen key institutions in the sector. In power, the Bank has helped
both the Karachi Electric Supply Corporation and the Water and Power
Development Authority to finance their power generation and transmission



-8-
programs. The construction of tie Mangla and Tarbela dams under the Indus
Basin Development Program, in which the Bank played a leadership role, has
also assisted in achieving the objectives of the sector strategy.  In oil and
as, the Bank has financed a sound exploration and development program and
has assisted in developing the extensive gas transmission system. Smaller
efforts, involving mainly engineering studies and technical assistance, have
been undertaken to support coal exploration, energy audits, and oil refining.
Despite much progress, however, the Bank will need to continue participating
in institution building and help the Government mobilize adequate funds for
energy investments through tariffs, co-financing, and greater private sector
participation.
21.     Bank Group lending for transport and communications has focused both
on new capital investments and on improving the efficiency of existing
assets. Efforts have also been made to strengthen the institutions respon-
sible for these services, especially the Karachi Port Trust, Pakistan
Railways, the Telephone and Telegraph Department and federal and provincial
highway agencies. However, inadequate transport infrastructure is now con-
sidered to be a critical constraint to overall growth, in large measure
because infrastructure stock has run down. Thus, the balance between new
investments and the efficient operation and maintenance of existing invest-
ments needs grearer attention.
22.     With an overall literacy rate of only 24Z, a population growth rate
of about 3.1%, and rapid urbanization, Pakistan faces an equally formiiable
development agenda in the social sector. The Bank has supported the
Government's programs in education through five credits designed to upgrade
primary, post-secondary, and higher technical and agricultural education as
well as middle-level training of primary teachers and agricultural extension
agents. The focus has been and will continue to be on the lower end of the
education spectrum (primary, technical, and nonformal education). A first
population project designed to expand the demand for population control
services was approved in FY83. Furthermore, the Bank has financed four
projects in the urban and water supply sector. Besides providing urban
services, these operations are designed to improve local resource mobi-
lization and cost recovery; planning and efficiency of resource utilization;
and urban management, especially at the provincial and municipal levels.
23.     In addition to the above, policy-based lending was pursued through
the SAL and an Energy Sector Loan mentioned in para. 20. The SAL program
introduced a number of significant reforms in government development planning
and in policies and programs in the agriculture, energy, and industrial
sectors; by the time the loan was fully disbursed at the end of FY83, sig-
nificant progress had been achieved in the above areas. The ESL supports the
Government reform program for the energy sector and assists in the implemen-
tation of a core investment program for the sector. Continuing support ior
the structural adjustment process is envisioned under other sector loans in
the next few years.



-9-
24.     In general, disbursements have been satisfactory.  Some projects have
experienced initial delays owing to protracted government procedures for
project approval (but these problems are now being addressed), and the
procurement of goods and services. Rapid turnover of managerial and techni-
cal staff, partly due to migration to the Middle East and partly to budgetary
constraints, has also been a problem in some projects.
25.     A number of operations are currently being prepared or appraised.
These include projects for power transmission, generation, and conservation;
oil and gas exploration and development; coal development; lines of credit
for industrial financing for the private sector, and for industrial subsector
restructuring, balancing, and modernization; irrigation/drainage, and
agricultural inputs and services; highway construction and maintenance;
primary and informal education; urban development and water supply. Sector
loans that would support further structural adjustment in industry, agricul-
ture and transportation are being discussed with the Government. Where
successful, such loans would provide a policy umbrella for projects in those
sectors. To help the Government finance agricultural and other high-priority
projects having low foreign exchange component, the Bank Group is financing
some local expenditures on a case-by-case basis.
26.     Economic and sector work provides the basis for the continuing
dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government of Pakistan on development
strategy, the sector and project lending strategy and operations, and the
coordination of external assistance within the Pakistan Consortium. The work
program emphasizes resource mobilization, structural adjustment in the three
key sectors, and the development of the physical and social infrastructure.
PART III - THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
27.     Pakistan's unique history, including its creation out of partition of
the Indian Subcontinent, has presented special problems in developing an
integrated economy. These problems have been compounded by the distances
separating population centers and the wide dispersion of agriculture and
industry. The need for adequate telecoimiunication facilities to provide
rapid comnunication and ensure effective use of available resources and
expertise has been recognized for some time. More recently, Pakistan's
impressive economic performance has accentuated the critical importance of
communications.
28.     If the country is to sustain rapid industrial and agricultural
growth, it will need to shift increasingly to an outward looking strategy.
In industry, greater emphasis on diversification, exports, and efficient
import substitution will require responsiveness to changing international
markets, as well as the ability to adjust technology, production lines, and
sources of supply rapidly. To a large extent, Pakistan's ability to compete
in a wider environment will depend on the adequacy of its communications
system. Similarly, in agriculture, having approached self-sufficiency in
foodgrains, Pakistan seeks to enter export markets through production of new



-10-
crops including fruits and vegetables with special handling and marketing
needs. At the same time, further increases in production of traditional
crops will depend increasingly on higher yields which will in turn require
far greater dissemination of timely information and services. To make this
possible, a reliable communications network must be made available in the
rural areas.
Sector Organization
29.     TeLecommunications services, comprising domestic and international
telephone, telegraph, and telex, are managed and controlled by the Telegraph
& Telephone (TMT) Department of the Federal Ministry of Communications. The
military, police, railways, and other agencies operate separate networks for
their own use. Other organizations, including the television corporation,
lease T&T's facilities where appropriate.
30.     Under the authority of the Ministry, Telephone Industries of Pakistan
(TIP) and Carrier Telephone Industries (CTI) manufacture telecommunications
equipment. The GOP is the majority shareholder in both companies and Siemens
AG (FRG) has minority interests of 16% and 47%, respectively. Established in
1952, TIP employs about 3,500 people to produce assorted electromechanical
equipment and install exchange equipment for T&T. Established in 1969, CTI
employs about 360 people to manufacture radio systems and electronic
components. Production of pulse code modulation equipment began recently.
Facilities for domestic manufacture of telephone cables do not exist but a
privately owned factory is scheduled to begin production by the end of 1986.
31.     T&T has recently signed a letter of intent with Siemens AG for local
production of modern electronic digital switching equipment and direct import
of 50,000 digital exchange lines to be financed with bilateral mixed credits
under the proposed project. With the establishment of a domestic capability
to manufacture electronic exchange equipment, domestic production of elec-
tromechanical switching equipment will be gradually phased out and used only
for appropriate expansion of existing exchanges and for spares.
Access, Demand and Quality of Service
32.     As of June 30, 1985, Pakistan had about 469,000 direct exchange lines
(DELs) and about 570,000 telephones serving a population of about 95 million.
Pakistan's telephone density, at 0.6 DELs per 100 population, compares poorly
with the 5.9 average for 12 developing countries in Asia. About 60% of the
main lines serve only 11% of the population in the main cities of Karachi,
Lahore, Islamabad, and Rawalpindi. Service in rural areas is mainly provided
through public call offices and small manual exchanges. There are 341
telegraph offices, of which 220 are rural. Telex service is available only
in 11 major cities.
33.     The nationwide dialling system connects major and small cities, and
the subscriber trunk dialling system connects only a few cities in the long



-1l-
distance network. The manual interurban telephone system does not provide
good connections and has a low quality. The call completion rate is about
35Z for local calls, 12% for long distance calls, and 132 for subscriber
dialed international calls, which is poor. Delays for manual long distance
calls usually range from one to four hours and for international calls from
two to ten hours. Poor maintenance procedures, aggravated by insufficient
financial resources and obsoLete subscriber network equipment, account for
the low quality of service.
34.     Expressed demand,l/ currently 792,000 subscribers, has been growing
at about 14% per annum over the last five years. T&T was meeting 652 of
demand in the mid-1970s, but currently meets only 62Z. The shortfall is
understated by the extent of unregistered demand, evident in recently commis-
sioned exchanges where the resulting demand for service was more than double
the number of registered applicants. Even with the investments under the
proposed project, the gap between supply and demand is expected to widen.
Although the demand for telex service has been growing at 161 per annum over
the past five years, the percentage of demand satisfied has increased from
58Z to 63% due to a rapid expansion of telex facilities.
Sector Objectives
35.     The Government recognizes the critical role of telecommunications and
the extent to which inadequate investment in the sector can inhibit economic
growth. For this reason, the Sixth Five-Year Plan (FY84-88) provided T&T
with sufficient resources to ensure an expansion rate of 15% per annum com-
pared to the historical average of 7-8%; and this investment program has been
protected in the Three-Year Priority Investment Program (FY86-88). The Sixth
Five-Year Plan defined as the national objectives for the sector to:
(a) improve T&T's operational and management efficiency and the quality of
service; (b) expand the telephone network by 520,000 lines and expand and
improve the international, telex, and telegraph networks; (c) extend local
and long distance facilities to areas of highest demand and revenue per line
bearing in mind the requirements of agriculture, industry, administrative,
and social services; (d) introduce modern technology and standards and main-
tain and extend domestic manufacturing facilities; (e) study rhe feasibility
of converting T&T into a self-financing entity; and (f) encourage the par-
ticipation of private interests in the sector's development.
Sector Constraints
36.     Organizational, financial, and manpower constraints already cause
inefficiency and poor quality telecommunications service. If not dealt with
in a comprehensive fashion, these constraints will jeopardize the
Government's ambitious growth plans. The proposed program will require major
1/ Working lines (DELs) plus pending applications.



-12-
organizational changes, as well as new management systems and procedures to
operate and maintain an expanded and technologically sophisticated network.
To meet this chaLlenge, the Government is considering some form of autonomy
for T&T (see para. 48). T&T's operations generate sufficient local funds to
meet its development objectives, yet T&T can only use these funds up to a
government-approved budgetary ceiling. If the sector is to expand, within
the overall macroeconomic constraints facing Pakistan, the budget ceiling for
T&T must be increased and access to sufficient spending authority and foreign
exchange for the entir- approved development program must be assured. T&T
currently faces shortages of skilled and managerial personnel, and this
problem will become critical with the introduction of new technology and
systems. While T&T's difficulties in recruiting and retaining staff are to a
large extent a reflection of service conditions throughout the Covernment,
T&T's planned expansion should provide the potential for new incentive sys-
tems and career satisfaction. The challenge will be to take advantage of
this opportunity within necessary GOP limitations.
The Bank Group's Participation
37.     The Bank Group has made four loans/credits, totalling US$91.8
million, for telecommunications projects in Pakistan. Satisfactorily com-
pleted in 1974, 1975, and 1979, the first three projects expanded and
upgraded the local and long distance telephone network. The fourth project
(Loan 2122-PAK), approved in 1982, is expanding further the telephone network
and improving international telephone and telex facilities.
38.     These four Bank Group assisted projects have enabled the telephone
system in Pakistan to grow from about 110,000 DELs in 1970 to about 469,000
DELs at the end of FY85. Over the same period, national telephone density
has increased from 0.29 to 0.6 DELs per 100 population. Subscriber direct
long distance (STD) dialling and telex service have been introduced and
international telecommunications developed and enhanced.
39.     The Project Performance Audit Report (No. 3276, December 31, 1980)
on the third project noted these substantial achievements even though there
was a delay of about two and one half years in project execution owing to a
delay in Government appropriation of funds (despite T&T's generation of
adequate local funds). There was also a delay in the introduction of measures
to permit T&T to operate on a semi-autonomous commercial basis. Improved
procedures, such as the establishment of the T&T Fund and the introduction of
commercial accounting practices, have since been introduced, and delays in
government appropriations have not been a problem in recent years (see para.
46). Execution of the fourth project, after initial delays in completing
cofinancing arrangements, is progressing satisfactorily and disbursements are
generally consistent with the appraisal estimates.
40.     The main areas in which the Bank Group has had influence are:
(a) institutional improvements including greater financial autonomy through
establishment of commercial accounting practices in 1979 and the creation of



-13-
the T&T Fund, tariff increases in the late 1970s, reductions in staffing, and
introduction of computers; (b) major technological decisions to introduce
digital technology, satellite communication, and fiber optics in Pakistan;
(c) the development of a balanced network with broader coverage of rural
areas within existing constraints; and (d) assistance in arranging
cofinancing, particularly for the fourth project. Despite these
achievements, the quality of service still suffers from weaknesses in opera-
tional effectiveness which would be addressed under the proposed project.
Rationale for Bank Support
41.     In view of the importance of improved communications to sustained
growth, the Bank considers the COP's proposed levels of investment in the
telecommunications sector appropriate. T&T's investment program would con-
stitute a quantum leap forward, combining technological transformation with
unprecedented expansion. Given the constraints which T&T already faces, it
is unlikely that Pakistan could successfully embark on this new program
without the Bank's continued involvement. For this reason, the Government
has requested the Bank's participation in the Fifth project to: (i) act as
a catalyst to help Pakistan mobilize the required foreign funds and organize
the associated procurement on optimum price and terms, and (ii) address or
initiate activities designed to resolve the immediate and longer term
institutional, manpower, efficiency, technological, and financial issues
facing the sector.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.     The project was prepared by T&T and appraised in September 1984.  A
staff Appraisal report (Report No. 5483-PAK, dated             ) is being circu-
lated separately to the Executive Directors. Negotiations were held in
Washington, D.C. from April 21 to May 6, 1986. The Pakistan delegation was
led by Mr. Rafiq Ahmad Akhund, Secretary, Ministry of Communications. A
Supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached as Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
43.     The project would support the growth of Pakistan's domestic economy
and foreign trade by accelerating past Bank-supported efforts to develop a
modern, expanding teLecommunications system. To do so it would focus on
institutional development to improve TUT's planning capability and opera-
tional efficiency. The major project components would be:
(a) provision of local network facilities for an additional exchange
capacity of about 400,000 Lines;
(b) installation of the long distance network for an additional 94
towns and cities and expansion of its transmission capability by
9,000 channels;



-14-
(c) continued modernization and improvement of telegraph and telex
services to increase telex exchange capacity by about 11,800
lines and extend telex and telegraph facilities to smaller
towns;
(d) provision of new international teleconmnunications channels;
Ce) replacement of worn out cable and exchange equipment (75,000
lines), open wire carrier systems, and trunk positions;
(f) improvement of T&T's organizational structure and management
systems to enhance T&T's operational efficiency, labor
productivity, the quality of its services and its medium- and
long-term planning capability;
(g) studies and economic analyses of T&T's operations and investment
program and a review of its tariff structure;
(h) modernization and expansion of T&T's training and research
programs and facilities.
Project Implementation
44.     The proposed project would constitute T&T's entire investment program
for FY87-90 (except for completion of ongoing works and pre-investment costs
for future years), or the last two years of the GOP's Sixth Plan and the
first two years of the Seventh Plan. The Development wing of T&T, including
decentralized staff throughout the country, would have overall responsibility
for implementation. Upon completion of a given subproject, it would be
transferred to T&T's local operations and maintenance staff.
45.     From its creation, T&T has operated as a government department under
the Ministry of Comunications with a number of its managerial and operating
functions performed by other Government authorities. Financial control was
exercised by the Ministry of Finance, accounting and auditing were performed
by the Auditor General, personnel matters were controlled by the Public
Service Commission, procurement by the Supply Department, and building design
and construction by the Public Works Department. This arrangement was not
conducive to efficient operation of T&T and did not adequately define
accountability and responsibility for the sector.
46.     Largely as a result of Bank involvement in the sector, there has been
significant institutional development of T&T, including the introduction of
commercial accounting practices in 1979, assumption by T&T of the accounting
function in 1981, and the establishment in 1982 of the T&T Fund. While T&T
still needs annual approval of its operational and development budget,
deposit of all T&T revenues into the proforma T&T Fund within the COP's
Consolidated Fund makes it clear that T&T generates more than enough funds to
cover the local portion of its investment program. In addition, T&T's



-15-
Director General has considerable authority to reappropriate funds and make
expenditures within the approved ceilings. Under the fourth project, the COP
has thus far approved the required annual investments. Nevertheless, in view
of the magnitude of the funding levels under the proposed project, the
Government has agreed (a) at all times to make available to T&T funds satis-
factory to the Bank to meet its operating and maintenance costs and carry out
the investment program for FY87-90 and (b) to review the proposed annual
allocation to T&T with the Bank by April 1 of each year. Indicative amounts
for each year of the investment program have been set out in a draft Side
Letter. These measures would be in addition to the standard requirements for
(a) provision by the Government of adequate annual budgetary and foreign
exchange resources for the project and (b) approval of all the project PC-ls
(the GOP's project document) by the GOP's Executive Committee of the National
Economic Council (ECNEC) which would be a condition of effectiveness.
47.     The Government recognizes that substantial additional changes will be
required in T&T's organization and operations if it is to manage efficiently
a sophisticated network expected to be over five times its current size by
the year 2000. Over the years, the Bank has consistently recommended greater
autonomy for T&T as a means to improve its management. This is particularly
important as T&T embarks on an ambitious expansion and modernization program.
48.     In May 1985 the Government created a Deregulation Commission to make
recommendations on, inter alia, establishment of an autonomous government
corporation for telecommunications. The Commission, headed by the Governor
of the State Bank of Pakistan, recently submitted its recommendations to the
Government. While no decision has yet been taken, once it has, the
Government will consult with the Bank on the mechanism, timetable, and tech-
nical assistance required to implement the changes. In the meantime, the
Government and T&T are firmly committed to improvements in T&T's
organization, management, and efficiency. Toward this end, T&T has estab-
lished a Fundamental Planning Unit and has agreed with the Bank on the broad
responsibilities the Unit would have. Staffed with professionals repre-
senting a variety of technical, economic, financial, and planning skills, it
would be assisted by local and internationally recruited experts.
49.     The Unit would prepare T&T's technical strategy and promote the
introduction of modern systems in a balanced fashion. A traffic engineering
sub-unit would ensure optimal usage of the network to enable T&T to increase
its revenues. The Fundamental Planning Unit would update T&T's Master Plan
and plan for rehabilitation of the existing system. The Unit would also
prepare performance indicators covering a wide range of physical,
productivity, financial, and service quality criteria. The Government has
agreed with the Bank on tentative indicators for all four years of the
project and definite targets for the first year. T&T would report to the
Bank each December 1 and June 1 on its actual performance against the
indicators. The Bank and T&T would review this performance by April 1 each
year and reach agreement on necessary corrective measures and the next year's
performance indicators.



-16-
50.     The Unit wouid also define TV's human resource development policy
and make plans to meet T&T's personnel and training requirements. To a large
extent, TV's ability to transform itself into a strong, independent institu-
tion will depend on recruitment and motivation of appropriate, qualified
personnel. While the introduction of digital technology will permit substan-
tial reductions in the ratio of staff to telephones, it will also require
highly skilled personnel. Existing training capacity is underused because of
a staff perception that training is not relevant to their work, and the
facilities and courses are inappropriate for T&T's future needs.
Consultants, financed by the UNDP (from the International Telecommunications
Union) and the Bank, would assist T&T in designing appropriate career
development and training programs.
51.     The Unit would devise a medium- and long-term financial plan for T&T.
For this purpose, it would draw upon the work of an economic sub-unit which
would make studies of T&T's operations and investment program. The Sub-unit
would also review the telecomunications tariff structure to enable T&T to
recommend optimum tariffs to the Covernment (see para. 60). Terms of
reference for consultants to assist the Fundamental Planning Unit in all
aspects of its work would be submitted to the Bank by October 31, 1986 and
they would be employed by March 31, 1987.
Project Costs and Financing
52.     Total project costs are estimated at US$817.2 million with a direct
foreign exchange component of US$411.5 million and an indirect foreign
exchange component of US$50.7 million. Estimated local expenditures include
customs duties of US$161.3 million (TMT is exempt from taxes on local goods
and civil works). Physical contingencies of 5% for local and foreign costs
of equipment, 10% for local costs of civil works, and 10X for local and
foreign costs of services, have been added to the base cost. Price contin-
gencies are based on expected increases in foreign costs of 7.0Z in FY87,
6.8Z in FY88, 6.9% in FY89, and 7.1% in FY90, and local cost increases of
8.0Z in FY86, 7.8Z in FY87, 7.5% in FY88, 7.3% in FY89, and 7.0Z in FY90
Combined physical and price contingencies represent about 14% of base costs
(April 1986 prices).
53.     The proposed Bank loan of US$100 million would finance about 22% of
foreign exchange costs, including about US$8.0 million of the indirect for-
eign exchange costs. The remaining foreign exchange requirements of the
project would be met by the Asian Development Bank (ADB), Japan (OECF),
Federal Republic of Germany (KfW), export credits, and the GOP/T&T. The GOP
would finance all local costs from T&T's internal cash generation (see
para. 46).



-17-
Procurement
54.     Procurement arrangements are summarized below:
Procurement Arranteuents
(uSS million)
Component                         ICB         LCB       OtheriJ       Total
DiRital Switching             I           I
(Including Local              1           1            1           1            1
Manufacturing Plant)          I           1            1228.5      1228.5        1
Cables                        I           I            I           I             I
(Including Replacement        I           I            I           I            I
and Installation              140.0 (40.0)110.0        1 84.9      1134.9 (40.0)1
Locally Manufactured          I           I            |           I
SwitchingI
(Including Replacement
and Imported Material         I           I            I           I
for CIT and TIP)              I           1            1117.4 (7.0)1117.9 (7.0) 1
I     I           !            I            I
Submarine Cable               I           I            1 28.4      1 28.4
I           I           I            I            I
ODtica, Fiber Link            118.0 (18.0)1            I 11.8      1 29.8 (18.0)1
I       ~      ~I    I            I            I
Transmission Equiument        I           I            I           I
(Including RF Channel.,       I           I            I                        I
Multiplex Equipment, etc.)   I            I            1 24.6      | 24.6        1
Satellite Eauipment           I           1            120.0       120.0         1
Telex Eauipment               I           I            1 46.7      1 46.7        1
Rural PCOO                    1           1            1 23.9      1 23.9        I
Miscellaneous Eauinment       I           I            I           I
(Including Replacement        I           I           I            I            I
Equipment)                    125.5 (25.5)1            1 87.8 (3.0)1113.3 (28.5)1
I           I           I            I            I
Consultants and TraininQ      I           I            1 9.8 (1-5)1  9.8 (1.5) 1
Land and Buildins             I           1 21.0       1 5.9       1 26.9       1
DOMSAXT              )        I           I            I           I 
Data Trans. EquipmentO)3      I           I            I           I             I
FACs Equipment        )       I           I            I           I             I
PCX Equipment        )        I 5.0 ( 5.0)1            1 7.5       1 12.5 (5.0) 1
Total                      88.5 (88.5)1 31.0       1697.7(11.5)1817.2(100.0)1
J Includes export credits, limited bidding, negotiated contracts, force
account, direct purchase, local competitive bidding, reserved procurement,
and procurement financed by other donors (ADB, OECF, UNDP, and fN).
3/ To be procured after bids on a price and terms basis.
lote:  Figures in parentheses are the mounts financed by the proposed Bank
loan. Costs include proportionate contingency
provisions.



-18-
55.     Equipment and civil works totalling US$88.5 million to be financed
from the Bank loan would be procured through international competitive bid-
ding (ICB) in accordance with Bank guidelines. Local manufacturers would
be allowed a preference of 15% or the import duty, whichever was lower,
subject to usual Bank terms and conditions. Contracts for consultant serv-
ices and training financed by the Bank, totalling US$1.5 million, would be
let according to Bank guidelines. Contracts for proprietary items, to be
financed by the Bank, totalling US$10 million for spare parts and system
expansion would be let following negotiations between T&T and the original
suppliers (TIP and CTI). Equipment totalling US$73 million to be financed by
ADB would be procured in accordance with its guidelines. OECF would finance
US$12 million of foreign supplied telex equipment procured according to its
procedures. The UNDP would provide technical assistance (US$3.5 million) for
training in accordance with its procedures. A contractor for digital switch-
ing equipment (including construction of a local manufacturing plant) (US$112
million) to be financed with mixed credits from KfW (FRG) was selected
through international bidding taking into-consideration price and terms.
Although this equipment would not be financed by the Bank, since it is
central to the rest of the project, as a condition of effectiveness of the
Bank loan, the Government would (a) execute a contract for direct import of
digital switching for 50,000 local lines and 25,000 nationwide dialling lines
and (b) issue a letter of intent for construction and installation of a
digital switching equipment manufacturing plant and related transfer of
technology. Some additional items would be procured on a price and terms
basis (US$12.5 million) and limited bidding or direct negotiation for
proprietary items (US$37.3 million). Some proceeds of the Bank loan
(estimated to be US$5.0 million) vould be applied to those bids which did not
attract good financing offers. In such cases the bid award vould be on the
basis of price alone in accordance with Bank guidelines. Local competitive
bidding would be sought from private contractors for cable construction
(US$10 million) and for buildings (US$21 million). T&T would procure the
remaining proprietary items and locally procured items through direct
purchase, force account, or negotiated contacts (US$435.9 million). In order
to avoid some of the delays incurred by earlier projects, standardized
procurement documents will be used which have been reviewed and found satis-
factory to the Bank. Prior Bank review of procurement documentation would be
required for contracts larger than US$500,000 to be financed by the Bank.
Disbursement
56.     The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed against: civil works (100%
of foreign expenditures and 65% of local expenditures); equipment, materials,
and spare parts (100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and 65% of local expenditures for other items procured
locally); and consultants and training (100% of cost). All disbursements
would be against full documentation. To facilitate disbursement against
contracts under US$500,000, the Bank would advance funds into a Special
Account opened by T&T in a commercial bank. The initial deposit by the Bank



-19-
would be US$3.5 million, and an amount equal to about four months expendi-
tures would be maintained in the account in accordance with standard Bank
procedures.
TMT's Financial Position and Tariffs
57.     The breakdown between the Government's equity in and loans to T&T
is somewhat unclear. While the distinction has not been critical as long
as T&T has been a government department, the situation does undercut efforts
to manage T&T as a commercial entity. The Government has agreed that once a
decision has been made on T&T's future status, steps shall be taken to define
the Government's equity in T&T, the loans from the Government to T&T, and a
schedule for repayment of the loans.
58.     The large unsatisfied demand for telephone and telegraph services
suggests a potential for greater resource mobilization in the sector.
However, the GOP has been reluctant to increase tariffs in recent years in
view of the extremely poor quality of service (see para. 33). Thus, TUT's
tariffs have remained practically unchanged in nominal terms since 1980. At
the same time, inflation has caused operating costs to rise despite some
gains in efficiency. As a result, operating income, in real terms per DEL,
has fallen over the past four years. The rate of return on net revalued
assets fell from 32X in 1980 to 241 in 1984. Even so, T&T has met the tariff
covenants under past Bank projects and is expected to continue to do so
without major changes in tariffs owing to the increased traffic and revenues
which would arise from the additional equipment provided under the ongoing
and proposed projects. Nevertheless, to ensure continued satisfactory finan-
cial performance, as under the ongoing project, assurances have been received
that T&T would maintain a rate of return of at least 10X on net revalued
fixed assets in operation.
59.     After accounting for debt service and the return on government
equity, T&T's contribution from net internal sources to capital expansion is
expected to average about 52% over the project period, which is satisfactory.
T&T has since FY76 consistently generated internally sufficient funds, before
government retention, to cover its operating and investment requirements and
produced substantial surpluses for the Government. This situation is
expected to continue despite the magnitude of the proposed investment
expenditures. Nevertheless, assurances have been received that in each year,
self-generated cash as a percentage of the rolling average of the local
currency requirements (about 43% of the total) of the investment program for
the current year and subsequent year would be no be less than 100%. In view
of T&T's healthy surpluses, the more significant assurance is the one dis-
cussed in para. 46 regarding the level of the investment program and annual
budgetary authority.
60.     A tariff review carried out in 1983, in accordance with a commitment
under the fourth project, focussed on tariff rates in comparison to other
countries and failed to provide a comprehensive review of the structure of



-20-
T&T's rates. However, as a result of this review, telex rental fees were
increased by about 20% in March 1984. All other tariffs have remained essen-
tially unchanged since 1980, although the Government recently announced a
very small increase in the rate for local calls effective JuLy 1, 1986.
While the review made recommendations regarding differential rates for off-
peak hours and for STD long distance calls versus operator-assisted calls,
such changes cannot be introduced until the toll ticketing equipment and
additional transmission capacity have been installed under the ongoing
project. The Bank and the Government agree that the timing of overall tariff
increases in rates should be considered in the context of the broader discus-
sion of domestic resource mobilization in the course of our macroeconomic
dialogue once some improvements have been made in telephone service. At the
same time, given the substantial benefits to be derived from optimization of
the system through a more appropriate tariff structure, it was agreed that
the proposed economic sub-unit, to be established within T&T (para. 51) would
complete a tariff structure review: (a) with terms of reference satisfactory
to the Bank agreed by September 30, 1986; (b) review the progress of the
study with the Bank by March 31, 1987; (c) submit the final study to the Bank
by December 31, 1987; and (d) discuss the study recommendations with the Bank
and apprise the Bank by March 31, 1988 of its tariff restructuring measures
and a timetable to implement them.
61.     While technological advances are required before the structural
tariff changes can be introduced, this is not the case with regard to rupee
collection rates for international calls - which have remained unchanged
since 1979. As a result of devaluation of the rupee, international calls
placed from Pakistan are now billed at rates about 302 below the full
accounting rates which establish the amount T&T must pay to foreign telecomr-
munications entities. While T&T still generates a foreign exchange surplus
of about US$70 million a year because more international calls are received
than made in Pakistan, this surplus is likely to be reduced if rupee billing
rates are not brought in line with the international rates. Consequently,
the Government has agreed to adjust the international billing rates not later
than December 31, 1986 so as to produce revenues equal to the notional
revenues which would be produced by application of the accounting rate calcu-
lated at the current exchange rate between the rupee and the Gold Franc (the
currency used in internationally agreed rates); and, thereafter, periodically
to review and, if necessary, adjust the billing rate.
Billing and Collection
62.     While T&T has been criticized by subscribers for its inaccurate
bills, the technological advances under the ongoing project should improve
this situation. Collection rates for private subscribers, with receivables
at just over two months, are good. However, receivables for services
rendered to the Government equalled over seven months of billing at the end
of FY85. Consequently, assurances have been received that (a) as a condition
of effectiveness, T&T's receivables from the GOP as of June 30, 1985 would be



-21-
reduced by 20X and (b) such receivables would be reduced to 150 days by June
30, 1987 and to 90 days by June 30, 1988.
Benefits and Risks
63.     The majority of the proposed investments in long distance, nationwide
dialling, international and telex facilities would benefit business and
government subscribers. However, the provision under the program of new
subsidiary routes, rural exchanges, and public call offices would mainly
benefit currently unserviced rural areas. During the project period
(FYB7-90), T&T would be ezpected to generate a fiscal surplus for the govern-
ment of about Rs 10 billion (US$600 million). Subsequently, traffic
increases resulting from the Fifth Project would be expected to result in
substantial higher resource mobilization thereafter. Additional potential
exists for increased mobilization of resources through efficiency gains (due
to institutional improvements) and higher tariffs.
64.     The rate of return calculations are based on UT's entire FY84-90
investment program, although the proposed project would cover only FY87-90.
On the basis of projected incremental expenditures and revenues generated
from the increased numbers of working telephone and telex line" and from
reduced long distance and international call congestion, the financial rate
of return of the FY84-90 program is about 19%. The program's economic rate
of return is 22%.  These rates of return understate the benefits from the
investment program since no attempt has been made to estimate the consumer
surplus for new subscribers or increases in consumer surplus for existing
subscribers due to quality improvements.
65.     Civen the large unsatisfied demand for telecommunications services,
the project offers no significant risk from a possible reduction in economic
activity. The technology to be introduced, while quite advanced, has been
well tested in other countries, including some with comparable environmental
conditions. The main risk would, therefore, be that of inadequate institu-
tional capacity on the part of TUT to implement a program of such magnitude
and scope. Concern for this risk was a primary consideration in project
preparation and appraisal, and is reflected in the project design. The
various management and operational reforms, supported by monitoring of per-
formance indicators, extensive training, and technical assistance, are all
intended to reduce this risk.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
66.     The draft Loan Agreement between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan and
the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement, are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. Additional conditions of effectiveness would
be approval by ECNEC of the all PC-I documents for the project, a reduction
by 20% of TT's receivables from the Government as of June 30, 1985, ezecu-
tion of a contract for digital switching equipment imports, and issuance of a



-22-
letter of intent for construction of a digital switching manufacturing plant
and transfer of technology.
67.     Other special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
68.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
69.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 19, 1986



-23-                                                 Annex 1
T A a L   a 3A                                        Page  1  of  6
PMKISTAN                 - SOCIAL INDICATORU DATA SKET
PAfiStAN                                REFERENCE GROUP  (SEIONTED AVERAGES) I
MOST                       (xMOt RgCONT ESTIMATE) fbl
RECENT               LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
19mobt        7tk  ESTINATL            ASIA   PACIFIC           ASIA & PACIFIC
ADUITD CENOLLWET RATIOS
PRINARTt   TOTAL                    30.0         *0.0         44.0                92.6                      100.7
PALi                     46.0        37.0         37.0               103.5                       104.4
FMALE                    123.0       22.0         31.0                79.3                        97.2
SICOE DAETs TOTAL                    11.0        13.0         14.0                31.3                       47.6
MALE                     16.0         20.0        20.0                40.8                        50.6
FgMALS                    3.0          3.0         4.0                21.9                        44.3
VOCATIONAL (S0 or5CONDARY)              1.0         1.3          1.7                 3.2                       11.4
MPUPL-TgACIER RATIO
F11IAM                              39.0         *1.0         36.0                36.0                       30.4
SECOUNAY                            24.0         20.0         16.0                17.4                       22.2
PASSENGR CARB/TEOUSAND FOP              1.3         2.6          3.* j               0.9                       10.1
RADIO UKlEVERSITUOUUAMD POP             6.0        17.1         74.6               129.8                      172.9
TV RKCEIVERB/TNOUSANDD POP              ..           1.6        11.5                19.6                       58.3
NEUSPAPER (VDAILT CGNEAL
INTERST") CIRCULATION
PEE TUOUSAND POPN.ATION               13.2         ..          19.4                25.7                       65.3
CINMA ANNUAL ATTEIDACE/CAPITA           1.7         3.0 /t       2.2 /c              6.0                        3.4
tOTAL LABOR FORe (THOCS)           14448.0      17364.0      23325.0
FEMALE (PERCgNT)                     8.6          9.3         10.6                33.2                       33.6
ACRICULTURE (PERCENT)               61.0         59.0         37.0                69.6                       52.2
INUSTERY (PCRCENT)                  13.0         19.0         20.0                13.8                       17.9
PARTICIPATION RATEC (PERCET)
TOTAL                               31.5         26.7         26.2                41.9                       38.9
NALE                                 55.2        50.4         48.3                53.6                       30.8
PEMULC                                3.7         5.3          6.3                29.1                       26.8
CCONOMIC DEPDNCT RATIO                  1.5         1.7          1.7                 1.0                        1.1
INCUS DIDSUtEITCo
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCCUS
ucelvzo By
EldEST 3t 01  OOSEROLDS             20.3 lk      17.8
URCHEST 20S OP NOUSUOLDS            45.3 7ki    41.8                     ..                                  48.0
LoGIEsr 201 OF HOUSENOLDS            6.4 7;       8.0          ..                  ..                         6.4
LOGIST 40*  OF  UmSENOWLS            17.5 37;    20.2          ..                  ..                        15.5
ESTDIATED ABSOLUTE POVEETT INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PE  CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..         68.0 /1    176.0 /c             133.9
RUR"L                                 ..         47.0 71    122.0o 7             111.6                      151.9
ESTIATED RELATIVE POVEcrY INCOM
LEVEL (USS PEE CAPITA)
URAN"                                 ..         34.0 /1      88.0 /c                                       177.9
RDRAL                                ..          22.0o 7r     s8.0f               617                      164.7
STIMATED POP. BELOW AJSOLCTE
POVERnT INICONE LEMVL (I)
URBAN                                 ..         42.0 /I      32.0 /c             43.8                       23.5
URAL                                 ..          43.0 rl      29.0o 7             51.7                       37.8
NOr AVAILABL
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T C S
Ia   The grop averaes for each Indicator are popalacti-welghted arithtlec asam. Coverag  of countrieo
amng the indicators depends on evailabilicy of data end la not unitfor.
lb   Unleso  othevise noted, 'Dac  for 1960" retor to any year between 1959 end 1961; "Data for 1970" between
1969 and 1971; n4 data for "Moe: Recent Eatiece" betwon 1981 end 1983.
Ic   1979;  /d 1968;  te 1977;  /f if regiscterd  not all practciing in the country; LI  1980;  lh 1973;
JUNE. 1985



-24-
Annex 1
T A w L    ' A                                                  Page  2  of  6
PKlSTAN                  - SOCIAL ISItCATOU D4TA 5MET1
PAKIlTAJI                               LIFrERC    GRUPS (WtEIINHU AbERAGLII 10
PCI'?                      ImiblT 09LENt mSIUIATLI lb
swbo6lb     197Jb  RVECLINT              LO  INCt                MIDDLEu 1itCUM
EISU bTATL14!      AMIA E ACClIl-           lAt  . rAsIfVL
SuA flVUs*D  sq. 01
TOTAL                                  ul3.v       Su.3.9       bUI.v
AGIICLL. PAL                          J2?.%        'I.3J3.: .
0W  PER CAPITA (URS                         ..           ..        iYu.J                VIa                       :ual.
ZR      cn"s""rtON    CAPITA
(KILLiu.s iFf 2l_. .7*.:.ALE%TI        9s.         lJ3.0        179.j               :S.7 'ib.
PCPUATION MD VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATluN*qJ r-VEAR ITHOLSA-DS;   '13SOS.:      tO&49.0    11971.O
URlA  PUULATUIN (I .1   r T)ThL)       22.1         '6.9         29.1                22.3                       31S9
POPULATION PNDJLCTIONS
POPLULATION IN YEAR 2UtOO (NILLI                              l33.:
SATAIONANY POPULATION (HILL)                                  310.0
POPULATION ClINTUn                                              1.9
POPULATION DENSITY
PEN SO. KM.                           S.J         73.2         11.6               113.1                        16.V
PER SO. KM. ACGI. LAD               2fl1.5       23.^        3164.4               333.3                      IS91.2
POPULAT ION ACE SIRLCTURE 1l)
0-1i  ki4S 43.6                                  ..2          &3.7                34.3                        Jmd
1l-b. IRS                            31.1         S0.S        53.2                 31.4                        37.7
bS ASD AUVL                           '.3          3.1          Z.                 ..J                         3.3
VOr'LATtQ6 CGRtfTh AtAL 1.)
rTTAL                                 2.           : .-I        3.0                2LU                          A.
u035t                                 &.4         &.0           *.4                 *.1                         4.1
CRUDE BlRTH  ATE (ER TNOCS)            *I.4         A.b         4*2.0                27.3                        Iu.:
CRUDE DE.ATh SATE (PER THOUS)          23.5         19.R         14.9                10.2                         V.6
GROSS REPRODUCTIOl- RATE                3...         3.           2.8                 1.7                         I.Y
FAMILY PLANSI.4
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL TIrOL'S)            ..        190.1        1244.0 c
USERS 1S OF M ARRIED WOMN)            *-.0 Id                  14.1                49.4                        38.3
PM  SAM NITRT lo
.ItOEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
I1981-71-IOul                          9.0        U12.0        107.0              l1e..,                       12'..
PER CAPtTA SUPPL-Y OF
CALORIES (% OF RtEOUIttEIENTS)       77.0         95.0        Iu'.0              1W03                         115.7
PRCTEIIS (CRAMS PER DAYI             53.0         SH.0         61.0                *0.1                        e0.3
OF WHICH A1IIMAL AND PULSE          23.0         22.0         20.0 /a             14.4                        14.1
CHILD (ACES I-_  fE4TH RIATE           24.9         21.1         1t.0                 7.3                         7.2
PALS1
LIFE EXP.CI. AT BIRTH (YEARS)          43.1         '4.0         50.2                e0.5                       beu.
ISYANT MOkT. RArE (PLEA flRAS)        141.3        143.0        119.0                69.2                        6&.9
ACCESS TU bAFL wATLR iroP)
TOTAL                                 *.          21.U         34.                 44j                         *.u
CIN                                   ..          77.0         72.0                77.2                        57.e
RURAL                                 *-           '.0        .0.0                 34.b                        37.1
ACCESS TO EXCRETA 0ISPOSAL
(2 oF  OPLLA'L?I&
TOTAL                                 ..3.0                    13.:                 73 0.1
UIUi                                  ..          12.0         *2.0                23.3                        32.9
RUWAL                                 ..           ..          2.0                  5.5                       "4.7
POPULATION PV  PHYVSICIAN            5400.0      *300.0 It   3&I0.0  1             33160.                      7751.7
POP. PEn  IRSM14C PERSON            31110.0      105d0.0 7F   5H20.0                  0 .eS0.7                 24 t
POP. PER WSPITAL RED
TaTAL                              1790.0       IE00.0       1530.0 /c           1039.2                      1112.1
tRB&%                             510.0        e50.0        710.0 7;            2z9.1                       SSI.'
RURAL                             223S0.0      12480.0     lLewu.o 7e            6025.2                     2311.9
ADIISSIORq  PER HOSPITAL REO            ..           ..           ..                 32.3                        'l.a
AVEWRE SIZE JF IOSEHOL0
TOTAL                                 5..          S.3          %.1  /c
UR0S1.                                5.0          5.5          a... Ic
W11RALS                                      5...  3.2          e.U  c.
AVERAE NO. Jf PESuINS;R0S:
TOTAL                                 *.1          2.8l in
URuN                                  3.1          z.7 7         .
RUtAL                                 3.1          2.s /h       .
PERCENTACE OF DWELLIICS WITH ELECT.
TOTAL                                 ..          17.9 !h       .
RURAL                                             S .9 IW



-25-                                             ANNEX  I
page  3  of 6
DEFINTONS OF SOCIAL INDICATOaS 
Now Alhough the da   tarn foin somro_ nramly judpd te mos suthonutauve ead relmabliti should also be notd thai they may not be untmaiona Il
wmpt1 bam of the lack of standadsd dellamons - concpts md by dilfrfnt countnr in mclletming the data The dat are. nonethele. mwful to
dumnb aro  of ma_ude, tits trods and characn   sai major dlerem  betwn coumntrm
The rel- p lmpsrH) the maincoutry prompofs subjwtcouRtry and 21 a country group with somewhat hilgheraverage income than the coumtry
Woupodiemsistooatouytmptfor"High comeOil Exprtu  groupwhere M"dWkincome Noreh Africa nd Mudde Ea aschosen beau of tronge
coadtukwl Slwum  In tIe rnce pomp data the aveng am popuaaon weghied anthmetic means for eah indcicor and shown only when majonty
ofdUecoum  to apgomphadan foir Lhat indctor. Sine t coverge ounmtrer among the indctorn depends on tm availability ofdata and s not uniform.
cuuon mus be  rcied nm reltng averas ofone indter to sneher Ths avrgs am only uwful in comparng the value of one indiator at a time among
the country and refne proup.
ARtEA (thousnd sq-kmi.)                                        Cudr SeA Rate (perthusadD-Number of live btnhs in the year
Tera-Total surface amr compniing land area and inland waters;  per thousand or mid-year population. 1960. 1970. and 1983 data
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                      Crude Dbeat Rate (per rhadusdj-Number of deaths in the year
A4gr twd-sinmate of agricultural area used temporarily or      per thousand or mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data
pennaendy for crops, pasture market and kitchen grdens or to   Gross Repredurieu Rune-Average number ol daughters a woman
lie faiow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                           will bear in her normal reproductive penod if she cxpenences
present age-specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-CNP per capita estimates at current       in 1960. 1970. and 1933.
market prim  cakulated by saue convermon method as World       gb    Plaming-Aprrs A_uua (theusaadrj-Annual num-
Dak A ds ( 1 99143 basis): 1983 data.                          ber of acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                  family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite,    Fotdl Plmusg-Uss (perus of Urarnimarof-The peren-
petroleum. natural ps and hydro-. nuclear and geothennal elec-  tage of married women of child-besnng age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form ofcontraception. Women
1962 data                                                      of child-beanng age are generally women aged 15-49. although for
some countres contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                groups-
tee PtopuIuigu. Mid- Yew (rth_u su-As of July 1; 1960. 1970.   FOOD AND NUTRITION
and 1933 data.
Indx of Fed Proedani  Per Capita (l199-71 - IO)O-Index of per
1,hm  Pepuluim  (perce of aeldD)-Ratio of urban to total       capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population; different definitons of urban areas may affect compar-  excludes animal feed and sed for agriculture Food commodities
ability of data among countie  1960. 1970. and 1933 data       include primarn commodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of supr;
A*saoa Pleejam                                                 which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Popsdukon in year 20cm-The projection of population for 2000.  excluded); they compnse cereals, root crops. pulses. oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with infornation on  vegetables. fruits nuts. suprcane and sugr beets livestock, and
total population by age and sex, fertility rates, mortality rates, and  livestock products. Aggrepte production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these paraneters  on national average producer price weights; 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.            P-er Capsa Suply of Cevies (pecen ofrq( simeens -comput-
Statonary populaion-Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivaient of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period, while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remnained at replacment level  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate - I). In such a population, the birth rate is  exclude animal feed, seeds for use in agriculture, quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate, the age structure is also  food processing, and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant, and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature body weights.
the population in the year 2000, and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacment level,                                      waste at household level; 1961, 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Monwetum-Is the tendency for population growth to   Per Capta Supply of Protein (gras per pyJ-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level rertihity has been  per capita net supply of rood per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved; that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requiremenis for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year i is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein, of which IC grams
the year t. given the assumption that fertility remains at replce-  should be animal protein. These standards are lower than those of
ment level from year r onward. 1985 data.                      75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal proten as an
_p.hsk       D                                                 average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sA.knm.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-  Supply 1961. 1970 and 1932 data.
tares) or total arem 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                Per Ca  Preein Supply Ptm AsI! ad Paie-Protein    n supply
Per sq.km. agrntcutrwa lcd-Computed as above for agricultural  of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day; 1961-5.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                          1970 and 1977 data.
hapuunime Age S    iacare (per-cnn-Children (0-14 years). work-  CAid (es 1-4j Dun Rune (per ahoesmad-Number of dcaths of
ing age (15-64 years). and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 14 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year populatioo; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.             group in a gpven year For most developing countrics data derived
P Gpo  o from lifc tables: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
Ampkue GkwhRae (preee-totd-Annual growth rates of
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83    HEALTH
Ptp.fain Growh Race (percestI-leh ---_Annual growth rates      Life Erpcany at Ek   (yew-)-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 19S0-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.    infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



-26-                                           AMNEX  I
page 4 of 6
at the time or of its birth were to stay the same throughout its life;  PupN-Leachrr Ratio - prtmar.y. and secondery-Total students en.
1960. 1970 and 19S3 data.                                     rolled in primary and secondary levels dividod by numben of
IiVat Murhahy Rate (per rhosa_d)-Number of infants who die    teachen in the corsponding levls.
before reachung one year of age per thousand live btrths in a given
year; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                CONSUMIPTION
Awntoav  So  Wagr (poeet o pt*s. oalld                         P_sqr Cm (per thosad pepal.oau-Pssuenger can com-
rwal-Number of people (total, urban. and rural) with reaonable  priw motor can seating less than eight persons excludes ambul-
acsi to safe water supply (includes treted surface water or    ances. hearse and military vehicin.
untrted but uncontmnauted w.ter such as that from protected    Rdlo Receien (per rhnosau pop.iIaiio)-All types or rceivers
boreholes. spnnp and saniuwy wdb) as peeupae of their mpe-     for radio broadcasts to general public per thousand of population;
uve populations. In an urban area a public rounuin or stardpost  excludes un-licensed receivers in countres and in years when
located not more than 200 meter from a house may be consird    registration of radio sets was in effect; data for recent years may
as being within reasonable access of that house. In rural areas  not be comparable since most countries abolished licensing.
reasonable acces would amply that the houwewife or members of the
houselhold do not have to spend a disproportionate pan of the day  TVReeiwrs (per   u-TV receivers for broadcast
in fetching the fai ilys water needs                           to genl public per thousand population. excludes unlicensd TV
Acess tO Exr s     pei (pertee of peopastim)-eal. _ar.         receivers in countnes and in years when registrtion of TV ets was
and rmai-Number of people (total. urban, and rural) served by  in elect
excreta disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Newspeper CIcU5Eirad (per th_ _pap.adfish-SIhows the aver-
Excreta disposal may include the collection and disposal. with or  age circulation of -daily general intert newspaper." defined as a
without treatment, of human excreta and waste-water by water-  periodical publication devoted pnmarily to recording geeral news.
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be -daily' if it appears at lt four times a weck.
Prpmlavi  per Physiiua-Pbpulation divided by number or prac-   Cmirna Aumi Aurndse per Cpito per Yew-lased on the
tising physicians qualified from a medial school at university level,  number of tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
Pepalie per Nwrni Arswr-PFpulation divided by number of        drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurses. assistant nurses.
practical nurses and nursng uxilbaries.                        LABOR FORCE
Rip.ba.e per Hepdal __d-eetarilaw. irsirzu-Population          Total Labor Ftece (rh.asls)-Economically active persons, in-
(total, urban, and rurall divided by their respective number of  cluding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
hospital beds available in pubbc and pnvate general and specialized  students. etc.. covering population of all ages. Definitions in
hospitals and rehabilitation centers. Hospitals are establishments  varouscounies afe not compambble 1960 1970*nd 1983 dat
permanendy staffed by aL klet one physicn. Establishments prov-  Fe-{ma  (Perceur)-Fmnale labor force as percentage of toul labor
iding pnncipafly custodial care are not included. Rural hospitals,    force.
however, include health and medical centers not permanently staffed  Agvscue (pcessrc-Labor force in farming. forestry, hunting
by a physican (but by a medical assistant, nurse. nidwife. etc.)  and fishing as percentage of tota labor force 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient acconunodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical facilities.                                         Ixhisry (percens.-Labor force in mining, construction. manu-
AAIWdsUOa  pff Hospital hi-Total number of admissions to or    facturing and electricity, water and ps as percntage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.       force; 1960, 1970 and 1980 data.
PWuic a Rae IPerc -eeral. m k. MdfeS_-IParticipalion
HOUSING                                                        or activity rates are computed as total, male and female labor force
Al,-We Size of H.nos   fperses per husekeMj-eetal. wroi    * as percentages of total, male and female population of all ages
aadrarua-A houshld consists of a group of individuals who share  respectively; 1960, 1970. and 1983 data. Thes are bsed on ILOs
living quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates refecting age-sex strucue of the population, and
mnay not be ncluded in the household for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates are from national sources.
Areqe Nailer of Pmrom per R.n-t_esal. wham. and raml-         E&oailc Dependeny RLat-Ratio of population urnder IS. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban, and rural     65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings respectively. DweUings exclude
non-permanent strictures and unoccupied parts.                INCOME DlSTRIBUTION
PerceAntae of DwfEnws wth           mt m. and   alr_-          Percente of Toata Diwpsable lam  (bah in cas aid MindJ-
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quartme as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage or total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively         hold income.
EDUCATION                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Adjsred EmoUuuw  Raies                                         The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Pinarv school. total malr and fetao-Gross total, male and     levels, and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
femal enrollment of al ages at the prinary lvd as percentages of  Eimmaed Ahose Pbserty le  Lrel (UvS per cypitJa)-w
respective primary school-age populations. While many countries  ad  ral-Absolute poverty income level is that income lvel
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years. others do not. The  below which a minimal natritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in countrv practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  E ed 5Rel   Ie pwve lacew Level (vUS= pw ciep J_-arias
educatuon, gross enroUnent may exceed 100 percent since some   a*vd rai-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primarv-shool  average per capita personal incomc of the country. Urban level is
age.                                                           derived rrom the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
S&condrhy school - toal. male and female-Computed as above;    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pn-  Estiuated Jhp shman Brle  Absolwe  eAbrty ler  Lae  (pe-
mary instuction; provides general vocational or teacher training  cet)-ba  and rail- Percent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupis usually of 12 to 17 years of age: correspond-  who are -absolute poor."
ence course are generally excluded.
Vocanonal Enrollsmen rpercent of seconiarsj -Vocational institu-         Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include technical, industrial, or other programs which operate  Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independentdy or as departments of secondary institutions.                             June 1985



-27-
Page 5 of 6
ICONONIC DECVLOPMENT DATA
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1983: USS390 /e
GROSS NATIONAL PRoDUCT IN 1918M5 Lk                                        ANNUAL RATS OF- GRMO    (2. constant oticeo
USS billion                1969/70-197417S  1975176-19801/l  1981182  1982A83  1953.84  1984185
GUP at market price.              33.49         100.0           3.5                7.1            4.3     7.4       4.2       7.6
Gross dnmetic investment           5.41          16.2          -5.5               *.1            10.5     9.6       3.4      10.2
Croea  national mving              3.74          11.2          -2.1               6.7             6.9    24.9      -6.5       4.9
Current account balance           -1.65          -4.9
Exports of good..  FS              3 24           9.7          -3.5               7.3            -5.6    27.5      -3.2     -1.2
Imports of goods, IFS              7.76          23.2          -7.1                5.5            0.7     1.1      22.0       7.1
OUTPUT. LAJOS FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY 1 1982/83
Value Added                   Labor Force /c                 V. A. Per Worker
S  illion    L                  million    S                     fUS       S
Agriculture                       6.606      24                14.1       51                      469     47
Induatry Li                       7.989      29                 5.2       19                   1.536    153
Service-                         13.083      47                -8 3       13                  1576    152
Total/Average                  27,678    100                 27.6      100                   1.003    100
GOVERNNR)T FINANCE
Central Government /c                              Federal Government
(" iiml _o_)S of GIP                             (Rs billion)        _   of GOP
19B4/85 LI    1594185  II98EDLA-194I85           1984/85 LL  1904155  190/8i-19 4/D5
current receipta                        77.3          16.2         16.5                  61.0         12.5          12.8
Current expenditurem                    91 8         19_2          17 7                  ZLLQ         14.5 8L3
Current murplus                        -14.6         -3.0          -1.2                 -10.0         -2.1          -0.8
Capit1 expeaditurca jL                 39.2          8.2           3.9                  33.5          7.0           7.6
External amistance (net)               14.8          3.1           3.5                  14.8          3.1           3.5
MONE, CREDIT AMD PRICES
975176   1976177   1977/78   1978/79   1979180   1980181   1981182   1982183   198314  1924185
(Rs billion)
Money and quasi money /L                    41.6       51.7      63.7       78.6       92.4      104.8     116.5      146.0      163.3      182.6
Bank credit to public mector                28.1      36.6       43.5       54.9       61.8       70.9      79.7       95.5      105.6      128.6
Dank credit to private sector               17.8      23.0       26.5       30.5       36.2       42.8      51.8       62.8       78.3       92.2
(percentsges or index numberm)
Money and quaai money as 2 of GDP           31.5      34.6       36.7       39.0       36.3       37.0      35.1       40.1       38.7       38.2
Consumer price index (1969/70-100)         229.4     256.7      277.0      295.6      331.9      375.4     403.9      418.1      462.0      479.3
Annual percentage changes in:
Conauser price index                         8.6       11.9       7.9        6.7       12.3       13.1        7.6       3.5       10.5        3.7
Bank credit to public sector                32.5      30.2       18.8       26.2       12.6       14.7      12.4       19.8       10.6       21.8
Dank credit to private sector               11.2      29.2       15.2       15.1       19.7       18.2      21.0       21.2       24.7       17.8
I  Eased on World bank Atlas methodology and calculated at an average of 1980-82 prices and exchange rates.  All
other conversiona to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
Lb  Proviionsl.
IC Projection for 1933/84. Does not include unemployed labor force.
ad  Includes manufacturing, mining, construction and electricity and gas.
LI Consolidated revenues and expenditures of Federal and Provincial Governments (excluding Federal-Provincial
Government transfers).
LE Revised budget data.
LK Excluding principal repaymente of foreign loans. Capital expenditures as defined in governueit budget include
certain current expenditures also.
Not applicable.
Not available.
January 1986



-28-
NALANCE OF PAYENITS                                                                      NUCHODIsE EXPORTS (AV GACING 1980101-1984115)
1I80181  1"111112  19212   19U3184   19W815                                      US$ million          I
(USS million)
Exports of goods, UPS              3,461    3.052    3.416    3.439        3,241          Raw cotton                     293.1         11.5
Imports of goodos  "FS             b 466    6e79   b6f558  7J05J t    1,021               Cotton yarn                    225.8          *.7
Resource gap (deficit - -7         -3.005   -3.b27   -3,172   -3,619    -3,787            Cotton clotb                   292.8         11.3
Eitc                           377.6        14.6
Interest payments                    -357     -453      -421     -477       -4b2          All other comodities         1l 91.9 53.9
Workers' remittances                2.097    2,224    2,817    2,737       2,400            Total                      2,581.6        100.0
Other factor payments (net)           274      321       195       359       198
Uet transfers                        *..-,.      ,     .,,           ,       a
Ilance on current account            -991   -1.535      -551   -1.000    -1.151                     EITERNAL DENT, DECEIUER 1932
Direct foreign investment
Uet IILT borrowing                                                                                                                    million
Disbursements                       956    1,302    1,301    1.246       1,219
Amortization                       -516     -492      -386      -569    ,..             Public debt, includinq guaranteed         9,952.9
Sub-total                           440      61D       915      679        561          Pon-guaranteed privete debt Jj
Transactions with IXFfL               315       35b      413        -1       -U4            Total outstanding .nd disbursed         9,952.9
Other iteos n.e.i. /A                 546       311      285       142        89
Increase in reserves (               -310      249   -1,102        13O    -1,035                DENT SERVICZ RATIO ro0  1981682 Lk
Gross reserves fend year)Lg         1,053      309    1.911    1,731         646
Petroleum  imports JL               1.535    1,710    1,410    1,423       1,425          tublic debt. including guaranteed           19.7
Petroleum  exports fl                 126      194        77        40        34          Non-guaranteed private debt
Total                                  19.7
RATE OF EXCAGZ                                                                               I8RDfIDA LENDING (December 1963)(835 million)
Through 11y 11J  1972                From Wav 12- 1972-Feb. 15. 1973                                                            MR          la
USSI - Re 4. 7619                           USSI - Na 11.00                            Outstanding and disbursed             357.4    1,256.2
Es I - USS0.21                              Re I - US$0.09                             Undisburaed                           242 9      617.8
Outstanding including mundisbursed   600.3    1,874.0
From Feb. 16, 1973-Jan. 7, 1982  From July 1981-June 1962 1j  From July 1982-June 1963 /4  From July 1983-June 1964 1i  From July 1934-Jun  19t
uSS I - Re 9.90                  USSI - Rs 10.55               USSI - Re 12.75                US1 - Re 13.50               fSSI - Re 15.27
Re  I - USSO10                  Rs 1 - US0.095                Rs I - USSO.078                Rs I - USS0.074               Na I - WS0.065
In  Provisional.
lb  honetary statistics of Pakistan have been fully adjusted for demonetized notes, devaluation and revaluation of the rupee, etc. an
from June 30, 1975.  Data for 1974175 from State Rank sources are not strictly comparable with IMP estiates for earlier years.
Ic  Including Trust Fund.
Id Including net short-tern borrowing and errors end omissions.
It  Excluding sold reserves of about 1.8 million troy ounces.
If  Crude and derivatives.
JA  Non-guaranteed private debt service is negligible.
Ih Ratio of actual debt service to exports of goods, non-factor services and vorkera' rmittances; debt service does not include
short-ten or IMP charses.
Li  Effective January 8. 192. the rupee is to be mnaged with reference to a weighted basket of currencies.  The sverage
exchange rate shown is vis-a-vis USS for the period shown.
NDt available.
Janary 1986



-29-
Aitx 11
Page 1
STAT0S OF BANK GROUP OPERAtIONS IN PAZISrAN
A.  STATENENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31. 1986) In 6 tk
(USS million)
Loan/                                                   (Amount net of cancellations)
Credit    Fiscal                                                               Undis-
Number     Year    Purvose                               uhtk        IDA       buried
104 loans and credits fully disbursed                   813.4    1,145.15
1366T     1977   Punjab Livestock Development            --          --           2.1
754       1978   Salinity Control 6 Reclamation          -           70.0        66.1
877       1979   Salinity Control & Recl. (Mardan)    -              60.0        47.2
968       1980   Third WAPDA Power                       -           45.0         2.3
974       1980   Third Highway                           --          50.0         10.4
1109lc    1981   Vocational Training                     -           25.0         7.0
11571c    1981   Grain Storage                           -           32.0        14.8
115B'c    1981   Agricultural Research                   --          24.0        14.7
11631c    1981   On-Farm Water Management                -           41.0        11.7
11861c    1982   Industrial Development (IDBP 11)        -           30.0         2.8
2122      1982   Fourth Telecomunication                 40.0        -            9.3
2172      1982   Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation   38.5           --          17.1
2247      1983   Reservoir Maintenance Facilities        10.2        --          10.0
2305      1983   Agricultural Dev. (ADBP V)              10.0        -            5.4
2324      1983   Fifth Sui Northern Gas Pipelines        43.0        --          32.7
1239/c    1982   Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation    -             40.0         19.8
1243/c    1982   Baluchistan Minor Irrig. & Agr.         -           14.0        11.4
1256kc   1982   Technical Assistance                     -            7.0         2.5
1278kc   1982   Eleventh Railway Project                 -           50.0        35.2
1348/c    1983   Lahore Urban Development                -           16.0        15.5
1350kc   1983   Population                               -           18.0        13.2
1355kc   1983   Coal Engineering                         -            7.0         5.9
1374kc   1983   Karachi Water Supply                     -           25.0        19.4
1375kc   1983   Fourth Drainage                          -           65.0        66.3
1380kc   1983   Agricultural Development (ADBP V)    -               47.8         5.1
2218      1983   Refinery Engineering Project            12.0       -             8.4
2351      1984   Petroleum  Exploration                  51.5        -           36.5
2374      1984   Second Toot Oil and Cas Development  30.0           -           18.3
2380      1984   Industrial Investment Credit            50.0        -           41.7
1439kc   1984   Industrial Inveatment Credit             -           50.0        36.0
1461/c    1984   Integrated Hill Farming Development  -              21.0        22.4
1480kc   1984   Second Technical Assistance              -            7.0         7.0
1487kc   1984   Comniand Wster Management                -           46.5        47.1
1499kc   1984   Second Small Industries                  -           50.0        39.5
1532kc   1985   Left Bank Outfall Drain - Stage 1    -              150.0       168.0
1533kc   1985   Baluchistan Agricultural Extension   -                8.3         8.6
2499      1985   Fourth WAPDA Power                     100.0        -          100.0
1602kc   1985   Second Primary Education                 -           52.5        56.8
1603kc   1985   Second On-Farm Water Management          -          34.5         39.6
2552      1985   Energy Sector Loan                     178.0       -           177.9
2553      1985   Petroleum Resources Joint Venture    55.0           -           39.4
2556      1985   Fifth VAPDA Power                      100.0       --          100.0
2648ld    1986   Industrial Investment Credit           148.0                   148.0
1646/d    1986   Industrial Investment Credit                         2.0         2.0
1652/d    1986   Karachi Special Development                         70.0        70.0
Total                                                 1.679.6    2,303.8      1,615.1
of which has been repaid                              519.7       49.3
Total now outstanding                                 1.159.9    2,254.5
Amount sold                  30.0
of which has been repaid    23.9                        6.1         -
Total now held by Bank and IDA:                       1_153.8    2.254.5
Total undisbureed                                       746.8       868.3     1.615.1
/s  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report
on all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
/b  Excludes the disbursed portion of loans and credits wholly or partly for pro-
jects in the former East Pakistan which have now been taken over by Bangladesh.
kc  IDA Credits under the 6th and 7th Replenisboents are denominted in SDRa.  The
principal and non-effective Credits are shown in US$ equivalent at the time of
negotiations. Disbursed amounts are computed at the exchange rate applicable
on the transaction dates.  Undisbureed mounts are valued at the exchange rate
applicable on the date of this statement.
7d Not yet effective.



-30-
ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31. 1986)
Fiscal                                              Amount  In US$   Million
Year    Oblisor               TvRe of Business      Loan   Equitv    Total
1958     Steel Corp of         Rolled Steel
Pakistan Ltd.        Products              0.63               0.63
1959     Adamjee Industries
Ltd.                  Textiles             0.75      -        0.75
1962-    Gharibwal Cement
1965     Industries Ltd.       Cement                5.25    0.42      5.67
1963-    PICIC                 Development
1969-                          Financing              -      0.52      0.52
1975
1965     Crescent Jute
Products             Textiles              1.84    0.11       1.95
1965-
1980-    Packages Ltd.         Paper Products       19.25    0.84     20.09
1982
1967-    Pakistan Paper
1976     Corp Ltd.             Paper                 5.38    2.02      7.40
1969     Davood Hercules
Chemicals Ltd.       Fertilizers           1.00    2.92       3.92
1979     Nilkpak Ltd.          Food and Food
Processing            2.40    0.36      2.76
1979     Pakistan Oilfields
Ltd. and Attock      Chemicals and
Refinery Ltd.        Petrochemicals       29.00    2.04      31.04
1980     Fauji Foundation      Woven Polypropy-
lene bags            1.78      -        1.78
1980     Premier Board
Mills Ltd.            Particle Board        2.70     -        2.70
1981     Habib Arkady          Food aud Food
Processing           3.15    0.16       3.31
1982     Asbestos              Cement                4.02     -        4.02
1983     Pakistan Petroleum   Chemical and
Ltd.                 Petrochemicals      102.16    1.56    103.72
1985     National Dev.         Money and
Leasing Corp.         Capital Market.      4.64    0.37       5.01
1986     Mari Gas              Chemicals and
Petrochemicals      44.63      -       44.63
Total Gross Commitments                  228.58   11.32    239.90
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales              165.09    0.38    165.47
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC         63.49   10.94      74.43
Undisbursed (including participants)      49.88    0.51      50.39



-31-
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PAKISTAN
FIFTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:          Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the Borrower to prepare the project:
Twelve months
(b) Agency which prepared the project:
T&T
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date of
first mission to consider the project:
October 1983; February 1984
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:
September 16, 1984
Ce) Date of completion of negotiations:
May 6, 1986
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
September 1986
Section II:    Special Bank Implementation Action
Intensive supervision during first year
Section III:   Special Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) ECNEC approval of all PC-1 documents (para. 46);
(b) Reduction by 20X of T&T's receivables from Government
as of June 30, 1985 (para. 62); and



-32-
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c) Execution of a contract for direct import of digital
switching equipment, and issuance of letter of intent
for manufacturing plant and transfer of technology
(para. 55).
Other Special Conditions
(a) GOP to make available to T&T sufficient funds to meet
its operations and maintenance and FY87-90 investment
program needs and review with Bank annual proposed
allocation by April 1 of each year (para. 46);
(b) Following decision on T&T's status, government to
consult with Bank regarding mechanism, timetable, and
technical assistance to implement changes (para. 48);
(c) Terms of reference for consultants to assist T&T's
Fundamental Planning Unit to be submitted by October
31, 1986 and consultants to be employed by March 31,
1987 (para. 48-51);
(d) T&T to report to Bank each December 1 and June 1 on
performance against agreed indicators and by ApriL 1
each year review with and agree on corrective measures
and next year's performance indicators (para. 49);
(e) T&T's Economic Sub-unit to complete tariff review with
terms of reference agreed by September 30, 1986,
review study progress by March 31, 1987, submit final
study to Bank by December 31, 1987, and discuss with
Bank and apprise Bank by March 31, 1988 on tariff
restructuring measures and timetable to implement
(para. 60);
(f) TVT's receivables from Government to be reduced to
150 days by June 30, 1987 and to 90 days by June 30,
1988 (para. 62); and
(g) Government to adjust international billing rates to
full accounting rate by December 31, 1986 (para. 61).



IBRD 18739
, M _ _ _ 1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- I- l- - -- - E-
PAKI STAN   --t4...>S
TELEGRAPH AND TELEPHONE DEPARTMENT   tf   -                                                                      K>
-3W                      MAIN LONG DISTANCE ROUTES/                                                    J         Gt 
Project:                                                            Chiral 1_bo
Dilgital Transmissioan Link (140Mb/sl                              irmb        ;     ^ 
Submerlrl- Cable (12/14 MAHzl                                                                % AaRAhO  ,d>Se>
Ex l ting:jXI  0rsC.AA        Poea
Coax lelCnble '~j!Od81 t.......  
~~~Microwave (.V .Piarw
-3A'            ...........   Satellitve;                                                         o   I     jbbw
a      Townws  > o."'AN
Dlvtswrol Bomdones ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....................................,  ...s t     AHI
Provrincial Boundaries       SrAs/oz>iJS\    /ff\
-    Internal ional Boundaries  mwa^v      ,          j v    dnnuo '/ ,RWtNI  
Rivers ,        _drd > 
32'~~~~~~~~~~~~~J D I KHAn,:b  eod\  
rI              cj<' r r rA      J      1      O     e
30'         AFGHAN ISTAN                                                         ?,,t,<,  hGn -K /  30 -
i\> ._, ,_, _ ~~~~~~~Nush             b    ,  las    biiit_5b -St/0t Chalrn
&   \            o~~~~~ u S r ra _4,                      ,!#S          \0      /,f7gdu
J B       A v    U  C  H  I  S  T  A  N. .    l> -           -     o.
Z.                                              Yo4dd/   t  Rdnd Khon 
;SLAMIC   t          ,>~~~~~ A  I A  r   hu,zdor (I   h r u;i\/J2-
REPUBLIC J               _-~~~~~~~~C  -. -~/:    Lak-X /+                                I    N         D     I   A
OF IRAN    r                                  I!J  
-26'         Turbat                                                         _    -L /                                               4
A RAB/AA   SrA                           w !                             -d~~RA
-22''Cvb,_                                                                                                                         221
KzO^Esas~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r A w,                         11 30
"'S5~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ oft loo                        R-
: ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ av
A ~     ~      ~      6                 08' BIA IV                            72 E         ii.o   ow    mR
_~~~~~~~F                 piim
-2r ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~FBUR   2L9



