Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6617-POR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
TECHNOLOGY EDUCATION PROJECT
June 18, 1987
Education and Manpower Development Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
Currency Equivalents
US$1 = Escudo 150
Escudo 100 = US$0.67
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
School Year
October - June
GLOSSARY
AIP:       Association of Portuguese Industries
EC:        European Community
INA:       National Institute of Administration
INESC:     Institute for Engineering Systems and Computation
INIAER:    National Institute for Agrarian Research and Rural
Extension
INIC:      National Institute of Scientific Research
JNICT.     National Board for Scientific and Technological Research
LNEII:     National Laboratory for Engineering and Industrial
Technology
MOE:       Ministry of Education
MOL:       Ministry of Labor
OECD:      Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development



FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
TECHNOLOGY EDUCATION PROJECT
Table c' Contents
Page
GLOSSARY
BASIC DATA
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMM'ARY
I *    ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL BACKGROUND  . *. . .. . ...*. . .. . .. . . .. . . .  ...,*...               * 1
General Background  *..... .... ... .    ..    ...*................*.                              1.
Education and Research  *..... ... .. .....**.*   ...* .........                             *     3
Universities  *.............S.........*.*o*,*e.*.*****                                       3
Research and Development  ....*.....................                        .*......         4
Polytechnic  Institutes  .. ......*... ...... .............*............    7
General Education  *.................... .*.**......... *   .....                           * 7
Education Finance  ........... . ***...*..*....... *.... .                                   8
Issues  in Education and Research  ....................................    8
Uniersities .  ..................* .... ....*..   *.    .******     
Agricultural Training  .....*..*...... ... .............. .*.*... ......    9
Primary and Secondary Education  .................................    9
Strategy for Sector Development  ................................ 10
Government Priorities  in Education and Training  .................   10
Bank  Lending Strategy  .....*. ..... ... .*......             *.....  ................   10
II.   THE PROJECT  *......... ... .... ...*. .*................                                         1.3
&z.trf,duction  *.................*...................*.............**......   13
Project Objecti-vec and Scope  . . . .. . .. . . *. . ......            *. ....  . . .. .. * . . .   13
Applied Research  Institutes  ........  : ..............* ... .....e  14
Agricultural Polytechnic  Institutes  .............................   17
Computers  in Schools  ........ .. .*.*........ .....*.*  ... *............   18
III. PROJECT COST,  FINANCING,  MANAGEMENT AND  IMPLEMENTATION  ......~.......    21
Cost of Project  ..*.*..... .................*.**           e    . ........*..........o.   21
Summuary of Project Costs  ...... ......*.*.. .... ...*............*......   21
Basis of Cost Estimates  *................. 0..**-.... *......* 23
Unit Costs and Areas  per Student  ...............................    23
Customs Duties and Taxes  ... .. ..*....*.......... ..*.*................   23
Contingency Allowances  ......*.*.*. ........... .....*..... ............   23
Foreign Exchange Component  * .0 . ..... ...*.*. . *. . . *....* *.*.*.*  24
Recu 'rent Costs                ... ...*..... ......*..........................   24
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in September/
October 1986 composed of R.J. Ellis, S. Sigurdssonx, N. Mangosing-Koeppen (Bank
staff), I. Werdelin, and D. Brewin (consultants).
This document has a retricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance 
of their official duties. Its contents maY not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
TECHNOLOGY EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents (Continued)
Page
Project Financing ...............................   24
Management and Implementation 4...........................  25
Coordination ............. .....*..*,....  ****,**,..******a**** 4 * *  25
Applied Research Institutes *...................... .........  25
Agricultural Polytechnic Institutes  .............................  26
Computers in Schools * .......................................      26
Architectural Design Services ................................  26
Site Acquisition ........        .............*..........  26
Maintenance  4......................... ......    27
Procurement .............* ....................a... * *,**.. .  27
Technical Assistance .........44............................. .....  29
Status of Preparation    ............. .............. .. . ...      29
Disbursements ..............                      *.... .....   29
Accour.ts and Audits  ............................   30
IV.  BENEFITS AND RISKS  ...........................                         31
Benefits ..................oo......   ... o..............  31
R:is ks . . . . . o. . . . . *0. 0a.  .    ..  ..   0     .*  .* . *                           *            *   a                 3 2
V.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ...........................  33
ANN-ES:
1  Comparative Education Indicators
2  Structure of the Formal Education System, 1983-86
3  Proposed Structure of the Formal Education System, 1987-
4   Implementation Schedule
5   Implementation Sched4le for Technical Assistance
6  Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
7  Summary Account by Project Component
8  Unit Capital Cost and Area per Student Place
9  Schedule of Disbursements
10 Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
Map
396 SV



- i -
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
TECHNOLOGY EDUCATION PROJECT
Basic Data
Country Data (1986) /a
Total population                                         10.2 m,illion
Total civilian labor force                                4.9 million
Population growth rate                                      1.02 p.a.
GNP per capita                                               US$1,970
Literacy rate (2 of adults)                                       80X
Education Enrollment Data (1986) /b
School                  Grade    Age    Total Gross    As 2 of   Female S of
Grouping                  Level   Range   Enrollments   Age Groug   Enrollment
Primary                       1-4     6-9     858,153        125.0 /c      48
Lower Secondary               5-6   10-11      336,691        82.0         48
General Secondary             7-9   12-14      252,940        66.7         53
Upper Secondary             10-12   15-17      104,776        30.9         55
Higher Education:               -       -       90,320                     49
-University                                     70,567         9.0         52
-Polytechnics and
Specialist Colleges                            19,753         1.8         39
Public Expenditure on Education and Training (1986)
Central government expenditure on education as                          10.6
a percentage of total government expenditures
Central government capital expenditure on educAtion                      3.4
as a percentage of all capital expendituxes
Central government recurrent c.penditure on education                   13.9
as a percentage of ali recurrent expenditures
Central government expenditure on education as a                         4.4
percentage of GNP
/a Most recent estimates.
/b MOE statistics, 1986.
/c Includes over-age children and repeaters.



- ii -
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
TECHNOLOGY EDUCATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Sumary
Borrower:                Republic of Portugal
Beneficiary:             Ministry of Education
Amount:                  US$32 million
Terms:                   Standard
Project Description:    The proposed project would improve the quality and
relevance of scientific and technological research and
training, and of agricultural education by providing
assistance to three applied research institutes (in
biotechnology, materials science and water resources)
and two agricultural polytechnic institutes. It would
also strengthen instruction in science and mathematics
in general education, and increase the number of
graduates qualified to enter higher scientific and
technological studies, by assisting 140 secondary and
30 primary schools to modernize the curricula through
the use of computers as instructional tools for the
teaching of mathematics, science and language skills,
and for developing computer literacy.
Benefits:                The proposed project would assist Portugal in its
human resource development strategy to meet ongoing
structural changes in the economy and enhance its
competitiveness within the EC. Specific benefits
would be: increasing the output of qualified
researchers in biotechnology, materials science and
water resources from about 25 to 110 per year;
increasing the output of graduates from agricultural
polytechnic institutes by about 120 per year; and,
after an initial evaluation, extending the use of the
computer as an instructional aid to 152 of Portugal's
secondary schools.
Risks:                   The principal risk associated with the applied
research and agricultural training components is the
possibility of an overly academic orientation leading
to a traininag and research focus not relevant to the
needs of industry and agriculture. The project would
reduce this risk by giving industry and agriculture a



- iii -
prominent role in the determination and management of
the training and research program, and by increasing
practical work as a part of the training programs.
The principal risk associated with the computers in
schools component is a lack of teacher and student
acceptance because of the potentially fundamental
changes in teaching practices that could be
introduced. This risk would be reduced by a training
program for school tearhers, and by phasing the
introduction of computers which includes an evaluation
of the initial, pilot phase.
Estimated Project Costs:
Local     Foreign   Total/a
---Us$ -Million------
A.  Applied Research Institutes:
Biotechnical Research Institute                    10.9        17.3       28.1
Materials Science Research Institute                 1.0        2.8        3.9
Water Resources Research Institute                   3.1        4.9        8.0
Sub-Total                                          15.0        25.0       39.9
B.  Aricultural Polytechnic Institutes:
Agricultural Polytechnic Institutes                 4.6         5.1        9.7
Agricultural Teacher Training                       0.2         1.6        1.8
Agricultural Curriculum Development                 0.0         0.1        0.1
Agricultural Planning, Program & Management         0.0         0.1        0.1
Sub-Total                                           4.8         6.8       11.6
C.  Computers in Schools:
Computer Facilities                                 2.4         8.0       10.3
Curriculum Development and Teacher Training         2.4         0.5        2.9
Evaluation of Computer Use                          0.7         0.4        1.1
Sub-Total                                           5.5         8.8       14.3
Total Baseline Costs                                   25.2        40.6       65.9
Physical Contingencies                              2.5         4.1        6.6
Price Contingencies                                 1.8         2.8        4.6
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS Lb                                  29.6       47.5       77.1
/a  Detailed figures may not add up to totals due to rounding.
/b  Total project costs include an estimated US$2.3 million in identifiable
duties and taxes.



- iv -
Financing Plan:
Local       Foreign    Total
-----US$ Million--…
Government                                                29.6        15.5       45.1
IBRr                                                                  32.0       32.0
Total                                                     29.6        47.5       77.1
Estimated Disbursements (in US$ Million):
- ----------- - IBRD Fiscal Years---------… -             --
1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
Annual               2.0      3.2      4.0      5.0     5.4      5.0      4.4      3.0
Cumulative           2.0      5.2      9.2    14.2    19.6    24.6    29.0    32.0
Rate of Return: Not Applicable.



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
TECHNOLOGY EDUCATION PROJECT
I. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL BACKGROUND
General Background
1.01     Prior to the Revolution of 1974, Portugal's economy was dependent on
its overseas possessions, and its education and training system was largely
Seared to their requirements. This colonial period was characterized by a
large expatriate work force and under-developed industrial and agricultural
sectors. In the southern part of the country, large estates, often owned by
absentee landlords, were operated by poorly skilled peasant farm workers,
while in the northern part, economic activity was largely based on small
subsistence farms and large vineyards. Participation in education and
training was low, with most ch:ldren attending school for only four years,
which accounts for the poor general education and low skills of much of the
labor force today. Those few students who continued to higher education were
mainly oriented towards the administrative, economic and political management
needs of the colonies. Because of the weak industrial base at home, few
students pursued scientific snd technological education. In agriculture,
traditional practices in Portugal generated little need for technical skills
and, as a result, colonial agriculture dominated higher agricultural studies
until recent years (para. 1.09).
1.02     After the 1974 Revolution, most large enterprises were nationalized,
operating inefficiently in part due to a lack of trained personnel and
overstaffing. In agriculture, many large agricultural estates were subdivided
into cooperatives, collective farms and small holdings whose operation was
seriously handicapped by the lack of agricultural technicians, extension
workers and farm managers. Portugal achieved a relatively high GDP growth
rate (6.92 in 1976) but the disruptions from the radical changes combined with
adverse external conditions, resulted in a sharp deterioration in the balance
of payments by'1977. The period 1980 to mid-1983 saw a progressive
deterioration in economic performance in most areas with accelerated inflation
rates, declining levels of migrant worker remittances, dependence on imported
oil and food and a slower growth rate in manufacturing and productive
services. Additionally, the unfavorable trade balance remained persistently
high. In 1983 a stabilization program was undertaken which turned the balance
of payments around from a record deficit of US$3.2 billion in 1982 to a
surplus of US$400 million in 1985.
1.03     In the post-Revolution period, education expanded very rapidly from a
small base, with an increasing participation in primary education. At the
same time, the parallel streams -- academic and technical -- of secondary
education, seen as dividing society on class lines, were merged into a
comprehensive secondary program, at the expense of the technical secondary and



-2-
agricultural schools, the only source of skilled labor and valued highly by
employers. This resulted in a serious shortfall in the suppl.y of skilled
workers and technicians. As secondary school graduates increased in number
and university admission standards were lowered, the staff and facilities of
the universities were severely constrained, with a consequent weakening of
quality and an overemphasis on theoretical As opposed to practical education.
By the mid-eighties, Portugal's labor force was still characterized by low
levels of education and skills, a lack of well-trained technicians and
higher-level professional staff. There was still no vocational training
program for producing the skilled workers required for an industrial economy
(para. 1.28). The school system suffered because of the lack of trained
secondary school teachers (para. 1.20) and higher education was outdated and
insufficiently oriented to the economy (para. 1.22).
1.04     A major objective of the Government's economic restructuring and
development strategy is to increase the competitiveness of Portuguese industry
in the world market place and particularly within the EC. The emphasis is on
strengthening the co'intry's export-oriented industry and exploiting its
comparative advantages: lower salary scales than its northern neighbors; its
coastal location for ease of shipping and access to European and North
American markets; and its moderate climate which contributes to growth of
tourism (para. 1.31). The country's development strategy includes the
expansion of investment in technically-oriented light industry. Among the
constraints on the execution of this policy are the lack of scientifically and
technically trained personnel and poor technology transfer. The Association
of Portuguese Industries (AIP), which represents about 15,000 enterprises,
coritends that the shortage of technically qualified manpower has inhibited
(i) the development and improvement of industrial production methods; (ii) the
establishment of adequate product quality control systems; (iii) the setting
up of research and development capacity for new products; (iv) the application
of EC regulations for measurements and standards; (v) the improvement of
occupational safety and health requirements; and (vi) the enhancement of
environmental and pollution control measures. Consequently, Portugal aims at
developing its scientific and technical education and training system to the
quantitative and qualitative standards of the more established EC countries.
1.05     The agriculture sector will be particularly affected by Portugal's
entry into the EC, due to the gradual reduction of support prices and
elimination of subsidies. Geographical regions will be affected differently,
with the north being the main loser, especially in its dairy farming, while
producers of fruit and vegetables (especially in the south) will be the main
gainers. By 1996, ?ortugal must follow EC policies and regulations, and major
changes must be made in agricultural practices, not only to produce more food
for the home market and thus reduce imports, but also to exploit Portugal's
advantages of fertile farmland and mild climate, compared with EC countries to
the north. A major constraint to achieving these goals is the shortage of
trained agricultural manpower to develop technologically appropriate
agricultural practices and marketing, and to operate private farms (para.
1.18). Consequently, there is a need to develop better agricultural methods
and produce food to stricter standards and to improve the management and
operation of small farms through farmer training. A start has been made on
the development of post-secondary agricultural technician training linked to
both the universities and agricultural services to meet these needs but
important elements in this scheme are still lacking (para. 1.24).



1.06     In both agriculture and industry, a modern well-trained work force of
scientists, engineers and technicians is indispensable to the implementation
of economic restructuring. A manpower study conducted in 1980 with lank
assistance projects a combined employment of select scientific and technical
personnel in industry of about 52,000 by 1995. In agriculture, the annual
demand for agricultural technicians, estimated at 1,400 per annum (para.
1.18), is twice the output of existing training institutes.
Education and Research
1.07     The education and training system in Portugal is less developed than
that of established EC member countries which it seeks to emulate. Moreover,
in certain aspects such as the availability of a decentralized capacity for
training skilled workers and post-secondary sectorally-oriented technician
training programs, Portugal lags behind Mediterranean Basin countries such as
Algeria, Tunisia and Turkey. The number of students in secondary schools is
low as A percentage of the relative age group (67% for grades 7-9 and 312 for
grades 10-12) compared with the northern EC countries (about 90% of this age
group). This low enrollment ratio is particularly serious because it
constrains the supply of secondary school graduates to higher education.
There are also serious weaknesses in the teaching of mathematics, science and
technology so that students are ill-prepared to enter technical and
scientific-based occupations. Even at the primary-school level, education is
weak in mathematics and elementary technology. Thus, there is a need to
improve the teaching of science and mathematics throughout the education
system.
1.08     Universities.  At the university level, curricula remain theoretical
with little provision for acquiring practical skills. The universities remain
out of touch with the needs of the market place and where research and
development work is conducted, it is inadequately related to the needs of
industry or agriculture. Consequently, there has been a serious
under-investment in research staff, laboratories and research stations, which
has led many university researchers to pursue their research interests in
other countries and often in fields either not relevant or insufficiently
adapted to Portugal's needs.
1.09     University education is determined by a special entrance examination
for 12th grade students (except for mature students over 25). University
courses are four to six years in duration, leading to the award of the
"Licenciado" degree (bachelor's equivalent). Post-graduate degrees are the
master's degree (course of one to two years) and the doctoral degree in
research which normally requires 'hree years to complete. There are twelve
universities with a total enrollment of about 71,000 students (about 9% of the
age group compared with the average 15% in the EC. The enrollment
distribution is approximately 20% in engineering, 8X in specialized
agricultural subjects and veterinary science and 11% in physical and natural
sciences and the balance (61%) in non-scientific academic fields. University
teaching staff are adequate ii number but their teaching tends to be too
theoretical. Most agricultura. education is undertaken by the universities
but there, too, training is theoretical and lacks emphasis on applied
agricultural technology and on practical skills. The 1985 Bank Report on



Project Related Training found that many courses at this level still reflected
colonial needs, for example, the study of soils not found in Portugal 1/ (page
6, para. 2.14). Where practical training is undertaken it is not
systematically organized or adequate in quantity and variety. Moreover,
student selection for agricultural studies is based entirely on academic
performance in secondary school to the advantage of urban based candidates who
often have little interest in rural life. In general, linkages between
universities and with industry and the work force are very weak; teaching
tends to be out of date and not applied to real problems due to the lack of
staff participation in research and development; curricula are not related to
the needs of the industrial market; and there is a severe shortage of
laboratories and equipmnent for research work.
1.10     Research and Development (R&D).  R&D in higher education is sponsored
by two central organizations.  rhe first is the National Board for Scientific
and Technological Research (JNICT) which is part of the Ministry of Planning.
The second is the National Institute of Scientific Research (INIC) which is a
scientific research body with administrative and financial autonomy under the
Ministry of Education (MOE).
1.11     JNICT has the basic responsibility for shaping national scientific
policy; determining priority areas for research; establishing criteria for
award of research contracts; determining financial support levels; and
coordinating scientific and technological research in order to increase
research productivity to meet national development plans. It is also
responsible for promoting the training of scientific and technical personnel
and coordinating international cooperation relevant to science and
technology. JNICT funds exchange schemes between staff of industry and
universities to promote greater cooperation: it also funds research projects
in industry which are relevant to Portugal's industrial or agricultural
development. JNICT's structure consists of a General Council with various
advisory and executive committees, whose membership is representative of the
principal ministries and of science and technology.
1.12     INIC has responsibility for financing, managing and coordinating
research in higher education establishments. It operates 126 research centers
with 1,425 full-time equivalent (FTE) staff. The research centers are
generally small and with one or two exceptions located in universities. The
structure of INIC reflects the six major areas of research which it supports:
technology, natural sciences, medical sciences, physical sciences, social
sciences and the humanities. Each area has a scientific council composed of
university staff only, and is responsible to the President of INIC (a
university professor). Proposed research projects, applications for
scholarships and exchange programs are evaluated by the scientific councils in
accordance with previously established criteria and submitted to the Executive
Board of INIC for decision. The fact that university staff dominate the
councils of INIC has resulted in the selection of predominantly theoretical
research topics with very few applied research projects related to the needs
of industry or development agencies. INIC has no direct relationship with
either JNICT or industry, and is thus in a weak position to promote research
topics of relevance to Portugal's development.
1/ Republic of Portugal, Project Relating Training, March 28, 1985.



- 5 -
Table 1.1:  INIC Budget Distribution Selected Years 1982-86
1982            1985            1986
(Esc. Million)
Research contracts                    409   72.6       835   76.3   1,380   71.9
Scholarships                            16    2.8       87    8.0      240.  12.5
Exchange of staff and students          36    6.4       71    6.5      169    8.8
Scientific meetings in Portugal         28    5.0       22    2.0       21    1.1
Scientific publishing                   24    4.2       44    4.0       42    2.2
Support to scientific societies          6    1.0        2    0.2        4    0.2
Central office                          44    8.0       33    3.0       64    3.3
563  100.0   1,094  100.0   1,920  100.0
Source: INIC.
1.13     The research budget administered by INIC has increased from Esc. 56.
million in 1982 to Esc. 1,920 million in 1986, as shown in Table 1.1. The
budget for research includes funding of research in all subjects (including
the social sciences and the humanities), although a large proportion of the
budget is utilized for the support of "pure" as opposed to applied research.
For instance, about 42% of the total budget goes to basic science research
while applied technological research gets only 18%, reflecting its low
priority. For example, in 1985, INIC financed the work Lf 233 long-term
research scholars, equivalent to an output of about 75 Ph.D graduates per year
in all subjects but only 30 of these were in pure and applied science. With
increased funding in 1986, the Ph.D output should rise to a still low 110 per
year by 1989.
1.14     In 1982 Portugal allocated only Esc. 6.5 billion, equivalent to 0.4b
of GNP to research and development activities (Table 1.2), considerably less
than the developed European countries and, in fact, on a par with the average
for all developing countries (OECD Report of 1986). Of the European
countries, only Greece and Turkey spent less on R&D than Portugal. Similarly,
the proportion of scientific and technical personnel engaged in research as a
percentage of the total labor force (0.2%) in Portugal also illustrates the
low intensity of research effort. Due to this lack of emphasis on research,
Portugal has had to import technology, often outdated and requiring expensive
and time-consuming modification before application in Portuguese industry.
There has been an associated lack of training and research opportunities for
post-graduates with good potential, encouraging them to go overseas (para.
1.08). Trained in theoretical research, they tend to pursue this interest in
their subsequent careers. Most scientific papers produced are in pure science
and often in conjunction with foreign universities. This situation has been
detrimental to industrial, agricultural and economic development in the
country. The Government recognizes this weakness and has established applied
research as a priority area for investment.



- 6 -
Table 1.2: Government Expenditure on R&D in Europe (1J81)
R&D Expenditure           R&D Personnel (FTE) /a
Country                     as X of GDP               as 2 of Labor Force_
Germany                                 2.6 /b                         1.36
United Kingdom                          2.5                            1.17
France                                  2.1 /b                         1.07
The Netherlands                         2.0                            1.01
Belgium                                 1.4 /b                         0.78 /c
Spain                                   0.4                            0.23
Portugal                                0.4 /b                         0.20 /b
Greece                                  0.2                            0.13 /c
Turkey                                  0.2 /c
/a FTE: full-time equivalent.
/b 1982 figures.
/c 1979 figures.
Source: OECD 1986 Review of National Science and Technology Policy, Portugal.
1.15     There is also an imbalance in the employment of researchers.  In 1982
42% of available scientists and engineers (Table 1.3) were employed in higher
education, often in centers too small to support a critical mass of
researchers (para. 1.12) and, generally poorly equipped. There is, therefore,
an urgent need to use university staff more effectively in research and
development projects of importance to national development in conjunction with
industry and government. Consequently, Government has given priority to the
consolidation of university research resources in a limit,d number of
institutes dedicated to applied research and in close collaboration with
industry.
1.16     Public and private enterprises spend more per researcher than the
universities and Government but they, too, lack trained researchers and
equipment. Industrial research in Portuguese enterprises consists mainly of
small groups of scientists and engineers generally attached to production
engineering. As well as handling quality control and product testing these
groups tackle short-term production problems: a typical example at COMETNA --
the National Metallurgy Company -- is the development of new sand/chemical
mixes for foundry casting of valves. Such research groups are not equipped,
through access to a broad range of skills and knowledge and to advanced
equipment, to engineer new applications linking basic and applied research.
The university researchers do have such access. The proposed new institutes
(para. 2.04) would bridge the gap. The expendi' res of private enterprises
could have a greater impact if the improved human and material resources of
consolidated university research centers could be focused on their problems
through applied research contracts. The development of contract work would
provide financial incentives for talented young scientists ready to work in
applied research and development. The possibility of leading their own
research team, with adequate budgets and facilities, is also likely to prove a
significant attraction.



- 7 -
Table 1.3: Distribution of Research Manpower and Financial Resottrces (1982)
Manpower as b   Research Scientists  Financial Resources as
of R&D Manpower  & Engineers as % of  % of Total R&D Funding
Employer            (8,533)        Available (3,017)    (Esc. 6,541 million)
Higher Education      27   (2,330)       42    (1,267)          21   (Esc 1,348 m)
Governprent Research  47   (4,054)       33       (987)         44   (Esc 2,852 m)
Enterprises           22   (1,891)       21       (655)         31   (Esc 2,044 m)
Others                 4   (  278)        4       (110)          4   (Esc   298 m)
1.17     Polytechnic Institutes.  Polytechnic institutes are designed to train
the technicians needed to provide the link between skilled workers and
engineers and scientists. Entry is post grade 12, by means of a special
examination, and courses are three years in duration. The current program
calls for the establishment of some 15 polytechnic institutes of various
types: (a) technical (engineering and agriculture); (b) teacher training; and
(c) applied arts. The total enrollment in the existing polytechnics and other
colleges which provide technician level training, is about 20,000 students or
about 1.8% of the age group 18-24, compared with 9% for the universities.
There is an urgent need to expand this level of training to meet the need of
Portugal's industrial and agricultural development. It has been estimated
that by 1992, 6,500 technicians a year will be needed, significantly exceeding
the total current annual output of 1,900. 1/
1.18     The need for technicians is especially serious in agriculture.  Four
polytechnics (Santarem in the center-east, Coimbra in the center-north,
Castelo Branco in the center-west and Braganqa in the northeast), which have
been supported under previous Bank loans (Table 1.5, p. 12) currently provide
technician training in agriculture. Their total enrollment is expected to
reLch 1,700 students when fully operational in 1989. Their output (610 p.a.)
is less than half of the estimated need of agricultural technicians (1,400
p.a.) 1/. There is a pressing need to extend agricultural technician training
to other regions, particularly the north-west and south-center, due to the
different agricultural crops and farming methods used in these regions. New
programs are urgently needed in farm management, farm mechanization,
horticulture, and specialized crop development. These programs should
incorporate a significant element of work-study and internship in
agro-business and farm enterprises, a weakness of the present system.
1.19     General Education.  The general education system consists of primary
(grades 1-4), lower secondary (grades 5-6) and secondary (grades 7-12)
education. Education in grades 1-6 is compulsory at present, but the new
education law (October 14, 1986) will make nine years of education compulsory,
with the official school leaving age 15 years -- a standard established in
most of Europe in the immediate post-World War II years. Other EC countries
have considered, or are considering, extending the period of compulsory
education beyond the present level, for example, to age 16 in the U.K. In
Portugal, primary education has been characterized by low internal efficiency
due to high repetition and dropout. Only about 602 of the original grade 1
intake enter lower secondary school, weakening the pool of students
1/ Source: M.C. Soares, Ministry of Labor, 1985.



- 8 -
available for further education and training. With regard to the curricula,
there are particular weaknesses in the teaching of mathematics, science and
technology due to out-of-date programs which try to cover too many topics, and
the lack of adequately trained teachers. The inevitable result is that there
are few secondary graduates with a good grounding in science and technology
for further study at the universities and polytechnics.
1.20     Only about 50% of the teachers in secondary schools are adequately
trained in both the subject matter they teach and in teaching techniques.
Table 1.4: Teachers by Level and Qualifications - 1983/84
Lack
Lack        Subject
Fully       Teacher      Qualif-   Lack
Qual.fied   Training    ication   Both    Total
Lower Secondary    Number       12,786       8,945       1,620      630    23,981
(Grades 5-6)     Percent          53         37            7       3        100
Secondary          Number       17,188      13,053       3,287   1,282    34,810
(Grades 7-12)    Percent          49         38            9       4        100
1/  Source:  M.C. Soares, Ministry of Labor, 1985.
The poor quality of teaching will be improved by the output from the teacher
training courses which are being provided in the polytechnics and the
university faculties of education, assisted by the First and Second Education
Projects (paras. 1.29-1.30). Teachers from these institutes should be of
better quality in mathematics, science and technology and of sufficient
quantity (750 per annum) to satisfy the estimated demands for qualified
secondary teachers.
1.21     Education Finance.  Central Government expenditures on education in
1980 were 14.2% of total government expenditures and 10.6% in 1985. This
apparent decline refects the transfer of responsibility for financing capital
investments for primary and lower secondary education to the municipalities.
A modest increase in central government expenditures for 1986 was expected,
11.6%. The proportiorn of GDP devoted to education, however, remained
relatively stable at about 4.2% to 4.5%, which, however, is low compared with
developed EC countries (e.g., the Netherlands, 7.9%). Some further increase
in education and training investment will be required if Portugal is to
develop its system to European standards (paras. 1.04, 1.07).
Issues in Education and Research
1.22     Universities.  In general, courses are too theoretical lacking
relevance to the requirements of a technological industrial society (para.
1.08). Science and technology instruction needs updating with material
relevant to the latest advances in research and development work; a greater
emphasis on industrial applications; and an improvement in practical skills.
Most university graduates may expect some need for re-training during their
active lives. Improving and broadening their basic skills in ma;hematics,
science and technology and equipping them with computer-based skills will
enhance their capability for re-training.



1.23     Research.  Training for post-graduate students in applied science and
engineering research tends t be too theoretical, while the fragmented
character of research work (para. 1.12) prevents them from participating in
applications-oriented research with well-managed and equipped research teams.
In fact, existing research units serve neither trainees nor the economy well.
The Government is seeking to rationalize and coordinate research by
establishing a limited number of applied research institutes specializing in
applied science and technology directly relevant to Portugal's industrial and
agricultural development. These areas are: (a) biotechnology which is vitally
important for the development of industry and agriculture; (b) materials
science which is important not only for quality control (e.g., ceramics and
glass industries) but also for development of Portugal's mineral resources
(e.g., uranium, coal, iron, copper, tin and tungsten); and (c) water resource
science and technology which is necessary for the development of water
exploration, conservation; purification and effluent disposal, all areas
important for the development of industry and agriculture. For electronics
and communications, an autonomous institute (Institution of Engineering
Systems and Computers -- INESC) financed entirely by industrial contracts has
been established in the Technological University of Lisbon. The Association
of Portuguese Industries (AIP) indicates that similar collaborative
arrangements could be established with the applied research institutes
supported under this project.
1.24     Agricultural Training.  There is a growing concerr in Portugal about
modernizing its agriculture (para. 1.05), particularly in view of Portugal's
entry into the EC. Trained technicians Pre essential to improve this
competitiveness. At present, however, agricultural technician training is
underdeveloped, meeting only half of the manpower requirements (para. 1.18),
and there are certain areas of the country with specific training requirements
which are not being met.  rs    v is a need for additional agricultural schools
catering to students with a family background in agriculture. Programs should
emphasize the acquisition of practical skills and modern farming practices
adapted to regional needs and prepare trainees for employment by providing for
pre-employment internships in agro-business and farm enterprises. The MOE
wishes to establish two new institutes of this type to serve the training
needs of regions which are currently without agricultural polytechnics.
1.25     Primary and Secondary Education.  Enrollments are now rising as a
result of a greater effort in primary and lower secondary school
construction. The new law on compulsory education (para. 1.19) will speed the
process. Progress is also being made on the training and upgrading of
teachers (para. 1.20). However, qualitative improvements of existing
curricula need to be made, particularly those elements which prepare students
in mathematics, science and language skills -- the foundation for further
education and training. Recognizing the almost universal presence of the
computer and information technology in the European work place, Government has
launched an introductory effort (involving 40 schools and 100 teachers in
1985/86) to use micro-computers in schools as a general aid to instruction and
as an important element per se in the curriculum. It considers that the
computer must be part of the general skills of most students and is
particularly important for those who, from primary school onwards, begin to



- 10 -
specialize in mathematics, science and technology. As well as being a
computational aid, the micro-computer can assist in other subjects in a
variety of ways: compilation, presentation and analysis of data; modelling and
simulation (economics, statistics, geography and history); word processing
which can have as significant an impact on students' productivity as it does
in the office; and, eventually, in selected subjects as a medium of
instruction and as an instrument of performance testing and remedial
in_truction. While teachers will be responsible for the basic task of
delivering instruction, the computer promises to be a powerful and motivating
aid to their work.
1.26     The present scheme is small and based very much on the enthusiasm of
universities and teacher college groups. Management is diffuse (for example,
Lisbon and Coimbra universities operate their parts of the programs
independently from each other) and there has been no systematic evaluation.
It is now important to initiatr a systematic evaluation based on this sample
of 40 secondary (para. 1.25) and 10 primary schools as a first step in
exploring the feasibility of a larger program (the instructional benefits, the
costs, and the staffing, organizational and management dimensions).
Strategy for Sector Development
A. Government Priorities in Education and Training
1.27     In light of the current economic situation (paras 1.01-1.04) the
Government has accurded high priority to human resource development, in
particular to the education and training of scientists, technologists and
managers and to establishing a well-equipped modern school system which is
capable of responding to the changing needs of society and of developing a
competitive labor force, especially for industry and agriculture.
1.28     To this end, Government is moving to improve the universities'
capacity for training and upgrading scientists, engineers and manage.s (para.
1.31) and for training the secondary school teachers required to modernize and
improve schooling at that level (paras. 1.29 and 1.30). An embryonic networ'!
of polytechnic institutes, industrial and agricultural, has been established
to train technicians at the post-secondary level (paras. 1.29 and 1.30), an
urgent priority given the closure of secondary level, junior technician
programs after the Revolution (para. 1.03). Finally, Government has acted to
improve skilled worker training and upgrading by establishing a countrywide
network of vocational training centers (para. 1.31), with EC assistance.
These will be important in training drop-outs, often unemployed, from general
education and for upgrading and re-training existing workers.
B. Bank Lending Strategy
1.29     Bank lending strategy has been to assist Government in developing a
modern, well-trained labor force able to compete in a rapidly evolving
technological and scientific environment by assisting Government put in place
key programs (training and re-training of higher-level engineering and
technical personnel; technician training; skilled worker training) which are
typical of Western European education and training systems. The First
Education Project (Loan 1559-PO for US$21.0 million) supported the
establishment of the first polytechnic institute to train urgently needed
agricultural and industrial technicians (a program designed to replace the



- 11 -
secondary level programs abolished by the Revolution -- para. 1.02) and the
improvement of primary, secondary and technical teacher training as a means to
improve the overall quality of the school system. The project closed in
December 1984. The draft Project Performance Audit Report, dated April 23,
1987, listed the principal lessons learned as: the need for greater
coordination between design architects, users and contractors; the advantages
of exercising central control over procurement; and the need to put in place
the institutional and legal framework for projects before appraisal. In this
project, political opposition to the creation of some institutions, notably
the new faculties of education (which, with their practical emphasis, offended
conservative academics), slowed implementation.
1.30     The Second Education Project (Loan 1793-PO for US$40.0 million)
became effective on July 15, 1980, and continues the efforts begun under the
First Education Project by training agricultural and industrial technicians
and primary teachers through the post-secondary polytechnics. It further
broadens the curr4culum of secondary schools and strengthens selected
university faculties in the fields of education, industry and agriculture.
Implementation has been slower than anticipated at appraisal due mainly to
deleys in making counterpart funds available in timely fashion. Project
imp?.ementation has improved gradually to a current, satisfactory level, after
a t'iird and final extension of the closing date, now set for December 31,
198', when all project items are expected to be completed. Savings of about
US$5.0 million have already been identified and cancelled (July 1985) because
of the continued devaluation of the escudo vis-a-vis the US dollar and the
lower than estimated construction costs.
1.31     The Manpower Training and Development Project (Loan 2456-PO for
US$30.5 million; effective date - March 29, 1985) assists in the development
of a decentralized network of skilled worker training centers; technician
training (tourism specializations) and of higher level management training
(National Institute of Administration) and in the upgrading of professional
engineers in the work force (the National Engineering Laboratory). The
National Laboratory's programs for engineers are complementary to the proposed
applied research centers (para. 2.05). By upgrading engineers' skills and
strengthening production engineering, in particular, these programs will
facilitate the transfer of research and development products onto the shop
floors of industry.
1.32     These projects should have a substantial impact on the country's
manpower training and development capabilities. They have introduced, for the
first time, important new industrial management training programs; the
on-the-job training of engineers; post-secondary technician training
(polytechnics); skill training centers for early school leavers; and
professional, university-level training for secondary school teachers. Table
1.5 below summarizes the potential contribution of these projects to the
industrial and agricultural sectors.



- 12 -
IkbZiaL 1  PlaneMd Contribution of the IEducatiOn/Tr1ining Projects
to the Developpmnt of Industrial and Agrtcultural Skills
Annual Output                          Annual Output                         Annual Output
Ln lSS9        at  Appraisal          Ln 1793          at  Appraisal         Ln 2454         at  Appraisal
I st PrlecS t (Current Estimatek  2gd Prect    (Cuant Etimatel rd Prol _Current  etIm_Atg_
Engineering/                                              Faculties of                             Prof. Eng.
Science Faculties                                         Eng. & Science              i 0@        Oevelop ant            1.200
(Lis on)                 (1.200)       Center Lg            (1.200)
manageunt           2 Now tnstitutes         2000 La                                                NatiOnal                goo
Training            (Lisbon & Porto)    (2.000)                                                     Institute of           (900) Lb
Admini1 trat 1on
Industrial          I New Institute          7SO          3 Existing                     900 La
Technical           (Lisbon/Setubal/        (750) z9    Institutes                      (900)
training            Sines)                                (Lisbon. Port.
Coiaera)
CoorCial            3 Existing              1.240 a
Tochntcians         Institutes               (400)
Vocational          5 Pilot Uasic             420 a       Industrial                   4,700 II   S Vocational            1.700 La
Training            5k1il Training           (420)        Vocational A                (4,700)      Training              (1.700)
Centers                               Comrcial                                 Centers
Streams in
Multilateral
High Schools
Agriculture         2 Existing                390         2 New Institutes               220
Tech. training      Institutes               (390)                                      (200)
LA In short intensive courses.
L   Transferred to the Second Project.
La  Three-year program at present.  The decline in the enroll6mets and expected outputs of the coaercial institutes
is not readily explained. A reasonable hypothesis is that students opt for degree program even though this may
oblige them to study in evening classes.
La  ten-mnth basic trades program   mftsizing manufacturing. construction, and maintenance.
La  2.5 years program with 0.5 year internship in industry (electricity, electronics, industrial density, meChanical
production, drafting and dta processing.
LL Of which 2600 in industry related fields.
S   Courses to upgrade the skills of wloyed engineers with  hiphasis on the introduction of new technology.
Lb Extension of existing facilities persits additional 900 participants in short, intensive courses.
i  Not yet iopl_nted.  Part of a country-wide Rntterk of vocational centers financed in part by the [EC (10
centers).
1.33          The proposed project would continue Bank support for the strategy of
the First and Second Education Projects, supporting government policy to
improve the education system and to alleviate shortage of skilled labor
through cost-effective development of the country's human resources. Areas
that require particular attention include: (a) strengthening selected
university programs related to productive sectors, through increased support
for relevant research and training programs; (b) further support and expansion
of industrial and agricultural technician training; and (c) support for
quality improvement and increased coverage in general education, particularly
at the secondary level.



- 13 -
II. THE PROJECT
Introduction
2.01     The proposed project was prepared by the Government subsequent to an
identification mission that visited Portugal in July 1985 and preparation
assistance missions in November 1985 and March/April 1986. The project was
appraised in September/October 1986.
Project Objectives and Scope
2.02     The proposed project would address the key manpower development
issues summarized in paras. 1.27, 1.28 and 1.33, and would focus on:
(a) rationalization and strengthening of university research and post-graduate
training in biotechnology, materials science and water resources with a view
to improving their relevance to the increasing technological needs of industry
and agriculture; (b) expansion of, and innovation in polytechnic agricultural
education with a view to emphasizing the practical skills content of training;
and (c) modernization of curricula for secondary education, in particular, the
evaluation and possible extension of a pilot introduction of computers and
associated teacher training to increase the relevance of course content to
current needs.
2.03     To meet the above objectives, the following three items would be
supported under the proposed project: (a) 3 applied research institutes; (b) 2
agricultural polytechnic institutes; and (c) the introduction of computers in
140 secondary and 30 primary schools.
2.04     Specifically, the proposed project would support the following:
(a) Applied Research Institutes:
(i) Establishment of three new applied research institutes in
biotechnology for industry and agriculture; in materials science
for industry; and for water resources, by the provision of funds
for construction, equipment and furniture;
(ii) Development and training of university research staff through
direct tec.nical assistance, institutional "twinning"
arrangements and collaboration with industry (1,296 months of
specialist assistance and 2,044 months of fellowships); and
(iii) Training of post-graduate research workers (110 research
positions).
(b) Agricultural Polytechnic Institutes:
(i) Establishment of 2 new institutes with 200 student places each,
by providing constructicn, equipment and furniture; and
(ii) Instructor training (1 month of specialist services and 1,135
months of fellowships); curriculum development (9 months of
specialist services); and.project planning and management (196
months of fellowships and 1 month of specialist services).



- 14 -
(c) Computers in Schools:
(i) Reinforcement and evaluation (12 months of specialist services
and 36 man-months of fellowships) of the Government's pilot
scheme (in 40 secondary and 10 primary schools) and proposed
extension (computers, software, books, and equipment) into an
additional 100 secondary schools and 20 primary schools; and
(ii) In-service training of school teachers in the use of computers
in education (#2O months of specialist services and 1,852 months
of fellowships).
Applied Research Institutes
2.05     Three applied research institutes with regional branches would be
established to support applied research in areas of vital importance to
Portugal's entry into the EC, namely biotechnolbgy, materials science, and
water resources (para. 1.23).
2.06     In order to avoid the fragmentation of research activities (para.
1.23), the project would provide research facilities for each of the above
fields in a specific institution with consequent savings in recurrent
expenditure, improvement in research facilities and more concentrated use of
equipment and research staff as well as enhancement of research staff training
and of the potential for development of collaborative research with industry.
Each institute would engage in revenue-generating industrial contract work in
areas such as quality control and product development, by providing
instrumental and analytical capability not normally available to many
enterprises. It is estimated that after five years of operation, contract
work could meet about 402 of the annual recurrent costs of the institutions.
Contract work would also develop industry-university linkages by focusing
research projects on the introduction of new technology and on the design and
development of specific production processes. To reinforce these linkages the
project would introduce a board at each institute, which will be responsible
for decisions on (i) selection of research projects with due regard to the
priority research needs of the industries concerned, as well as on (financing,
(iii) budgeting, and (iv) management of such research projects. As such the
boards' composition would reflect adequate representation from all parties
concerned, ideally 501 participation from industry and the public sector, and
501 from the universities.   Each board would be chaired by a university staff
member. To ensure wide representation of interests and to promote innovation,
one-third of the board membership would be renewed each year but with the
possibility of continued service by members, if approved by the board.
2.07     The exchange of research knowledge, new techniques and the
development of collaborative research projects would be developed through
visiting scientists and lecturers (300 months), research assistantships and
research fellowships (1,876 months), to be provided by the project.
Short-term study visits would also be provided (196 months). Linkages with
industry would be forged and strengthened by the provision of joint research
programs funded by the institutes and industry.
2.08     The project would establish about 110 research training positions in
the proposed 3 research institutes. Each research trainee would undertake a
training period of about three years in the institutes and in industry, under
the direction of Portugue3e staff with overseas university collaboration.



- 15 -
This model of training hba already been tested successfully in the
Bank-supported National Engineering Laboratory (Second Education Project and
the Manpower Training and Development Project, paras. 1.30-1.31) and the
twinning of Portuguese universities with overseas research departments is
well-accepted. The training would be on applied research projects, related to
industrial research priorities, and selected on the basis of priority areas
identified by JNICT. The project would be funded through INIC (paras
1.10-1.13), with final selection of research topics and students by the
proposed board of the research institute in question. Tne autonomous boards
would have appropriate powers for administration of the institute. This
management structure would be similar to that of INESC which has proved to be
very successful (para. L.23). The project, once fully operational, would
produce about 110 technologically qualified research workers per year, more
than quadrupling the current output in these fields of research (para. 1.13).
Of these about 80 would be qualified in the important, new and expanding area
of biotechnology. As these areas of research are comparatively new, this
output of researchers working together with leading scientists already
recognized in these fields would give Portugal the potential for developing a
strong comparative advantage in the industrial application of certain new
products and techniques.
2.09     The proposed biotechnology institute, serving both industry and
agriculture, would be supported jointly by the Ministries of Education and
Agriculture.   This institute would strengthen quality control standards for
biological products; coordinate biotechnology research; and assist in
developing the biotechnical, chemical and food processing industries. It
would also aid agricultural research in areas such as development of new
crops, genetics, and soil research; the institute would integrate existing
groups of research workers in biotechnology and form an interdisciplinary
research resource to support basic and applied research and development. The
project would provide the construction and equipping of high standard research
laboratories including those required for microbiological investigations. The
institute would be established in collaboration with the National Institute
for Agrarian Research and Rural Extension (INIAER) of the MOA and would be
sited near Lisbon at the INEAER center in Oeiras. Links would be forged with
the Gulbenkian Institute which has research facilities on the same site. As
these research institutions are active in various aspects of applied research,
their concentration in close proximity to each other would enable not only the
sharing of expensive items of equipment but also the interchange of ideas and
experience between the various groups of research workers. To enable the
proposed biotechnology institute to respond better to the needs of
bio-industry a regional branch would be established ir Porto to provide
services to the northern region of Portugal. About 30 research staff would be
transferred to the institute from existing departments and institutes of the
universities in Lisbon and from INIC centers. The project would provide the
state-of-the-art equipment necessary for research in microbiology,
biochemistry, biophysics, biochemical engineering and product/process
development for industrial companies in these fields. Similarly, extraction
and biosynthetic equipment would be provided to support the process
development work at present being undertaken for biochemical manufactures. A
biotechnical library would be developed and provided with books and journals,
and an information data and retrieval system wouild be established. The
project would provide funding for international visiting lecturers and
research workers in the above subject areas, as well as in fermentation,
protein, pharmaceutical, food scienLe, agriculture (fertilizers and
pesticide), aquaculture and biosynthesis research areas, which are of
particular importance to the biotechnical research orientation of the
institute. The project would also provide overseas fellowships for the



- 16 -
training of both academic and technical support staff in the same subject
areas and for in-country training of post-graduate students. International
university collaboration would be continued and developed both by means of
research and exchange fellowships. The limited existing collaboration with
industry (22 firms) would be further developed by: (i) participation of
industry and agro-industry in the proposed board; (ii) staff undertaking
research contract work; (iii) joint research projects; (iv) providing on a
contractual basis space and use of equipment to firms; (v) providing
analytical services; (vi) giving access to information data banks; and (vii)
staff exchanges.
2.10     In order to achieve higher quality of applied research in materials
science and to improve quality control of materials and development of mineral
resources, the project would support the establishment of a proposed institute
for materials science research at the University of Porto, to provide services
to metallurgy, metal, mechanical, steel, mining, ceramics, glass and marine
industries for new product development, quality control, corrosion problems
and for materials testing (para. 1.23). The institute would integrate two
existing research departments at the University of Porto -- one in the area of
inorganic materials and the other in the area of organic materials. The
project would include the construction of a new research facility which would
enable the efficient and integrated operation of equipment and services.
Equipment would be provided for optical and electron microscopy, structural
and chemical analysis, and for the preparation of materials. Visiting
lecturers and research workers would be funded to enable the latest
technologies to be transferred to the research institute. Research workers
would be trained through a system of funded research assistantships.
Cooperation with about 25 major industrial companies such as Minas e
Metalurgia, EUROFER, COMETNA, CIMNOR, Com.panhia Portuguesa de Fornos
Electricos and Renault, would be fostered by jointly funded research
projects. These industries would be represented in the proposed board (para.
2.06). Relationships with international universities would be developed by
means of exchange lecturers and research fellowships to be funded under the
project. Provision would also be made for the development of a new
comprehensive library on the science of materials with an information
retrieval system linked to data bases abroad.
2.11     To further develop applied research in water resources, the project
would support the establishment of a proposed water research institute at the
University of Coimbra. This institute would be constituted by the University
and private institutions to coordinate and rationalize research in
hydrobiology and geohydrology and to strengthen the relationship to industry
and agriculture (para. 1.23). The institute would maintain drinking water
standards and assist in developing anti-pollution measures, mandated by the
Government. The interdisciplinary research center would coordinate work on
various aspects of water and aquatic systems as national resources, and
provide scientific and technical support to industry and agriculture in
Portugal. The existing collaboration with industry, agriculture and fisheries
would be extended to include more companies and better facilities would be
provided to undertake development contract work.. This would include field
equipment and statistical computing facilities for analysis and examination of
river ecology, including the impact of pollutants and development of
aquaculture techniques. The project would also provide for post-graduate
training of researchers and technicians in areas of water technology. The
project would include the construction of a new laboratory wing to an existing
building and renovation of existing laboratories at the University of



- 17 -
Coimbra. Equipment would be provided for research in areas such as structure
of aqueous solutions, electrokinetic properties of colloidal particles,
chemistry of precipitation, hydraulics of surface waters, water supply
construction, hydraulic transport, corrosion and geochemistry. In addition, a
water resource library would be developed. The project would also provide for
visiting scientists and lecturers to assist in the transfer of technology to
the institute, including an international biostatician to develop statistical
techniques in research and training. International and local fellowships
would be provided under the project for staff development and for research
training to meet the water technology development needs of Portugal, and for
the in-service training of industrial personnel.
2.12     During negotiations the Government provided assurances that: (a) it
would establish, with appropriate powers and authority, a board for each
research institute with about 50% representation from industry, and the public
sector, and 50% universities; and (b) the institutes would conduct contract
research programs for industry with appropriate cost recovery.
Agricultural Polytechnic Institutes
2.13     In order to assist Portugal strengthen agricultural training and help
diversify agricultural crops and products, the project would provide
construction, furniture and equipment for two new agricultural polytechnic
institutes and establish job-related, practically oriented agricultural
training for technicians in farming and horticulture (para. 1.24). Due to the
intensive practical nature of the proposed training programs, each institute
would have a restricted and manageable enrollment of about 200, with an output
of about 60 graduates per year.
2.14     The three-year study program (para. 1.17) would contain a number of
features currently not found in, but expected to lead to changes in, other
agricultural polytechnic institutes in Portugal. Specifically, one-third of
the time would be spent by students working in the agricultural industry on a
number of carefully planned, supervised and assessed practical tasks, written
studies and projects. The institutes would provide full boarding and
semesters would be lengthened to encompass growing seasons so that students
would be able to undertake crop and animal husbandry projects which they would
manage themselves. Curriculum changes would be carried out in close
collaboration between the Ministries of Education and Agriculture and would
involve a substantial increase in management and marketing components of the
course. There would be extensive use of computers for instruction, in
particular for farm planning/budgeting and accounting. Equipment provision
would allow maximum practical experience to be gained by students in all
aspects of farm mechanization and libraries would be well supplied with
up-to-date texts. Assessment procedures would ensure that at least 502 of the
annual grade in each course would be awarded for proficiency in practical
skills.
2.15     The institutes would be located at Refois near Ponte de Lima in the
northwest of Portugal and at Beja in the south.  The locations of these two
agricultural institutes were selected on the basis of the different
agricultural practices in the north and south regions and the lack of
polytechnic-level agricultural training in either of these areas. Each
institute would operate a farm, to be used primarily in support of teaching.
At Ponte de Lima, suitable farm land and a historic building have been donated
by the community, which is very supportive of the proposed agricultural
institute.



- 18 -
2.16     To help further ensure regional relevance in the curriculum and
active involvement by local communities, especially in the selection of farmer
employers for the farm-internship part of the training, each school would be
advised by an existing Consultative Group made up of farmers and
representatives of regional planning and farming organizations. Technical
assistance would be provided to ensure that these advisory groups benefit from
the experiences of similar successful groups in other European countries.
2.17     To ensure that a sizeable proportion of each intake would have
practical farming experience, the schools would recruit students following
aptitude tests and interviews, with about 30% of places reserved for young
persons with farming background. The general entry standard would be a pass
in the secondary school leaving certificate. However, there would also be
special entry procedures for students with a farming background who have
finished the vocational secondary level of education, and student over 25
years of age, who lack formal qualifications, but have passed qualifying
examinations. Appropriate remedial instruction would be provided should
students not have the required entry levels in certain subjects (para. 2.20).
2.18     A number of changes would be made in teacher recruitment and
training. A new system of recruitment would be introduced under which
prospective teachers would be invited to attend one of a number of one-week
orientation seminars to be supported by project technical assistance; at the
end of the seminar, selection interviews would be held and those selected
would be offered fellowships under the project for further training,
emphasizing the teaching of practical skills. Administrative and farm
management staff would also be awarded fellowships for study in Europe.
2.19     Nine man-months of technical assistance would be provided to assist
in project planning and management and for curriculum development in the
fields of agricultural machinery, farm management, computer use and irrigation
techniques. The Government has prepared a suitable implementation plan for
the technical assistance and fellowship program.
2.20     During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that for the
agricultural polytechnic institutes it would: (i) base teacher recruitment on
curriculum vitae analysis and interview evaluations, supplemented by
orientation seminars for all teachers; (ii) select about 30 percent of the
stu6ents from applicants with a farming background; (iii) include secondary
school students with a farming background in the recruitment process and
provide appropriate remedial instruction as necessary for students who are
admitted through special entry procedures; and (iv) prepare by December 31,
1988, curricula with emphasis on practical skills and equipment lists for such
curricula.
Computers in Schools
2.21     The Government, in an effort to raise the level of computer
instruction in schools to that of the of the rest of the EC countries, has
already launched a pilot scheme to explore the use of computers in instruction
(para. 1.25) in a limited number of schools. Yet, the scheme is uneven in
terms of support services and preparation: not all of the 40 secondary
schools and 10 primary schools have equal access to trained teachers



- 19 -
and curricula adapted for computer assistance; the management of the scheme is
weak (para. 1.26) and no systematic evaluation has been planned. The proposed
project would reinforce the current program by upgrading teachers' skills,
strengthening the program's management (para. 3.13), training staff in
evaluation procedures and providing additional equipment as required. These
steps are a prerequisite for sound evaluation.  Once the program has been
strengthened, an evaluation would be conducted (after two further years of
operation) to reorient as necessary this pilot scheme in a second phase.  The
evaluation would also endeavor to get specific feedback on the instructional
impact of the scheme, enabling curricula, teacher training and the integration
of computer study into the school timetable to be improved in a second phase.
The results of the evaluation would be reviewed jointly by the Government and
the Bank and used to direct the extension of the program to 100 secondary and
20 primary schools. The schools would be chosen on the basis of (i) interest
in participating in the program; (ii) geographical distribution; (iii) size of
school; and (iv) space and facilities for computer utilization without
substantial additional investments in civil works. The primary schools would
be selected to form groups (five schools in each group), each to be associated
with a secondary school in the project, to which the graduates of the sixth
grade would progress. One of these groups would be chosen from mainly urban,
and one from mainly rural catchment areas.
2.22     Facilities and equipment would be provided to enable students to
become familiar with computer perations and applications. Typical
applications might include: (a) teaching of logic, basic language skills and
computation at the primary level; and at other levels: (b) computation and
simple programming in the context of mathematics; (c) simulation techniques
and the control and monitoring of experiments in science and technology; (d)
spread sheets in economics, commerce and mathematics; (e) data handling and
graphic display for the collection and analysis of data in science, geography
or history; (f) computer assisted design in art and drafting; and (g) word
processing for homework and report writing which can have a significant impact
on student productivity. In the longer term, an effort would be made to use
the ccmputer in selected subjects as a medium for instruction, at a level
where individual study habits have been developed. Also, the computer would
be used to administer curriculum-based tests, providing teachers with better
information about the performance and learning difficulties of individual
students.
2.23     The project provides for the establishment in each school a computer
center, with a capacity of 36 students, with one computer for two students.
Students would work together when starting to learn new materials, but would
also have access to computers for individual work. In addition, three
compus_rs with greater storage capacity would be provided in each center.  The
comp-or-:r equipment would also be used by the administrative staff for
personnel management, financial accounting, class rosters, scheduling of
classes, and for the compilation and analysis of attendance and achievement
data. Each secondary school would be equipped with 21 micro-computers (3 with
hard disks), 4 printers, a large format monitor for demonstration, software
books and furniture. Each primary school would receive five micro-computers,
a printer, a demonstration monitor and support materials as above. Minor
works to convert classroom space and electrical supply for the centers would
also be provided.



- 20 -
2.24     The project would prepare school teachers and administrators for the
new programs by in-service training at four universities and nine teacher
training colleges, or institutions with experienco in this type of training.
Additional computer equipment, accessories, software and books would be
provided to these institutions.
2.25     There would be three types of computer training: (i) a three-month
course to train a coordinator and an alternate of computer-based education
from each of the 140 secondary schools (they would be selected on the basis of
their enthusiasm and knowledge of computers), and one computer teacher from
each of the 30 primary schools (930 months total); (ii) a two-week
familiarization course for 4 different subject teachers from each secondary
school and 2 teachers from each primary school (310 months); and (iii) a
one-month course, given twice each school year, to permit school principals
and some of their key staff to gain familiarity with administrative
applications of computers (about 500 months). In-service teacher training in
the use of computers is a critical element. It would require continuous
support and advice. Therefore, provision would be made for professional
support by means of computer extension counsellors (296 months) who would
visit schools to assist teachers during implementation. An existing corps of
staff with expertise in computers at Coimbra University would be augmented to
provide this counselling in the schools. Coordination of their work and any
additional training required would be provided by a visiting international
expert (12 months).
2.26     International fellowships (96 months) would be provided for the
training of teacher trainers in the use of computers as a teaching tool and in
the development of computer-based curricula. Fellowships would be held in
overseas universities with faculties of education specialized in
computer-assisted instruction. Such faculty staff would be selected to
provide specialized services in in-service training and in evaluation.
2.27     The final suimmative evaluation of the project would focus on the
impact of five years of exposure to computer-assisted instruction on the
students in the 40 secondary schools and 10 primary schools of the first
phase, comparing their levels of achievement, and their attitudes to school
with those of students in control group schools. The evaluation would also
include extensive sampling of the attitudes of principals, teachers and
parents to the new program. This final report would also include an
assessment of the program to be implemented in the 100 secondary and 20
primary schools of the second phase. Specific, operational recommendations
would be made on the consolidation of the program and on the economic and
technical feasibility of a further extension of the program countrywide,
including measures for establishing locally-financed funds for upgrading or
replacing equipment. An analysis of the organizational management and
institutional structures necessary for that extension would be made. During
negotiations the Government provided assurances that: (i) by December 31, 1991
it would carry out an interim evaluation of the program for the introduction
of computers into the school system and by June 30, 1992, review the results
with the Bank; (ii) by December 31, 1994, carry out a summative evaluation as
outlined above and by March 31, 1995, furnish to the Bank the conclusions and
recommendations 3f such evaluation; and (iii) by December 31, 1994, study the
feasibility of re-supplying computer facilities in each school through
replenishment funds and furnish to the Bank the conclusions and
recommendations of such study.



- 21 -
III. PROJECT COST, FINANCING, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
Cost of the Project
3.01           Sumnary of Project Costs.  Project costs are estimated at Esc. 11,563
million or US$77.1 million equivalent and include: (a) construction, site
development and.professional services for new buildings and rehabilitation of
existing facilities; (b) provision of furniture, equipment, publications and
computer software; and (c) specialist services, fellowships, resource teachers
aiud research training for the project items shown in Table 3.1 below and
further detailed in Annex 7.
Table 3.1: Summary of Project Costs by Project Item /a
(ESCODOS Billion)             (OSS Nilioni                      .
........... .                                            foreign   aa4e
Local  Soreign  total    Local foreign Total  Excbange    Costs
A APPLIED RESURC1E IlSTItUltES
..... .........  .. .... .. .. .
RlioTECH1CAL KESIARCI INSTITylU                                     1,629.3 2,581.0  4,220.3    10.9         11.3  28.1            61         43
.KATERILS SCIEICE RESURGC  INSTITUTE                                  156.3   421.6       57T.9      1.0      2.8   3.9            73          d
VAT!! RESOURCES RSISURCR INSTJTUYE                                    462.3   730.5  1,192.8         3.1      4.9   8.0            61         .:
..... ......  . . ..... ...... ..  . ...... ....... .......---....  ..... -
Sub-Yotal APPLIID R8SUBRCB INSTITOTIS                                  2,248.0 3.743.0  5,991.0   15.0          25.0  39.9             62        61
9. AIGICULT?IAL POLYTECEIIC INSTITUTES
........... ... ...............
IORIC9LTU9AL POLYMEINIC INSTITUTES                                    686.9   762.1  1,449.1         4.6      5.1   9.7            53         15
AGRICULTUlRL TUC11R TRAINING                                           26.3   244.2       270.5      0.2      1.6   1.8            90          3
AGRICULTURAL CURRICULUI DIVILOPYENT                                      1.8     10.2      12.0    .0.0       0.1   0.1            85          0
GRICULTURAL PAlNNING, P?UG & #GI?                                       0.1      10.7      11.4    0.0        0.1   0.1            94          0
... ........  ............ .. .... ..  . .... ........ ... .... .... .. .....  -------....
Sub-Total AGRICULTURAL POLYTECENIC INSTITUTIS                             715.7 1,02? 2  1,742.9        4.8      6.8  11.-             59        18
6. CONPUTERS IN SCROOLS
COWPUTiR 11CILIMIES                                                   356.1 1,193.1   1,549.2        2.4      0.0  10.3            7t         16
CURRIC PIT AND TUCUIR tRl                                             358.2    74.2       430.4      2.4      0.5   2.9            17          4
EVALUATION Of CONPUTER USE                                            110.6    56.9       161A      0.7       0.4    1.1           34          '
....... ..........   . ........  .... . . ...... .....  ....... ,..  .... .... 
Sub-Total COIPUTIRS IN SCHOOLS                                            822.9 1,324.2  2,147.0        5.5      8.8  14.3            62         22
....... .......... . ..........  ..... ........ . ..... ......... .------- . .. .  ... ..   
Total BASILINI COSTS   /b                                                3,186.6 6,094.4  9,880.9   25.2          40.6  65.9             62       100
PhysiCal Contingencies                                                  318.7   609.4    988.1         2.5      4.1   6.6            62         i0
Price Contingencies                                                     268.8   425.7       694.5      1.8      2.8   4.6           6i
. ....... ....... ...... ...  . .. .. .. .. .... .. .. .  .... ...... -----
?otal PIOJICT COSTS  /c                                                  4,434.0 7,129.5 11,563.5    29.6         47.5  77.1             62       1
/a  Detailed figures may not add up to totals because of roundings,
/b  Base cost estimates reflect prices as of June, 1987.
tc  Total project costs include an estimated US2.3 million in identifiable
duties and taxes.



- 22 -
A sumary of project costs by category of expenditure is given in Table 3.2.
Table 3.2:  Project Costs by Category of Expenditure /a
(ESCOPOS lillion)            (OSS Nhllion)                   t Total
------------------   ---  .................            orei      Base
Leal  Roreiga  Total    Local foreiga Total   Ehange    Costs
I.MSTIEI ? COSTS
A. C?VIL WORIS
...... ................ 
IED COISTR0C7IO1                           983.9   590.8  1,554.?    8.4         3.9  10A4            38        16
EIENSION AND RIIOlATOI                     282.6   173.2    455.9    1.9         1.2   3.0            38         5
OOSTEL IACILITIES                          132.4    81.2    213.6    0.9         0.5   1.4           38          2
STfIIO lOSIN6                               30.3    18.5        48.8    0.2      0.1   0.3            38         0
fill BOILDINGS                             118.7    72.8    191.5    0.8         0.5   1.3           38          2
SItEI702S                                  173.0   106.0    279.0    1.2         0.7   1.9           38          3
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..... ..   ....... ........... ..... ........ ....... .........   .........*..
Sub-Total CIVIL VOn$S                        1,700.9 1,042.5  2,743.5   11.3         7.0  18.3           38        28
3. PIOfESSIONIL SBERICES                      201.9    11.6    219.5    1.3          0.1   1.5            8         2
C. 1f1oIITUREAID NQIPOR=T
. .... . ............
fRITuIIll                                  175.8   107.8    283.6    1.2         0.1   1.9           38          3
EQUIPRIUT                                  466.1 3,119.2  3,565.3    3.1    20.8  23.9               87        36
BOOKS AID O5I07 lI                         41.9   280.2    322.1    0.3         1.9   2.1           87         3
. .. ... .. .. ..... .......... .....   ......  ...... ........... .....  .........  .......... .. . ...
Sub-Total   RN11TVRE IND EQIEOlpIt            683.8 3,501.2  4,191.0    4.6    23.4  27.9               84        42
D. TICEINICL SSISTANCE
, ................
IELLOISNIPS                                250.1   822.1  1,072.3    1.7         5.5   7.1           77        11
SPICIULISTS                                282.6   239.1    521.7    1.9         1.6   3.5           46         5
EISOURCE TIACIERS                          201.2         -    201.2    1.3         -   1.3            -         2
IESEUICI TRAINING                          485.9   485.9    931.8    3.1         3.1   6.2           50         9
..... ....... ........ ... ........  ........... .. .... . ...... ............ .. ...  ... ......., .  ....
Sub-Total TECU1ICAL ASSISTIUCE              1,199.9 1,527.1  2,727.0    8.0    10.2  18.2                56        28
Total BASELINI COSTS                             3,788.6 6,094.4  9,880.9   25.2    40.6  65.9               62       100
Physical Coatiagencies                          378.7   609.4    988.1    2.5         4.1   6.6           62        10
Price Continapecies                             268.8   425.7    694.5    1.8         2.8   4.6           61         7
Total PROJWCT COSTS                              4,434.0 7,129.5 11,563.5   29.6    47.S  17.1               62       117
. ............ .. .. .. ... .... . . .... .......  ... .... . .. .  .......... .....................  ...... ............. .
/a Detailed figures may not add up to totals because of roundings.



- 23 -
3.02     Basis of Cost Estimates.  Costs of the construction of research
facilities are based on reviews of designs and specifications for comparable
facilities and average US$370 per X2, excluding site works; those for the
agricultural polytechnic institutes are based on reviews of recently awarded
contracts for comparable facilities at the Setubal and Faro polytechnics that
are financed under the Second Education Project (Loan 1793-PO) and average
US$300 per m2. The cost of refurbishing existing facilities are based on
mission estimates of the work involved to bring these building facilities up
to acceptable standards. These costs range from US$35 to US$330 per m2 (the
latter figure refers the estimated cost of reconstructing into agricultural
training and boarding facilities, a historically important building on farm
land that was donated to the project by the farmer community at Ponte de Lima,
ref. para. 2.15). Furniture cost estimates are based on existing, priced
furniture lists and amount to about 102 of the cost of new construction.
Equipment costs have been estimated on the basis of existing equipment lists
and specifications for about 80% of the equipment. Remaining equipment costs
have been calculated on the basis of mission estimates. Technical assistance
costs were estimated on the basis of recent prices for comparable technical
assistance in the Second Education Project (Loan 1793-PO), the Manpower
Training and Development Project (Loan 2456-PO) and other, Government-financed
fellowships.  Base cost estimates reflect prices as of the time of
negotiations (June, 1987).
3.03     Unit Costs and Areas per Student.  Total costs per trainee place for
the agricultural polytechnic institute at Beja (the only newly constructed
training institution in the proposed project) are appropriate but somewhat
higher than those in other, Bank-financed projects because of the relatively
low but justified capacity of the institution and the emphasis on practical
work requiring investment in farm machinery (paras. 2.13, 2.14). Areas per
place are similar to those in other Bank-financed projects. Comparisons of
these unit costs and areas with other Bank-financed projects are made in Annex
8. Computer equipment (hardware) costs per student in the participating
secondary schools are estimated at an average of US$190 per student and the
annualized cost per student amounts to about US$30. This annual cost is
similar to that found in European school systems.
3.04     Customs Duties and Taxes.  Project costs include an estimated US$2.3
million in indirect taxes on locally procured civil works and goods. Goods
imported directly for use by Government ministries are exempt from duties.
3.05     Contingency Allowances.  Project costs include a contingency
allowance for unforeseen physical additions (US$6.6 million), equal to 10% of
the estimated cost of all project items. Price contingencies between
negotiations (June, 1987) and the end of project implementation are estimated
at US$4.6 million equivalent, or 6.3% of base cost plus physical
contingencies. Total contingencies represent 17.0% of the base cost. Annual
rates of price increases have been applied to both local and foreign costs and
for all categories in US$ terms at the following annual rates:  32 in 1987,
1.0% in 1988-90, and 3.5% thereafter. By expressing both foreign and local
price contingencies in US$ equivalencies, it has been assumed that the present
policy of adjusting the Escudo exchange rate to reflect the inflation
differential between Portugal and its major trading partners will continue.
The Escudo has been devalued in accordance with this pattern since 1978 and is
now adjusted daily on a crawling-peg system.



- 24 -
3.06     Foreign Exchange Component.  The foreign exchange component was
estim&ted as follows: (a) construction and renovation of existing facilities
- 38%; (b) furniture - 38% ; (c) equipment - 87%; (d) specialist services -
46%; (e) fellowships - 77%; (f) resource teachers - 0%; and (g) on-the-job
training in research - 50 %. These percentages have been determined by:
(a) estimating the indirect foreign exchange of construction and furniture;
(b) assuming that all equipment would be imported; (c) assuming that the cost
of foreign specialists would be 85% foreign and that of local ones 20%;
(d) assuming that the cost of foreign training would be 95% foreign and that
of local training 20%; and (e) assessing the input mix of on-the-job training
in research. Including contingencies, the resulting foreign exchange
component is estimated at US$47.5 million, or about 62% of total costs.
3.07     Recurrent Costs.  Under the proposed project, recurrent costs  would
be generated by: (a) the recruitment of instructors to augment the staffing of
the polytechnics; and (b) needs for incremental research budgets to sustain
the proposed improvement in industry/university relationship; and (c) the need
for supplies, incremental staff costs and maintenance for the proposed
computers in secondary schools. Modest recurrent costs would also be
generated by building maintenance. The total incremental recurrent
expenditures generated by the project when it is fully operational in 1994,
are estimated to be about Esc. 862 million in 1986 prices. In addition to
these costs, annualized capital costs of the project items would be about Esc.
465 million in 1986 prices.
3.08     Revenues would be generated at the research institutes through
contract research carried out for industry and service fees for quality
control services (para. 2.06). Within five years of operations, these
revenues are estimated to reach about Esc. 180 million annually in 1986
prices. By the year 2000, the net effect of the combined incremental
recurrent costs, annualized capital costs and revenues is expected to be an
incremental annual cost of about Esc. 1,160 million in 1986 prices. This sum
represents about 1.0% of the MOE recurrent budget in 1986 and is expected to
be fully sustained because of the high priority that the Government attaches
to the proposed project items.
Project Financing
3.09     The proposed loan ot US$32.0 million would finance 67% of the foreign
exchange component of the project. The Government would finance the remaining
33% of foreign costs (US$15.5 million) and all local costs (US$29.6 million).
The Government anticipates that the EC and other external sources of finances
will reimburse the Government about 60% of expenditures made for the proposed
biotechnology institute (US$15.9 million equivalent). Project financing would
be in accordance with Table 3.3. To permit the research institute component
to continue its current pace of implementation, retroactive financing (US$1.6
million) would be included for: (a) consultant services to design the
research institutes (US$0.4 million); minor construction -- laboratory
modification and storage of chemicals (US$0.2 million); and (c) urgently
required research equipment (US$1.0 million). Retroactive financing would be
limited to expenditures incurred prior to loan signing but after September 30,
1986.



- 25 -
Table 3.3: Financial Plan
---US.--------Us$ Million------------------
Government of Portugal
Estimated     Government
Category of Expenditure            IBRD      EC Funds    Contribution    Total
Civil Works:
riotechnology Component           1.9           7.1          1.0           10.0
Other Components                  3.7           0.0          5.5            9.2
Professional Services                 1.4           0.0           0.2            1.6
Furniture                             0.8           0.2           1.0           2.0
Equipment                             9.0           6.6           9.5          25.1
Books and Software                    0.8           0.4           1.0           2.2
Techical Assistance:
Fellowships                       7.7          0.0           0.0            7.7
Specialists                       3.8          0.0           0.0            3.8
Resource Teachers                 0.0           0.0          1.4            1.4
iResearch Training                0.0           0.0           6.7            6.7
Unallocated                           2.9           1.6           2.9            7.4
Total                                32.0          15.9          29.2           77.1
Management and Implementation
3.10     Coordination.  The proposed project would be implemented by existing
line agencies in charge of each project item. Coordination would be ensured
through the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU), which was formally established
within the MOE under the First Education Project (Loan 1559-PO). This unit is
staffed by a director, whose authority is being strengthened by his
appointment to the post of Deputy Director-General of Higher Education. Other
staff in the PCU include an accountant, an educational adviser and a
programmer analyst. The duties and functions of the PCU would primarily be
those of coordinating the work of implementing departments, monitoring
progress, keeping project accounts and liaison with the Bank. This is in
accord with experience in the past two Bank-financed projects that have been
implemented by the MOE. During negotiations the Government provided an
assurance that the PCU would be maintained, with staffing and terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank.
3.11     Applied Research Institutes.  Under the general guidan-e of a
proposed board with appropriate composition and powers at each research
institute (para 2.06), the implementation activities of each research
institute would be conducted by an implementation task force, also headed by
university staff.   Research proposals would be screened to ensure economic
and technical relevance and feasibility. JNICT (para. 1.11) would be
responsible for ensuring that research proposals are in priority areas for
development, and a task force with industry representation, elected by each
research council would adjudicate each proposal.



- 26 -
3.12     Agricultural Polytechnic Institutes.  The agricultural polytechnic
institutes are under the management of the Directorate of Higher Education.
Under the general guidance of the Minister of Education, a polytechnic
director has been appointed to assume day-to-day implementation
responsibilities and to lead an advisory task force with membership from the
Ministries of Education and Agriculture and interested local agencies, such as
farmer associations and representatives from local agro-industries. The
mandate of this task force is to guide polytechnic directors with respect to:
(a) appropriate land utilization; (b) review of architects' briefs;
preparation of draft curricula and detailed equipment lists, and (d'
recommendations to the MOE with respect to teacher and student se, f on
criteria.
3.13     Computers in Schools.  The management arrangements for the proposed
school computer component would be strengthened through the reinforcement of
the existing Central Steering Committee reporting to the Minister of Education
on information technologies, by ensuring that in the fullfillment of its
duties, it receives advise and feedback from parents, students, teachers,
teacher trainers, industry, services, regional committees and other relevant
interested parties.. This committee would oversee the work of an executive
task force (administrative support group), responsible for the preparation and
miodification of equipment lists and specifications; review and modification of
curricula for computer based learning, recruitment of instructors;
identification -of fellowship candidates; and monitoring and evaluation of the
toomputer component. The administrative support group would be composed of an
Executive Director assisted by specialists for education planning, curriculum
development, teacher training, project evaluation, information technology
(both hardware and software),. records, information and communications, and
public relations. The administrative support group would be p'ovided with
appropriate office and support staff. The Government intends to transfer the
responsibility for implementation of this project component by 1991 to the
central and regional organs of the Ministry of Education and will discuss this
matter with the Bank before such a transfer. The creation of the
administrative support group would be a condition of disbursements for the
computers in schools component.
3.14     In the four education regions, the regional education offices would
be responsible for selecting the participating schools on the basis of
criteria and guidelines prepared during appraisal, and for implementing agreed
recommendations of the Central Steering Committee in the participating
schools. These guidelines include availability of physical facilities,
interest shown by teachers and students, availability of trained teachers,
school size and school location. At the school level, local experts from the
teaching profession and industry would act as advisers on program
implementation to individual schools.
3.15     Architectural Design Services.  Consultants for the three research
institutes have been selected in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the
use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency, dated August 1981, and those for the agricultural polytechnic
institutes would be selected on the same basis. Designs for modifications to
the secondary schools would be done by MOE's design unit. The consultants
would be responsible for all stages of the design/supervision process.
3.16     Site Acquisition.  Acceptable sites have been acquired for all but
one project item, the agricultural polytechnic iastitute at Beja. For that
institution, three appropriate, Government-owned land areas are under
evaluation. During negotiations the Government provided assurances that by



- 27 -
March 31, 1988 it would furnish evidence to the Bank of the allocation of
appropriate government land for the agricultural polytechnic at Beja,
including a plan for its use and development.
3.17     Maintenance.  Project institutions have been well maintained in the
past and the Ministry of Education's policy and practices (including budget
allocations) :'. this respect are expected to continue.
3.18     Procurement.  Bids for civil works for the research institutes and
the agricultural polytechnic institutes at Beja would be invited in four
separate bids under International Competitive Bidding Procedures (ICB) in
accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits" (August 1984). Bids for equipment have been grouped into about
30 packages, suitable for ICB, the content of which could typically be
supplied by one supplier. About 35% of the value of these packages would be
procured under the Bank's procurement guidelines, while the remaining 65% of
the equipment to be procured under ICB procedures would be procured under the
ICB procurement rules of the Government or the EC. In comparison of bids for
equipment to be procured through ICB, domestic manufacturers would be allowed
a preferential margin of 15%, or the existing customs duty, whichever is the
lower over the c.i.f. prices of competing imports. Under ICB procedures,
invitations to bid and the proposed award of contracts would be reviewed by
the Bank prior to final award decisions. It is estimated that this review
would cover about 83% of all equipment contracts (US$25.0 million equivalent)
and about 79% of all civil works contracts (US$16.9 million equivalent).
3.19     Exceptions to procurement under ICB rules would be as follows:
(a) because of the need for the selected contractor to be familiar
with local by-laws and regulations with respect to
reconstruction on historical sites (para. 2.15), bids for civil
works for the agricultural polytechnic institute at Ponte de
Lima (US$3.7 million) would be invited in accordance with the
Government's local competitive bidding procedures (LCB), which
are satisfactory to the Bank;
(b) because of the small size and dispersed nature of the necessary
renovations (mostly re-wiring) of schools to receive computers
(estimated to cost less that US$0.8 million in the aggregate),
the procurement would be done in accordance with the
Government's LCA procedures;
(c) invitations to bid for packages of goods, estimated to cost less
than US$150,000 each, which in the aggregate would not exceed
US$3.0 million 4nd which would not be expected to interest
foreign suppliers because of the variety in each package, could
be invited under the Government's LCB procedures.
(d) contracts for goods, estimated to cost less than US$75,000 each,
which in the aggregate would not exceed US$2.0 million and which
would not be expected to interest foreign suppliers because of
the variety in each contract, could be awarded on the basis of a
minimum of three quotations in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.



- 28 -
(e) acquisition of science books, journals and computer softw4re
estimated to cost less than US$2.5 million in the aggregate, would be
done through direct contracting with publishers and software vendors
with the prior approval of the Bank.
Contracts to be awarded under procedures other than ICB would be subject to
selective post award reviews by the Bank.
3.20     The procurement of all works, goods and services under the proposed
project would be subject to normal Bank supervision, irrespective of
procurement methods and sources of funds.  The proposed procurement
arrangements are summarized in Table 3.4 below:
Table 3.4: Procurement Arrangements /a
(Total Costs of Proposed Project Components Including Contingencies)
…---US$Million------
---Procurement Method----  Total
Category of Expenditure                        ICB      LCB      Other  or n.a.
Civil Works                                       16.9      4.5        0.0    21.4
( 4.4)   ( 1.8)    ( 0.0)  ( 6.2)
Professional Services                              0.0      0.0        1.7     1.7
( 0.0)   ( 0.0)    ( 1.5)  ( 1.5)
Equipment and Furniture                           25.0      3.0        2.0    30.0
( 9.0)   ( 1.1)    ( 0.7)  (10.8)
Publications and Software                          0.0      0.0        2.5     2.5
( 0.0)   ( 0.0)    ( 0.9)  ( 0.9)
Technical Assistance                               0.0      0.0       21.5    21.5
( 0.0)   ( 0.0)    (12.6)  (12.6)
Total                                        41.9       7.5      27.7    77.1
IBRD financing                              (13.4)   ( 2.9)    (15.7)  (32.0)
/a  Figures in brackets are the respective amounts financed by the Bank loan.
3.2i     Two well-qualified agencies are responsible for procurement within
the MOE. The procurement agency for the Department of Higher Education would
be responsible for procuring equipment for the research institutes and the
agricultural polytechnic institutes, and the agency for the Department of
Secondary Education would procure computers and other items for the schools.
Under the proposed project these agencies would be responsible for supervising
the execution of equipment contracts, certification of payments, inspections,
warehousing, distribution to schools, installation, commissioning and
settlements of claims.



- 29 -
3.22     Technical Assistance.  Technical assistance for the research
institutes would be selected by the institutes themselves through existing
links that have been forged over time between domestic and qualified foreign
universities. Portions of the technical assistance contract for the school
computer component would also be done through institutional links between
Coimbra University and overseas institutions. To simplity management of
remaining technical assistance for the school computer component and for the
agricultural polytechnic institutes, the MOE would obtain specialist services
and fellowships for these items as two comprehensive TA contracts. At least
three suitably qualified training institutions would be requested to submit
proposals, following a shortlisting of institutions acceptable to the Bank.
The consultants would be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency." The MOE has prepared a satisfactory technical assistance (including
fellowships) plan and identified suitable contractors to administer such a
plan and has a timetable for its implementation.
3.23     Status of Preparation.  The proposed project is in a state of
preparation that would permit timely implementation because: (a) preparation
of designs and tender documents for the research institutes (63% of the total
value of construction) is partially completed and the balance is nearing
completion; (b) equipment lists for about 90% of project items and bid
specification for about 50% of its value have been completed; and (c) major
portions of the the technical assistance package have been defined and
detailed terms of reference have been prepared. In view of the advanced state
of preparation, the proposed project is expected to be completed in about
seven years (1988-94) in accordance with the implementation schedule in Annex
4, although the current country disbursement profile is nine years. Project
completion would be September 1994 and the Closing Date would be March 31,
1995.
3.24     Disbursements.   Disbursement arrangements for this project would
reflect the Government's desire to mobilize co-financing from sources to
supplement the Government's development budget (PIDDAC) and the Bank loan.
Thus, bids for equipment would be packaged in such a way that the Bank could
finance 100% of certain packages and other financiers (the EC in particular)
could finance remaining items (para. 3.09). Disbursements from the Bank loan
would be made against:
(a)  40% of total expenditures on civil works for all project items,
except the biotechnical research institute where it would be 20%;
(b)  For goods (equipment, furniture, books, technical journals and
computer software) financed under the Bank's procurement guidelines:
(i) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported items;
(ii) 100% of ex-factory expenditures for locally manufactured items;
and
(iii) 85% of local expenditures for locally procured items; and



- 30 -
(c)  100% of total expenditures for consulta-nt services and fellowlhips.
3.25     Disbursements from the proposed loan are expected to take place on an
average of about six months after incurring the expenditure. A disbursement
schedule and profile, reflecting this and making a comparison with an average
profile for Portugal, are shown in Annex 9. Disbursements are expected to be
completed by March 31, 1995.
3.26     Disbursements against contracts for goods and services exceeding
US$150,000 equivalent would be made against normal documentation.
Disbursements against contracts below that level would be made on the basis of
Statements of Expenditures and supporting documentation available for
examination by Bank missions. To facilitate timely project implementation,
the Government would establish, maintain and operate, under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, a Special Account in a financial
institution to which the World Bank would make an initial deposit, equivalent
to about US$2.0 million. The Special Account would be replenished against
withdrawal applications as appropriate when the undisbursed balance of the
account falls below an amount equal to 50% or less of the amount of the
Special Account.
3.27     Accounts and Audits.  The Project Coordinating Unit would maintain
separate accounts for the project. Project accounts including the Special
Account (para. 3.26) would be audited in accordance with the March 1982 Bank
"Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the
World Bank." The Bank would be provided within six months of the end of each
fiscal year with an audit report of such scope and detail as the Bank may
reasonably request, including a separate opinion by the auditor on
disbursements against statements of expenditure. During negotiations, the
Government provided assurances to this effect.



- 31 -
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
4.01     The proposed project would make a major contribution to Portugal's
manpower training efforts in support of its industrial and agricultural
restructuring, increased productivity, and economic development program. It
would contribute indirectly to the expansion of export-oriented industry and
the greater utilization of Portugal's natural resources. The main benefits
expected to accrue from the implementation of the proposed project are
summarized in the following paragraphs.
4.02     Applied Research Institutes.  InTproved staff quality and strengthened
links between university research and itLdustry in the key areas of
biotechnology, materials science and water resources are expected to lead to
innovation, new products and more efficient production processes, which in
turn would enhance Portugal's industrial competitiveness as a new member of
the European Community.
4.03     The biotechnology institute in Lisbon would assist in the development
of agriculture, aquaculture, pharmaceuticals, food processing and marine
enterprises. The materials science institute in Porto would be an asset to
the north region of Portugal, supporting in particular the much diversified
(and significant in terms of the Portuguese economy) industrial activity,
mining and marine resources existing in this region. Similarly the water
resources institute at Coimbra would not only play a significant national role
in water technology, but would assist in the development of the northern and
central regions. It would act as a focal point for activities connected with
aquaculture, agriculture, forestry, industry, public health and urban
plantiing. All three institutes would provide trained research workers in
applied science, and help meet the acute manpower shori.age in this area. The
existence of these research resources is expected to have significant impact
on the development of new science and technology based innovative small
specialist manufacturing enterprises.
4.04     Agricultural Productivity.   Through its focus on training students
with farming background in practical skills needed in the agriculture and
horticulture industries, the proposed project would assist in the
modernization of Portuguese agriculture. The two new agricultural polytechnic
institutes would increase the capacity of non-university education, albeit by
a small number (about 400 places), but would also provide a new type of
practical training for agricultural technicians including work on farms.
These two institutes would act as a pilot scheme for a reform of all
agricultural institutes in Portugal.
4.05     Computers in Schools.  The introduction of computers as tools of
learning into about 15% of Portugal's secondary schools (140) and a small
number of primary (30) schools, is expected to assist the Government in the
gradual phasing in of a potentially powerful resource tool, which is expected
to assist in making secondary school graduates more trainable as productive
members of a rapidly changing labor market, and in particular better equipped
to study effectively at the university level. The proposed project would



- 32 -
monitor and evaluate the computer component on a continuous basis in order to
appropriately assess t.he magnitude of resources needed and the benefits to be
accrued from the introduction of computer education into schools. It would be
instrumental in introlucing appropriate curricular changes, and act as a
catalyst for change ii the teacher centered, theoretically oriented teaching
system.
Risks
4.05     Applied Research Institutes.  The principal risk associated with the
university research component is, that because of the traditionally academic
orientation of the university system, the research orientation of the
institutes would not be relevant to industry. To reduce this risk, the JNICT
has prepared general guidelines about research orientation in order to ensure
that the research is in conformity with Portugal's economic development
priorities. Further, each research proposal would be adjudicated by a task
force under the supervision of a board with appropriate powers and
representation at each research institute. Assurances were obtained from the
Government during negotiations about the establishment of such boards.
4.06     Agricultural Polytechnic Institutes.   The possibility of an overly
academic orientation is also the main risk associated with the agricultural
polytechnic institute component. To minimize this risk, assurances were
obtained from the Government during negotiations about curricular orientation
and a recruitment strategy for teachers and students that would emphasize
strong linkages with practical farming issues and the farming community.
4.07     Computers in Schools.  Because of limited experience with the use of
computers as tools of learning elsewhere ax:: the potentially fundamental
changes in teaching practices that could be introduced with the aid of
computers, there are risks associated with this component, including in
particular, lack of teacher and student acceptance. To reduce these risks,
teacher training would be a major feature of the component, and one criterion
for selecting participating srhools would be demonstration of teacher and
student interest as participants in this project. Other difficulties, such as
failure to integrate computer education with curricula, inappropriate software
selection and development, and maintenance and security, would be reduced by
conducting an evaluation to help guide the proposed school computer
development strategies. During negotiations the Government gave assurances
that such an evaluation would be conducted before the end of the third and
fourth years of the proposed project, followed by a summative evaluation upon
completion of this project component.



- 33 -
V.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01     During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that:
(a)  it would: (a) maintain the PCU with appropriate authority (para.
3.10); and (b) establish, with appropriate powers and authority, a
board for each research institute with representation from industry,
the pblit seetor and universities(para. 2.12);
(b) by the completion of the research facilities, the institutes would
conduct contract research programs for industry with appropriate cost
recovery.(para. 2.12);
(c) for the agricultural polytechnic institutes it would: (i) base
teacher recruitment on curriculum vitae analysis and interview
evaluations, supplemented by orientation seminars for all teachers;
(ii) select about 30 percent of the students from applicants with a
farming background; (iii) include secondary school students with a
farming background in the recruitment process and provide appropriate
remedial instruction as necessary for any students who are admitted
through special entry procedures; and (iv) prepare by December 31,
1988, curricula with emphasis on practical skills and equipment lists
for such curricula. (para. 2.20);
(d) it would: (i) by December 31, 1991, carry out an interim evaluation
of the pilot program for the introduction of computers into the
school system and by June 30, 1992, review the results with the Bank;
(ii) by December 31, 1994, carry out a summative evaluation of the
program referred to in (i) above and by March 31, 1995, furnish to
the Bank the conclusions and recommendations of such evaluation; and
(iii) study the feasibility of re-supplying computer facilities in
each school through replenishment funds and furnish to the Bank the
conclusions and recommendations of such study by December 31, 1994
(para. 2.27);      x
(e) by March 31, 1988 it would furnish evidence to the Bank of the
allocation of appropriate land for the agricultural polytechnic at
Beja, including a plan for its use and development (para 3.16); and
(f) project accounts, including the Special Account, would be audited
annually by an auditor acceptable to the Bank and audited accounts
including a separate opinion by the auditor on disbursements against
statements of expenditure would be submitted to the Bank within six
months of the end of each fiscal year (para. 3.27).
5.02     Retroactive financing for urgently needed equipment and minor works
(US$1.6 million) at the research institutes would be provided, limited to
expenditures incurred before loan signing but after September 30, 1986 (para.
3.09).
5.03     The creation of an administrative support group reporting to the
existing Central Steering Committee for the computers in school component
would be a condition of disbursements for that component (para. 3.13).
5.04     Subject to the above conditions, the project would provide a suitable
basis for a Bank loan of US$32.0 million equivalent to the Republic of
Portugal.
3960V



TEfIS~~~~~~~~ I-N 
ISMFM  BLANK- lwatw



- Is~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ao 
Mmaz I
COMPARATIVE EDUATION INDICATORS
CEETNAL
REPEEDTuKE   EDUCATION                           CaWIPTION            REtCURRNT
on EDUCATION  ecRECRRN        A00LT              tAlE FOR              UNT COS?  PROGRESSION
ean  im              AS PERCET    NRPNDTURXS  LITENACT PRIMAR  PRIIMX              PADIMB!  PRItMA      RATE IRONl  SECONDER  SECONDARY IIIGERR
RAN   POP.  CAPIT   PECRCEN  ON  TOTAL CENRAM   ALLOCATED TOz RLATE        ENEOLL. SCHOOL       STUDNSM  EDUCTION  lERHAl TO  EIOLL.   STUDENTS  ENIROLL.
YEA  HILLS. (Use)   DEOTED TO  GovUm(EN           PR!  Sac  II    (2)    RATIO   CYCLE          PnE      As PEmRCN  SECONDER    RATIO        PER        RATIO
(1979) (1979)   EDUCATION  ENPENITURS             (2)        (1976)   (2)        (2)      TEACEE   GNP/CAPITA       (E)        (2)      TEACHER      (I)
(3)     (2)        (3)           (4)            (5)          (5)       (7)      (8)        (8)  -- (10)            (I31)       (32)       (13)    (14)
EnCOUNTRIES
au  4.4b  8,870      6.3's        14.6       ;-     -     -     -        103'1    100          21        -            99          73        3 3      20.90
casAR              $1    23.7b  9,6506    7.7y           Ia5'        30'S? 348? 23'?   996      106w      100         21        39.9'?      t00           923'     i8       22.60'
GERMAN  P.R.       i9    81.2  3..200       4.6           9.9'         -  ;-j-         99b       g"       100'       -         -             300'        94'       -        12.10'
NTIRIANDS        79    14.0  10.490       7.9          5.)       20   3      25     996?      96        9s         is        33.3          99           2       33       1 2.40
mm  IAL       s       3.2b  6,041b    SS           13.4        S7   31   28       99b      t00       100         24       33.6         100          82        135      23.80*
StKIEN             79      8.3  12,250      9.0          18.2       33   10   10       996       99'      100         Ise      39.9         300          792       1O'f    36.50aY
NOMNM-  C          83      1.0b    920b    6.0           22.0        41   34   22      40       100        77         32        10.0          40          20       21        1. go
NiURIIID           81      4.2      235      2.562      19.0        4 3   28   2 7     23        29'       3 5        3 7      20.2           3 2          32      1 7       1.00
COMOROS            8       0.4b    34       3,8eV       28.0        49   29   22       49        76       40          39       -             4 5         36        28        0.60
DJINOUI            84      0.4      410     3.0         11.9        73   26   ...   I10          42        66        40        67.0          40          3 0       1 9       0.60
ETIOPIA            81    32 8b    3406    2.91          11.1        45   235  20       53        42        30'        63       19.3          93'         34        44        0.43
KZNY               62    37,4b    4206    3*8'6         20.1b       635   1 6   II     456      313       38          36       14.4          35          186       26        -
LESOYHO)           82      1. 46    433"    3.5          16.9       38   32   26       53b      136'      41          48         9.6         46          2 1       2 1       1.30
NEONOAScAR    ~77     8.5      330      4.00       24.0         33   28   19      30        9462      33         55b        8.0          38          14       23        3.106?
IEAImi               I~   6.b    2506    3.5             13.4        38   14   25      256       62        23         65         5.8          12           4       231       0.40
NAURITUS           63      1.0b  1, 1ob    4.3           14,0       46   36    7       Sob       93        72         23        13.0         100         s0        22        3.00
RWAND              83      3 9b    2706    3.6          27.4        71I   1 6   1 3    37b       65        30        40        36.0           9           5        1 6       0.40
SETONELLES         79      0.6   1,770       5.9        22.4'       348  33'10'                                       23       -             -           -         -        --
SMALIA             a 1     4.5      260      1.5         10.5       Sob  446   46    50So        226      806         28b       9.0b         80b         126       22        1.00
SUDAN              go    19.2b    38o6    3.0           -           66  39  ...        32        31"x      68         34         1.4         44          3 6       3 6       .
EVAUILAND          g3      13,7b    9406    3,516       20.4        31   34   15       63b       93        30         33       11.0          98          29        i8        3.00
TANMABl            80    18.        260     5.9          17.7       471   1 0   16     79b       95b       8 ?        43        33.0          39b         3        20'       0,30
UGANIDA            so    t2 6b    300b                  3 6.1IV     23b  37b  206    48          542       61t       36        -              1 7         5        23        0.60
UnaI               81I   29.8b    2106    7.7           26.4        -    -    10       346       76        25        30        21,0          40           i8       28        2.00
EANSIA,            so      S.lb    Se6b    4.V'          31.1       48   23   22       44        93        80         48       12.9           19         16        22        3.50
EI3IAEN            St      .7b7   700b    3.1            39.5       62   32    6       44b       90        35         39       20.0          85          1s        23        0.50
12      AFRIC      79      3.4b    3206    6.5'         35.0        43   21    3    11b          42        30         46       14.0          30          11        43        3.007
SUNENA             83      6.3      2106    2.1'u       21.7        43   29   28       9         16        23         57       24.3          16           3        24        0.03
CAIIERooN          84    10.0       Slob    3.11        -           33   38   28    20           89       456         50       -             -           23        28        2.70
C.A.R.             86      2.6b    260b    3.847         24.7'?     49   16   24    -            79       45          6581       o          18           1         67        1.40'Y
CUAD               76      4.4      120     2.4bW?      21.7b6         -- -1          Is         257       -          77       -             -            327      21        0.207
ComGo              78      1.3      670     9.0"?y      27.7'?       --                                    -          5667       -30                               4367      4.00'7
EQUT. GUINE0A      85      0.3b    270b    2.8            3.8       47   24   ...   206          13        10        80          5.2         40          25        17'7y     -
CANN3              77      0.6   3.420      3.7b7         .47         -    -            -                             4667     -             -           -         19b7      2.80'?
GAIIA              77      0.6      220      3.3"        *15b       46   25'   68   job          4067      904       2767      44.7a         40           12627    17
OURN               76    11,3       400     4.07        135         -    -    -       -          71627    -          2767                    -           36627    21          -
GUINEA             79      3.3      2909    4.6&P       -           25' 28*  28'   20            34        36         38       20.089        83          16        29        7.00'
IVORT COOIT        83      9.3b    720      7.3         42.8        51   40    9    33'?         72       79         37        29.0          49          223"      30        1.88
MASRIA             80      1.9      520     4.8         19.6        43   23   24    30           52        32        33        20.0          76          22        20        2.90
KALI               e1      7.0b    I5k'    4.2'         21.7'       38   21   11    10           20        60        44        15.7          66            1       11        0.90'?
NMAITANIA          78      3.Ch    :,job    5.5          16.9        33   43   23    176         32        60         44       52.0          30            9       23        0.37
non                84      5.2      300     2.8         21.0        40   25   20    14           25        20         36       41.0          37           6        28        0.30
NIGERIA      ~~83    93.66    7606    7.47         16.0         -     - 3        36         9         70         6        393423                              30        2.00
SENEGAL            84      6.4      380     5.06        24.0        466     t5  19b   28         52        59        46        26.0          1I'         16'       24        2.20'
SIEram  LEO        77      3.4      250     4.06        16.06          -       -      15b        371      -          33        25.06         84          35'       22        0.6067
TOGO               78      2.4      400     6.51'       26.Sq        30' 28' 218   38            74       40         5467      38.0          52          32627    486        1. 6067
LATN AiSECA AND TEE CARIIEEA
ARGENTINA           7     27.3   2.210       2.7         10.9       43m  31'  l8'   936          89        32         17       -             87           31        8       23.00
5136A5*            79      0.2   2.770      3.7         19.1        36   36   It    93b          99       97         24        -             97          i5        19       -
SANSADOS           78      0.2   2,680      8.5"        22.1'       43'  31'  16'   996         3007      99'        277       19.9'         99'         78Y       207 
SONOIII            60      5.4      550     4.3ay       30.5'       -         - -6 63            747       -          207                                 3                 12.6WY
SEAR!?             79   £16.3   1,770       3.           6.2        St5    - 14    78            73'?      -          21'7       Mb5          61          i 33'?   14'?    12.62b
emu1               76    10.9   1.890       3.2b7        13.06            -     -               3l39627              3467      -               -.        53627    2067    I1.80by
COOIaIE            60    26.76  1,1806    3.3           25.0        35   20   20    81b          78        36         32        6.6          -           47        20       10.3
COST  RICA         80      2.2b  1,8106    8.4          31.1        40   27   33    90           93        77         33         .5.          77         40        27       14.0
cum           is7    9.8       -       8.0          31.0        -     -     -    96        112627    98          1867     -             98           73627    I5       19.02b7
DSNIEZAX REV.    60        5.3   3,030      2.9         13.0        39   21   22    686          80        31        39         3.2          94          30        33       36.00
5031*30            60      8.4b  1,110      6.0P        36.7        45   S1   16    81          103        -         36        12.6          86          47        16       29.00
EL. ALVADON        77      4.4      840     3.4b67      23.16       64    8   27    62           82627    32         39         -41                      26627    276?       7.90by
GUATBAI.A          78      6.8   1,01        1.7'        12.6b6           -    -      -          69627                3367                   69          15627    I967       5.507
CoTaia              76     0.8      630     8.167        13.867        -    -      -             996x7    -           3267                   -           SOW2      -         3.006Y
HiTI               60      5.06    230      3.4'          7.9'?     65    9    6    236          so        20        41        19.0          62'          4'       27        0.80
HonDURA            78      3.6      520     3.56y       14.3b7      62'  15'  1I"    60          89627    30'        4367      12.8          68'         212?      19        8.007
JAMAIC             so      2.1   1,110       6.5         13.7        37   43   20    90          98        98         40         2.3         95          81        22        8.00
mEXIOo              60    65.5   1:88D       4.7         37.0'       46   39   15    92          98         3         44         9.5          86          36       17       10.30
NICANMUE           78      2.6b    8106    3.0bw        14.06          -       -      g0b        85bi      24        37b6                    -           2662      306 
P11AmM             la      3*56  1,3ob    s.s6b.y       21.8by      42'  13'  13    826          9367     -          2567      11.6          85'         5067      2767    20.4067
PtAR1w             79      3.0   1,140       1.4'       14.2        42   17   20    84           83       32         28         3.1          76          22        12        0.70
PER                s0    16.6   3.000       3.6         14.3        53   15   19    so           83        56        39         9.8          89          39        22       14.407
EINIDAI) 4 TO11.   77      1.1   3,910      4.867        8.gby      48   32   20    93           98        91        30        10.5?         49          62        24       -
URDUDA             78      2.9   2,500      2.5          9.4b       -     -     -     94        10562     -          246       -             -           8462      -        17.80"?
VENEZUEL           78    14.4   3,440       5,37        18.96b            -           82        10662     -          28        -             -           3g62      37       21.10Y



-36-Pe2
CO1PIARATIYE EDUJCATION INDICATORS
June 30. 1987
GOVER38ENr
RXPgNDtTIIRtE   E333ATION                          COMPLETION             RECURtRENT
ON EDUCATION  RECURtRENT        ADULT              RATE FOR               UNIT COST  PROGRESSION
GNP PER                AlS PERCENT    EXPENDITURES  LITERACY PRIM4ARY PRIMARY    PRIMARY  PRIMARY    RtATE PROM   SECONDARY SP,CONI3RY HIGHER
8ASJ  POP.  CAPITA  PERCENrr GNP TOTAL CEitRAL ALLOCATED TO; RtATE             ENROLL. SCHOOL        STUDENTS EDUCATION  PRIMARY TO  ENROLL.   STUDOENTS  ENROLL.
YEAR MILL.S. (USS)   DEVOTEn TO  OOVERW84INT    PR!  SEC  "II    (13           RATIO   CYCLE         PER       AS PeRCRNr SECONDAY   RAtIO           PER        RLATIO
(1979) (1979)   EDUCATION  EXPENDITURE              (I)         (1976)   (2)          (1)      TEACRER  GNP/CAPITA        (2)          (2)    TEACHER       (R)
(3)  (2)      ~~~(3)          (4)            (5)           (6)       (2        ()          ()         (0             3)          (7          I)      (4
EAAT ASIA AND THlE PACIFIC
CIIIM                83 3,025.06      310b    3.3            7.3        38   40   22        776       77        62          25         8.0           65           35        17        4.80
INDONESIA           El   1SO5.5       520      2.1          9.3         70   24    6        376       98        63l         37        II.(           74          27         26        3.70
KOREA               82    19*3b  I,66b         ?*7w        20.8         34   34   31        96        99        98          43        39.0           99           84        l8       21.80)
KMA.AYNIA            84     J5~) 2b   8706    6.3           16.7        39"  43   38"a   70b          97X       97          26        13.5"          89           72        22        4.00
PAPUA N.C.          83      3.0'    820        5.4         39.0         40   17   22       .-         60        73'         314       35.0           35           31"x      27'       1.00
PHILIPPINES         79    48.3b    6906        2.8AV       14.0         64   36   -         756       84        65          33         7.1           89           $5        36       23.001
SINGAPOREg          80      2.4   4,420        2.7           6.7        39   40   36        83        92        82          33         8.8           96           53        22        8.00
SOLOMON IAL.        82     rfl 2b    640       6.63"'       19.nb       41   34   20        35        78        s0          27        30.            40          20         IN        7.50
THAILAND            82    49.0b    8006        3.4         20.3         59   34   20        8166     103        6R          23         9,36          41.         46         to        4.00
VANUATU             86      0.3b    --         8.3         23.5         63   27    4        13       1t5        60          24        31.0           25          20         36        3..30
SOUTH ASIA
BANGLADES           79    92,3b        90      3.1p         t0,1ay      53   17   20        22b       63Y       ---         51         5.6           -            36        21        3.43
BHIUTAN             80       1.2       80      3.6          11.0        ------              10        12        -                ---                --- --        -          --      -
INDIA               77   659.6       230       7,9Y         9.9"?       -     -      -     36         ?9g                  41          ----                      28'        ---       8.10'?
NEPAL               82     350        10       1.4        I- ''- -                          1         70        --          38        --23                                  21        3.70'
PAKIISTAN           82    87.36       380     2.             7.0        38   20   24        212       50        4            0         59562                                35.0
EUROPE  MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
AFOlANSTANI       77     35.5       -        1.7          3.7         47   19   33       32        SIby       69          376       ---            62           8         2267      3.00?
ALGERIA              79    18.3    3.770       3.8"         12.3        34'  26'  73'       35        93Y       45'A        37         7.03          55*          29?       26        3.7''v
EGYPT               82    43,35    650'        4.6"          7.9        33'  35'  24'       44        i5m       80'         34'        9.9'          938        463'        39       37.100
GREECE              76       9.3   4,140       2.6"         10.66       37   26   21                  9767                  296        6.2'          -            7966      2776     27.806?
lIRAN               79    38.9       -         5,7k?        14.3'? Y                        50       303a       ..          378       --              -          448x       24'       4.90"
IRAQ                79    32.4   2.710         4.3'?        6.9' gay                         -       300O       ---         28        ---                        45'Y       29'       9.10'?
tNFLAND             83      3,4b  4,480       6.1'         33 1.8"av                 -     98         93        94         29         -              98          SI         34       13.00
JORDAN              83       2.26  t.42nb    4.9w           10.2        19   44   IS 38    o70        920       85          37         5.1I          -           69e        3R        8,90
LEBANON             79      2.3      -         -           18.6"?y    -             ……                 6'       ---         19        --'-66'                               --       27.80"
MOROCCO             84    23.86    6706        6.0"f        22.9        38   43   39        35        570        9          31        3 5.3          '            14'P      39        9.9of
DM8A1               85       1.26  6,6         3.2          32. 7as                         3pb3      ?lax      45          25'       --              03j                    4'
PORtTUGAL           86     30.26  1970b    4.6             33.5         50   26   13    8of          325        70          38        34.9           68          515        36        9.00)
ROMANIA             78    22.3    2.3100       3,96?        6.2?        -                   98       306"'      -           236       -              98          fl4bx      376      In.4obv
SPAIN               76    37.0   4,920         7.3?        36.? fly986                                          -- 7y 96                .-                       67b        -        24.10by
SYRIA               78      8.6   1,370        4,43'        30.3        39   25   26        58        876?      90          356       --             68          436?       736      32.60
TUNISIA              79      6.4    3,130      7.03'        19.0        42   39   38        626      100'       so          39b       12.8           30           10'       30        4.00
TURKEY              83      47.5  1.230        3.3          36.2        50   22   24        736      330        ?I          31         6.0           55          26         31        8,00
YEMEN A.R.          814      9,3b    3306    7,93'          17.7        80   20   33        23'       55        28          53        27.8           A0            9        20        3.90
YEMEN P.D.R.        82      2,06      4706     7.6           9.7        61'  16'   As    53           63        34          25        22.0'          46           I7        20        2.50
SU1OAIY MOR DEVELOPI3R2 COUNRMIES:
Nfumber of Countries.                       84                93       70   69   67       81         92        68         95         63             75          93        98       85
Range:                                       (1.4-           (3.7-  (23-  (8-  (5-       (8-      (37-       (12-        (37-       (3.4-          (10-        (3-       (8-       (0.03-
30.0)          54.3)  94)   46)  33)    993          139)       99)         77)       67.0)          100)         84)       48)      29.0)
Quartile6t Uppert                             5.6            21.7      51   36   22        Al        99        8           43        70             87          47         26       33.0
Median:                          4.0            36.1      43   28   19        53        83        63          15        13             65           26        77        3.7
Lov,ers                          3.0            13,0      38   23.. 13        25        60        35          28         9             40           34        19        1.0
Quartile Ds#iotion:                           3.3             5.4    6.5  7.5  4.5   28.0          19.0      77.5         7.0       5.6          23.5         36.5        3.5        5.0
Mean.                                         4.4            17.0      46   28   38        53        76        59          36        36             62          31         23        6.9
Standard Deviation:                           1.9             8.7      32   30    7       29         27        24          1t        131            27          23          7        7.4
ltedian:                                      4.0            16.0      4)   28   19        53        83        63          35        13             65          26         22        3,7
853(8019:                                                                    FOOTNOTEfSr
- DATU)M UNAVAILABLE                                                        A -DATUM8 PRIOR TO RASE YRAR                   S * MIRIISTRY OF EDUCATION (Mot) ONLY
AGNWInTUDEI NIL OR NFOLIOIBLR                                               R -  ATtN MORE RECENT THAN EA.SE YEAR          T - MOE AND STATE GnVP.RMMSXT ONLY
? DATUM QUESTIONABLE                                                        N -CURRENT PRICES                              31 * PURLtC f'P.EPE3ITIIRE ONLY
a    INCLUDE' PART-TINE STUDENTS                                               E *NET ENROLLMNT RtATTO                        X - INCLuDES OVER-ACE STUDiENTS
P - GROSS ENROLLMENT RATIO                     y - UNESCO) SOURCES
P -GOP
ROURCES:          Columns I and 2:  Vorld Rank Atlas or Educatlon. sector field mstsions.
Columms 3 to 14: World Rank Education sector miesions, Government sources and/or the thesco Statistical Yearbook.
Comparativa Education Data are usseful in the evaluation of various educAtion systems and analysis of reletive stages of educational devalopeant between various
countries. Mewever, on the basis of the. presanE data, cross-nattonsl cosparison sbould be approached vith great caution. Data presented in th, above table have
been collected largely by Bank msisions f roe government sources, the remainder are staff eettsates or data fros UDesco. Efforts have been aade to standardize
defInitions and, within limits, to cl.eck the accuracy of the date, ENoerthelese, muCh data are stti Imperfect 4' several rsspects and ths Bank is workinig to
improve tham progressively on the occasion of itts operations'. worlE. In the use of thess data, the following qualifications should be kept in mind:
(3)    EZducatton' as dafined in the table includes all educatIon and trsining, both fomsal and non-forsal.
(2)   'Primary' edacotiun reler  to educailo. at the ft:vt level snd 'secondary' education refers to all education at the secondary level regardless of type
(e.g. general, techncal, agricultural).
(3) 'Li1teracy rates' (.o1. 6) are often obtained from country cenenses. Tin 6a6? countries they are only approxtmationa and tt is doubtful that any uniform
definition of 'literate' has been followed consistently.
(4) 'Pusblic expenditure In education' (cols. 4 end 5) refers to all capital and recurrent expendttures devoted to education by public and qmaai-public
agencies.
(5) 'Enrollamet ratios'~ (cola. 7, 32 and 14) refer to school year and are the percentage of eligible children enrolled full-timee In the appropriate school,
public and private by level. They are Often sUbject to a widaemargin of etrtor In the developing countries owing to variations in the accuracy of basic
data (i.e., age-specIfic population and enrollments). Enrollment figures frequently at-a hlgher than the number of students actually in school.
Over-aged students may be Included In these figures and can Inflate the ratios.



- 37 -                                                 Annex 2
PORTUGAL
Structure of the Formal School System, 1983-86.
Bsic                               S                                         Higher
1   2   3   4         5   6         7   8   9         10     11      12
I Copu ol
General
Compementary
}  P  |   UnMsd             ~~~~~Technicaln
ProSchool       Pvmcuy        I Flparatory        Iklfied          C"ompementary              UnlKrsly
5                 -      J       o        b ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~os
.Prbffxv Teocher Ttalning
Voobatkl  IVoc. Ca       mpetnenar
a Internships_                                               _
Nurr
Ages  5    6   7   8   9          10   11      12   i3  U4        15     16     17          18   i9   20      2i  22
World Bank-30956



-38-                                         Annex 3
PORTUGAL
Proposed Structure of the Formal School Syetem, 1987-
Bomc                               -     -or Hmhp
1   2   3   4       6   6       7   8   9       10    11    12
Pde&V
PoloCol    lst Cvcb          2nid Cycle      3rd Cyele        TohnV
r-_
Jobs
ktMmeTeacherTrcnng
I  I    II      I    I            ~ Voa                      I voI  I
°  Teffnnxg mhd fW E
Nu*
Ago  8   6   7   8   9        10  11      12  13   4       1S    16    17        18  19  2D       21  22
World Bmk-30956



44
0
-t                 '            t I§§§§§§$§$$§""$""§""§$N""§"""§§§§§§§§"§"s"§§"§§§""§    '                                        t                 3T"1 q
-4 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t4
: t : §§§§§tal$g§§§§§§g§§§§§S§§§tfO§##Ms's §g§§§§tM PR § t t llodss
:   ,   :   .        .           :           :            :           :           t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~------------------------------------
.           .           .           *           .            .           .           .
*~ ~   a                         t alg§tl§g§|§$§§§§§§$B$$3t§l a  alalt aR  aawp
Ii.                I           I i           it  ta t  I              t           '.          a           a I  I i                             - o9iv13
flu                   I           I IOgo           IO          fl          au           go           I aT    l
------ ------ ---     - -         - -- -- -- -- -- -
*           t           ,           a                        t a V                   a            a
a           '           a           .            U           I           t           a            t           a             l113           8tt
c*.         a t                     a            a           a                       a            U g         S ,
a ~                  a           , AAAAAhAAAAAAAAAAhAAA6AAAAAA*ddA S LSAAAh*AAAAAAA 
*   *'   '   '         .            t           t.          :           :            t~~~~~~~~~,,,,,a      uwomnoUo  noQ}8
.           .           *           *           *            .           .            
a}          a           a I                     a       It           a 1    a        a lbtzIi         a          aa6|
a~ ~ ~ ~~~~~mB aO a                                                                *



s;
3EPUBLIC Of PORTUGAU
TEIUGLOGY EUQQTIOI PROJECT
IIPL3UUTATIOI SCHIEDLE
-- -- -- - -- -- -- - -- -- - -- -- ,- - -- -- - -- -- -----  -- - ------ - -- -- -      -- -- --     -- -- - -- -- -- - --     - - -- -- -t - -- --    -
IBRD Fiscal      Yn8T    ,   FY88            F8 Fn         FI90          FY1           m F2     ,   F93           FY94      ,   FY95
Year ad  :-----------.---------------                              ----------- ----------- ----------- ----------- -----------
Quarter ,1  2  3  4, 1  2  3  41, 1  2  3  41 1  2  3  4, 1  2  3  4'I 1  2  3  4', 1  2  3  4? 1  2  3  4, 1  2  3  4?
:::- -::: :::- :::: :::: :::: :: : - -- - -- -    -- - -- --  -- - - - -    -- - - - -  -- - - - -    -- - - - -   i- - -- - -  -- - - - -    -- - - - -   ;
IGRICULTUIAI  POLYTGECIIC 10STIYUS '                   5
Allocation of Deja Site                  ,@09M         ,            I
Design and Construction,
Appointenat of Architects              ,     oSfl$5,
Sketch Plan Preparation                I                                        a 08a '       ,             ,                                                      a
Design Developuent Docents             '             ,          8$flt$8fl$      ,             ,' a          a                          ' a                         : 
Did Doe.ent preparation                             , a                 UllflS#               '             '            '             '             ,
Bidding aad Ivaluation                                                       M a,  ,
Construction                           ,'aMa ',898 ,'9ff 9UMMXUM"898199                                                                ,             5
Guarantee Period                                     a            a             a ,                19i$#$99998)fl88889   88999898t                   a             a
Equipment and Furniture
llquipoent Lists                       ,            0t00t         IJ                          'J                                       '   
Specifications and Cost llstioates                          00"On" I  a         a             a            a             a             a             a
Bid Docoaents                          '$                          tt§"8g|                    ttt    
Bidding and Ivuluation                 ',                                  §§$§t@@8§4t                     ,t   
Wanufacture and Deliaery                                          a ,                         a I                        a             a             a
Gearaltee Period                       ,            :             ,             J             I             ,tAttt$§§§ff9999999    aI    a
Tecquical p ssistance                    ,             ,            ,                           a             a             a                          t
--------------------- ---_------------                                            ,ttttt 
Terms of BeferesDce                      t8§tP',,,,,                                                                                                 IJ
Siperts    on  an  Cost litigates                   ?       899,',                                                                                                 '
¢ellovshipstt                                              8"Ng$@$@@§"$$@ "8§ #@@$    
------------_---------------------------_-------_-----------------------__---__------------------------------------------------------------------



REPUBLIC 0I PORTUGA
TiCOLOGY OeDCATIOI PROJICT
IHPLIUUTIATIO  SCHIDLE
IBRD Fiscal   1187    t   1181    t 189    :   m190                1181     1t 92         t193    t  n94            t195
year and  -----------t-----------t-----------t-----------t-----------5-----------t-----------t-----------t-----------
Quarter t 1  2  3  4t 1  2  3  4t 1  2  3  4: 1  2  3  4:1 1      3  4  1  2  3  4t 1 2  3  4: 1  2  3  It 1  2  3  4t
COU=0YIBS II Nclou S         '            t                                                              I            a t
Alterations to kildigts
Design lbouwats                    t           I4$A9A§SAA   t            t           t                         a           a      
Organization of Contracts           '           tR I t                    '           t                                                  a           a
Construction                        5                                                              ,t,
Guarantee Period                    ,           a            a        I"RnGOUM        :                         *           a            a           a
Iquipnent  Ad urniture                ,           a            a            a'                       t            a           a            t           :
t           t            a            a           a            t           t            ,            , 
Equipment Lists                     M,ons       t            t            tn a1                                 a t                      a           a
apecifications and Cost Estimates          Mon"              : t'
Bid Docuenets                       ,           tI##$                                              :Mt
Bidding and lvaluation              5           a                         a t                      a                        a            a           a
lanufacture ad Delivery n           55a81    tt
Guarantee Period                                aM'U 5                                                          a       n     0 t                    at0,
Evaluation                                      a 59 #t9M 999990M99999999    a                                 a
Teechical Assistance                                          Ia ,a 5                                                                      a           a
Terms of Reference                  :nnMIt
Resoorce  Tea dbers ,t§§$$t$$$$t§t$$$tt  i$t$t$$  $§§|t§$$$le$$t""t.. 
a ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ a
-- -- -- --i - -- --a--- - -9-- -- -- -- -- --$--- - -- -- --9--- -- -9-- -- - --9-9- -9-- -- -- -- -- - -9-- -- -- -- --9                  - -- -- -
0
, a



- 42 -
Annex 5
.Iul.m90tatio              o  RTehla 1isgatsg
Fiscal feans
..~~~~~~~~~~~-  --------    .                                                     ............  ..............,,,.....,,.....  _.............. ................
ul  180  1 9o I0 181  1902 19     1904
... ............,..................................
1.  Fore  Sw       uliat:
A.  Appliw  Rewd  lnstiut:
iote      le                                 28      n     a      42    4         
Iatrlulem                                     14            1      5      5
I      tr w.leuv                              0       0    15   1i       1     1is
3.  AgrIltua  hNlptesui  Institut:                10      1      5     4
C.  Coow      sIb   wNl                           24            12     I
,,,,., ....................... . .. ...........
Total                            8~~~~~~~~44
11.  b   1walpeists:
At. Ali                   t       :
iotwow                                      8"             80  80 s            6     
Itsria                                        50      0     8 I         11    11    1t
ter Teuwlog                                  54    108   193   108   1        193
C.  Cesuutenl          s                        290\is 12    24    4       5      6      48    4
====..........................................
Total                                      1,282
111.  Iatomti.ul Uelloualp:
A.  Applied  esc  Institu :
lote olo                                     98    120   12 ll    9    11      I4    124
bltertas ime                                 4"      24            o    To8  8 78    78    54
late aolg                                    504    04    8       14    0      84    84
B. Agicultu        olitedsi  Jstitute:   1,185   8U    42   2014    4              2      1
C. ew te rsuah u                                 182   0  8   88   12  12   0
........... ........................... 
Total                                      8,1
I.   lad       ll u p:
A.  Awlied               s        :
Ida t     louni                              140    20    2       2  20        20    20    20
B.  Aultural hlyts&b              Insiu   :      1N      72   120      4
C.  C_rte    s Sh ol :
leacer Trlan                               120   360   418   886    10o  190   1S5
.. . ....   ............ ..  .........,
†. .--*.:: ...: -.    : :*a :.. . .........
hlR:geJ?AIS.eh1/060..                                               .



-43                                         mnnna A
A. gal aiP £goeiali
Specialists in Biotechnology Research Methods.
DYgsL5 im,3:            0Biotechnology Applied Research Institute. Lisbon, Portugal.
uratiiI at ^amint mt:       A total of 236 mn-months. arranged to utilize individual specialists
?or periods of batween 3 and 24 man-months in various subject areas
over a duration of 6 years.
rzlSL "alit:              January 19Q8.
1091iaton of Rtonu :
The specialists will be assigned to the Biotechnology Applied Research Institute to
assist in the develop=ent of biotechnology research, and processes and to facilitate the transfer
or this modern technology to Portugal. In addition to the research and development function, the
spsecialists will assist in running seminars and post-graduate and undergraduate courses relevant
to their area of expertise. The visiting specialist program will expand existing linkages with
foreign research and development institutions (e.g., Biotechnology Processing Engineering Center
at NMY, USA; Center de Transfer on B1itechnologie, France; Geselschaft fur Biotechologisches
Forsd    ,  B, federal fepublic of Germany; Universities of Georgia, Cornell and Arkansas, USA;
and IqWial CollQeg  UK). In addition the specialists will develop linkages in the fields of
research Interest with industrial cwpanies in Portugal. Collectively the specialists will cover
a wide variety of biotechnical research subjects, but will be concentrated on pharmaceutical
products, microbiology, biochemistry, fermantatjon, enzymetechnology, b1otechnological reaction
mchu.isas. gsnetie enginearing and process design and control.
Specifically, the specielists will:
(a) collaborate in reserch projects relevant to their subject specialization;
Cb) develop research interests jointly with Portuguese industry;
(e) contribute to the training of Portuguese research workers and students;
Cd) prepare and deliver seminars on their oun field of specialization; and
e) contribute to post-graduate and gradu&te training programs  s appropriate.
A qualification at doctorate level in the particular subject of specialization, together
with intensiv  research experience  including the supervision of Ph.D. research students.
Adolttenally a wide teaching experince and collaboration in applied research with industry would
be an vantag.
English or French. A working knowledge of Portuguese would be an advantage.



- 44 -
3965 V/020687                                   A- 
egsJ2:                       Specialists in Analytical CheMical Techniques.
ButY Station:                 Materials Science Applied Research Institute, Porto, Portugal.
DurioSnd *o AgneJni n:        Total of 14 man-months divided as follows:
(a)  specialist in electron microscopy - 6 man-months;
(b)  specialist in structural and chemical analysis - 4 man-months;
(c) specialist in preparation of materials for analysis - 4
man-months.
StartlJ Alt:                  January 1989.
Description of Duties:
The specialists will develop the research capability of the institute by providing expert
advice and training in various chemical analytical techniques of application in applied research.
Specifically, the specialists will:
(a) train research staff in the application of the specified technique(s);
(b) contribute to research work as appropriate;
(c) deliver seminars on their own field of specialization; and
(d) contribute to post-graduate and training programs as appropriate.
ualificatigns Reguired:
A qualification at doctorate level in the particular subject of specialization, together
with extensive experience of the application of the technique in research.
English or French. A working knowledge of Portuguese would be an advantage.



396WV/020687                                                                                  A -e  i
Post L 1Specialists in Water Research.
Dutz StAt10l:                Water Resources Applied Research Institute. Coimbra, Portugal.
DurAtion g  Amggintmsnl:     Total of 60 man-months divided as follows:
(a) specialist in organization and development of water research -
12 man-months;
(b) research scientists in different applied research subjects - 36
man-months; and
(c) advisors on applied water research - 12 man-months.
startiDn .fl:                January 1988.
Descriptign ofDuties:,
The specialists will be assigned to the Water Resources Applied Research Institute at the
University of Coimbra to assist in the development of research related to the needs of
agriculture. industry and the public services. In addition specialist advice will be provided on
the developments necessary in analytical chemical techniques to meet the standards of quality
required by the EEC for water supply and efficient disposal. Specifically, the specialists will:
(a) advise the Oirector of the Institute on appropriate methods for developing and managing
the research institute;
(b) assist in the training of research staff in techniques appropriate to research in water
technology;
'c) develop applied research projects in water technology;
(d) develop instruw2ntal chemical analytical techniques for the quality control of water
supply and various effluents;
te) prepare and delivery seminars on their own field of specialization;
(f) contribute to post-graduate and graduate training programs as appropriate.
OunlifiCAtigos Roguired:
A qualifacation at doctorate level in water technology, together with extensive
experience of applied research in water technology. Experience as a consultant to or
collaborative research worker with industry would be an added advantage.
L:ngjAgg:
English or French. A working knowledge of Portuguese would be an advantage.



3965V/020687                                     - 46 -
a. Agricultural ixal tehnie institutes
Post 4:                       Agricultural Education Specialist for Teacher Orientation Seminars.
Dutv Staion:                  Venue of Orientation Seminars in Portugal.
DurAtion of  aaoint:          Total of 1 man-month arranged to gtve 4 separate one-week periods to
coincide with'dates of orientation seminars for new teachers.
StartingDAIag:                July 1988.
QDascriplion gf Autieis:
The specialist will be assigned to assist the coordinator and participating Portuguese
personnel of the Project agricultural institutes in preparing and executing orientation seminars
for the training of agricultural teachers of the new institutes.
In particular, the specialist will assist in:
(a) outlining the objectives of the new institutes program;
(b) preparing objective-based pedagogical processes for introduction into the new institutes;
(e) determining the way in which the industry-based period would be planned, implemented,
supervised and assessed;
(d) preparing sample modules of instruction;
Ce) selecting the new teachers; and
(f) planning fellowship programs for these teachers.
Oual ifiations Ruird:
A degre in Agriculture or related subject with extensive work experience in agricultural
teacher training. Experience of agriculture and agricultural teaching in developing countries
would be an advantage.
English or French. A-working knowledge of Portuguese would be an advantage.



3KSV/020667                                      - 47 -                                        AADU
Pst 5:                        Curriculum Oevelopm8nt Specialists.
aLd&. staL1Qm:                Deja and Ponte de Limae  Portugal.
Duration of Ao  intmt: -   For vary"ing periods up to 2 months for each specialist. for total of
8 man-months.
SlattingfDam:                 January 1988.
Qgscrintion of Duties:
There will be four curricula development specialists to cover agricultural machinery,
computer use in agricultural education. farm mmnaeament and irrigation. The specialists will
assist the coordinator. presidents of the Installation Comissions. and relevant staff at Beja and
Ponte de Lima to:
(a)  draw up new specialized curricula in association with rep esentatives of the agricultural
and horticultural industries;
(b) prepare teacher guides;
Cc)  select appropriate teaching aids;
(d)  advise on appropriate activities to be undertaken by studentt during the industry-based
period; and
(e) prepare assessment procedures including practical aptitude tests.
ual if icAtion  Daird
Academic qualifications at degree level with experience in the appropriate specialization
and extensive experience of teaching in programs which include an industry-based period of
instruction.
English or French. A working knowledge of Portuguese would be an advantage.



3965V/020687                                      - 48 -                                        Ann  fi
Pn i:                        Spectalist in Agricultural Education Planning and Program1ing.
DRtjx .jtlmn:                 Lisbon, Portugal.
DurAtign of ApgoIntment:      1 month.
Starting 9rtf:               DOecember 1987.
Dascrigtion of Duties:
The specialist will assist the Coordinator of the Project schools in:
(a) planning the launching of new pedagogical approaches;
(b) administering the industry-based part of the training;
(c) organizing the new teacher training and student selection procedures; and
(d) any other relevant task at the request of the Coordinator.
gualifications Rekquired:
Appropriate academic qualifications in agriculture and education; extensive experience of
agricultural education and training in at least one member country of the Comwon Market outside
Portugal; thorough understanding and experience of industry-based agricultural training.
English or French. A working knowledge of Portuguese would be an advantage.



3965V/020687                                     -      -                                       Annen 6
EagR 7
C. Cinors  in Sshol
Past L:                       Specialist in Evaluation of Computer Programs in Schools.
nuRf! 5I.en.                  Coimbra and Lisbon Universities, Portugal.
uration of AInItmt:           Total of 12 man-months to be arranged in separate periods of front 2
to 4 man-months.
StArtingDatLe:                December 1989.
Dnegriptian of utiegA:
The specialist will be assigned to assist the coordinator and steering committee for
computers in schools in the evaluation of computer programs in schools. Specifically, the
specialist will:
(a) analyze the outcomes of computer education in schools, for instance in: (i) student
performance compared with a control group; subject areas in which greatest use has
occurred; curriculum development; qualitative effects on education; and comparison with
other schools in Portugal and with schools in selected countries in the rest of Europe;
(b)  assess quantitatively and qualitatt~ely teacher training in the use of computers and in
the potential to sustain growth in tho use of computers;
(c) determine the suitability. reliability aind maintenance of computer hardware supplied to
the schools;
(d) evaluate the software being used in schools:
ie) determine the actual direct and indirect costs of the computer program and compare with
the estimated expenditure; and
(f) prepare a report suomarizing the findings of the evaluation (points (a) to (e) above),
proposals for the implementation of any further extensions of computer education in
schools, and for further teaching training.
Oua]ifteations aquirod:
Degree and qualified teacher status, with extensive evaluation experience, preferably in
the field of computer education.
English or French. A working knowledge of Portuguese would be an advantage.



JV50 -
396SV/020687                                                                                   Annax 
foaL_A:                       Spectalist on Introduction of Computers into Schools.
DutyU  JaLt.ln:               Coimbra and Lisbon Universities, Portugal.
puratioL gt AneEintat: -   Total of 12 man-months to be arranged in separate periods of fron 2
to 4 man-months.
StcAins aRA:                  January 1988.
oascriptign at Duties:.
The specialist will be assigned to assist the coordinator and steering group in the
development of a strategy for the introduction of computers into schools. Specifically, the
specialist will:
Ca)  develop the content for teacher training cycles;
(b)  modify and develop curricula for applications of computer in subject teaching especially
in mathematics, science and technology:
(e)  assist in the selection and dessimination of software;
(d)  assist in the development of logistic systems for the introduction of computers to
individual schools; and
(e)  advise On the use of computers in secondary and primary schools.
ual1f        h tcat,.  iurd:
qualified teacher with significant experience of managing the introduction of computers
into schools. There should be considerable flexibility in the use of this technical assistance to
provide as wide a range of subject and function coverage as possible. A twinning arrangement with
an active institution overseas with experience of computers in schools would enable the
appropriate expertise to be available as required.
E             sAlga
English or French. A working knowledge of Portuguese would be an advantage.



3965V/020687                                     - 51 -                                         Annex 5
Pageq
I. Local Specialists
A. Apolied Research Institutes
Many of the locai specialists will be recruited on a part-time basis from agricultUre and
industry and the remainder from other research institutes and universities in Portugal. They will
assist in bridging the gap between research and agriculture and industry and will work closely
with the foreign specialists and institute staff in the development of collaborative research and
development with the agriculture and industry; research projects; and research techniques.
Post 9:                        Specialists in Applied Biotechnology.
OutZ Station:                 tBiotechnology Applied Research Institute, Lisbon, Portugal.
Ouration of AgnQintment:       A total of 396 man-months, arranged to utilize individual specialists
for periods up to 3 months in various subjects over a duration of 6
years.
Startin._Data:                 January 1988.
DescriRtion gf Duties:
The specialists will be assigned to the Biotechnology Applied Research Institute to
assist 4n the development of b4otechnology researcn and development in collaboration with
agriculture and industry. .n addition to the researcn and development function, the specialists
will assist in running seminars and post-graduate and undergraduate courses relevant to their area
of expertise. Collectively the specialists will cover a wide variety of biotechnical research
subjects, but w1l be concentrated on pharmaceutical products. microbiology, biochemistry.
fermentation, enz,ynetechnology, biotechnological reaction mechanisms, genetic engineering and
process design and control.
Specifically, the specialists will:
(a) collaborate with foreign specialists and institute staff in research projects relevant to
their subject specialization;
(b) develop research interests jointly with Portuguese industry;
(c)  contribute to the training of Portuguese research workers and students;
(d) prepare and deliver seminars on their own field of specialization; and
(e) contribute to post-graduate and graduate training programs as appropriate.
Oualifications Reauired:
A,qualification at doctorate level in the particular subject of specialization, together
with extensive research experience, including the supervision of Ph.D. research students.
Additionally a wide teaching experience and collaboration in applied research with industry would
be an advantage.
Lanpuape:
Portuguese and a working knowledge of English.



3965V/020687                                      - 52 -                                        Annex 6
PosJIQ:                       Specialists in Analytical Chemical Techniques.
OuLtSt z atlim:               Materials Science Applied Research Institute. Porto, Portugal.
DurAtion oft ANNeIRtnm: -   Total of SO man-months divided as follows:
(a) specialist in electron microscopy - 25 man-months;
(b) specialist in structural and chemical analysis - 15 man-months;
(c) specialist in preparation of materials for analysis - 10
man-months.
Startins UAta:                January 1989.
Descriotian OLtJioLJe:
Specifically, the specialists will:
(a) in collaboration with foreign specialists and institute staff, develop applied research
in collaboration with industry;
(b)  train research staff in the application of the specified technique(s);
(c) contribute to research work as appropriate;
(d) deliver seminars on their own field of specialization; and
(e) contribute to post-graduate and training programs as appropriate.
guAliticAtigns Eeaiiir.d:
A qualification at doctorate level in the particular subject of specialization, together
with extensive experience of the application of the technique in research.
Portuguese and a working knowledge of English.



396SV/020687                                     - 53 -                                          Annex 
east It:                      Specialists in Water Research.
Duty statian:                 Water Resources Applied Research Institute, Coimbra. Portugal.
2uratiOn gf AnoainUnt:        Total of 540 man-months:
(a) specialist in organization and development of water research -
72 man-months; and
(b) research scientists in different aspects of water technology -
456 man-months.
StActnoL Date:                September 1987.
Dascriotian of Duties:
The specialists will be assigned to the Water Resources Applied Research Institute at the
University of Coimbra to assist in the development of research related to the needs of
agriculture. industry and the public services. In addition specialist advice will be provided on
the developments necessary in analytical chemical techniques to meet the standards of quality
required by the EEC for water supply and efficient disposal.
Specifically, the specialists will:
(a) in collaboration with foreign specialists, advise the Director of the Institute on
appropriate methods for developing and managing the research institute;
(b) assist in the training of research staff in techniques appropriate to research in water
technology;
(c) develop applied research proJects in water-technology;
(d) develop instrumental chemical analytical techniques for the quality control of water
supply and various effluents;
Ce) prepare and delivery seminars on their own field of specialization;
(f) contribute to post-graduate and graduate training programs as appropriate.
pual ificatins ReguirgA:
A qualification at doctorate level in water technology, together with extensive
experience of applied research in water technology. Experience as a consultant to or
collaborative research worker with industry would be an added advantage.
Portuguese and a working knowledge of English.



3965V/020687                                        5                                           Anne x
EQILj12:                      Specialists in Applied Water Technology.
2Mtv stAt1nn:                 Water Resources Applied Research Institute. Coimbra, Portugal.
DurAtion o? Anpain tant:      Total of 72 man-months, arranged to provide 4 individual inputs of 3
months each.
5tartinn Date:                September 1988.
Descrintign of Duties:
The specialists will be assigned to the Water Research Institute at Coimbra University
and wtill assist in providing seminars on topics of importance to water technology and research.
Specifically, the specialists will:
(a) advise the Director of the institute on current advances in water technology;
(b) prepare and delivery seminars on their own field of specialization; and
(c) contribute to post-graduate and graduate training programs as appropriate.
gualifIcatlgns Eeauired:
A qualification at graduate level in water technology, together with extensive experience
of applied research in water technology.
Portuguese.



3965V/020687                                     - 55 -                                         Anneh f
i.  Cgmuters in Schools
PfiLsl1:                      Specialists on the Use of Computers in Schools.
Duty SatAton:             *   Coimbra and Lisbon Universities. Portugal.
urAtiao of Aanointnmt:        Total of 296 man-months.
StartUng Date,                January 1988.
Descrintion.of Duties:
The specialists would provide a counselling service to individual schools on the use of
computers.
Specifically, the specialists will:
(a) advise schools on the installation and maintenance of computer equipment;
(b) assist in the selection and use of appropriate software;
(c) advise on computer applications for school management functions; and
(d) assist staff in the integration and timetabling of computer activities into the
curriculum.
ouplificatigns Reauired:
Certified teacher status with extensive knowledge and experience of the use of computers
as an educational tool and as a management information system.
Portuguese.



3965V/020687                                       - 56 -                                         Annex
evAJ 14
I!!. International Fellowships
A. Apolied Research Institutes
A total of 2,072 man-months of international fellowships have been provided, of which 932
man-months are for biotuchnology, 672 man-months for materials science. The purpose of the
fellowships is for the training of research workers and university academic staff in order to
provide the basis for a.' extension oe in-country research training, and to increase the output of
qualified research workers for industry. The fellowship program will reinforce the specialist
services provided in the project research institutes in Portugal and will. wherever possible,
utilize twinning arrangements with overseas research departments and institutes, so that the
fellowships will be in the same establishments as those supplying the expert services 'n the
particular research topic. The areas of specializtion for the fellowshios will be decided to
accord with the priority areas for research as determined by JNICT and in specf ic topics as
specified by the Research Institute Council. Each Institute will have the autonomy to selec:
students for the fellowships. decide topic for research study, and twinning arrangements with an
overseas university. The fellowship program is designed to give the greatest possible flexibility
to enable promising fields of applied research to be developed.
The fellowships are of three types:
(a) Long-term (1-3 years) for research training leading to a post-graduate deqree at either
masters or doctorate level. This would involve training of 55 students in various
soecializations for a period of 1.440 man-months.
(b) Mediwm-term (6-12 ronths) for post-doctoral study, research link missions and specific
technical training (364 man-months).
(c) Short-term (2-6 weeks) for specific short courses, attendance at conferences. industrial
work experience, student exchange, ana research project follow-up (100 man-months).
B. Agricultural Polytechnic Institutes
The fellowship program wiil be focused on direct teacher training, with two types of
training:
(a) of 2 years' duration for teachers who will be subject leaders in the institutes -- 8
fellowships will be provided for a total of 192 man-months. The emphasis of the training
will be on the teaching of agricultural practice and teaching methods. Subject
upgrading, particular in mooern farming techniques, will form an integral part of the
courses.
(b) of one year duration for agricultural teachers with previous experience -- 36 fellowships
will be provided for a total of 432 man-months.
The emphasis will be on agricultural practice and modern innovations in agriculture.
Study tours and specialist sport courses in management of agricultural institutes w il be provided
for institute directors, deputy directors, members of local consultative groups and farm manage-3
for a total of 19 man-months. The purpose of this training will be to prepare the management and
executive personnel for the task of efficient nianagemv't of the agricultural polytecrnic
institutes and for the introduction of curriculum reforms, agricultural *nnovations :nd of
internship programs.
C. Co=uters in Schools
The fellowship program will be concerned with training for three important aspects of
computers in schools:
(a) Training in evaluation techniques for i teachers for a *otal of 36 man-months -- this
training will focus 3n statistical me.hods, sample ;election, control group comparison
and quality evaluation, and will enabie the teachers after training to contribute to thn
evaluation of the computer in schools zrograms;
(b) Training in selection and preparation of 2ooropriate software for 8 teachers for a total
of 48 man-months -- the teachers ill be cnosen to represent a mise range of subject
interests but with an emphasis on mathematics, science and technology. Training will be
given in aspects of software design, programming and software quality evaluation.
(c)  Training in curriculum design and development for 8 teachers for a total of 48
man-months. The emphasis of training will be on mathematical, scientific, and technical
subjects and focus on tne integration of comouter learning methods into the subject
:urriculum.



5-                                          Ar.ex 6
IV, c&l Fellowsh1ps
A.  Applied  beseauch Institutes
In the Water Research Institute, provision will be made for 20 students oer year to
attend in-country intensive courses in water technology for a total of 140 man-months. These
courses will provide training in new techniques in water technology and in modern water practices.
B. Aaricultural Polytechnic Institutes
The main fellowship provision will be for the in-country teacher training of science
teachers for agricultural courses. a total of 256 man-months will be provided for training 8
teachers in the various branches of science, 4 will be selected from each project agricultural
polytechnic institute to cover the subject areas of pnysics, chemistry, mathematics and biology.
C. Computers in Schools
The fellowship program will be concerned sol;ely with the train'ng of teachers in the use
of computers in education.
The training will be of three types:
(a) Courses of one year duration intended for teacher trainers (40) who will be concerned
with training teachers from the schools. These courses will ie held n the univer;ity
departments concerned with the introduction of computers into schools. Total 480
man-months.
(b) Courses of three months' duration intended for the principal staff concerned with
comouter education in each ;articipating school. One staff member from each primary
school in the project (30 teachers) and two staff members from each secondary school (280
teachers) will be given three imonths training at one of the 13 teacher training
departments in Portugal !total of 930 man-months). The training will be concerned with
comput r installation ano maintenance; use of the computer as a learning aid; software
selection and use; curr4:uljm modifications to utilize the computer as an educational
tool; and the use of the computer in school management.
(c)  Courses of two weeks' duration intended for specialist subject teachers w.ho will wish to
use the computer in the teaching of their subject. Courses will be provided for 620
teachers so that each primary school would have 2 teachers, and each secondary school 4
teachers with a knowledge of computer applications in teaching. These short. intenrive
training courses would familiarize teachers with computer operation and ise as a teaching
tool. Total 310 man-months.



GWULC 03 MOiT
SntIILIR sSIR  ID mLAIFSLS NIIM
(h n-bd)
_ _    ,_,,,,_-   ---   -_,----,- - -_--- ---- --- ------- ---- --- -----  - -----  - ---- --- ---- ---- --- ---- --- ------- ---- --- ---- --- ---- ------- --- ---- --- ---- ------- ---
A. bIllod lIsooreb Institutes                               8. hgeicltursl ?.ltoic   Instit utp                                    C. Couters 1i SOceolt                         : Total
St eIa       ad Unical b:    iah                     4                                                                   I,  ,
hipmtim d bUrWo                        4 !be d goopftn b ApialteM I"io                                     2                                                             a
WGW  bmwa                             so ilfoottes Tombliv                                       2~~~~~~*    a 
wtow~~ 30t1 1  elo illoddl                                                                                         I# Inwyotao                                                ewri Sel 12: 34
1 1 lauulp Spoultlletoi2                                                                                                         et o Ia:he d         o    Cotpset                l2
Sta l tu rel              IalysipIe                  4   a   b _t ti1"                                                   2 'e:
Frenuitim  d    taslolh                                tlm              Teaching                                         2:,
Ater   lawh                                        60ltle          Tea n                                                 t: 
:l ,@tU  W5.U.5W  -    IeIW                                    1:a
111.undlcal                                                                                                     .                                                           .ooi
II.  otal310   seb-TotaI                                                                 D                             10 1T tal                                                    24at     34 '  i  4
*tnd l a    Dwll telgis(4)144I'SadyTomforComtoti    Crp lsbe                                                      11Ityiaikg  n Crtiula  Delop t *                               : 
I.hontiSpe d  bIto li in:                            11  :Salan           Ikua         pte
gd#T bmrd                            $04 "St*    Tars fare Bmnn 2*                                           a 
s      " 6td                                    I'm  Alb5;   0tal                                                    '1135     SebeTot al                                          132 er111
Ibtusbolegy lasseruk                 t~~,?"     t P:Spuad                                                           aiisttn TM   cus.e of0 Cosut0sii23
lilhlabl~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ t.&.ta IS:.n ,                                                                Io.
4a        a 1e  510                                        a I  :
Stnuaurol m:  ,omical        ysI                   10:5 -       ls                                                               otal -as                            -2
--eoratlon of :at------ 1,:
Pp0tia  of klerlols {6}   111 tS   Sours 9irectors i  BawQ Ie                             6:                                                         :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a 
* _---                                                             *                      
II.Iteintsl . ales s                               1,   aSFea                                                          l,JISSol12                                                             ,t
*                                                                  * 
labtzd uae r teasearu                             584  Ten(rOitad    ol su 1'orse Fr eern trei3i: :
kb-otal                                          164§ :Sb-Totel                                                      i,is  :8mbTotal                                               132t    3 ,111i
_._  _ .............. _. ......... _ _ . .. . . . .*.                                                               
gS                                 9.340:                                                               1,}41                                                      X,172:  6,853                  _  oW~~a  a 
-- _    -:-::::::::::::::-:::::::::::::::  :  ::::::::::::::::::::::::  ::::::::    : :::::::::::   :::::::  ::: -:: :: ::: ::::::::
w an~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ a                                                                                                                                              a.E



-59 -
IlfOLl  of M w31                                                                    Annex  
SniTy Locut by Project  acAmut
4124101144*0426511644                        A1410LOEL 16518001  lOSiJIl                              04010 co i Is44gm
1141011104    013303    011011115   1011Y!UOC   A4100114A    *4112,401   440414                                   HD0                                  'bynioal
03110       mum*10      "am411        IISTY4?         mm43          001114   maJin, FM0    001101311    TOAOI   314wYliE of                        Coatiagucice
20511141     IiSTiYmiT         m      IO 164141 (4 13 241  11341  (TAIL   3111432a415  (TunL   0AC112Y10   11  (1*1111m m1  HI........
(fiu1*11 42   (YA! i6n) (Tiat 203)         2432          2II)        (1431  fit)       1323        (TIKI 341I   3632         a 14 13 342   Ttal       I    bnoit
lnumows
114 041T0401301  ~ ~  ~ ~       11,12.4?       44.40      214,44         124.26                                                                                        1 ,554.41  24.4   155.41
31051444  IOIYO                             131.04                        .        104.04 IIJ2164.04                                                                               454.14  20.4    45.54
mmSOI iACiLi?Jis                                              .                     13-54                                                          -                         .      32.54  Io.$    32.34
not1 w0 n1                                       .                                  4.44..                                                                                          40.44  24.0     4.40
11l 11415                                                                          31.2                               -.  IIISt142.52  24.0    2425
411301                                      241.40                                  31.53                                                                                          MA. 2 1402 4.6    31.90
kb-Total ClIVI  Wil4                         I44.4"         40.04       234.04        444.04.                                                    154.44                             2,743.46  20.4   214.35
ftls1ca1 Co,tilaoniee                       144.44        4.00        21,04         45.05                ..                                    15.40           .                    74.35   0.0     0.04
Price Cuhontineale                           64.24        3.54        24.71         64.35                -                                     2.54            -                   23.31   4.1    16.06
sob-Tuta 1Ioni1a  C0413u303                  2,616.34       164.54      24..14      1,61,04                 .             .                      144.04                             3  ,301.01   4.1  242.01
tam                                         244.41        4.14        24.31        144.44                                                      11 . 2.44 #                         334.21   4.  1 2.24
foreig  likig.                              431.14       24.44       145.21        M4.3                                                        14.20                         .    2,U6.41  4.1   224.50
0. 0441440A  400303                            125.43         4.04       1.0.4         45.04                              .                        2.32           .             -     244   10.0   32.45
Pbynll Ceatlag.oiee                          22.54        4.44         1.44          6.64.                                                      1.233                               2241$  44       0.04
trial Coatil.gnlea                            6.04        4.2?         1.65          4.50                -0.61                                                                     123.44   4.3      t211
kb1-Total IICoDIN 004Y361C3                    2133.6         5.5        22.24         14.34                                                      1    4.33       .                   224.34   4.  233.22
Tuuat                                        13.34        4.40         3.23          1.4                              .                         242           -                     25.43   4.  23.31
foreig  Inking                               10.71        4.44         2.14          4.35                .                                       .34                         .       0.34   4.1     2.45
l"IlIl                                      45.54        4.66        34.00         51.21                                                     141.85                               243.63  20.0   24.3
341134                                    1,44.4        25.3         2615.4        473.24             4.05            .               .       12,04.104                      .   3,505.34  1.0A   35.53
on001   AD44110144                                       23.00        14.0..                               4.10                               1- O-                                3122.30  24.4    32.32
kbTota   l  330As0143m m1                    1,415.54      201.14      310.04         534.51            0D0OS                                  1,342.4A                             4,141.01  34.4   414.10
24yeincal  atlngeele                        141.45       24.11        31.54         53.61             4.41            .               -         2344                               434.1  04.4      4.06
Price Conlngece                              63.14       2313         21.45         31.11             4.04                                    MA 3,6                               212.34   4.1    34.75
kb-Total 1101011 COI?34611                   1,444.11      331.44       434.54        41.33              6.14 8                                1,653.74                         .   4,432.44   4.1   443.05
Ioneia  lackig                            2,475.5       M0.44        24,41         444.40             4.45.                                 1,35.1.2          -                  4,146.32   0.2   3712.40
112*04112                                   142.11       43.-14      24.0               -            6.7.4            .            .41                   M 2.34                  1 3,473.1  24. 10 2433
111111l"13T%                               314.44        22.04      214.24                            I .14       13.00            1.54                       -        161.44      131.7   10.4    52.11
m m060  m m~5.                                               .                                                                                           243.20                    Il342.o  30.4    30.12
am40Y111                                    731.00      20.44         42.44             -                                                                                           31.44  10.4    43.20
Wb-ota  1103104  ASSITAIOC                   2,434.12      23.04        109.40                         274.43        13.44           31.34                  434.44         241.44   2,126.41  14.0   312.10
npbI.i Coahmtlaeoe                           M6.4        32.61        v4."                           MU.6          I'll           2.14                    IM3.4         10.74      31.1    4.4      4.44
Price Cmoatlngnle                            43.03       23.44         41               .           351174         4.41           0.55                    It3."4         10.05     226.14   4.3    24.54
kb-otl 101403  016201410                     113,344    1.04 M."        s.31                           313.35        34.41          13.41                   54.16         303.33   3,231.4    4.1  243.25
foreig  licing                              764.4       142.31      342.14                         2834.41        11.43          33.24                    v 4."         61.44   2,404.44   4.1   244.23
Total  11 IU  0051                              4,1320.11     417.44    3142.64        1,444.01           274.4         12.04           13.34     1,54.1-1     434.44         147.44   4,440.41  30.0  484.45
11yalcal Caetlagain                           4WA.S         51.14       I14.20        244.41            31.0          1.34            1,14       354.42      43.44          16.14    4H4."    4.4      4.14
rIces Cestimlege                               245.3?       44.44        01.04        102.51            25.14         0.03           4.51        141.43      20.04         114.0      494.53   4.1    63.24
tota  li301IN1  00T4I0113                       4,4.4          144.14    2,4.44        2,445.47           313.31        24.61           13.01     1,051.43     543.14        242.33  13,543.-53   4.1 2,051.33
Tacee                              141.14~~~~~~~lt,  7.52    U.54         104.42                                                      14.43          -              -     345.53   4.2   3z.41
foeInleca geh                                2,44.41       44.11        4141.33       444.04           262.42        11.01          13.34      3,434.12      07.04         61.54   1,124.54   4.1   644.14
bota 0NW"0141 4m,224.31                                         1711.4    2.1,1426      1,444.5            214.41        11.04           12.38     3,544.11     434.40         2417.44   41441.91  14.6  404.04
IbWlal Ocatlmmngee                              422.0        41.14       1914.2        144.01            31.41         1.24            1.14       144.42      43.04          16.14     400.0    4.4     0.44
Price Ooatlngeacian                 144.31~W     44.40        07.44        161.51            25.14         0.43           4.45        1471.41     to."4         26.61    404.53   4.2    63.24
Totl mmOJ     mu COSS4141.40                                   484.15    1,344.44       2,45.4             333.31        14.41           13.47     1,451.43     502.14        32.223  11,543.523  4.21,451.23
Tue                                             143141         1.41       IS.44        144.41                             .14.01                                  .                    345.43   4.1    31.42
loneI  Eding                                  2,443.41      444.31       614.32        644.44           202.02        11.43           12.34     1,421.32      01.0          4.1.5    7,113.54   4.1   444.14
......e.n.....................3,........ 2041......... 20...:1...4.........................................



- 60-                                                                           Annex 8
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
TECHNOLOGY EDUCATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Unit Capital Cost and Area Per Student Place /a
(at 1986 Prices)
Areas                                                    Costs
--Groos  Area Per Studeat 'O2) /b--   Capital Costs Per Student for This Project
Type of facility        This        ----Bank aide /c----        Buildings       Site     furniture       Equip-   Total       Baik-Mide
Project         iedian        first                       Vorks                      Bent                  first
Decile       --------------------- QS$ --------------------------- Decile
Acadesic and
Connunal                   18.6           13.5      20.7             5,759           576          576       8,535    15,445   14,253
Boarding                   15.3 /d         9.6 /e  23.0              4,741           474          474          156     5,846      6,686
Staff lousiog              85.7           86.0     128.0            23,645        2,365             0            0   26,010   49,500
/a EIcluding contingencies.
/b Including walls and circulation
/c FT81-83 projects (Post Secondary, Won Uoiversity, Tecbnlcal, Vocational and Agricultural Institutes.
/d Includes dining facilities.
/e Ixcludes dining facilities.



- 61 -
REPUBLIC OF PORrUGAL           Annex 9
Technology Education Project
Staff Appraisal Report
Schedule of Disbursements
I B R D            Disbursements            Disbursemet Profile
Fiscal         1-----    This    Portugal a/
Year &            Quarter    Cumulative   Project       Average
Quarter         ----- US$ Millions ------ -------- % -----------
t    -===,  --- -- --  ------------, _ = = = = - ---= --------_
FY88           t            I            I t
First             0.00         0.00 :t      0.0
Second             .00         0.00          .0
Third             2.00I        2.001        6.3
Fourth            o.oa         2.00         6.3          1.0
FY89           *
First             0.80 :       2.80         8.8:
Second            0.80 '       3.60        11.3
Third      1      0.80         4.40        13.8:
Fourth     :      0.80         5.20        16.3          8.01
FY90           I-=
First      t      1.00         6.20        19.4 
Secod             1.00         7.20        22.5 1
Third             1.00         8.20        25.6:
Fourth     1      1.00 1       9.20 1      28.8 :       22.0 :
FY91-………
First      1      1.20 1      10.40 1      32.5
Second    1       1.20 1      11.60        36.3  
Third             1.30 5      12.90 1      40.3
rourth    t       1.30        14.20        44.4         40.0:
FY92
First      1      1.40        15.60 1      48.8 1
Second     ,      1.40        17.00 1      53.1:
Third      I      1.30 1      18.30 1      57.2              1
Fourth     1      1.30:       19.60 1      61.3         58.0 1
FY93                                                 -------------
First             1.30 1      20.90 1      65.3
Second            1.30        22.20        69.4
Third      t      1.20 a      23.40        73.1  
Fourth    1       1.20        24.60 1      76.9 1       73.0
FY94a……
First      1      1.10        25.70        80.3:
Second     I      1.10        26.80        83.8
Third             1.10        27.90        87.2              a
Fourth            1.10        29.00             :       87.0 a
FY95           a-=
First             1.00        30.00        93.8              I t
Second     a      1.00 a      31.00        96.9 I            a
Third      a           a      32.00       100.0         92.0 a
a/ The country profile for Sector Investment TeTding.



- 62 -
Annex 10
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
TECHNOLOGY EDUCATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Proiect File
A. General Reoorts ad Studies Relating to Education. Research and Maepower:
1.   Ministry of Education:
Education Statistics, 1985.
Secondary Education in Portugal, 1985.
Technical and Professional Programs, 1985/86.
Education Law, 1986.
Proposals for Computer Education in Schools.
2.   Min±stry of Planning:
Regional Report - Analysis of Northern Region, 1986.
Area do Vale do Lima - Analysis, 1986.
Regional Report - Alentejo.
Regional Report - Central.
3.   Orasnizatiou for Economic Cocogration and Develo_ment:
Economic Survey Portugal, 1985186.
Review of National Science and Technology Policyl, 1986.
4.   National Board for Scientific and Technological Research:
Research and Development Projects, 1985.
5.  National Institute of Scientific Research:
Statistics, 1982-86.
B. Working Papers:
1.   Proposal for Establishment of Biotechnology Research Institute
2.   Proposal for Establishment of Materials Science Institute
3.   Proposal for Establishment of Water Research Institute
4.  Proposal for Establishment of Agriculture Institute at Vale do Lima
5.   Proposal for Establishment of Agriculture Institute at Beja
6.  Agricultural Education System
C. Data:
Detailed Investment Program and Cost Details.
1965Y



MAP SECTION



~~~~~~~~~o                                                                                                             13RD 2036!
*r PORTUGALf
TECHNOLOGY EDUC:ATION-                                                             , ..7                  52  -
PROJECT                                         "Aol c       <tiRGN 
)x.-- t3RAGA   ,   ,                  t- BRAGANs
PORTO\S                                          ZbTol de 
AVEIRO 5tr>                 7         2>
46   Ati)riulturrgl Po[Vtochnir0 Insttlutse              '                         >       I      )-te07r
Research *oosti.o                        \                                     (~#     iUA4D;
Soco.dorq *ods                       , C.>                         g       ,       t 
.Rodlwors- Lck   -o     
pons               ~~~~~Mondlego w ~    A                                A\-|-J
+   A.,po.li                   figueroq                                                  Sg T;
^° Rl,e,, ~~~~~~~de Foi I  1-,-tF  '
OCD Sl- ct coPltols    d6 
-      D,st,,ct bo.ndo.es            ,)                                                       0/1l/o
"em  Reg,on bovndo'.0sj /'                                                         i
_._ lntonot/onl bolbnorleS      <     <       i LE                       ASlEtO $RAN,O 
e°e1g ZMot*lro _ \  @ ,R~de oda        ,                          ,=
+t'- Z 'sS--', J                                      rb Wo
mc 4>.X,  C T/,fXAR, m
Tweit                   2      l          tvf\                  woSw.
.  ; tAE. RE '111?
Bo-,-~~~~~~r.,                 /
~~~~~~~~~o ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~        , 60  '2'1  ' E    2.          Mv
1a*                   Sme#>      Ait-    ,                                                             ; A 
-ft.W -o M+t                                                    S                          P}J  Aj
0     s0    W. ft> .0 SW                  r     ; 
o     e 1wttr s> W                                                        
~~,,  t A, l G W A R t v 6- fl ,,,DECEMBER 1L8



