Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15807
IHPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PORTUGAL
TECHNOLOGY EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 286 7-PO)
June 19, 1996
Human Resources Sector Operations Division
Central and Southern Europe Departments
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
APPRAISAL (1986) US$1 = 150 Escudo
COMPLETION (1994) US$1   147 Escudo
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EU           European Union
GOP          Government of Portugal
MOE          Ministry of Education



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Preface
Evaluation Summary ............. i
Part I:       Implementation Assessment from the Bank's Perspective    .         .
A. Introduction .
B.     Summary and Evaluation of Project Objectives.                             2
C.  Implementation Experience.                                                   3
D. Cancellation of Funds .4
E.   Project Outcome and Sustainability.                                         5
F. Bank Performance                                 .5
G. Borrower Performance.                                                         6
H.  Summary of Key Lessons Learned.                                              6
Part II:  Statistical Annex.                                                                    8
Appendices:
A.    Letter dated March 31, 1995, to the Government of Portugal regarding ICR preparation
B.     Borrower's Project Summary
Tis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performancc of their
offcil duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authori=tion.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PORTUGAL
TECHNOLOGY EDUCATION PROJECT
(Loan 2867-PO)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Technology Education Project in
Portugal for which Loan 2867-PO in the amount of US$32.0 million equivalent was approved on July 21,
1987, and made effective on December 8, 1987.
The loan was closed on March 31, 1995, the original closing date. A total of US$7,010,901.05
million was disbursed, and US$24,989,098.95 cancelled (of which over US$23 million were cancelled
in 1991 at the request of the Borrower). The last disbursement was paid on December 15, 1993, and all
subsequent applications received through May 1994 were applied to recovery of the undocumented special
account allocation. The final transaction under the loan--refund of the balance of US$321,445.61
remaining in the special account--took place on February 2, 1995, and the balance of US$1,289,098.95
was cancelled at closing.
The ICR was prepared by EC1/2HR staff. It was reviewed by Mr. Brad Herbert, Portfolio
Manager/Sr. Operations Officer (EC1/2HR), and Mr. George Zaidan, Projects Advisor (EC1DR). Mr.
J. Paviuk (LEGEC), and Ms. Bridie Champion (LOAEL) also reviewed the report.
The ICR was prepared on the basis of documents in the project files. Final project cost
information, requested from the Borrower at the time of loan closing, was received on May 6, 1996.
The Borrower's implementation summary, received in January 1996, is included as Appendix B to this
document.



:



-i-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PORTUGAL
TECHNOLOGY EDUCATION PROJECT
(Loan 2867-PO)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
i.     A major objective of the Government of Portugal's economic restructuring and development
strategy was to increase the competitiveness of Portuguese industry in the world market, and particularly
in the European Union (EU). The Government of Portugal thus focussed its efforts on strengthening the
country's export- and technically-oriented light industry, and exploiting its comparative advantages, such
as a lower salary scale than its northern neighbors and its coastal location. To support this strategy, the
establishment of a scientific and technical education and training system in accordance with quantitative
and qualitative standards of other EU countries was accorded high priority. High-level skilled manpower
and structural technological changes to support EU integration were particularly crucial in the agricultural
sector in Portugal.
Proiect Objectives
ii.    The Technology Education Project was the last in a series of education projects designed to
upgrade and modernize Portugal's manpower development capacity in pursuit of the Government's
development objectives. This project aimed to improve the quality and relevance of: (i) scientific and
technological research and training through support to three applied research institutes (in biotechnology,
materials science, and water resources); and (ii) agricultural education through support to two agricultural
polytechnic institutes.  The Project also sought to strengthen general education in science and
mathematics, and increase the number of graduates qualified for entry into higher levels of science and
technology studies by supporting 140 secondary and 30 primary schools in the modernization of their
curricula through the use of computers as tools for teaching mathematics, science and language skills,
and for increasing overall computer literacy.
iii.    At preparation, the project's objectives to strengthen the scientific and technical education systems
fell directly in line with the Government's development strategy of seeking to increase competitiveness
in the world market place and within the EU. The Government's commitment to these overall
development objectives as supported by the initial design of the Technology Education Project was
constant throughout project implementation. It did, however, emerge shortly after project startup that
the means by which these objectives would be principally achieved--i.e., through a Bank-financed project
or with support from other sources--would evolve as the project began.
Implementation Experience and Outcomes
iv.    As was the experience under the earlier Manpower Training and Development Project (Loan
2456-PO, closed on December 31, 1992; Project Completion Report No. 13137, dated June 13, 1994),
access to grant funds through membership in the EU brought about shifts in attention and efforts away
from implementation of planned Bank-financed activities, resulting in substantial cancellation of project
funds. For the most part, Bank funds (about US$6.0 million) were used for the development of two



-ii-
agriculturalpolytechnic institutes (about US$6.0 million). The Borrower's assessment indicates that these
institutes did in fact benefit from the support provided through the Bank project toward their
establishment. Most of the project funds disbursed in support of this component were for civil works and
equipment (about US$4.9 million), although some resources (about US$1.1 million) were allocated for
consultants and fellowships. As regards the applied research institutes, very little Bank financing was
allocated toward the development of these institutes (about US$1.0 million, mostly for equipment, with
very limited support to training--some US$0.1 million). There was no disbursement of project funds in
support of the third component focussing on computers in schools. Although these last two components
appear to have benefitted from funding from other sources, namely the EU, the degree to which they
were successful in meeting their respective objectives of developing a scientific, technological and
research capacity and improving the quality of general education through increased use of computer
technology cannot be assessed from information available in the project files; and the Borrower's
summary provides no additional insight on this question.
vi.    Overall performance was mixed at the outset. Borrower counterpart financing intended for
activities financed by the Bank project was not forthcoming in a timely manner. In the first supervision
report for the project, counterpart financing delays were highlighted, and similar concerns were raised
in subsequent supervision reports. (This problem also arose during implementation of previous education
projects in Portugal.) The components most affected were those supporting the establishment of three
applied research institutes, and the expansion of computers in schools activities--both of which began to
receive support from alternative sources. (These components were eventually dropped from the project
(see below)). Activities in support of the two agricultural polytechnics proceeded somewhat more
satisfactorily, albeit with some substantive concerns in terms of rapid increases in student intake and
staffing number at the Beja institute well above levels initially envisaged, and apparent less than full
application of appropriate qualifications (agricultural background and practical experience) for students
and staff. At Ponte de Lima, implementation took place more along the lines and scope defined in original
project description in SAR. Teachers were selected for their practical farming experience rather than
academic qualifications; and a high proportion of student intake had farming backgrounds.
vii.   Activities in support of computers in schools never entered the active implementation phase. No
Bank funds were disbursed against this component. At the research institutes, some activities began with
EU financing, while those slated for Bank support did not, given lagging counterpart funds. In
November 1990, a Bank mission noted that continued support to this component was increasingly difficult
to justify, given the low level of commitment of the Borrower through lack of counterpart support.
viii.   As of May 1991, only about US$5 million had been disbursed (38%  of SAR estimates).
Performance was downgraded to an Overall Status of "3". By October, the Borrower formally requested
cancellation of a large portion of loan proceeds including remaining funds earmarked for the three applied
research institutes, as well as the computers in schools component, since alternative financing was
available. The total cancellation from the Bank loan at that time amounted to some US$23.7 million
equivalent.  The only remaining component in the project was that supporting the agricultural
polytechnics at Beja and Ponte de Lima.
ix.    Subsequent to cancellation, the volume of activities under the project was very small. Between
spring of 1992 and 1993, some $200,000 were disbursed from the loan. Under these circumstances,
judging that the much-reduced project was substantially completed, the Bank proposed to the Borrower
(as early as the supervision mission in March 1993) to advance the closing date to March 31, 1994 (from
March 31, 1995). As there were a number of outstanding applications, however, early closure was not
accepted by the Borrower. The last disbursement was paid in December 1993, and all subsequent
applications received through May 1994 were applied to recovery of the undocumented special account



-iii-
allocation. Upon return to the Bank of over US$300,000 in nondocumented funds from the special
account, the loan was closed as of the original closing date of March 31, 1995, and the balance of
US$1,289,098.05 was cancelled.
x.     The assessment of project performance drawn from this review of events as chronicled in the
project files would indicate an overall unsatisfactory project outcome. The project was, with substantial
delays, finally reduced in size and scope and its impact significantly curtailed vis-a-vis initial objectives.
At the same time, availability of support from alternative sources like the EU suggests improved prospects
for sustainability of the investments to which the project committed some US$7 million. Indeed,
indications support the Government's general commitment to the overall sector orientation as defined in
the developmental objectives of the Technology Education Project, despite the shift in the primary source
of support which served to finance activities to meet those objectives.
Summarv of Performance and Lessons Learned
xi.    The Bank's assessment of the potential for success of this project was overly optimistic, failing
to pay adequate attention to the real risks that had emerged under other projects in the sector. Previous
problems, already well-established, in obtaining timely and sufficient counterpart funding were not
directly addressed and no recourse taken on the part of the Bank to suspend project support until an
effective remedy could be found. Adequate attention was not paid to quickly emerging alternative
financing sources, and the resultant strain on the limited capacity at the local implementation level. Given
the great potential for such problems, the stated means to mitigate those risks in the SAR, primarily
through various assurances on the part of the Borrower, were inadequate.
xii.   The Borrower's performance, based on the review of project files, was cooperative at all stages
of preparation and implementation, and initially satisfactory in pursuit of project objectives. At the same
time, a more decisive handling of the conflicting priorities which began to emerge soon after project
startup would have been desirable. The lack of sufficient and timely counterpart financing posed
significant implementation obstacles to activities envisaged under the Bank project from the outset. Such
difficulties were not new, as they had appeared under other projects, along with the influx of EU grant
financing and the accompanying conflicts in priorities and limited implementation and managerial
capacity.
xiii.   Portugal graduated from the Bank in 1989. Nevertheless, several lessons can be derived from
this experience of this last in a series of education projects: First, it is critical to candidly assess,
throughout implementation, Government's commitment and capacity to implementing the components of
a given project, and take heed to the emergence of alternative sources of financing which may be more
advantageous, and which may strain the Borrower's implementation and managerial capacity. Part of this
commitment is demonstrated through provision of timely and sufficient counterpart financing: if not
forthcoming, definitive actions should be taken to quickly remedy the situation. Second, non-perforning
components should be quickly and effectively dealt with early on, with action taken to restructure or to
drop them after giving reasonable opportunity to progress. Third, those responsible for monitoring
implementation must be more alert, and thus better able to react appropriately, to the emergence of
conflicting priorities as public budgets evolve and demands shift. Finally, when having the benefit of
insight from multiple projects in a given sector, better efforts should be made to directly and openly take
into account lessons learned from those earlier experiences.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PORTUGAL
TECHNOLOGY EDUCATION PROJECT
(Loan 2867-PO)
Part I: Implementation Assessment from the Bank's PersRective
A.    Introduction
1.    Prior to the Revolution in 1974, Portugal's economy was dependent on its overseas possessions,
and its education and training system was largely geared to their requirements. This colonial period was
characterized by a large expatriate work force and underdeveloped industrial and agricultural sectors.
The southern part of the country was the site of large estates, often owned by absentee landlords, which
employed poorly skilled peasant farm workers, while in the north, economic activity was largely based
on small subsistence farms and large vineyards. Participation in education and training was low, with
most children attending school for only four years. Students continuing on to higher education typically
chose fields oriented toward the administrative, economic and political management needs of the colonies,
and few pursued scientific and technological streams of study. In agriculture, traditional practices
prevailed, generating little recognition of any need for technical skills.
2.     After 1974, most enterprises were nationalized, and in agriculture, many large estates were
divided into cooperatives, collective farms, and small holdings, the operation of which was seriously
handicapped by the lack of agricultural technicians, extension workers, and farm managers. By 1977,
Portugal experienced a sharp deterioration in the balance of payments, and economic performance
continued to decline into the early 1980s as most areas were affected by accelerated inflation rates,
declining levels of migrant worker remittances, dependence on imported oil and food, and slowed growth
in manufacturing and productive services. The stabilization program undertaken by the Government in
1983, however, reversed the balance of payments situation, which went from a record deficit of US$3.2
billion in 1982 to a surplus of US$400 million in 1985.
3.     The education sector witnessed a noticeable increase in enrollments in primary education after
the Revolution, while formerly parallel academic and technical secondary streams were merged into a
single, comprehensive secondary education program. Although viewed as a means to diminish the
perceived societal division represented by the two parallel secondary education streams, the merger took
place at the expense of technical secondary and agricultural schools -- the only source of skilled labor and
valued highly by employers. As the number of secondary school graduates increased and university
admission standards were lowered, enormous pressure was placed on university infrastructure and
teaching staff resulting in a decrease in education quality, and overemphasis on theoretical, rather than
practical, education. The programs provided were outdated and insufficiently oriented to the country's
economic needs.
4.     Given that a major objective of the Government's economic restructuring and development
strategy was to increase the competitiveness of Portuguese industry in the world market, and particularly
in the European Union (EU)'/, the Government of Portugal (GOP) focussed its efforts on strengthening
the country's export-oriented industry, and exploiting its comparative advantages, such as a lower salary
scale than its northern neighbors, and its coastal location. The GOP's development strategy included the
expansion of investment in technically-oriented light industry. To support this strategy, the establishment
1/    Portugal became a member of the EU in 1986.



-2-
of a scientific and technical education and training system in accordance with quantitative and qualitative
standards of other EU countries was accorded high priority. High-level skilled manpower and structural
technological changes to support EU integration were particularly crucial in the agricultural sector in
Portugal. The potential impact on this sector of the country's entry into the EU were great, and major
changes were required in agricultural practices not only to produce more food for the home market and
thus reduce imports, but also to exploit Portugal's fertile land and mild climate. In addition to the
gradual reduction of support prices and elimination of subsidies, the development of appropriately trained
manpower, technologically advanced agricultural practices, and management and marketing skills for
private farms became primary objectives.
B.    Summary and Evaluation of Project Objectives
5.     The Technology Education Project aimed to improve the quality and relevance of: (i) scientific
and technological research and training through support to three applied research institutes (in
biotechnology, materials science, and water resources); and (ii) agricultural education through support
to two agricultural polytechnic institutes. The Project also sought to strengthen general education in
science and mathemnatics, and increase the number of graduates qualified for entry into higher levels of
science and technology studies by supporting 140 secondary and 30 primary schools in the modernization
of their curricula through the use of computers as tools for teaching mathematics, science and language
skills, and for increasing overall computer literacy.
6.     At the time of project preparation, the project's objectives as outlined in the Staff Appraisal
Report fell directly in line with the GOP's development strategy of seeking to increase competitiveness
in the world market place and within the EU through strengthening the scientific and technical education
and training systems. Previous vocational training was not specifically geared toward producing a skilled
work force necessary for an industrial economy, and it became clear that manpower development was
key to reaching the country's development potential. The Government's commitment to these overall
development objectives as supported by the initial project design of the Technology Education Project was
constant throughout project implementation. It did, however, emerge shortly after project startup that
the means by which these objectives would be principally achieved--i.e., through a Bank-financed project
or with support from other sources--would change. As was the experience under the Manpower Training
and Development Project (Loan 2456-PO, closed on December 31, 1992), access to grant funds through
membership in the EU brought about shifts in attention and efforts away from implementation of initially
envisaged Bank-financed activities. With limited implementation capacity available to be distributed
among various initiatives, the redirection in priorities not surprisingly focussed on obtaining and utilizing
grant funding at the expense of activities financed with borrowed funds. Eventually, significant
cancellations under the Bank project (discussed further in the paragraphs below) would be requested.
7.     Thus, although the overall developmental orientation supported through the objectives of the
Technology Education Project appears to have been maintained, the extent to which Bank-financed
activities furthered the attainment of such objectives was significantly reduced. For the most part, Bank
funds were used for the development of two agricultural polytechnic institutes (about US$6.0 million),
and the Borrower's assessment indicates that these institutes did in fact benefit from the support provided
through the Bank project toward their establishment. Most of the project funds disbursed in support of
this component were for civil works and equipment (about US$4.9 million), although some resources
(about US$1.2 million) were allocated for consultants and fellowships. As regards the applied research
institutes, very little Bank financing was allocated through the project toward the development of these
institutes (about US$1.0 million, mostly for equipment with limited support to training--some US$0.1
million), and there was no disbursement of project funds in support of the third component focussing on
computers in schools. Although these components did benefit from funding from other sources, namely



-3-
the EU, the degree to which they were successful in meeting their respective objectives of developing a
scientific, technological and research capacity and improving the quality of general education through
increased use of computer technology cannot be assessed from information available in the project files;
and the Borrower's summary provides no additional insight on this question.
8.     As noted above, given the development context of Portugal at the time of project preparation, the
project's objectives appeared relevant and in line with the development and investment priorities of the
Government. The project's design included loan covenants intended to promote achievement of objectives
and their sustainability, including: the establishment of representative boards to strengthen collaboration
between industry and university research, and the selection of teachers and students at the agricultural
polytechnics with appropriate practical experience and relevant backgrounds. However, with the
significant reduction in project scope in October 1991, limiting Bank support to one of the initial three
components, the initial covenants cannot be said to have contributed in a meaningful way to the
realization of project objectives. Furthermore, financial reporting covenants were consistently left
pending throughout the project period despite constant reminders from Bank staff. Many audit reports
were received well after the due dates, if at all, with no repercussions on the Borrower.
C.    Implementation Experience
9.     At startup, implementation performance as recorded in the first supervision report of May 1988
was assessed as satisfactory. Architectural designs, equipment lists and other elements of the physical
execution of the project progressed. Startup of some activities progressed more quickly as a result of
already available, parallel EU grant funds--for example, establishment of the biotechnology research
institute. Actual disbursement of loan funds was initially slow as a result of delays in opening the special
account attributed to communication problems between the Ministry of Education (MOE) and the Ministry
of Finance.
10.   Performance became mixed relatively early on.  As already mentioned, this evolution in
implementation appears, to a large degree, to have been the result of shifting priorities on the part of the
Borrower and reorientation of financial and other resources among activities as availability of funding
support from other sources, namely from the EU, increased. Borrower counterpart financing intended
for activities financed by the Bank project was not forthcoming in a timely manner. In the first
supervision report for the project, counterpart financing delays for Bank-financed project activities were
highlighted as a potentially major impediment to implementation of the project as envisaged. Similar
concerns were also raised in subsequent supervision reports. It should be noted that insufficient and/or
delayed release of counterpart funds was not unknown to the Bank in implementation of previous
education projects in Portugal (see Manpower Training and Development Project, Project Completion
Report No. 13137, dated June 13, 1994).
11.   The components most affected by lagging counterpart support were those supporting the
establishment of three applied research institutes, and the expansion of computers in schools activities.
These components would eventually be dropped from the project and remaining funds cancelled (see
below).  Activities in support of the two agricultural polytechnics proceeded somewhat more
satisfactorily, these components benefitting from more consistent counterpart funding support to
complement Bank financing.  There remained substantive concerns, however, in terms of the
sustainability of investments, particularly the Beja school. In Beja, student intake quickly leapt ahead of
that foresee in the SAR: from a first year intake of 26 in 1987 to 723 in May 1992 (SAR estimate 200),
and 910 in March 1993. Rapid increases in student numbers, as well as in staff at the school, failed to
take into account the necessity to judiciously select pupils and teachers on the basis of their agricultural
background and practical experience. Furthermore, instruction was characterized by excessive contact



-4-
hours: 32 hours per week versus the norm of 18-20. With the overly ambitious intake, Bank staff
expressed concern that the MOE would have trouble achieving the objective of producing a limited
number of farm technicians -- this objective being jeopardized by overexpansion and the increasingly
theoretical approach of instruction at the school. No information is available in the project file regarding
the current status of the school and whether or not expansion was eventually brought back in line with
initial targets.
12.   At Ponte de Lima, implementation took place more along the lines and scope defined in original
project description in SAR. Teachers were selected for their practical farming experience rather than
academic qualifications; and a high proportion of student intake had farming backgrounds. The last
available information recorded intake at around 126, with contact hours staff limited to 20 hours per
week.
13.   With respect to the project's envisaged activities in support of computers in schools (a
complementary activity to the Government's ongoing MINERVA project--see project files for more
information), problems emerged early on. The Annual Review of Implementation Status, dated August
1990 noted: "The computers in schools component is virtually not being implemented, management
arrangements for this component have changed, and investment budget is insufficient." Moreover, the
project files also refer to disagreements among various parties over the scope of Bank-financed efforts
to support this initiative. As noted above, the development of the applied research institutes was blocked
by counterpart financing issues from the outset. Some activities, such as construction and equipment
procurement, were carried out with EU financing (at least some channelled through the Ministry of
Agriculture), while intended complementary Bank-financed activities (both physical elements as well as
envisaged technical assistance and training) suffered major delays. Some support to the development of
the research institutes was eventually obtained by the GOP from the National Institute of Scientific
Research and the National Board for Scientific and Technical Research, however, such support was
inadequate given the level of requirements foreseen under the project.
14.   In November 1990, a Bank mission noted that continued support to this component was
increasingly difficult to justify, given the apparent low level of commitment demonstrated by the
Borrower through lack of forthcoming counterpart support. The mission concluded that development of
these research institutes must no longer be among the investment priorities of the Government, at least
not among those slated for support with Bank funding. The Bank also reminded the Borrower of the
unnecessary burden of commitment fees on loan funds which appe;.red to be in excess of what they
intended to use. As a last attempt to find funding from other sources, the Bank wrote to the Secretary
of State for Science and Technology in May 1991 requesting that necessary funds be committed in order
that the research institutes become viable and sustainable. Funds were not forthcoming, thus cancellation
was recommended.
D.    Cancellation of Funds
15.   Although a suggestion to consider cancellation of loan funds was first introduced in a letter to the
Borrower following the November 1990 mission, it was not until the supervision report of May 1991 that
more definitive action was taken. At that time, some US$5 million had been disbursed (38% of SAR
estimates, and over 70% of final total disbursements). Performance was downgraded to an Overall Status
of "3". The mission's findings clearly highlighted the Borrower's failure to make the research institutes
a funding priority, at least a priority for Bank funds. In October 1991, MOE requested cancellation of
a large portion of loan proceeds including funds earmarked for the three applied research institutes, as
well as the computers in schools component. Indications from the Borrower were such that these
activities would instead be supported through funding from the EU. The total cancellation from the Bank



-5-
loan at that time amounted to some US$23.7 million equivalent. The Bank agreed to this request for
cancellation on October 29, 1991. Afterward, the only remaining component was that supporting the
agricultural polytechnics at Beja and Ponte de Lima.
16.   As a result of the substantial cancellation, the volume of activities during the two years was very
small. Between spring of 1992 and 1993, some $200,000 were disbursed from the loan. Given that the
much-reduced project was for all intents and purposes completed, the Bank proposed to the Borrower (as
early as the supervision mission in March 1993) to advance the project's closing date by one year to
March 31, 1994 (from March 31, 1995). Initially this suggestion was refused by Borrower, citing the
need for more time in order to complete certain civil works underway at the agricultural institutes. It
would emerge that part of these works, at Beja, had been undertaken without the Bank's prior review of
bidding documentation, the documentation having failed to be transmitted to the Bank as a result of
"administrative error". A subsequent request for retroactive approval of contracts amounting to US$6.23
million, for which Bank financing of 40% of that amount was requested, was refused - in part given that
only US$1.57 million remained of the loan balance. The last disbursement was paid in December 1993,
and all subsequent applications received through May 1994 were applied to recovery of the undocumented
special account allocation.
17.   Recovery of the special account took quite some time in the end.  Despite frequent
communications between the Bank and the Borrower, both from the operations and loan departments
concerned, those funds were not returned to the Bank until February 1995. Thus the loan was closed as
of the original closing date of March 31, 1995, and the balance of US$1,289,098.05 was cancelled at that
time.
E.    Project Outcome and Sustainability
18.   The assessment of project performance drawn from this review of events as chronicled in the
project files indicates an overall unsatisfactory project outcome. The project was, with substantial delays,
reduced in size and scope and its impact significantly curtailed vis-a-vis initial objectives. At the same
time, however, the availability of support from alternative sources, namely the EU, would indicate
improved prospects for sustainability of the investments to which the project committed some US$7
million. All indications appear to support the Government's general commitment to the overall sector
orientation as defined in the developmental objectives of the Technology Education Project, despite the
shift in the primary source of support which served to finance activities to meet those objectives.
F.    Bank Performance
19.   Overall, it would appear that the Bank's assessment of the potential for success of this project was
overly optimistic, failing to pay adequate attention to the real risks that had emerged under other projects
under implementation during the same period (particularly the Manpower Training and Development
Project (Loan 2456-PO; ICR No. 13137)). Past problems, already well-established, in obtaining timely
and sufficient counterpart funding were not directly addressed and no recourse taken on the part of the
Bank to suspend project support until an effective remedy could be found. Furthermore, it would appear
that adequate attention was not paid to quickly emerging alternative financing sources, and the resultant
strain on the limited capacity at the local implementation level. Again, these were issues which had also
come to the forefront of implementation under earlier projects in the 3ector, most recently the Manpower
Training and Development. Other project risks outlined in the SAR, such as the potential for the
excessively academic orientation of training at the agricultural institutes, the incongruence between
research orientation of the applied research institutes and industry, and the failure to integrate computer
education into active curricula, all emerged during project implementation to some degree. Given the



-6-
great potential for such problems, the stated means to mitigate those risks in the SAR, primarily through
various assurances on the part of the Borrower, were inadequate.
20.    Throughout implementation, it would appear that the Bank was accommnodating and available,
and responsive to the changing project environment. The Bank did take the initiative in suggesting to the
Borrower cancellation of funds allocated to the research institutes in an effort to reduce the cost of
borrowing to the client. Nevertheless, the hard evidence of commitment to closely monitoring project
progress on the Bank's side through concentrated supervision efforts is sketchy at best: supervision
missions occurred with decreasing frequency during implementation, were for the most part carried out
by the task manager alone, with only a single mission taking place in each year of 1991, 1992 and 1993
despite very poor project ratings. Devoting such minimal resources and attention to implementation
monitoring while well aware of the already known risks under other project, and obviously aware of those
issues which emerged during implementation, would suggest a very low priority level accorded to the
operation by the Bank and an almost laissez-faire approach to supervision. At the same time, it should
also be noted that throughout the final implementation years of this and previous education projects in
Portugal, it became increasingly clear that the EU was recognizably the dominant investment partner for
Portugal. Under those circumstances, the Bank would have done well to act more decisively at a much
earlier stage in implementation in moving to limit itself to a more realistic set of agreed activities and
targeted objectives.
G.    Borrower Performance
21.    The Borrower's performance, based on the review of project files, was cooperative at all stages
of preparation and implementation, and initially satisfactory in pursuit of project objectives. At the same
time, a more decisive handling of the conflicting priorities which began to emerge soon after project
startup would have been desirable. The project files indicate a willingness to collaborate with the Bank
on the part of component managers, although often overtaken by conflicting priorities as EU funding
became more available and priorities shifted in response.
22.    At the same time, the lack of sufficient and timely counterpart financing posed significant
implementation obstacles to activities envisaged under the Bank project from the outset. Such difficulties
were not new, as they had appeared under other projects, largely a result of the influx of EU grant
financing and the accompanying conflicts in priorities and limited implementation and managerial
capacity. A more desirable approach would have been to take specific actions and firm decisions early
on in recognition that some investments initially planned for under the Bank project would, in fact,
benefit more greatly from alternative sources of support, thus reducing repayment commitments to the
Bank. Furthermore, it would appear that the Borrower met its reporting obligations under the loan with
significant inconsistency, and with little if no meaningful recourse taken on the part of the Bank.
H.    Summary of Key Lessons Learned
23.    Portugal graduated from the Bank in 1989. Nevertheless, several lessons can be derived from
this experience of the last in a series of education projects: First, it is critical to candidly assess,
throughout implementation, Government's commitment and capacity to implementing the components of
a given project, and take heed to the emergence of alternative sources of financing which may be more
advantageous, and which may strain the Borrower's implementation and managerial capacity. Part of this
commitment is demonstrated through provision of timely and sufficient counterpart financing: if not
forthcoming, definitive actions should be taken to quickly remedy the situation. Second, non-performing
components should be quickly and effectively dealt with early on, with action taken to restructure or to
drop them after giving reasonable opportunity to progress. Third, those responsible for monitoring



-7-
implementation must be more alert, and thus better able to react appropriately, to the emergence of
conflicting priorities as public budgets evolve and demands shift. Finally, when having the benefit of
insight from multiple projects in a given sector, better efforts should be made to directly and openly take
into account lessons learned from those earlier experiences.



-8-
Part II: Statistical Annex
Table 1:      Summary of Assessments
Table 2:      Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:      Project Timetable
Table 4:      Disbursements
Table 5:      Project Costs and Financing
Table 6:      Loan Covenants
Table 7:      Key Performance Indicators
Table 8:      Bank Resources -- Staff Inputs
Table 9:      Bank Resources -- Missions



-9-
Table 1: Summarv of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives           Substantial    Partial    Neelizible     N/A
Macroeconomic policies                                                           X
Sector policies                                                                  X
Financial objectives                                                             X
Institutional development                                           X
Physical objectives                                    X
Poverty reduction                                                                X
Gender concerns                                                                  X
Other social objectives                                                          X
Environmental objectives                                                         X
Public sector management                                                         X
Private sector development                                                       X
Other - Research                                                    X
B. Project sustainabilitv         Likl           Unlikely       Uncertain
x
C. Bank D erformance              Hiehly        Satisfactory    Deficient
satisfactory        X
D. Borrower nerformance           Highly        Satisfactory    Deficient
satisfactory        X
E. Assessment of outcome          High&v        Satisfactory     Unsatis-
satisfactory                     factor
x



-10-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Loan Title                Purpose                    Year of      Stats
l                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~approval
To create a technician     1978         Closed.
First Education Project  training system and improve
(Loan 1559-PO)            teacher and management
education.                                          l
To increase the training   1980         Closed.
capacity of the Ministries of
Second Education Project    Education and Agriculture
(Loan 1793-PO)            by expanding vocational
training at secondary and
higher education levels.
To expand capacity to train   1984      Closed.
Manpower Training and     manpower needed to
Development Project (Loan  reorient the economy
2456-PO)                  towards tourism and other
export industries.
Table 3: Proiect Timetable
Step in Project Cycle        Date Planned *       Actual Date
Identification **                                    March 1986
Preparation                                          April 1986
Appraisal                                            September 1986
Negotiations                                         J June 1987
Board presentation              _                    July 21, 1987
Signing                                 __           November 6, 1987
Effectiveness                                        December 8, 1987
Completion                       September 30, 1994   September 30, 1994
Closing                         March 31, 1995       March 31, 1995
* Earlier timetable data not available.
** Sector dialogue was well established through earlier investments, facilitating preparation of this
operation.



-11-
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95
Appraisal estimate          2.0    5.2    9.2    14.2   19.6   24.6   29.0   32.0
Actual                      0.1    2.4    3.5    5.7    6.8 *  6.9    7.0
Actual as % of estimate     1      7       11     18     97 *   99      100
Date of Final Disbursement                                              12/93
* In October 1991, US$23.7 million cancelled.
Table SA: Proiect Cost by Categorv of Expenditure
(US$ million, rounded)
Appraisal       GOP        IBRD Loan
Category         Estimate     Counterpart *
Civil Works                21.4            4.6           3.1
Equipment                  32.5            0.4           2.5
Consultants &              23.2            0.0           1.4
Training
Total                      77.1            5.0           7.0
* Estimates provided by Government.
Table 5B: Proiect Financing
(US$ million, rounded)
Appraisal Estimate                 Actual
Local    Forei2n    Total     Local    Foreign    Total
IBRD         --         32.0      32.0     --         7.0       7.0 *
Government   29.6       15.5      45.1      5.0 **    --        5.0
Total        29.6       47.5      77.1      5.0       7.0       12.0
* US$23.7 million cancelled in October 1991, reducing the total loan amount to US$8.3 million of which
US$7.0 million was disbursed and balance of US$1.2 million cancelled at loan closing.
** Local/Foreign breakdown of government counterpart not available.



-12-
Table SC: Disbursements by Categorv and by Component (actual) *
(US$ million)
Civil Works           Equipment             Consultants and       Total
l _______________    _________________     _________________      T raining
Water Resources      0.1                   0.07                  0.02                  0.2
Research Institute
Biotechnology        0.0                   0.3                   0.1                   0.4
Research Institute
Materials Science    0.0                   0.4                   0.0                   0.4
Research Center
Agricultural         0.4                   0.8                   0.3                    1.5
Polytechnic at
Beja
Agricultural         2.6                   1.1                   0.8                   4.5
Polytechnic at
Ponte de Lima                                                                        _
Total                3.1                   2.5                   1.4                   7.0
* Numbers are rounded and thus may not total exactly.



-13-
Table 6: Status of Legal Covenants
LA Provi-   Not    Partial    Met
plied   ance
____________   ____I~~With                             I_                _    _     _    _
Maintain PCU with experienced       Section                          X
and qualified staff.                3.03
Establish boards for biotechnology    Section             X                    Advisory committees
research, materials science         3.04 (a)                                   established for 2 of 3
research, and water resources                                                 institutes.
research, with representation from
concerned industries, public sector,
and universities.
Research institutes will carry out    Section                        X         Applied for contracts
program for industry under          3.04 (b)                                   awarded.
contracts which provide for
adequate cost recovery.
Recruit polytechnic teachers based   Section                         X
on CV analysis and interim          3.05 (a)
evaluation, and provide
supplemental orientation seminars
to teachers.
Select 30% of polytechnic students   Section                         X         Applied at both
from applicants with farming        3.05 (b)                                   institutions.
backgrounds.
Include secondary school students    Section                         X
with farming backgrounds in         3.05 (c)
recruitment, and provide remedial
instruction for student admitted
through special entry procedures.
Prepare curricula emphasizing       Section                          X
practical skills for polytechnics and  3.05 (d)
equipment lists for such curricula.
Establish an administrative support  Sched.1                                  Committee and group
group reporting to a central        (para.                                     established. However,
steering committee, for             3(b))                                     component was
administration of the computers in                                             cancelled.
schools component -- prior to
disbursements.



-14-
Carry out interim evaluation of  Section                                Component cancelled.
computers in schools program by    3.06 (a)
12/31/91, and review results with
the Bank by 6/30/92.
Carry out a summative evaluation    Section                             Component cancelled.
of computers in schools program  3.06 (b)
by 12/31/94, and review results
with the Bank by 3/31/95.
Carry out a feasibility study on  Section                               Component cancelled.
resupplying computer facilities in   3.07
schools through replenishment
funds and furnish findings to
the Bank.
Furnish to Bank, by 3/31/88,     Section                       X
evidence of allocation of        3.07
appropriate land to agricultural
polytechnic at Beja.                                                                           l
Have records and accounts audited   Section          X                  ECA files' log includes
annually in accordance with      4.01 (b)                               one financial report for
appropriate auditing principles and                                     this loan. Status of other
furnish reports to the Bank 6                                           audits not clear.
months after end of fiscal year.
For SOEs, retain documents for at   Section          X
least one year and obtain separate   4.01 (c)
auditor's option about these
records.



-15-
Table 7: Key Performance Indicators
Item                             Appraisal Target                   Achieved *
Introduction of computers into   30 schools                         Component cancelled.
primary schools
Introduction of computers into    140 schools                       Component cancelled.
secondary schools
Establishments of applied        3 institutes                       Component cancelled (however,
research institutes                                                 institutes were established).
Development and training of
university research staff:
- specialist assistance           1,296 months                      36 months completed.
- fellowships                    2,044 months                       Some fellowships implemented.
- training of post-graduate
research workers                  110 workers                       20 being trained.
Establishment of agricultural    2 institutes                       Institutes functioning.
polytechnic institutes
Evaluation of initial phase of   December 1991                      Component cancelled.
computers in schools
In-service teacher training in use                                  Some training implemented under
of computers in education:                                          other initiatives (MINERVA
- specialist assistance          320 months                         project). Component cancelled.
- fellowships                     1,852 months
Summative evaluation of          December 1994                      Component cancelled.
computers in schools.
Feasibility study of resupplying  December 1994                     Component cancelled.
computer facilities through
replenishment funds.
* Last update of indicators took place during supervision of 1992. No further information is available.



-16-
Table 8: Bank Resources -- Staff Inputs
Stage         Planned        Revised        Actual
Staffweeks    Staffweeks     Staffweeks
No data       No data            44.5
Through
appraisal
Appraisal         No data        No data           40.0
through Board
Supervision *     No data        No data            33.9
Completion          11.0           11.0             4.0
Report
Total Inputs                                       122.4
* Information on planned allocations available beginning only FY94.



-17-
Table 9: Bank Resources -- Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of Project   Month/   # of    Days         Skills                                   Types of
Cycle              Year       per-    in field  repre-        Implemen-   Develop-        Problems
sons              sented       tation/       ment
Overall       Objectives
Status
Through            2/85       1        8 "       not          not           not           not applicable
appraisal                                        specified    applicable    applicable
Appraisal          3/86       4        15        not          not           not           not applicable
through Board                                    specified    applicable    applicable
Supervision        5/88       2        12 21     TM,          1             1             Availability of
COMED                                    funds(counterpart
& spec. account)
11/88      1       14 3/     TM            I             1            Counterpart
funds
7/89       1        14 3/     TM           1             2             Counterpart
funds; TA,
training and
procurement
progress;
financial
performance.
10/90     2        10 3/     TM,          2             2             Counterpart
OPO                                      funds; fmnancial
performance.
4/91       2        10 3/     TM,          3             2             Counterpart
OPO                                      funds;
procurement and
TA progress.
4/92       1        1031      TM           3             2             Counterpart
funds;
procurement and
TA progress;
audit reporting.
3/93       1        10        TM          3             2              Counterpart
funds;
procurement and
TA progress;
audit reporting.
Completion         none
I Combined mission wit supervision of two ongoing projets
2/ Joint mission with Second Education Project supervision and Manpower Training and Development Project supervision.
3/ Joint mission with Manpower Training and Development Project supervision.
TM:              Task Manager/Mission Leader
OPO:             Operations Officer                COMED:           Computer Education Specialist



APPENDIX A
The World Bank                                           1818 H Street, N.W.   i202) 477-1234
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT    Washington, D.C. 20433  Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                    U.S.A.                Cable Addross: INDEVAS
Fax: (202) 477-3372
March 31, 1995
Mr. Rogerio da Fonseca
Deputy Director General
Ministry of Finance
Secretary of State for Treasury
Lisbon, Portugal
Reference: Technologv Education Proiect
(Loan 2867-PO)
Dear Mr. da Fonseca:
I am writing in reference to the closing of the above-referenced loan scheduled for today,
March 31, 1995. As you may recall from our exchange of correspondence one year ago, agreement had
been reached to advance the closing date of this loan to March 31, 1994. However, because of a delay
in resolving the issue of an outstanding balance due to the Bank from the initial special account deposit
-- the US$321,445.61 still outstanding was returned to the Bank only on February 2, 1995 -- loan closing
was not possible before now. Now that this outstanding issue has been settled, I would like to advise you
that Loan 2867-PO, Technology Education Project, will be closed effective today, March 31, 1995, and
that the undisbursed balance of USSI,289,098.95 will be cancelled.
The next step is the preparation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR), which will
eventually be circulated to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors. This report comprises two chapters:
(i) an overview of the project implementation from the Bank's perspective; and (ii) a collection of various
statistical tables on project costs (projected and actual), timetables for preparation and supervision,
internal staff resources allocated and utilized, etc. Annexed to the ICR is an evaluation of project
implementation prepared by the Borrower. This annex should include an assessment of project execution
from the Borrower's perspective, project benefits and outcomes, Bank and Borrower performance of their
respective obligations under the Loan Agreement, and the extent to which the purposes of the loan were
indeed achieved.
We would be grateful if responsible staff could begin preparation of this document as soon
as possible in order that it be submitted to the Bank by the end of May 1995. This annex, prepared by
your staff, will complement preparation of the Bank's implementation assessment and accompanying
statistical tables, on the basis of documents available in the project file here at headquarters; preparation
of these chapters is already underway. Later in the spring, we will contact you to propose a short visit
by our team -- most likely Mr. Brad Herbert, Portfolio Manager, and Ms. Sabrina Huffman, Operations
Analyst -- with a view to collecting any outstanding project-related data and to conducting visits of project
sites which may be necessary to complete our assessment of project outcomes.
In addition to your assisting us in the ICR process by preparing the Borrower's assessment
of implementation performance, my staff would greatly appreciate any assistance your team may be able
to provide in the collection and compilation of actual project cost data (both in foreign and local currency)
by project year, by category, and by component. Submission of this information to the Bank by the end
RCA 248423* WUI 68145



of May would also be most helpful in finalizing the initial ICR draft. Any followup on outstanding
questions could then be answered during the visit of the Bank's team to Lisbon later in the spring.
We would appreciate your reactions to our request for assistance in preparing the ICR.for
this project. Should your team have any questions with respect to this task, they should not hesistate to
contact Ms. Huffmnan at 202-473-5016 (telephone) or 202-477-0288 (fax).
Sincerely,
/-                -
Ralph W. Harbison
Division Chief
Human Resources Operations Division
Central and Southern Europe Departments
Europe and Central Asia Region
Cogy to:
Ms. Ana Luisa Gomes, Ministry of Finance, Lisbon, Portugal
(fax 351-1-887-7524)
Mr. Brad Herbert and Ms. Sabrina Huffnan, EC1/2HR



,9' FM,nIatFo d EducAo      APPENDIX B
Oeeflnmnl{eo di ProgagmuCJ
e Geslio Ftnancera
RECEIVED January 1996
TECHNOLOGY EDUCATION PROJECT
FINAL REPORT
(Cooperation with the IBRD)
The Technology Education Project was developed with the financlal
assistance of the World Bank under Loan Agreement Number 2867JPO,
signed on November 6, 1987.
The total amount of the loan for the project was Initially U. S.
$32,000, 000 (thirty-two million dollars). Owing to difficulties In
the utilisation of the above mentioned amount, and according to proposal
later submitted, that amount was cut down to U. S. S8,3.
The total costs of the project were U. S. $7,010,901.05. The remaining
(U. S. $1,289,098.95) was remitted to the World Bank In the present
civil year. (Of this remaining amount, U.S. $321,445.61 were in the
Special Account).
OBJECTIVES OF THE PROJECT:
The objectives of the project were:
-to expand and to improve the quality of training and of scientific and
technological research in the areas of Biotechnology, of Materials
Sciences, of Water Resources and of Agricultural Higher Education;
-to promote modernisation of educational provision  by introducing the
use of computers in basic and secondary schools.
In accordance with those objectives, the project initially included the
following components):
-Biotechnology Research Institute of Lisbon (CB)
-Materials Sciences Research Institute of Oporto (CM)
-Water Research Institute of Coimbra (IA)
-Higher Agricultural School of Bela (AB)
-Higher Agricultural School of Ponte de Lima (AP)
-Program for Information Technology in Schools (IC).
The Higher Agricultural Schools of Beja and Ponte de Lima are still
benefitting from this loan; contrarywise, the remaining components are
receiving financial assistance from PRODEP and from EEC Funds
negotiated for research.
The Closing Date was March 31, 1995.
0



,>G - M/itstFiO da Educao0
00"am.nRo de PfrogrAmao
e Geatdo Finance.ru
The tables In annex show the following: (**)
1  -There  are  no  expenditures  for the  Program  for  Information
Technology In Schools (IC);
2 -The highest expenditures were for the Higher Agricultural School of
Ponte de Lima (AP); there follow, In decreasing order, the Higher
Agricultural School of Bela (AB), the Biotechnology Research Institute
of Lisbon (CB), the Materials Sciences Research Institute of Oporto
(CM) and the Water Research Institute of Coimbra (IA);
3 -For the Higher Agricultural School of Ponte de Lima (AP), the
highest expenditures were In Category I (civil work); Category 11
(equipment) ranks second and the lowest expenditure was In Category
III (consultants' services).
For  the  Higher Agricultural  School  ot Beja  (AB), the  highest
expenditures were in Category I, civil work; Category II( equipment)
ranks second but close; Category IlIl (consultants' services) has the
lowest expenditure.
For the Biotechnology Research Institute of Lisbon (CB), the higher
expenditure was In Category II (equipment), the lower being Category
ill (consultants' services).
For the  Materials  Sciences  Research  Institute  of Oporto  (CM)
expenditures were only In Category II (equipment) and for the Water
Research Institute of Coimbra (IA) expenditures were only In Category
IlIl (consultants' services).
For the Higher Agricultural Schools of Ponte de Lima (AP) and of Beia
(AB), expenditures were regular, from 1989 to 1994; expenditures for
the other components were irregular, amounts being allocated at given
times only.
a) Note to table In page 3, Category III: 1,313,459.04, adding to U.S.$
7,004,741.12 the amount of U.S.$6,159.93 from  the Special Account.
(**) Available in the project file.
0



TOTAL EXPENDITURES (Expressed In Dollar equivalent) BY COMPONENT,
BY CATEGORIES
CATEGORY I a) CIVIL WORK                        3,183,651.01
CATEGORY 2   EQUIPMENT                           2,507,631.07
CATEGORY 3  CONSULTANTS' SERVICES               1,313,459.04
TOTAL                                        7.004.741.12
Lisbon, December 28, 1995
Director
(Jose Manuel Prostes da Fonseca)
In annex: 9 tables
0 












IMAGINNG
Report No:       15807
Type: ICR



