Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2867 PO
                  (Technology Education Project)
                              between
                       REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                      Dated November 6, 1987
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2867 PO
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  November  6,  1987,  between  REPUBLIC  OF
PORTUGAL (the Borrower) and  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS the  Borrower,  having  satisfied  itself  as  to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the  Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in  the  General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth:
     (a)  "Project Coordination Unit"  means  the unit established
in the Borrower's  Ministry  of  Education  in accordance with the
resolution of the  Borrower's  Council  of Ministers dated October
31, 1979.
     (b)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of the Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth  or  referred to in the Loan Agree-
ment, an amount  in  various  currencies  equivalent to thirty-two
million dollars ($32,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods  and  services  required  for  the  Project  described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement  and  to  be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain  in  dollars  a  special  account in a financial
institution on  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out  of,  the Special Account shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  5 to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing  Date  shall  be March 31, 1995, or
such later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one-
half of one percent per annum  above the Cost of Qualified Borrow-
ings for the last  Semester  ending  prior  to the commencement of
such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
Page  3
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end,  shall  carry out the Project through
its Ministry of Education with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate education, engineering and administra-
tive practices, and shall provide,  promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
     Section 3.02. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the  goods,  works  and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall  be  governed  by  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4  to this
Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower shall maintain the Project Coordi-
nation Unit with  adequate  staff whose qualifications, experience
and terms of reference are satisfactory to the Bank.
     Section 3.04. For the  purpose of strengthening collaboration
between industry and university  research, including the financing
of such research, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  establish  a  board  for  each  of  the  institutes  for
biotechnology  research,  materials  science  research  and  water
resources research referred to  under  Part  A  (1) of the Project
with  appropriate  representation  on  each  such  board  from the
industries concerned, the public sector and the universities; and
     (b)  upon  the  establishment  of  each  such  institute  for
biotechnology research,  materials  resources  research  and water
resources research, carry out research programs for industry under
contracts which  provide  for  appropriate  cost  recovery of such
research programs.
     Section 3.05. The Borrower shall,  for  each of the two agri-
cultural polytechnic institutes referred  to  under  Part B (1) of
the Project:
     (a)  recruit  teachers  on  the  basis  of  curriculum  vitae
analysis  and  interview   evaluations  and  provide  supplemental
orientation seminars for all teachers;
     (b)  select about thirty percent  (30%)  of the students from
applicants with farming backgrounds;
     (c)  include   secondary   school   students   with   farming
backgrounds in  the  recruitment  process  and provide appropriate
remedial instruction as necessary for any of such students who are
admitted through special entry procedures; and
     (d)  by December 31,  1988,  prepare curricula, with emphasis
on practical skills, and equipment lists for such curricula.
     Section 3.06. For the purposes of  carrying out Part C (3) of
the Project the Borrower shall:
     (a)  by December 31, 1991, carry out an interim evaluation of
Page  4
the program for  the  introduction  of  computers  into the school
system and by June 30, 1992,  review  with the Bank the results of
such interim evaluation; and
     (b)  by December 31, 1994,  carry  out a summative evaluation
of the program referred to in  paragraph  (a) hereof and by March
31, 1995, furnish to the  Bank the conclusions and recommendations
of such evaluation.
     Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1994, carry
out a study on the  feasibility of resupplying computer facilities
in each school through replenishment funds and furnish to the Bank
the conclusions and recommendations of such study.
     Section 3.08. The Borrower shall,  by March 31, 1988, furnish
to the Bank evidence satisfactory to the Bank of the allocation of
appropriate land to the agricultural polytechnic institute at Beja
referred to under Part B(1)  of  the Project, together with a plan
satisfactory to the Bank for the use and development of such land.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section  including those for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal  year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year, the  report  of  such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to  the  Bank  such  other information con-
               cerning said  records  and  accounts  and the audit
               thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
               ably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section and that the report of such audit con-
Page  5
               tains a separate  opinion  by  said  auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                            Termination
     Section 5.01.  The  date  60  days  after  the  date  of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01.  The  Minister  of  the  Borrower  at  the time
responsible for Finance  is  designated  as  representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of  Section  11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
     Section 6.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministerio das Financas
          Avenida Infante D. Henrique
          1100 Lisboa
          Portugal
          Cable address:                     Telex:
               DIRECCAO - GERAL               12 764 TRESOR P
                 DO TESOURO
               Lisboa
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                     Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                        440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                   REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
                   By /s/ Joao Eduardo Pereira Bastos
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
Page  6
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                   By /s/ Eugenio F. Lari
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each  Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil works                                40%
     (a)   for all               3,700,000
           items (ex-
           cept for bio-
           technical
           research in-
           stitute)
     (b)   for bio-              1,900,000      20%
           technical re-
           search institute
(2)  Goods                      10,600,000      100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 85%
                                                of local ex-
                                                penditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally
                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated              % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
   Category              Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(3)  Consultants'               12,900,000       100%
     services
     (including
     fellowships)
(4)  Unallocated                 2,900,000
          TOTAL                32,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
Page  7
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that  withdrawals,  in  an  aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $1,600,000,  may be made in respect of
Categories  (1)(a)  and  (b)  on  account  of  payments  made  for
expenditures  for  the  design  ($400,000)  of  the  three applied
research institutes referred to  under  Part  A (1) of the Project
and  minor  construction  ($200,000)   of  such  applied  research
institutes and in respect of  Category  (2) on account of payments
made for research  equipment  ($1,000,000),  before  that date but
after September 30, 1986; and
     (b)  payments made for expenditures  in respect of Categories
(2) and (3) on  account  of  payments  made for expenditures under
Part C (1) of the Project until the Bank has received satisfactory
evidence of the establishment by the Borrower of an administrative
support  group,  reporting   to   the  existing  central  steering
committee of the Borrower's Ministry of Education, for purposes of
carrying out such Part C (1) of the Project.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project  are  to assist the Borrower in
adapting its education and  training system to evolving structural
and technological conditions in  the  economy by (1) rationalizing
and strengthening  university  applied  research  and  training to
improve  their  relevance  and  meet  the  technological  needs of
industry and agriculture;  (2)  expanding agricultural polytechnic
education,  with  an  emphasis  on  practical  skills  content  of
training; and (3) introducing the  use of computers in primary and
secondary education.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower  and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Applied Research Institutes
(1)  Establishment  of  three   applied  research  institutes  and
regional branches, with about  110 post-graduate research training
posts, in  the  fields  of  biotechnology,  materials science, and
water resources with  main  centers  located  in Lisbon, Porto and
Coimbra,  respectively;  and   the   provision  of  equipment  and
furniture for each such applied research institute.
(2)  Provision of  technical  assistance  to  about 160 university
research  staff   through   training,  fellowships,  institutional
exchange programs and collaboration with industry.
Part B:   Agricultural Polytechnic Institutes
(1)  Establishment of  an  agricultural  polytechnic  institute at
Ponte de Lima and  an  agricultural  polytechnic institute at Beja
with  about  200  students  places  each,  and  the  provision  of
equipment and furniture for the purpose.
(2)  Provision of  technical  assistance  for instructor training,
curriculum development and project planning and management.
Part C:   Program for Information Technology in Schools
(1)  Strengthening of the Borrower's pilot program for information
technology in about 40 secondary and about 10 primary schools, and
the provision of computers, software, books, and equipment for the
development of the  information  technology  program  for about an
additional 100 secondary schools and 20 primary schools.
(2)  Provision  of  in-service  training  to  about  1,430  school
Page  8
teachers and administrators in the use of computers in education.
(3)  Carrying out of evaluations of the Borrower's program for the
introduction of computers into the school system.
                *          *          *          *
     The Project is  expected  to  be  completed  by September 30,
1994.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
     beginning March 15, 1991
     through   March 15, 2002                        1,335,000
On September 15, 2002                                1,295,000
________________________
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                             Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the  balance  outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          0.20
     before maturity
More than three years but                          0.40
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                            0.73
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                     0.87
     more than thirteen years
     before maturity
More than thirteen years                           1.00
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided  in  Part  C  hereof,  equipment and works
shall be procured under contracts  awarded in accordance with pro-
Page  9
cedures consistent with those set  forth  in  Sections I and II of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under  IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof,  goods manufactured in Portugal may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works  for  the  agricultural  polytechnic institute at
Ponte de Lima referred to under Part B(1) of the Project estimated
to cost the  equivalent  of  $3,700,000  or  less; civil works for
minor  upgrading   of   existing   buildings   required   for  the
installation of  computers  estimated  to  cost  the equivalent of
$800,000 or less; and  goods  estimated  to cost the equivalent of
$150,000 or less per  contract  up  to  an aggregate amount of the
equivalent of $3,000,000, may  be procured under contracts awarded
on  the  basis  of  competitive  bidding,  advertised  locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   Items or groups of items  estimated to cost the equivalent of
$75,000 or less per  contract,  up  to  an aggregate amount not to
exceed  the  equivalent  of  $2,000,000,  may  be  procured  under
contracts awarded on the  basis  of comparison of price quotations
solicited  from  at  least  three  suppliers  eligible  under  the
Guidelines, in  accordance  with  procedures  satisfactory  to the
Bank.
3.   Books, journals and computer  software estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of $2,500,000 in the aggregate may be procured
through direct contracting with the prior approval of the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each  contract, the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph  2  (d)  shall be furnished to the
Bank prior to the making of  the  first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  The bidding documents for  the  first three contracts to
be  awarded  on   the   basis   of  competitive  bidding,  locally
advertised, are to be  furnished  to  the  Bank in accordance with
paragraph 2 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. The bidding documents
for all other contracts to be  awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, locally advertised, are  to  be  in accordance with those
reviewed by the Bank as heretofore provided.
     (c)  With respect to each contract not governed by the prece-
ding subparagraphs  (a)  and  (b),  the  procedures  set  forth in
paragraphs 3 and 4 of  Appendix  1  to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, said procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed  copies  of  the   contract   together  with  the  other
information required to be furnished  to the Bank pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence
to be furnished pursuant  to  paragraph  4  of  Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
     (d)  The provisions of  the  preceding subparagraphs (a), (b)
and (c) shall not apply to  contracts on account of which the Bank
Page  10
has authorized withdrawals from the  Loan  Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c)(ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to  assist  the  Borrower  in  carrying out training
under the Project,  the  Borrower  shall  employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms  and conditions of employment
shall be  satisfactory  to  the  Bank.  Such  consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Bank  on  the  basis  of  the  "Guidelines  for  the Use of
Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers  and  by  the  World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories"  means the Categories set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $2,000,000  to  be  withdrawn  from  the  Loan Account and
deposited in the Special  Account  pursuant  to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the
Special Account shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible expendi-
tures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized  Allocation,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of the
Borrower, withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit  in the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the Bank shall with-
draw from the Loan  Account  and  deposit into the Special Account
such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account
with amounts not exceeding the amount  of payments made out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall
be  withdrawn  by  the  Bank  from  the  Loan  Account  under  the
respective eligible Categories,  and  in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have  been  justified by the evidence supporting
the request for such deposit  furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, prior to or at  the time of such request, such documents
Page  11
and other evidence as  the  Bank shall reasonably request, showing
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Bank  when  either  of  the following situations first
arises:
          (i)  the Bank  shall  have  determined  that all further
               withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
               from the Loan Account in accordance with the provi-
               sions of Article  V  of  the General Conditions and
               paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount  of the Loan allocated
               to the eligible Categories  minus the amount of any
               outstanding special commitment  entered into by the
               Bank  pursuant  to  Section  5.02  of  the  General
               Conditions with respect  to  the  Project, shall be
               equal to the equivalent of  twice the amount of the
               Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures  as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent  that the Bank shall have been satis-
fied that all such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of  such  notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the Special  Account  (i) was made for any expendi-
ture or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule, or (ii)  was  not  justified  by  the evidence furnished
pursuant to paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall,
promptly upon  notice  from  the  Bank,  deposit  into the Special
Account (or, if the Bank shall  so request, refund to the Bank) an
amount equal to the amount of  such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. No  further deposit by the Bank into
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such
deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
