Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22504
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-28130; IDA-28131; IDA-28132; IDA-28133; PPFI-P8850)
ON A
LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ MILLION
TO THE
CAMEROON
FOR A
SAC II
06/30/2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
I official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization,



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit = CFA Franc
US$ 1 = 505 CFAF (February, 1996)
774 CFAF (May, 2001)
FISCAL YEAR
July I  June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Vice President:    Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director:    Robert Calderisi
Sector Manager/Director:    Cadrnan Atta Mills
Task Tearn Leader/Task Manager:    Brendan Horton



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CAMEROON
SAC II
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                           1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                          1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                   9
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                    12
6. Sustainability                                                                        13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                         14
8. Lessons Learned                                                                       16
9. Partner Comments                                                                      17
10. Additional Information                                                               17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                     18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                     19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                     21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    23
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                        24
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                    25
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P039856                                       Project Name: SAC II
Team Leader: Brendan Horton                               TL Unit: AFTM3
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 29, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: SAC II                                         L/C/TF Number: IDA-28130;
IDA-28131;
IDA-28132;
IDA-28133;
PPFI-P8850
Country/Department: CAMEROON                                             Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: BB - Public Sector Management Adjustment
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD: 02/17/1995                               Effective: 02/22/1996         02/22/1996
Appraisal:  05/31/1995                                MTR:
Approval:  02/08/1996                              Closing: 03/03/1997          01/21/1999
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVT OF CAMEROON/MIN OF FINANCE
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto Madavo                           Edward K. Jaycox
Country Manager:     Robert Calderisi                          Andrew Rogerson
Sector Manager:      Cadman Atta Mills                          Jerome Chevallier
Team Leader at ICR:   Brendan Horton                           Brendan Horton
ICR Primary Author:  Jerome Chevallier
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS-Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: N
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Objectives of SAC II. The objectives of the reform program supported by the Second Adjustment Credit
(SAC II) were to improve public finance mobilization and management, restructure the financial sector,
and create a favorable environment for private sector development through state divestiture and regulatory
reform. The long-run objective of the program was to double per capita income in Cameroon within 20
years.
1996 CAS and country background. In February 1996, the Board discussed the Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) for Cameroon. The overall objective of the CAS was to help Cameroon recover lost
ground in economic and social development as quickly as possible, while further restructuring its economy
to remain competitive in a rapidly changing world. The specific objectives of the CAS were to help
Cameroon (i) consolidate the benefits of the 1994 devaluation of the CFA franc; (ii) alleviate poverty; and
(iii) create a climate favorable for private sector development, so as to set the stage for faster growth.
In spite of a steady decline in the late 1980s-early 1990s, Cameroon's economy remained the largest in the
CFA zone. The country is richly endowed with natural resources and a diversified production base. Real
growth averaged 7 percent p.a. from independence in 1960 to 1985. Agriculture was the main source of
growth until 1978, when oil production started. As in many oil-producing countries, however, the oil
bonanza was not wisely invested. It translated into higher civil service expenditures, public enterprise
subsidies and low return investment. In 1985, three major shocks exposed the weaknesses in economic
structure and policies. There was a sharp deterioration in the terms of trade. Oil production started to
decline, reducing oil exports in 1994 to about one third of the level reached in 1985. Finally, the real
exchange rate appreciated by over 50 percent during 1986-88. GDP declined by about six percent p.a. in
1986-93, resulting in a 50 percent fall in per capita incomes, and a sharp deterioration in social indicators.
In 1988, the Government launched an economic reform program supported by an IMF Stand-by and a
Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) from the Bank. As a member of the CFA franc zone, Cameroon was
not able to devalue its currency without a consensus among all members of the zone. Accordingly, the
program was designed to enhance competitiveness through internal adjustment and trade liberalization. It
failed to achieve expected results, however. Continued deterioration in the terms of trade and a strong
appreciating real exchange rate proved impossible to absorb through expenditure reduction alone. In 1993,
confronted with high deficits, the Government took the unprecedented action of cutting the wage bill by
about one half, which further demoralized the civil service. OED has rated the outcome of SAL 1 as highly
unsatisfactory, its sustainability as uncertain, its institutional development impact as negligible, and the
performance of the Borrower and the Bank as unsatisfactory. SAL failed because it was the wrong
strategy to restore growth, and it lacked full support by the Government.
In January 1994, Cameroon, along with other CFA countries devalued its currency. Following the
devaluation, Cameroon became an IDA-only country. Its post-devaluation reform program was supported
by an Economic Recovery Credit (ERC) extended in June 1994. The credit was designed to secure the
gains in competitiveness from the devaluation, while setting the stage for fundamental structural reforms
aimed at generating an employment-creating supply response. ERC prior actions included the elimination
of all remaining import licenses, and the completion of the tax and tariff reforms initiated jointly with the
other members of the Central Africa Economic and Monetary Community (CAEMC). Subsequent
measures included civil service reform, revision of public procurement regulations, privatization and
restructuring of public enterprises, tax reform, liberalization of coffee and cocoa marketing, and reform of
the regulatory framework in the petroleum sector. OED has rated the outcome of ERC as marginally
- 2 -



satisfactory, its sustainability as uncertain, its institutional development impact as negligible, the
performance of the Borrower as unsatisfactory, and the performance of the Bank as satisfactory.
Significant progress was made under ERC, but institutional reform was most limited in the two key areas
of civil service and public procurement.
Design of adjustment program. The Bank strategy following the devaluation was to help Cameroon
implement a broad-based adjustment program through the ERC and three sector adjustment credits in the
transport, agriculture and financial sectors. One of the lessons from the experience of SAL I was that the
widespread and ambitious coverage for an adjustment operation was a recipe for inadequate performance.
Accordingly, a series of sector adjustment operations was considered as an appropriate approach for a
reluctant reformer like Cameroon. The approach proved counterproductive, however. The preparation by
Bank teams of three separate adjustment operations, while implementation of the reform program under
ERC was lingering, gave the Cameroonian authorities a wrong message. They felt that the Bank was eager
to provide quick disbursing funds as a means to help the country service its large debt to IBRD, without too
many conditions attached. Moreover, the approach was not relevant in a situation where serious
macroeconomic issues, such as the management of public finance or the settlement of a large domestic
debt, needed to be addressed as a matter of priority.
The sectoral approach to adjustment was abandoned in early 1995 in favor of a structural adjustment
operation, with emphasis on improving the management of public finance, increasing the efficiency of
public administration, settling the domestic debt, and restructuring the financial sector. The operation
sought also to accelerate the divestiture program through an improved institutional framework, and to
continue regulatory reforms to improve the business environment. A new CAS was prepared, with
objectives broadly in line with the 1994 CAS, but with a different sequencing in the implementation of
reforms, and a strong link between actual performance and availability of funds. A high case, called the
sustained adjustment scenario, was proposed, in which the bulk of IDA assistance would be in the form of
adjustment lending in support of high performance in implementing an ambitious reform program. A third
SAC was envisaged with focus on private sector development, including privatization. The amount
proposed for adjustment lending (US$300 million plus supplemental credits under the fifth dimension of
about US$75 million) was unusually large, and could only be justified on the basis of exceptional
performance. The strategy was designed inter alia to help Cameroon resolve its substantial foreign debt
overhang over time. The proposed work-out was considered viable, but difficult and subject to many
political and economic risks.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives of SAC II were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The reform program supported by SAC II had two major components: public finance management reform
and financial sector restructuring. An additional component, focused on private sector development, was
included to set the stage for the follow up adjustment operation. A large number of actions was taken
during the preparation of SAC II, most of them to complete reforms supported by SAL I and ERC in the
areas of forestry sector, coffee and cocoa liberalization, public enterprise, and petroleum sector. Other
actions were prior actions for SAC II, including adoption of the budget for FY96, the completion of
organization and staffing plans for three ministries, and the formulation of a comprehensive strategy for
settlement of Government's domestic arrears. SAC II was designed as a three-tranche operation, including
two floating tranches, each focused on the two major components. The amount of each tranche was US$50
million.
-3 -



A. Public Finance Management The first component included a large agenda of reforms. Its objectives
were to enhance fiscal revenues, improve the quality of public expenditure, improve the efficiency of public
administration and quality of the civil service, and settle the Government and public enterprises' domestic
debt
Fiscal revenues. The main challenge for the Government was to increase public revenues from a
particularly low base, while removing distortions and encouraging environmentally sustainable growth and
resource use. In FY94, revenues had declined to less than 11 percent of GDP, from about 20 percent in
1985. This was due to three factors, the decrease in oil revenues, the breakdown in the tax and custom
administration following the sharp cut in the wage bill in 1993, and the lowering of tariffs under the
far-reaching trade liberalization implemented by the six countries of CAEMC after the 1994 devaluation.
To raise revenues, the Government re-introduced export taxes in FY95. In the FY96 budget, it increased
the rates of the turnover tax (TCA) and petroleum taxes, and eliminated all customs exemptions that were
not consistent with the provisions of the 1994 CAEMC treaty.
To further improve the collection of import duties, the Government enlarged the role of the preshipment
company to the determination of duty assessments and effective payment into government's commercial
bank accounts before the release of goods. This was done as a condition of Board presentation for SAC II.
Efforts were to be made under the reform program to strengthen the tax administration, including
reinforcing the special TCA units in Yaounde and Douala, and introducing a better system of tax
identification numbers.
The program also included a progressive reform of the tax system, with the objective of attenuating, if not
eliminating, the need for special incentives regimes such as the Investment Code or the Free Trade Zone
Regime. Under the program, all establishment conventions under the Investment Code were to be
renegotiated, so as to subject the beneficiaries to the standard rates of duties and TCA. The FY96 Budget
Law required timber-processing firms operating under the Free Trade Zone Regime to pay export duties on
the log-equivalent of the exports of processed products. The FY96 Budget Law introduced other reforms
to the Tax Code, including the elimination of several fiscal disincentives to private sector development.
The FY97 Budget Law was expected to adopt appropriate dispositions with respect to the taxation of
profits and dividends, including avoidance of double taxation and improvement of depreciation provisions.
Forestry taxation was to be overhauled to ensure sustainable forest exploitation, develop an efficient wood
processing industry, and mobilize an appropriate level of fiscal revenues. Taxation was to be switched
from export taxes on logs to stumpage fees and area taxes. The FY96 Budget Law increased area taxes
and subjected processed wood products to the export tax. Further actions were expected in subsequent
budgets, particularly as concems stumpage fees.
As indicated above, export taxes of up to 25 percent had been re-introduced on several products (coffee,
cocoa, cotton, medicinal plants and bananas) in the FY95 budget. The Government indicated that these
taxes were to be considered as a substitute for difficult-to-levy income taxes in the agricultural sector. In
July 1995, the Government reduced the rates to a maximum of 15 percent. It agreed to reduce export
duties, except for forestry products, by no less than 10 percent as a condition for the release of the public
finance management tranche.
Public expenditure. Capital and non-wage operating expenditures were sharply reduced as the result of
the steep decline of government revenues since 1985, and fast growing debt service obligations. In 1995,
interest payments on external debt absorbed about 6 percent of GDP.  The objectives of this
sub-component were to enhance the efficiency of public administration, increase the share of priority
- 4 -



sectors in recurrent and capital expenditures, and ensure that public services would be provided in a cost
effective way through improved procurement and expenditure control mechanisms.
The decline in capital and non-wage operating expenditure had taken a heavy toll on key economic and
social sectors. The objective of SAC II was to reverse past trend, by increasing allocations for priority
development sectors (agriculture, education, health, road.maintenance, tax administration, justice and
poverty reduction activities), and ensuring that actual expenditures reflect these priorities. In the FY96
budget, allocations for priority sectors had increased from 41 to 44 percent of total budgetary allocations
(excluding interest, pensions and severance payments), and their share of non-wage allocations increased
from 16 to 22 percent. The objective for the FY97 budget was to increase the growth rate of priority
expenditures to 50 percent over the growth rate of the overall budgetary envelope. As conditions for the
release of the public finance management tranche, actual expenditures for priority sectors were to reach the
aggregate target of 44 percent in FY96, and allocations in the FY97 budget, exceed this aggregate.
Public investment programming was to be improved. No public investment was to be undertaken outside
the Public Investment Program (PIP), as had been the case in the past through the National Oil Company
(SNH). To tighten control over SNH, the company was required to submit quarterly financial reports to
the Ministry of Finance, with a detailed breakdown of actual receipts and expenditures for the preceding
two quarters, as well as projections for the next two.
The process of public procurement was reformed to eliminate past abuses and inefficiencies with the
publication of a decree in 1995. Under SAC2, the statutes and regulations goveming the central
procurement agency were to be revised.
Civil service reform. After considerable growth in the early 1980s, the Government decided to freeze the
size of the civil service in 1987, and to initiate a reform, with the long run objective of reducing its size and
improving its efficiency. Between June 1990 and June 1995, the size of the civil service fell from 188,000
to 166,000. In 1993, the Government cut the wage bill by about 45 percent. As a result of these actions,
the share of the wage bill in GDP declined from 9.3 percent in FY91 to 4.4 percent in FY95.
In 1994, the Government enacted a new civil service statute and initiated the preparation of organizational
and staffing plans for a group of seven ministries, including Civil Service, Industry and Commerce,
Economy and Finance, Education, Health, Women's Affairs and Labor. These plans were implemented in
1995, resulting in the departure of over 5,300 people. A second series of plans was to be implemented by
June 1996 and a third one by end-1996. The implementation of plans conceming eight ministries
(Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries, Environment and Forestry, Scientific Research, Mines, Energy and
Water, and Public Works) was a condition for the release of the public finance management tranche. It
was expected that implementation of the staffing plans for all ministries would reduce the size of the civil
service to 152,000.
Domestic debt settlement. In 1996, the debt of the public sector was a crippling problem. External debt
amounted to 108 percent of GDP, and domestic debt, to an additional 49 percent. Most of the domestic
debt was in arrears, creating serious problems for the financial system and the private sector. The
Government prepared an action plan for the settlement of domestic debt and arrears. The strategy was
transparent, irreversible and involved equitable treatmnent for each class of creditors. It was to be
implemented in stages, including an inventory of the debt, a validation process preformed by a reputable
foreign accounting firm, and a netting out of cross debts between public enterprises and Government. The
remaining govermuent debt was to be settled mainly through securitization. The securitization of debt to
commercial banks through the signing of protocols was a condition for the release of the financial sector
- 5 -



reform tranche.
B. Financial Sector Reform. In 1996, the financial sector was in danger of collapse. The economic crisis
of the late 1980s-early 1990s had taken a toll on the sector. A first attempt to restructure the banking
sector in 1989-92 failed in the absence of a stable macroeconomic framework. Also, it did not address
critical issues, such as the weak judiciary framework, and was poorly managed. A comprehensive reform
program, building on the lessons from earlier efforts, was designed. It included two phases, the first one
supported by SAC II aimed at stabilizing the sector, and the second one under the follow-up adjustment
operation aimed at deepening the sector. The reform program under the first phase focused on monetary
policy and the regulatory framework, the banldng sector, loan recovery, the judiciary and the insurance
sector.
Monetary policy and regulatory framework BEAC, the Central Bank of the six member countries of
CAEMC, has the primary responsibility for the conduct of monetary policy. BEAC had been successful in
containing inflation since the devaluation, but at the cost of high interest rates. After the devaluation,
BEAC established a regional money market and, in 1996, introduced negative bidding, allowing
commercial banks to invest their excess liquidity through the purchase of Central Bank bills. Bank margins
had been fully liberalized.
COBAC, the regional agency created in 1992 to supervise banks, rapidly established itself as a solid
institution. Its effectiveness was constrained, however, by the refusal of some Cameroonian courts to
accept that decisions made in application of regional treaties take precedence over national regulations. To
correct the problem, the Government issued a circular to magistrates informing them of the provisions of
national legislation, which had been modified or abrogated. This was done as a condition of Board
presentation for SAC II.
Bank reform. The banling sector suffered from a pervasive presence of the Government as a shareholder
and borrower, and from distressed balance sheets. Under SAC II, a transparent plan to restructure five
banks was to be implemented, with the objective of attaining a reduced but sustainable banking sector. The
institutions involved had been independently audited. Under the plan, shareholders were expected to bear
their share of past losses. Restructured banks were to be recapitalized from private sources, the
Government holding only minor shareholding (not to exceed 20 percent) as a stopgap measure. A key part
of the program was the search for professional partners for banks. The satisfactory implementation of
bank restructuring was a condition for the release of the financial sector reform tranche.
Loan recovery. A recovery agency, SRC, was created in 1989 to help with bank restructuring. Assets of
about CFAF 600 billion were transfered to it. By end-1995, it had recovered CFAF 20 billion and settled
an additional CFAF 60 billion through compensation with deposits. Its effectiveness was impaired by
political interference and a lack of judicial support. Under SAC II, the Government agreed to an action
plan to improve loan recovery. SRC was to be reorganized, and its priorities, better defined with
quantitative targets. It was expected to use more effectively the privilege of the Treasury, enabling it to
recover assets with the same seniority rights as the Treasury. The composition of its Board of Directors
was to be modified to include representatives from groups with large stake in the recoveries. The General
Manager was to be appointed by the Board, no longer by government decree. Through an improved
registry, delinquent borrower were to be effectively prohibited from borrowing from any bank, and from
participating in bids for the privatization of public enterprises or purchase of goods and services by the
Government. Implementation of the action plan was a condition for the release of the financial sector
reform tranche.
-6 -



Judiciary. The poor functioning of the judiciary system was a major constraint to private sector
development and financial sector restructuring. Legal reforms were needed to expedite judicial credit
recovery. Their enactment was a condition for the release of the financial sector reform tranche. In
addition, the Government agreed that a series of measures was needed to improve the performance of the
judicial system, including increasing allocations to the Ministry of Justice, publication of court proceedings
and strengthening the inspection of judges. These measures were considered as a first step in a long
process of change, going well beyond the life of SAC II.
Insurance sector. The insurance sector was also in severe financial difficulty. Instead of being a net
source of long term financing for the economy, it was a net user of resources. A restructuring plan was
adopted under SAC II, including improved sector regulation, liquidation of at least two government-owned
companies and privatization of the remaining ones.
C. Private Sector Development. To set the stage for the follow up adjustment operation, centered on
private sector development, the government reform program included a series of measures in the area of
public enterprise reform and the regulatory and incentive framework. A timetable was established for
completing, before June 1997, the privatization of the main enterprises in the agricultural, transport and
utility sectors, and the sale of government minority shares in all parastatals. In addition, in the agriculture
sector, the quality control on coffee and cocoa was to be transferred to the private sector, and in the
transport sector the regulatory framework was to be liberalized, with focus on maritime transport, as a first
step. In the petroleum sector the monopolies held by public enterprises over refined products and over
distribution were to be abolished. In the pharmaceutical sector, the regulatory framework was to be revised
to remove dispositions restricting the supply of essential and generic drugs, or acting as an effective barrier
to entry to small distributors.
Assessment of the components. After a decade of steep economic and social decline, the 1994 devaluation
gave Cameroon the hope that economic recovery was on its way. The volume of non-oil exports increased
by 12 percent in 1994, triggering a modest growth in 1995. Prospects for economic and social recovery
could not materialize, however, in the absence of a strong and credible program to address a crippling
public debt and avert a collapse of the financial sector. SAC II was designed to support such a program.
It focused on the urgent need to raise public revenues in a way that would not harm future growth or the
environment, to settle the domestic debt, and to restructure the financial sector. The two components of
SAC II were clearly the highest priority areas that needed to be addressed when it was prepared. All
sectors suffered from serious problems, but it would have been unwise and counterproductive to start
addressing them as long as the country was on the verge of fiscal and financial chaos.
The design of the public finance management component was sound. It had two basic objectives, to raise
government revenues from an excessively low base, and to lay the foundations for improving the quality of
public expenditure and the efficiency of public administration over time. The design of the financial sector
component took into account the lessons from the failed attempt at reforming the sector in the late 1980s.
3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry is rated satisfactory. Drawing the lessons from past experience, SAC II was sharply
focused on re-establishing a viable macroeconomic framework, as a condition for reversing past trends. It
was fully consistent with the 1996 CAS. It sought to reverse an experience of past failure with adjustment,
by building on the actions taken to complete the previous set of reforms, and to demonstrate commitment to
- 7 -



the objectives of the new operation. Assumptions made in the adjustment scenario were reasonable.
The design of SAC II was sound. Drawing the lessons from SAL 1 and ERC, it was focused on two key
sectors, with an adequate sequencing of reforms, and a strong emphasis on upfront actions. It was
designed to help Cameroon re-establish, over time, a badly bruised reputation in the intemational
community. It was a high-risk operation, which sought to mitigate the vulnerability of the reform program
by building up confidence among reformers in Cameroon, international lenders and the private sector. It
was to be disbursed in three tranches of US$50 million each, the first one at credit effectiveness. The
subsequent two tranches were to be released upon evidence of a satisfactory implementation of the reform
program, including fulfillment of specific conditions relating to public management and financial sector
reform. These two tranches, called the Public Finance Management Tranche and the Financial Sector
Reform Tranche, were supposed to be independent and would become available as soon as their respective
conditionalities had been met. The rationale for the proposed tranching was to avoid possible delays in
providing critical funding to Cameroon. Conditions for tranche release were adequately focused on key
reforms.
Indicators. The adjustment scenario assumed that successful implementation of the reform program would
lead to a gradual recovery of private investment and sustain a relatively high growth of non-traditional
exports (6-8 percent p.a.). Led by textile and agro-processing, manufacturing was expected to grow by 8-9
percent p.a. Growing intemal and external demand, including exports of food crops to neighboring
countries, would generate a 4 to 5 percent p.a. growth in agriculture. Because of the continued decline in
oil production, however, GDP growth was expected to remain at around three percent p.a. in 1996-67,
before raising to 5 percent in 1998. On the fiscal front, revenue mobilization efforts were expected to more
than offset the decline in oil revenues, and increase public revenues from 12.6 percent of GDP in FY95 to
over 14.5 percent in FY96-98. The current account deficit was expected to remain at about 2 percent of
GDP, partly as a consequence of large interest payments. While SAC II included public expenditure
targets for the priority sectors, there was no attempt to define outcome indicators for these sectors.
Benefits and risks. The benefits expected from SAC II were cast in general terms. Improved tax
administration would contribute to an increase in fiscal revenues at existing tax levels, limiting the need for
raising taxes.  Reduced anti-export bias in the tax system would increase the competitiveness of
Cameroonian products in international markets, thus generating a badly needed export growth. A
rationalized forestry taxation would spur more efficient resource allocation and conservation. On the
expenditure side, rightsizing the civil service would release resources for non-wage expenditure. Shifting
resources to priority sectors would contribute to reversing the deterioration of the previous decade over
time. Settling the Government domestic debt would contribute to restoring private sector confidence.
Restructuring the financial sector would avoid possible chaos in Cameroon, eventually spreading to other
members of the monetary zone. Expected benefits were reasonable and consistent with actions under the
reform program.
Two main risks were envisaged, a shortfall in revenues because of an economic downtum or continued
inefficiency in tax administration, and the opposition of vested interests to reform. To mitigate the first
risk, further cuts in low priority areas and, if necessary additional revenue mobilization measures were
envisaged. The second risk was considered manageable in view of the difficult upfront actions taken by the
Government in the face of opposition from vested interests. The risk analysis was more extensive in the
CAS document. It cautioned that benefits from the debt work-out to the population would take time to
materialize, giving opportunity to anti-reform lobbies to use it as a pretext to trigger a populist backlash
against the reform program. Political uncertainties related to a bumpy political transition was a factor.
Another risk stemmed from delays by any key donor in providing expected financial assistance might lead
- 8 -



to accumulation of new arrears, undermining government efforts at restoring credibility. The risk analysis
was satisfactory.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The major macroeconomic objectives of the program supported by SAC II were achieved,
as summarized in Annex 1. Real GDP growth reached 5 percent p.a. on average, which was the
best Cameroon could expect when the CAS was prepared. The average inflation rate declined
from over 5 percent in FY96 to 3.9 percent in FY98. Export performance was affected by the
Asian crisis in 1998, but the volume of non-oil exports grew by an annual average of 6.5 percent,
well within the range expected initially. The external current account deficit, estimated at 2.7
percent of GDP, was higher than expected, mostly as a result of an increase in domestic
investment. On the fiscal front, the primary surplus objective (about 5.9 percent of GDP) was
achieved, and non-interest expenditure remained at around 9 percent of GDP.
4.2 Outputs by components:
A. Public Finance Management. The reforms supported by SAC II in public finance
management have been mostly achieved.
Fiscal revenues. The strengthening of tax administration was more challenging than initially
expected. The extent of the problem became clearer following analytical work done in the course
of the adjustment program, and led the Government to delegate the administration of the TCA to
a private firm as a short-term measure. Subsequently, a VAT was introduced in 1999. On the
other hand, good progress was made in the issuance of tax identification numbers to enterprises
subject to profit taxes. A census of tax arrears as of end-June 1997 was completed, along with a
collection strategy.
Exemptions granted under establishment conventions were reduced through renegotiations with
the enterprises concerned. In 1997, to avoid the abuses and inefficient investments that had
resulted from the Investment Code and the Free Trade Zone Regime, the Government decided to
overhaul investment incentives in close cooperation with its CAEMC partners. In the meanwhile,
it suspended the signing of new agreements under existing regimes.
In the forestry sector the Government introduced a major reform of taxation in stages. In the
FY97 budget and again in the FY98 budget, annual area rental fees were increased. In the FY98
budget the tax base for stumpage fees and export taxes was raised to the actual FOB values of
logs and processed wood. Export taxes were also reduced. These reforms were also substantially
deepened under SAC III.
The anti-export bias of the fiscal system has been significantly reduced. The FY97 budget
introduced an improved mechanism to reimburse exporters for the TCA paid on domestic and
imported purchases. The export taxes re-instated on non-foresty products after the devaluation
have been reduced in stages from a ceiling of 25 percent to 10 percent in FY98. They were
further reduced to 5 percent in FY99 and eliminated in FY00.
-9-



Public expenditure. The share of priority sectors in current expenditures increased to 44 percent
in FY96 and 46.8 percent in FY98. Actual expenditures were in line with allocations. The
increase in resources alone was not sufficient, however, to reverse the decline in the delivery of
public services. The quality of expenditure did not improve, partly because of an inadequate
budget process. Accordingly, the Government decided to overhaul its budget, accounting and
payment systems with the help of the donor community. The public investment program (PIP)
process remained highly inadequate in the absence of sound sectoral strategies and appropriate
mechanisms to monitor physical and financial execution. These reforms stalled and only began to
get going again in FY99. It will take several more years for them to be completed
Civil service reform. Employment in the civil service, which had been reduced from 188,000 in
1990 to 166,000 in June 1995, was further reduced to 162,000 in June 1997. After a sharp cut in
1993, wages remained frozen until February 1997. The reduction of wages and benefits had a
serious negative impact on morale, motivation and integrity in the civil service. In FY97, the
Government began to address these problems through payment of salary arrears and adjustment
of salaries, but this was not sufficient to change behavior in the civil service. Progress under the
reorganization of ministries was slower than anticipated, and subsequently stalled because this
agenda was overshadowed by that of the 1997-2000 PRGF, whose objective was to reduce
employment in order to lower the wage bill.
Domestic debt settlement. An inventory of domestic arrears accumulated from June 30, 1993 to
June 30, 1997 and an audit of commercial claims have been completed in June 1998. Government
arrears to banks have been securitized with maturities spread over 30 years, with interest
payments guaranteed by an escrow account and principal repayment guaranteed by an off-shore
trust fund. The settlement of other domestic arrears did not make much progress, and is still
ongoing under the PRGF.
B. Financial Sector Reform. The reforms supported by SAC II in the financial sector have been
achieved.
Monetary policy and regulatory framework. The regulatory and supervisory framework
improved during preparation of the operation. Continued progress was made in off- and on-site
supervision during program implementation. The problems earlier encountered by COBAC in
securing Cameroonian court cooperation in enforcing decisions reached were partially overcome
Bank restructuring. During program preparation a large bank had been restructured. It
remained in good health. Out of the five remaining large banks, three were restructured and
recapitalized by private shareholders and two were liquidated. Commercial banks are solvent
liquid and profitable.
Loan recovery. SRC, the loan recovery corporation, has been reorganized. A new Board was
appointed with representatives from the bankers' and employers' associations, and public
enterprises accounting for over one-third of voting power. The internal structure was changed to
improve loan recovery, but performance remained far below targets. The Government enacted
legislation to bar delinquent borrowers from borrowing from any bank, and from participating in
- 10-



bids for the privatization of public enterprises or purchase of goods and services
Judiciary. Legislation has been amended to remove a number of impediments to judicial credit
recovery and the execution of judicial decisions.  Commercial banks consider that these
amendments are essential first steps in the improvement of the judicial environment pertaining to
the financial sector. Overall, however, the performance of the judiciary has not improved, and
remains a major impediment to private sector development.
Insurance sector. The restructuring and privatization process of two state-owned insurance
companies advanced substantially during program implementation, and were completed under
SAC III. CIMA, the regional insurance regulatory body has completed an audit of all insurance
companies, and the Department in charge of insurance supervision in the Ministry of Finance has
been reorganized.
C. Private Sector Development. The objective of completing the privatization of the major
public enterprises in the agriculture, transport and utility sectors by June 1997 was not achieved.
Good progress was made nevertheless during program implementation. The rubber company, one
of the largest agro-industrial enterprises, was privatized through a transparent bidding process.
The national shipping company was sold and a concessionaire was selected for the railways
company. Institutional arrangements for the divestiture program were improved with the split of
the Public Enterprise Rehabilitation Commission into two entities, one for privatization and the
other for the management of entities remaining in the state's portfolio. A new timetable for public
enterprise reform was agreed in the PFP for the period 1998/99-2000/01. Transactions have now
been concluded or about to be for the water, the telecommunications and electricity companies.
The regulatory and incentive framework was improved during implementation of SAC II. The
intemational shipping market has been liberalized, but the impact of this change has not
significantly reduced the high cost of doing business in Cameroon because the continued high
inefficiencies in the management of the port of Douala. The petroleum sector was liberalized, and
an action plan to revamp the accounts of SNH, the national oil company, was developed, after the
first independent audit (for the 1996/97 accounts) uncovered serious problems. The National
Center for Procurement of Essential Medicines (CENAME) became operational with the
objective of improving the availability of essential medicines and reducing their cost.
The achievement of outputs is rated as satisfactory. Reforms under the two major components of
SAC II were mostly achieved.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
SAC II was designed to help Cameroon re-establish a viable macroeconomic framework, not to
strengthen institutions. Little was achieved during program implementation in the area of
-1 1-



institutional development. The revenue mobilization objective was achieved, but, the Government
had to delegate the collection of the TCA and customs duties to private firms to circumvent the
inefficiencies in tax and customs administration. The public expenditure targets were met, but the
budgetary process remained highly inadequate. New procurement regulations were enacted, but
the system remained cumbersome, inefficient, and non transparent. New organizational charts
were introduced for most ministries, but performance of the civil service has not significantly
improved, as it remained plagued with serious morale and integrity problems.
In the financial sector, commercial banks were sustainably restructured and modest progress was
made in the regional supervision of banks and insurance companies. The loan recovery agency
was reorganized, but its performance has only marginally improved. Despite higher budget
allocations, the judiciary has remained a major problem area in Cameroon.
The major obstacle to institutional development is the slow progress in improving governance and
reducing corruption. The transition from an authoritarian patrimonial state to a more democratic
one is still partial and incomplete. Despite progress made under the reform program in gradually
eliminating opportunities for graft, widespread corruption remains a major issue, undermining
efforts at building capacity and institutions.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control ofgovernment or implementing agency:
Two external factors slowed down the economic recovery supported by SAC 11. First the Asian
crisis contributed to a lower growth of exports than expected. The volume of exports increased
by over 12 percent p.a after the devaluation until 1998, when it slowed considerably. Export
volumes in 1998-99 were only slightly higher than in 1991-92. The terms of trade deteriorated in
1997-99 resulting in a decline of the value of exports in dollar terms during that period.
Economic growth was affected, and was lower than expected by close to one percentage point
The second factor was the higher than expected level of net negative transfers due to delays in
external support. The debt work-out was expected to be difficult, and assumed that reforms
would be implemented on time, triggering badly needed inflows of external assistance. Actually,
implementation of the reform program was slower than expected, resulting in a shortfall in
disbursements from donors. During the period, debt service payments amounted to more than 5
percent of GDP. Net transfers were negative in 1995-97, representing about I percent of GDP.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
A new Cabinet was appointed in late 1996 under the leadership of a Prime minister strongly
committed to reform. Before this cabinet reshuffle, Cameroon was slow in implementing its
program of reforms. It failed to meet the targets set in the IMF stand-by arrangement, which had
been approved in September 1995. The main issue was the inadequate effort at mobilizing
revenues. An IMF staff-monitored program was put in place in fiscal year 1997.
Under the leadership of the new Prime minister, good progress was made in implementing the
IMF staff-monitored program and in meeting the conditions for the release of the public finance
management and financial sector reform tranche. The IMF Board approved a three-year ESAF
- 12 -



arrangement in August 1997. At the same time the Bank released the remaining two tranches of
SAC II. In December 1997 the Prime Minister was able to reshuffle his cabinet, in which younger
technocrats in favor of change replaced long time opponents to reform. The ESAF (PRGF) was
successfully concluded in September 2000, Cameroon gained eligibility to HIPC in October 2000,
a new PRGF was approved by the IMF Board in December 2000 and the Paris Club granted a
new rescheduling arrangement in January 2001.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
N/A
5.4 Costs and financing:
N/A
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale/or sustainability rating:
The probability that the reform program initiated by SAC II is sustainable over the longer-run is
rising. In the past three years, there were increasing indications of government commitment to
maintaining a sound financial sector, as well as to improving public finance management and
governance. SAC II has helped build the foundations for a successful implementation of the
1997-2000 IMF ESAF/PRGF program and SAC III, the follow-up IDA operation to SAC II.
Under the IMF program, the tax administration has been substantially strengthened, and the TCA
was replaced by a well designed VAT, which has been successfully implemented. The reform of
forestry taxation initiated under SAC II has been consolidated and refined under SAC III and the
IMF program. On the expenditure side, efforts to improve public expenditure management have
been substantially strengthened in the IMF program on the basis of the diagnostic work begun in
the context of SAC II, although much remains to be done owing to the depth of the problems to
be overcome.
In the financial sector, the reform program begun under SAC II has been consolidated and
extended to non-bank financial intermediaries and the social security system under SAC III and
two accompanying TA projects. In the area of privatization, substantial progress has been made
under SAC III, with the completion of the transactions pertaining to the railway concession, the
palm-oil company, two mobile phone companies, the privatization of the last publicly held bank
and the liquidation of the public reinsurance company, and with the transactions pertaining to the
fixed telephone network, water and electricity expected to be completed early in FY02. In the
transport sector, satisfactory progress is being made to the restructuring of the port sector and the
privatization of road maintenance.
Many of these reforms have required actions to improve governance and, in that connection,
particular attention may be drawn to reforms to improve transparency in the allocation of cutting
rights and concessions in the forestry sector, and in procurement procedures including the
introduction of independent observers. These have been extended to all procurement contracting
as of July 1, 2000. In addition, the authorities have begun to implement sanctions in the case of
misappropriation or mismanagement of public resources.
Furthernore, after the increase of spending in priority sectors (health, education etc) compared to
- 13 -



non-wage current and capital expenditures, adjustment has been extended to the social sectors
with the aim to introduce efficiencies with respect to resource allocations and governance.
During FY00 the government has developed sector strategies for health (including AIDS) and
education, as well as a strategy for improving governance which is focused on enhancing local
delivery of social services including, as needed, effective public/private partnerships. It has also
developed an intermediate Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP). Cameroon has been
declared eligible to receive interim relief under the Enhanced HIPC initiative as of October 2000,
with a completion point to be attained in 2-3 years time.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Under the high case scenario proposed by the 1996 CAS, SAC II was to be followed by an
adjustment operation focused on private sector development. As indicated earlier, SAC III is
being successfully implemented with regards to the reforms it is supporting in the areas of
forestry, privatization and the transport sector. Two fixed tranches have already been released, as
well as the first of the two privatization floating tranches. Two other floating tranches, pertaining
to the privatization program, the forestry sector are expected to be released before December
2001, and the transport sector tranche before June 2002.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The performance of the Bank from identification to completion is rated as satisfactory. The
reform program was clearly focused on priority actions needed to help Cameroon re-establish a
viable macroeconomic framework and avert a collapse of its financial sector. The Bank team did
its best to formulate a program of assistance that could be supported by the Bank, in spite of
widespread skepticism, both in Cameroon and outside Cameroon, on the Government's
commitment to address massive economic and social problems. The 1996 CAS proposed an
exceptional level of assistance to Cameroon, well above the IDA allocation norms, based inter
alia on past performance, and in spite of considerable risks. In retrospect, the Bank made the
right decision. It helped Cameroon re-establish its credibility with external creditors and make a
start in addressing deep-seated issues.
SAC II was fully consistent with the 1996 CAS. Its emphasis on a number of difficult upfront
actions was appropriate in view of past experience. Its design, including two independent
tranches for public finance management and financial sector reform, was appropriate. The
appraisal of SAC II was fully satisfactory. The Government commitment to reform and its
capacity to implement the reform program was adequately assessed. Close relations were
maintained with the IMF and major donors during preparation and appraisal of the program. The
risks of the proposed approach were carefully assessed, and lessons from prior experience were
fully taken into account.
7.2 Supervision:
During program implementation, the Bank maintained a close dialogue with the Borrower and its
main partners. Frequent Bank missions visited Cameroon to supervise program implementation
and support local teams in charge of advancing the reform program. A financial sector specialist
was assigned to the Bank's resident mission in Yaounde to provide day-to-day assistance to
- 14 -



reforms in the sector, as well as on privatization issues. The Bank team worked closely with
other donors to help Cameroon address serious problems in the preparation and execution of the
budget.
The country director made several visits, and the resident representative was actively involved in
day-to-day supervision of the reform program. Two CPPRs took place during program
implementation, which gave the Bank and Government teams an opportunity to review progress
under the portfolio, and more generally under the reform program, both in macro and micro
terms. The cost of supervising program implementation was unusually high, but justified by the
high stakes involved for the Bank and the importance of Cameroon in the region.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall the performance of the Bank is rated as satisfactory. The Bank has helped Cameroon take
the initial and most difficult steps on the road to economic recovery. The 1996 strategy was
appropriate and worked well for Cameroon. The dialogue with the country was tense at times,
but fruitful.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The performance of Cameroon during preparation of SAC II was mixed. The Stand-by agreed to
by the IMF in 1994 following the CFA franc devaluation could not be completed. A shadow
program was put in place in 1995. Excellent progress was made under the program, as far as
revenue mobilization was concerned. Total revenues increased by 55 percent in FY95. On the
other hand, reforms initiated under the ERC took time to complete.
The reform program supported by SAC II was prepared by a small team in the Ministry of
Finance. Other ministries were little involved in the process. The Prime minister at the time of
program preparation was not fully conversant with reform issues and did not make a significant
contribution to the design of the operation or the policy dialogue.
The performance of the Borrower during program preparation is rated as marginally satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The performance of the Borrower in the first year of program implementation was unsatisfactory.
The IMF program went off-track in June 1996, which led to a payments crisis and a suspension of
disbursements for 12 months. Until the end of 1996, there was no driving force behind the reform
program in the Government. This changed, however, with the appointment of a reformist and
capable Prime Minister. He was able to turn around the situation and meet the criteria under the
IMF staff monitored program in June 1997. He further strengthened his team in late December
1997 with the appointment of reform-minded ministers to replace a number of old timers, who
had been associated with the failed policies of the past. Fiscal imbalances were corrected and a
strong impetus was given to the reform program. The program was implemented with some
delays.
The performance of the Borrower during program implementation is rated as satisfactory.
7.6 ImplementingAgency:
- 15 -



N/A
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The performance of the Borrower is rated as satisfactory.
The reform program supported by SAC II has been implemented, but its benefits will not fully
materialize as long as the Government does not address forcefully deep-seated governance and
corruption issues. The Government has made some efforts recently in that direction, but much
more remains to be done.
8. Lessons Learned
The first lesson learned is that a bold approach may be required to help a country overcome
serious problems stemming from inadequate performance, poor track record and lack of support
form the international community. SAC II was the centerpiece of the 1996 CAS, which
recommended an unusually high IDA allocation that would be disbursed against actual
implementation of critical reforms.  These reforms were designed to address deep-seated
problems, which were at the core of the poor performance of the past. Implementation of these
reforms would test the government determination to break away from the past, and help re-build
confidence among external partners. SAC II was a high risk/high reward operation. The exit
strategy was clear. Experience shows that the risk was worth taking.
The second lesson is that a particularly close team approach is required for such a high risk
operation to succeed. The IMF-Bank collaboration was put to test because of the extremely tight
financial situation of Cameroon, and the different time-horizons of the policy reform agenda
supported by the two institutions. Relationships between the two teams grew over time, which
contributed to forging a constructive dialogue with the Government and building a mutual
understanding of the challenges ahead. The difficulty of the policy dialogue in all sectors helped
cement the country team and put sectoral issues in a proper perspective.
The third lesson is that increasing resource allocations to priority sectors is a necessary but not
sufficient condition for improving service delivery. When SAC II was prepared, the steady
decline in budget allocations to these sectors had been a major factor in the deterioration of
economic and social infrastructure. Restoring a minimum level of funding was critical for
initiating a recovery process. This set the stage for a deeper analysis of issues pertaining to
service delivery and a time-consuming process of reform. The process is still ongoing.
In the financial sector, the restructuring of banks was the second attempt over a ten-year period.
Contrary to the first one, the restructuring that took place in 1996-98 was successful because: (a)
it followed the restoration of broad macroeconomic balances (return to fiscal discipline,
restructuring of government debt and arrears); (b) it included strengthening of the regulatory and
supervisory environment, and measures were taken against delinquent borrowers; (c) it involved a
complete financial and operational restructuring of the institutions (e.g.: the balance sheets were
fully cleaned up); (d) all institutions were restructured at the same time; and (e) it marked a
withdrawal of the State from financial institutions.
- 16 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
None received, despite repeated requests.
0) Cofinanciers:
None received
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
None received.
10. Additional Information
- 17 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:                                                                .
I0ndicatorlMatix                    ProlctSd InlaUtPSR                    ActuaUL     tEstlntaht
GDP growth 5.0                                                               5.0
Export growth 3.1                                                            10.2
Pnimary Fiscal BalancelGDP 5.9                                              5.9
Current Account Balance/GDP -0.6                                            -2.7
Inflation rate 1.8                                                           3.9
Output Indicators:
indlcatolMatrix 7:                ProJcted In last PSR                   ActualWs"t Estirmate
Current revenue/GDP 15.0                                                     16.2
Allocation to priority sectors 44% of total                                  46.8
Complete organization and staffing plans for                                 Done
8 Ministries
Securitization of Domestic debt to                                           Done
Cammercial banks
Bank restructuring plan                                                      Completed
Acion plan for loan recovery                                                 Implemented
Restructuring of Insurance sector                                            Completed
Privatization                                                                Rubber Company sold
National Shipping Company sold
Concessionaire of Railway Company
selected
Intematonal shipplng market liberalized
Petroleum sector liberalized
Center for procurernent of essential
medicines operational
Privatization of regulatory framework                                       Institutional arrangements for Privatization
improved
End of project
-18 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component           USS million    US$ million
Total Baseline Cost                                0.00           0.00
Total Project Costs            0.00
Total Financing Required            0.00           0.00
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Methodl
Expenditure Category    ICB           NCu     Mthod            N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                    0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                    0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)        (0-00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                 0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                    0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
Project Costs by Procurem nt Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalen)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category    ICB          NCB2                     N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                    0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)     (0.00)
2. Goods                    0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)     (0.00)
3. Services                 0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)     (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)     (0.00)
- 19 -



5. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)_____ _  ~(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                         0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Prentage of Appraisal
ti 0Compo:nent  |      : Agppraisal Estimate S     :000 0 ;t k Actualaiatest Estimate
_______________X_ VBank         Gov.      CoRF.      Bank  }  Govt.% |CoF.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
-20 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
N/A
- 21 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
() Missions:
Stag of Project Cycle                     No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)       Inmplementation  Development
Month/Year    Count              Specialty                        Progress       Objective
Identification/Preparation
02/1995                        6   Sr. economist, economist, Sr.
financial sector specialist,
forestry specialist, agriculture
economist, public enterprise
specialist
05/1995                        7   Sr. economist, economist, Sr.
financial sector specialist,
forestry specialist, agriculture
economist, petroleum specialist,
public enterprise specialist
10/95                         4    Sr. economist, economist, Sr.
banking specialist, public
enterprise specialist
Appralsal/Negotiation
12/95                         8    Sr. economist, economist, Sr.
financial sector specialist,
forestry specialist,
agriculture economist,
petroleum specialist, public
enterprise specialist, lawyer
Supervision
07/1996                        7   Sr. economist, PSD                     S              S
specialist, 2 public fiance
specialist, 2 public enterprise
specialist, economist
06/1997                        3   Sr. economist, Sr. financial           S              S
economist, Sr. banking specialist
11/1997                        4   Sr. economist, Sr. financial           S              S
sector specialist, public finance
specialist, public enterprise
specialist
ICR
- 22 -



(b) Staff.
I     Stage of Project Cycle                          Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks                  US$ (000)
Identification/Preparation                                                      294
Appraisal/Negotiation                                                           231
Supervision                                                                     326
ICR                                                                              15
Total                            ____________________- 3                        866
- 23 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
IMacro policies                           O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
ER Sector Policies                       O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
N Physical                               OH OSUOM ON *NA
f Financial                              O H  *SUOM  ON  O NA
f Institutional Development              O H  O SU O M  * N  0 NA
ER Environmental                         O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
F Gender                           O H OSUOM O N * NA
O Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
E Private sector development             0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
E Public sector management               0 H  0 SU * M  0 N  0 NA
OOther (Please specify)                  O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
- 24-



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                Rating
E Lending                                          OHS OS  OU  OHU
F Supervision                                       OHS OS  OU  O HU
F2 Overall                                         OHS OS  O U  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
F Preparation                                      OHS OS  O U  O HU
 Government implementation performance            O HS OS  0 U  0 HU
F Implementation agency performance                O HS OS  0 U  0 HU
F Overall                                           OHS OS  0 U  O HU
- 25-



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
-26 -



Policy Matrix
ObjectAves                measures                   Status of ISecution                  Timing                   Comnuents
A. FiscalPoHcy
Improve fiscal revenues,
reduce distortions affecting
corporate income tax,
attenuate anti-export bias,
and reform forestry taxation.
1. Increase fiscal revenues.  Increased certain tax  Rate of the TCA and the tax on petroleum   July 1995        Done
rates.                   products increased in the context of the
1995/1996 Budget Law.
Improved recovery of     - Decrees were signed entrusting a     December 1995
import taxes and duties.   specialized firm with the assessment and
supervision of payments of import taxes.
- Contract signed with the selected firm.    December 1995
Eliminated exemptions not
consistent with the
CAEMC treaty (tax and
customs reform).
Improved recovery of     - Administrative measures undertaken for
domestic indirect taxes.   TCA and excise taxes, and in particular for
the improvement of the system of tax
identification numbers.
2. Reform corporate income  Reduction of distortions    - Reduction of the scope of preferential  1995-96 Budget Law.
tax.                      and subsidies.           regimes (investment code, free trade zone). December 1995.
-Reformed corporate income tax.         1996/97 Budget Law.
3. Reduce anti-export bias.  Phased out all export  I.Duties reduced with ceilings fixed at 15   July 1995.      Tranche release condition
taxes except on forestry    percent.
products.                2.Continued reduction of duties to 13.5    July 1996.
percent.
27



Ob T ittttAiEtEtisit01nt;0ATetivRes MtRiEt Eit Tii!tttii0tLiEi;Ttit0Tt: e asX;  L it feiSti:2   Status00  ofE  Ex c to   T in
3.Continued reduction to 10 percent.    1998 Budget Law
Improved the             Done in context of replacement of TCA by
reimbursement            VAT.
mechanism of the TCA
which was paid by
exporters on their
purchases.
4.Continue with forestry tax  1. Improved the recovery   Done. Efforts continued under SAC III.    1997-2000
to:                        of the stumpage fee and
(a) promote sustainable    concession rent (area tax).
exploitation;
(b) mobilize appropriate tax   2. Adjusted the       Same as above
revenues;                  concession rent (area tax),
(c) promote an efficient   the stumpage fee and
domestic forestry products   export duties so that the
industry.                  share of domestic taxes
and fees is increased.
B. Civil Service.
Improve the efficiency of the  Reorganization of     Phase I (Civil Service, Industrial
administration and the     ministries.               Development and Commerce, Economy
quality of the civil service.                        and Finance, Health, Education, Labor,
Social Affairs):
- implemented a departure and           July 1995 to end-     Completion of the departure
redeployment program.                   December 1995.        program from these ministries
(Board Presentation).
Phase 2
2.1 (Agriculture, Livestock, Environment
and Forestry, Research, Mines Water and
Energy, and Public Works),
- signed a decree defining the organization  End-May 1996.    Approval and timely
and staffing plans of the ministries,                         implementation of organization
- implemented a departure and                                 and staffing plans in these
redeployment program.                   End-August 1996.      mimnstries (Public Finance
Tranche).
28



Objectives               Measures                   Status of Execution                Timing                  Comments
2.2 (Territorial Administration, Youth):
- signed a decree defining the organization  November, 1995 -
and stafing plans,                    January, 1996.
- implemented a departure and         March 1996.
Reorganization of       redeployment of the program.
ministries.
2.3 (Posts and Telecommunications,
Tourism, Transports):
- signed a decree defining the organization  Done
Improve the efficiency of                         and staffing plans,
public administration and
the quality of the civil                          - implemented a departure and
service:                                          redeployment of the program
Phase 3 (Urban Affairs, Transports,
Foreign Affairs, Culture, Justice, Higher
Education):
- signed a decree defining the organization September 1996.
and staffmg plans,
- implemented a departure and         December 1996.
redeployment of the program
Implemented for all ministries        December 1996.
C. PubUc Expenditures
Make the budget a better
tool for economic and
social development.
1. Increase the volume and  1. Increased budgetary    Under the 1995-96 Budget Law, budgetary Budget law adopted on
improve the quality of public appropriations for these   appropriations for these ministries  July 1, 1995
expenditures in priority  ministries              represent 44 percent of total budget
sectors and ministries                            (excluding public debt, pensions and
(Agriculture, Education,                          severance pay) as against 41 percent for
Forestry, Economy and                             the previous year
Finance, Livestock, Justice,
Technical and Scientific                          The objective is to ensure that, for the  Done. Actual      Tranche Release Condition
29



Research, Health,                                1995-96 fiscal year, actual total     expenditures for 1995-
Transports, Public Works)                        expenditures of these ministries represent  96 were 46 percent of
at least 44 percent of total expenditures of total expenditures.
all ministries.
In order to reflect changes in GDP, the  1996-1997 Budget    Attainment of this objective
1996-97 Budget Law will be programmed   Law increased the  (Public Finance Tranche)
and executed so as to increase significantly ratio to 45.8 percent
the share of priority expenditures in total  from 44 percent.
expenditures, as compared to fiscal year
1995-96.
2. Increased the share of  In 1995-96, non-wage appropriations rose  Done
non-wage expenditures in  from 39 to 43 percent of total budgetary
these budgetary         appropriations for these ministries; the
appropriations          objective is to maintain this share in terms
of actual expenditures for fiscal year 95-
96.
Increase the volume of   Improved and accelerated  The PIP has been completed for the  March-December 1995
public investment within the the PIP preparation  1995/96-1998/99 period, after technical
context of an improved PIP,  process.            consolations with the IDA and other
notably in terms of sectoral                     donors
strategies definition and
project selection.
Settle Government and
Public Enterprises' domestic Developed a settlement    Done                            November 1995       Board condition
debt                     strategy
Agreement with APPECAM  Done                                 January 8, 1996
(banker's association) for
the securitization of debt
to banks and agreement in                                                         Financial Sector Tranche
principle with BEAC to
open a special account
Protocols signed
Government/commercial
banks for the
securitization of debt  Done                                 February 1996
30



Objectives               Measures                   Status of Execution                 Timing                  Comnuents
E. Monetary Policy
Liberalize interest rates.  Liberalization of bank  Done.
margins.
Develop money market.     Introduction of negative    Done.
bids through the issue of
Central Bank bills.
F. Regulation of Financial
Institutions.
Strengthen regulation and   Circular to magistrates    Done.
supervision of commercial   informing them of
banks.                    sections of national
legislation invalidated by
the two COBAC
conventions (1990-1991).
Tighter control of banks by Done.
COBAC.
Development of regulation  Being done:                                              Prudential framework currently
for savings and loans   Finance Law.                           July 1998            being developed on a regional
cooperation.            PM Decree.                             September 1998       basis by COBAC
PM Decree.                            January 2001
Strengthen regulation of    Harmonization of national Done:                              From 1996 to 1998    CIMA code has been widely
insurance companies.     legislation with CIMA code Distribution of CIMA code.                                distributed to magistrates.
Restructuring of insurance Done.                                                    New internal organization
division within Ministry of
Finance.
G. Judiciary Apparatus
Strengthen judiciary      Roundtable on justice and  Done.                                  November 1994
apparatus so that it provides financial institutions.
effective support for the
enforcement of contracts
and the recovery of loans.
Establishment of follow-up Done.
committee and sub-
committees.
Increase of relative share   Done.
31



of Justice in the budget.
Resumption of publication Done.
of official Gazette.
Publication on Court   Done.
Decisions.
Preparation and        Done.
inscription in Parliament
of modification to laws 89-
201, 92-008 and decree
94-237.
Adoption by Parliament of Done.
these laws.
Strengthening of judicial   Not done.
inspection.
Restructuring of office of
Clerk of the Court.
H. Banking Sector
Restructuring of Banking                         Done:                                                     The license of BMBC was
Sector.                                          License of BMBC withdrawn.           August 1996.         withdrawn on August 9, 1996
and SRC was appointed banking
Appointment of judicial liquidator.  September/          liquidator in September 1996, a
November 1996.      judicial liquidator was appointed
in November 1996;
Securitisation of Government debt to  May 1996.           Government debt to commercial
commnercial banks.                                        banks of an amount of CFA 170
billion has been securitized
Signing of a protocol with banks.    July 1996.          following the opinion of an
escrow account at the Central
Bank on May 02, 1996, to
Restructuring of BICIC.              October 1996.        guarantee timely service of this
debt, and the signing of a
protocol with banks in July 1996
License granted to BICEC.            March 1997.          The restructuring plan for
BICIC, involving a split into a
new bank, BICEC, and a
liquidation structure, BICIC, was
32



Objectives               Measures                  Status of Execution                Tining                 Comments
approved by COBAC on October
31, 1996 as a banking license
was granted to BICEC. Through
the split in March 1997, the
Credit Agricole du Cameroun placed in                     contracts of 338 employees were
liquidation.                                              terminated, four branches were
closed, and a new and more
efficient organizational structure
for BICEC was established;
Retructuring plan of SCBC.           May 1996             Following a detailed audit of its
loan portfolio and other assets
Completion of recapitalization of SCBC.    July 1996      by the Credit Commercial de
France, CAC was placed in
liquidation. This overrides the
considerations in paragraphs 69
to 74 mentioned above;
SCBC presented a restructuring
plan to COBAC and IDA in May
1996 which was accepted. It
involved the strengthening of
internal procedures and its loan
recovery unit. SCBC's
recapitahization was completed
in July 1996.
Implementation of       Done:
restructuring.
The agreement dated     Agreement among Borrowers, the       December 1995.
December 29, 1995 among shareholder of SGBC for the restructuring
the Borrower, the       of SGBC signed.
shareholder of SGBC and
SGBC for the
restructuring of SGBC has Completion of restructuring.       May 1997.
been implemented in
accordance with its terms.
The internal restructuring
plan which was presented
as an attachment to the
above-mentioned
agreement has been fully
implemented.
33



i  bjtWS       .         N:as aiteg000             Status of fBxcwtl@z0                                      
The borrower has       BICIC was split into two.             March 14, 1997.
implemented the
restructuring of BICIC,
CAC and SCBC in        The banking license of Credit Agricole  June 1997.
accordance with        (CAC) was withdrawn in June 1997 and a
paragraphs 69 to 74 of the banking liquidator was appointed by
Program.               COBAC on June 12, 1997. This obviates
the need to separate CAC's assets into
BICIC's, CAC's and     performing and non-performing ones.
SCBC's non-performing
assets and frozen deposits: CFAF 1.5 billion of non-performing assets
(a) have been separated    of SCBC were transferred to SRC in July   July 1996.
from performing assets:   1996.
and (b) have been
transferred to SRC.
Development of legal
ftamework.             Done.                                 June 1996.           The legal framework for the
restructuring of commercial
Elaboration of legal texts                                                        banks was set by a presidential
on mergers and transfers;                                                         ordinance (No 96/03) of June
of letters of agreement                                                           24, 1996.
between shareholders; of
conventions of transfers
and purchases of assets
and liabilities.
Publication of decree on
bank restructuring.
Agreement in principle
with BEAC on
consolidations.
1. Loan Recovery
Restructure the Recovery    The Borrower has, in
Corporation (SRC).       accordance with
paragraphs 60 to 65 of the
Program: (a) amended
SRC's by-laws: (b)
implemented a new
organigram for SRC and
reorganized its personnel:
and (c) established a new
Board of Directors for SRC
34



Objectives               measures                  Status of Execution                 Timing                 Comments
Implementation of the new Done:
corporate structure.     The new Board, including representatives  September 1996.
from depositors was appointed.
Issuing of decree       Done:
modifying by-laws.      By a decree dated June 24, 1996, the  June, 1996.
SRC's by-laws have been amended in
conformity  with  the  provisions  of
paragraph 65 of the Program.
Implementation of new   Done:
management structure.   The Board confirmed the general manager   June, 1997.
and his deputy in their respective office.
SRC was reorganized.
An expatriate, former banker, has been  May 1997.
appointed assistant to the general manager
in charge of recoveries.
Improve recoveries through   Agreement with BEAC to   Done.
accompanying measures.    extend registry to cover
delinquent borrowers.
Publication of statement in Done.                             September 1996.
medias announcing that                                                             A policy statement was
delinquent borrowers will                                                          published in the press by
be denied access to bank                                                           Government on stating that
credits and to bids on                                                             delinquent borrowers will not be
privatization and public                                                           allowed to have access to bank
procurement.                                                                       credit not to bid in the
Introduction in bidding                                                            privatization process and on
documents for                                                                      public procurement. The
privatization and public                                                           professional association of
procurement of a clause                                                            banker has prepared a press
barring delinquent                                                                 release to indicate that its
borrowers from presenting                                                          members will strictly enforce
a bid.                                                                             these dispositions.
Delinquent borrowers are those
who appear in column 14 f the
registry of bank borrowers
maintained by the national
office of the regional central
bank, BEAC. As a result of these
arrangements, several
35



Objectives   Measures                  ~~~~StaLtus ofVeuinTmn                                          Omet
Camieroonians have been
prevented from acquiring shares
in commercial banks until they
regularie their situation.
Updating by SRC of list of                                      Continuous.
delinquent borrowers sent
to the Centrale des
Risques.
List of delinquent       Done.                                  Continuous.
borrovwers sent by
commercial banks.
J. Insurance
Restructuring of public    Decree to withdraw license Done.                                February 1996.
insurance companies.       of AMACAM.
Appointment of judiciary   Done.
liquidator.
Finalization of audit of  Done.
SOCAR.
Agreement on action plan  Done:
for SOCAR.               Issuance of call for bids.             August 1998.
Appointment of interim adjudicator.    March 1999.
Convention with the Interim Adjudicator.
November 1999.
Implementation of        Done:
liquidation/privatization,  Issuance of call for bids.          July 1998.
Finalization of audit of  Withdraw of license.                  June 2000.
CNR.                     Appointment of judiciary liquidator.   August 2000.
First phase of privatization
Second phase of          Done:
privatization.           AMACAM,                                February 1996.        Four insurance companies
M6diatrice S.A.,                       March 1998.           closed down.
Provinces Rdunies S.A.,                August 1998.
Transafricaines d'Assurances,          August 1998.
36



