Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6773-CM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 100.7 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FOR A
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CRDIIT
JANUARY 17, 1996
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of December 1995)
The CFA franc (CFAF) is pegged to the French Franc at the rate of FFI = 100 CFAF
Average Exchange Rate
Year                             US$1 = CFAF
1993                                265.4
1994                                435.0
1995                                521.5
METRIC SYSTEM WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                            US Equivalent
I meter (m)                           3.28 feet (ft)
I kilometer (km)                          0.62 miles (mi)
I hectare (ha)                         2.47 acres (a)
I kilogram (kg)                          2.21 pounds (lb)
FISCAL YEAR
July I - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS
AMACAM               Insurance Company
BEAC                 Banque des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale (Regional Central Bank)
BNP                  Banque Nationale de Paris (Commercial Bank)
CAA                  Debt Amortization Agency
CAEMC                Central African Economic and Monetary Community
CAMSHIP              Cameroon Shipping Lines
CDC                  Cameroon Development Corporation (agroindustry)
CIMA                 Regional Treaty on Insurance
CNPS                 Social Security Agency
CNR                  Insurance Company
COBAC                Bank Supervision Agency
DGTC                 Central Procurement Agency
EU                   European Union
ONAPHARM             National Pharmaceutical Office
ONCC                 National Cocoa and Coffee Office
PSI                  Preshipment Inspection Company
SCDP                 Cameroonian Petroleum Distribution Company
SNH                  National Oil Company
SOCAR                Insurance Company
SONARA               National Petroleum Refinery
SOTUC                Bus Company
SRC                  Credit Recovery Company
TCA                  Turnover Tax



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Table of Contents
A. Public Finance Management ......................................2
1) Fiscal revenues, incentives and distortions ......................................2
2) Expenditures ......................................4
B. Domestic Debt Settlement ......................................6
C. Financial Sector Reform ......................................7
D. Public Enterprise reform .....................................                                                                     12
E. Regulatory and Incentive Framework .....................................                                                            13
A. Objectives and Size of the Proposed SAC .....................................                                                       14
B. Tranche conditionality .....................................                                                                       15
1) General .....................................                                                                                   15
2) Public Finance Management Tranche .....................................                                                         15
a) Fiscal receipts and non-wage expenditures .....................................                                              15
b) Civil Service reforn .....................................                                                                   15
c) Other .....................................                                                                                  15
3) Conditions for Financial Sector Reform  Tranche .....................................                                           15
C. Procurement and Disbursement .....................................                                                                  16
D. Implementation, Monitoring and Supervision .....................................                                                   17
E. Benefits and Risks .....................................                                                                            17
Annexes
A. Government and Public Enterprise Debt
B. Policy Matrix
C. Letter of Development Policy
D. Upfront Actions
E. Portfolio Performance and Management
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:    Cameroon
Amount:      IDA Credit: SDR 100.7 million, US$150 million equivalent
Tenns:        Standard IDA terms with 40 year maturity
Program
Description:   The program aims mainly at improving public finance management, settling the
domestic debt and restructuring the financial sector.  The public finance
component will enhance fiscal revenues through reduction of exemptions and
improved tax administration; and incorporate improvements in the tax and
incentive system that will encourage environmentally sustainable growth and
resource use. Budgetary expenditures on priority development sectors (health,
education, agriculture, road maintenance, tax administration, and justice) will
rise. Civil service reform will increase both its efficiency and the quality of
public services. The financial sector component will reform the regulatory
framework and restructure key banks and insurance companies. A revised
institutional framework will support an acceleration of the privatization
program. Public enterprises will be required to operate with hard budget
constraints.   Continued  regulatory  reform  will improve the  business
environment.
Benefits:     Successful implementation of the program would produce substantial benefits in
the areas of public finance, the financial sector and private sector development.
Improved tax administration should enhance fiscal revenues at existing tax
levels, reducing the need for fiscally motivated increases in rates. This should
increase public and private savings, thereby increasing investment. Reduced
anti-export bias in the tax system will contribute to urgently needed export
growth. Rationalizing forestry taxation will encourage sustainable exploitation
of this resource. Increased budgetary resources for priority sectors and programs
should improve factor productivity, enhancing growth and poverty reduction.
Restructuring the financial sector will lead to an increase in the supply of credit
to the private sector.  Accelerated privatization of key enterprises in the
agricultural and transport sectors will speed up the development of an efficient
private sector, essential for a successful debt work-out and economic growth.
Risks:        The main risk to the program is a decline in fiscal revenues because of lower
than anticipated economic growth, or political opposition on the part of vested
interests. Lower revenues would make it difficult to attenuate fiscal anti-export
bias and increase expenditures on key social sectors. On-time payment of
external debt service obligations might also be compromised. In that event,
expenditures in priority sectors would be protected by reducing expenditure in
non-priority areas and, if necessary, through additional revenue-raising



ii
measures. The second risk is of slow implementation of structural reforms
because of political opposition to the reforms, e.g. privatization of banks'
ownership and management, and improved loan recovery from delinquent
debtors. Financial sector reforms involve large institutional development, which
is a slow process continuing well beyond the release of tranches. Similarly,
implementation of the internal debt strategy requires that the Government
continues to assign to it a high priority. Recent experience with adjustment,
however, suggests that the Government is increasingly able to implement
difficult reforms in the face of opposition from vested interests. From the
Bank's perspective this risk will be countered by linking tranche release to
implementation of a number of strong prior actions. Furthermore, sufficient
budget will be allocated to allow close supervision of the program.
Staff Appraisal
Report:       There is no separate Staff Appraisal Report.
Estimated
Disbursements: The proceeds of the Credit would be disbursed in three tranches: US$50 million
equivalent upon effectiveness; US$50 million on the satisfactory implementation
of agreed measures pertaining to public finance management; and US$50
million following completion of agreed measures pertaining to restructuring of
the financial sector. Release of the Public Finance Management Tranche is
anticipated for the period of July-September 1996, since it will depend on
adoption of a satisfactory FY97 Budget by the National Assembly (Cameroon's
fiscal year begins on July 1) and verification of actual expenditure levels for
FY96. Release of the Financial Sector Restructuring Tranche is anticipated for
May-June 1996.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 100.7 MILLION (US$150 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) to the Republic of Cameroon for SDR 100.7 million, the
equivalent of US$150 million. The proposed IDA Credit would support the implementation of
the Government's adjustment program in the areas of public finance management, domestic debt
settlement and financial sector reform. It is an integral part of IDA's FY96-98 Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS). The objectives of IDA's strategy are to consolidate the effects of the
1994 devaluation, alleviate poverty, and further ameliorate the climate for private sector
development.
2.    Recent economic and political developments, past experience with adjustment, the
Government's strategy and the Bank Group assistance strategy are discussed in the CAS paper,
circulated separately. The corresponding sections as well as the relevant Annexes have therefore
been omitted from the present Report. Annex E of this report provides updated information on
portfolio restructuring, in particular concerning the phasing out of remaining IBRD loans.
PART I. THE FY96-98 ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
3.    Background, program content and credit design. The proposed operation is one of
two Structural Adjustment Credits proposed under the CAS. It is the result of intensive
preparatory work over the last eighteen months which showed that a number of key
macroeconomic and financial sector issues needed urgent attention. The proposed Credit focuses
primarily on public finance management, domestic debt settlement and financial sector reform
and restructuring. The Credit will have three tranches, of which the first will be released on
effectiveness and each of the other two, when the corresponding component of the adjustment
program has been satisfactorily implemented. There is no preset order for these two tranches,
referred to as the Public Finance Management Tranche and the Financial Sector Reform Tranche.
In addition to the specific tranche release conditions, there will have to be satisfactory
implementation of the macroeconomic framework, as evidenced by the existence of an active
IMF program.
4.    Over the last eighteen months, there has been substantial improvement in economic
management and macroeconomic performance. Far-reaching regulatory reforms initiated under
previous Bank-financed adjustment programs, concerning trade and price liberalization, coffee
and cocoa production and marketing, the forestry and the petroleum sectors have been
completed. The FY95 IMF shadow program was successfully implemented and a new Stand-by
(50 percent of quota) approved in late September 1995. The first staff review has just been
successfully completed. If Cameroon continues to demonstrate good performance, the IMF
intends to transform the Stand-by into an ESAF in mid-1996. In November 1995, the Paris Club
concluded a new one-year agreement in which about US$1 billion of Cameroon's external
bilateral debt was consolidated, some of it on Naples terms. In December, France approved a
Structural Adjustment Credit for about US$180 million. A number of strong upfront actions
have been taken before presentation of the proposed Credit to the Board (Annex D).



2
A.    Public Finance Management
1)    Fiscal revenues, incentives and distortions
5.    Overview. The main challenge for the Government is to increase public revenues from
a particularly low base to finance public investment, expenditures in priority sectors and meet
debt service obligations. Before oil production started to decline in 1985, the Government
collected over 20 percent of GDP in revenues, half of which came from the oil sector. In the
early 1990s, revenues declined to about 15 percent of GDP and in FY94 to less than 1 1 percent.
This was mostly due to a breakdown in tax administration following the sharp cuts in the wage
bill in 1993, and to the lowering of tariffs under the far-reaching trade liberalization
implemented by the six countries of the Central African Economic and Monetary Community
(CAEMC) following the devaluation of the CFA franc in 1994. The Government made a
determined effort to increase taxes in FY95, including the re-introduction of taxes on exports,
resulting in a 55 percent gain in revenues, to 12 percent of GDP. To further raise the revenues to
a GDP ratio of 14.5 percent in FY96, the Government adopted a revenue package in the FY96
Budget Law, including an increase in the rates of the turnover tax (15 to 17 percent for the
standard rate, 5 to 8 percent for the reduced rate) and specific taxes on petroleum products (50
percent for premium gasoline, 90 percent for gasoil). These measures resulted in a 34 percent
increase in revenues in the first quarter of FY96 over the corresponding period in FY95. The
objective of the Government is to achieve further revenue increases, but without undermining
growth, competitiveness and employment. To this end, the adjustment program aims at (i)
raising tax revenues through improved tax administration (import duties, turnover taxes and
excise taxes) and the elimination of unjustified exemptions; (ii) rationalizing direct taxes and
investment incentives; (iii) attenuating fiscal anti-export bias; and (iv) continuing with the
reform of forestry taxation.
6.    Tax administration and elimination of exemptions. Revenue performance in customs
improved sharply in FY95 over preceding years, but revenues still remained below target owing
to exemptions, tax evasion, and deficiencies in the Customs Directorate. Exemptions are
reckoned to have attained up to 33 percent of non-petroleum imports in FY95. The FY96 Budget
Law eliminated all customs exemptions that are not consistent with the dispositions of the 1994
CAEMC treaty. Measures are underway to complete the reform of the Customs Directorate with
assistance from France, and to replace the computer system, which is unreliable and in danger of
collapse. Meanwhile, the Government has decided to strengthen the role of the preshipment
company (PSI), which will henceforth be responsible for determining duty assessments and
verifying that duties have been effectively paid into the Government's account at the Central
Bank before the goods are released. The appropriate legislation has been published, and a new
contract with the PSI company has been signed.
7.    Efforts are also under way to improve the administration of the turnover tax (TCA) and
excise taxes. The TCA is a multistage turnover tax that was introduced in February 1994 as part
of the CAEMC reform, at a standard rate of 12.5 percent (subsequently increased in steps to 17
percent). The TCA is to be eventually transformed into a Value Added Tax (VAT), but only
after completion of ongoing reforms to improve the present system. First, as regards tax
administration, primary attention is being given to (i) strengthening the special TCA units in
Yaounde and Douala, concentrating revenue collection on the largest taxpayers, and (ii)
introducing a better system of tax identification numbers, without which efficient administration
is impossible, especially regarding the validation of deductions and reimbursements. Second, the
TCA, as currently administered, contains a number of dispositions tending to reduce



3
competitiveness of domestically produced tradables, particularly exports. The main problem is
that firms in a credit position with regard to TCA, especially exporters, are unable to effectively
recover these credits because of limitations imposed on the special Treasury checks issued to that
end. An action plan is being prepared for the FY97 Budget Law to solve this problem.
8.    The Government is also particularly concerned about the level of smuggling and tax
evasion of products subject to excise taxes (tobacco, alcohol, petroleum products). It has
requested IDA's assistance in designing an appropriate response to this problem. In the area of
petroleum, the Government is currently undertaking a review of the efficiency of the national oil
company (SNH)'s tax collection role. This will be extended to petroleum distribution companies
who are directly responsible for collection of the excise tax on petroleum products.
9.    Reform of direct taxes and investment incentives. The Government is progressively
reforming the direct tax system, both for business enterprises and individuals, including, as
necessary, investment incentives. The objective is to create a tax system that fosters growth and
employment generation without creating distortions and unjustified subsidies. In this spirit, all
establishment conventions granted under the Investment Code are being renegotiated, so as to
subject the beneficiaries to the standard rates of duties and TCA as adopted in the CAEMC
reform. The FY96 Budget Law requires timber-processing firms operating under the aegis of the
Free Trade Zone Regime to pay export duties on the log-equivalent of the exports of processed
products. New agreements under this Free Trade Zone Regime have been stopped in the
Forestry sector and suspended in all other sectors pending the results of an analysis of its costs
and benefits. The FY96 Budget Law also introduces other reforms to the Tax Code, including
the elimination of several fiscal disincentives to private sector development. This process will
continue in the FY97 Budget Law, where the emphasis will be on adoption of appropriate
dispositions with respect to the taxation of profits and dividends -- avoidance of double taxation
(both domestically and internationally), improvement of loss carry-forward and depreciation
provisions so as to make Cameroon's Tax Code intrinsically attractive to domestic and foreign
investors. This approach should attenuate, if not completely eliminate, the need for special
incentive regimes such as the Investment Code and Free Trade Zone Regime.  At the
Government's request, the IMF will be providing technical assistance in the area of direct
taxation in the first quarter of 1996. IDA will be consulted during this process.
10.   Reduction of anti-export bias. Exports are currently subject to a variety of taxes and
levies. Excluding forestry products, these duties accounted for about 5 percent of government
revenues in FY95 and constitute a handicap to Cameroon's competitiveness. In the FY95
Budget Law, export taxes of up to 25 percent were reintroduced on several products (coffee,
cocoa, cotton, medicinal plants, bananas) as a substitute for income taxes, which are difficult to
levy on agricultural producers. Some exports are also subject to an inspection tax of 0.95
percent. The Government wishes to replace direct export taxes, when possible, with more
appropriate taxes on the agricultural sector. A first step was taken in July 1996, when export
taxes were reduced to a maximum of 15 percent. Further reductions will occur following the
completion of a special study that the Government has commissioned on agricultural sector
taxation. A substantial reduction in export duties will be enacted, except for forestry
products, before release of the Public Finance Management Tranche.
11.   Forestry taxation. The Forestry sector has traditionally generated significant amounts
of fiscal revenues, mainly from export taxes on logs, and to a much less extent, from stumpage
fees and area taxes. In the sector, the objectives of the Government are to ensure sustainable



4
forest exploitation; develop an economically efficient wood processing industry; and mobilize an
appropriate level of fiscal revenues. The Government began this process in the context of the
FY96 Budget Law by increasing the concession rental (area tax) and subjecting processed wood
products to export taxes. The rationalization of the forestry taxation will continue in the context
of the next Budget Law so as to permit a progressive reduction of the share of the fiscal revenues
coming from export taxes and increasing the share coming from trade-neutral internal taxes and
concession rents. This would entail: (i) the improvement of collection of concession rentals and
stumpage fees; (ii) an increase in stumpage fees and possibly of minimum concession rentals;
(iii) differentiating the rate of the stumpage fee by species (higher rates for higher value species);
and (iv) a reduction in export taxes. A study will be conducted in the first half of 1996 to define
the measures that will be incorporated in the FY97 Budget Law.
2)     Expenditures
12.    Overview. The steep decline in government revenues in the past decade has translated
into a sharp reduction of capital expenditures and non-wage operating expenditures. The share
of investment expenditures in GDP decreased from about 7 percent in FY85 to an all time low of
0.4 percent in FY94. On the other hand, debt service obligations increased sharply, to the point
where interest payments on external debt now absorb about 6 percent of GDP. The objective of
the adjustment program is to raise the quality and efficiency of recurrent and capital
expenditures. To this end, the program aims at: (i) reforming the civil service; (ii) increasing the
share of recurrent and capital expenditures on key development sectors (agriculture, education,
health, road maintenance, tax administration, justice, as well as special poverty reduction
activities); and (iii) ensuring that public services are provided at minimum cost, and at
acceptable quality, through improved procurement and expenditure control mechanisms.
13.   Civil service reform. After considerable growth during the boom years in the early
1980s, the Government decided to freeze the size of the civil service in 1987. Since then,
recruitment has been limited to graduates of the National Administration School, teachers,
doctors and nurses. Reform began in 1989, with the long-run objective of reducing the size and
cost of the civil service, relative to GDP, while increasing its efficiency. From 1989-1993, non-
wage benefits were reduced and wages frozen. In 1993, salaries were reduced in two steps, by a
total of about 45 percent. No wage increase was given following the devaluation. On the
employment front, retirement has been made compulsory on reaching retirement age or after 30
years of service. As a result of these actions, the wage bill has been reduced from 9.3 percent of
GDP in FY91 to 4.4 percent of GDP in FY95. The size of the civil service fell from 188,000 in
June 1990 to 166,000 in June 1995, including over 38,000 in the armed forces and the police.
14.   At the same time, the Government has prepared for a restructuring of all ministerial
departments. Their number was reduced in the July 1994 cabinet reshuffle. A new civil service
statute was promulgated in September 1994, that includes for the first time the possibility of
terminating employment for economic motives. New organizational and staffing plans have
been completed for seven ministries' and are under preparation for the others. The plans reflect
the coverage and quality of services expected in the future and provide for a specific number of
positions. Implementation of these plans has resulted in the departure of over 5300 persons in
the first seven ministries by end-December 1995. Redundant staff receive severance payments,
Civil service, Industry and Commerce, Economy and Finance, Education, Public Health,
Women's Affairs, and Labor.



5
financed by France and the European Union. Implementation of the second series of plans by
end-June 1996 will result in the elimination of additional staff. The plans for the third series of
ministries will be implemented by end-1996. To better monitor the civil service, an integrated
computer system is being introduced and will become fully operational before end-March 1996.
Eventually, the size of the civil service will be reduced to 152,000 -- a 20 percent decline since
1991. This reduction should make room for performance-related wage increases. Adoption and
timely implementation of new organization and staffing plans, acceptable to IDA, for a
second series of ministries2 is a condition for release of the Public Finance Management
Tranche.
15.   Non-wage expenditures and public investment. During the last decade the share of
capital and non-wage operating expenditures has declined from about 14 percent of GDP to less
than 5 percent. This decline has taken a heavy toll on key economic and social sectors. The
objective of the adjustment program is to reverse this trend, by: (i) increasing budgetary
appropriations, especially for non-wage expenditure and investment in priority sectors
(agriculture, education, health, road maintenance); and (ii) ensuring that actual expenditures
reflect these priorities, while at the same time respecting the overall expenditure targets.
16.   As a first step, in the FY96 Budget Law, budgetary allocations for priority sectors have
increased from 41 to 44 percent of total budgetary allocations (excluding interest, pensions and
severance payments), and their shares of non-wage allocations increased from 16 to 22 percent.
A key objective of the Government's program is to ensure that these allocations are reflected by
actual expenditures, which are therefore monitored on a monthly basis for all ministries. A
quarterly budgeting system has been established to ensure that appropriations lead to actual
payments without the accumulation of new arrears. For the next budget year, the indicative
target is to set the growth rate of priority expenditures at 50 percent over the growth rate of the
overall budgetary envelope (i.e. 44 percent). Conversely, should total budget allocations fall,
budgetary allocations to key sectors would be protected. The conditions for release of the
Public Finance Tranche are: (i) attainment of the aggregate public expenditure target for
priority ministries in FY96 (over 44 percent of aggregate spending ceilings for all ministries
excluding expenditures on public debt, pensions and severance payments); and (ii)
allocations in the FY97 Budget Law for the same priority ministries, which in the aggregate
exceed 44 percent of aggregate budgetary allocations.
17.   The process of public investment programming and execution is being strengthened as
part of the integration of the former Ministry of Plan into the new Ministry of Economy and
Finance.  The consistency of the PIP with the macroeconomic framework and current
expenditure is being improved as a result. The FY96-99 PIP has been reviewed by Bank staff
and is satisfactory, though perhaps too modest, given the circumstances. No public investment
projects will be implemented outside the PIP, as was the case in the past through the National Oil
Company (SNH). To this end, financial controls over SNH expenditures have been tightened.
SNH is required to submit quarterly financial reports to the Ministry of Finance, with a detailed
breakdown of actual receipts and expenditures for the preceding two quarters as well as
projections for the next two.
18.   The process of public procurement is being overhauled to eliminate past abuses and
inefficiencies. A new procurement decree acceptable to the Bank was published in April 1995,
2     Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries, Environment and Forestry, Scientific and Technical
Research, Mines, Energy and Water, Public Works.



6
and work is proceeding apace with the revision of the statutes and regulations of the Central
Procurement Agency (DGTC). The objective is to reduce the Agency's role in favor of the
technical ministries.
B.    Domestic Debt Settlement
19.   Cameroon's public sector debt is a crippling problem. Over and above the external debt
which amounts to 108 percent of GDP, public sector domestic debt amounts to an additional 49
percent of GDP, mostly in arrears. The Government's domestic debt and arrears have caused
serious problems in the form of non-performing assets in the financial system and a reduction in
the supply of loanable funds from the banking system. Liquidity and solvency problems have
also resulted for domestic private and public suppliers. Tables 1 and 2 in Annex A show that the
problems are mainly caused by the Central Government, which is far more indebted than public
enterprises.
20.    The Government has submitted an action plan for the settlement of domestic debt and
arrears. The strategy is transparent, irreversible, and involves equitable treatment for each class
of creditors. To be implemented in stages, it aims at restoring the financial credibility of the
State at a cost compatible with projected budget receipts in future years. The strategy will deal
both with arrears and the stock of debt. Following an inventory of the debt, a validation process
is being performed by a foreign accounting firm of international repute. This is expected to
substantially reduce the gross debt stock. Further reductions will come from netting out cross
debts between public enterprises and the Government. The public enterprise debt that remains
after netting out cross debts will be dealt with on a case-by-case basis, in the process of
liquidation and restructuring. The remaining government debt will be settled mainly through
securitization.
21.    The Regional Central Bank (BEAC) will continue to receive payment on past
consolidations and statutory advances. Debt to commercial banks will be securitized over 15
years. Interest will be paid semi-annually at a fluctuating rate approximating the banks' average
cost of funds plus a small margin. Half of the principal will be amortized in equal installments,
starting in the fourth year; the second half will be paid in a lump sum at maturity. To make the
system attractive to commercial banks, the Government has requested, and the Central Bank has
agreed, to open an escrow account replenished out of tax revenues transiting through BEAC that
will be used to make the interest, and after the grace period, principal payments. In later years, if
resources can be found, the Government will establish a trust fund out of which the lump sum
payment will be made. Part of the debt to insurance companies wiil be abandoned in the context
of the liquidation of public sector companies and the rest will be securitized on conditions
similar to those described for the commercial banks. CNPS, the social security agency, will be
issued securities over 15 years at a low rate of interest, with five years grace on interest and
principal.
22.    The European Union (EU) and the Caisse Franqaise de Developpement have agreed to
settle about one fourth of commercial creditors' claims in cash for the first CFAF 10 million
(about US$20,000) after deduction of tax, social security arrears and sums owed to the Recovery
Agency. The balance will be paid exclusively in the form of zero-coupon bonds (maturities of 2-
12 years, interest rates of 1-3 percent). Government debt to public enterprises is being reduced
via (i) compensation with the enterprises' debt to Government, or (ii) voluntary abandonment of
claims on the State. Remaining claims will be securitized using the same approach as for



7
commercial private enterprises. Debt to individuals, all in arrears, includes salary arrears to civil
servants, as well as compensation to individuals for expropriation of property under the power of
eminent domain. The latter should, on social as well as equity grounds, be given more favorable
payment terms than commercial creditors, through zero-coupon bonds with shorter maturities.
23.    The budgetary cost of the debt settlement strategy is CFAF 29 billion in FY96 and is
expected to decline to CFAF 26 billion in FY97. Repayments of principal to the banks begin in
FY99, as do payments of the zero-coupon bonds to other creditors, which leads to an increase in
total debt-service charges. Implementation of the strategy has already started. Cash payments
have already been made to commercial creditors. An agreement has been signed with the
bankers' association laying out the detail of the securitization process. The Central Bank has
notified its agreement to open up the escrow account. This arrangement, together with the
Government's commitment under the adjustment program not to accumulate new arrears, should
minimize the risk that its debt service obligations to commercial banks would not be honored.
C.     Financial Sector Reform
24.    Background.  Cameroon is the pillar of the Central African Monetary Union, as it
accounts for more than half the regional money supply and central bank (BEAC) financing3. The
crisis of the last decade has led to substantial difficulties in the country's financial sector. The
first attempt (1989-1992) to restructure the banking sector was unsuccessful, mainly because it
took place in the absence of a stable macroeconomic environment. It failed to involve critical
regulatory and supervisory issues, did not address the weak judiciary framework and was poorly
managed, in that banks were not restructured in a concerted manner. Today, the financial sector
is in danger of collapse. Most banks and insurance companies are plagued by large and
inadequately provisioned non-performing portfolios. Despite high lending interest rates, which
discourage good borrowers, most institutions lose money, have negative net worth and are
technically bankrupt. Some are illiquid as well, and restrict deposit withdrawals. A large
decline in deposits in recent months reflects a generalized lack of confidence in the banking
sector. CNPS is also bankrupt. After four years of operation, the specially created recovery
agency (SRC) has recovered only about 13 percent of the assets entrusted to it.
25.    A comprehensive reform program, building on the lessons of earlier efforts and on the
need to achieve a durable, market-driven and performing financial sector, has been agreed with
the Government. A strong financial sector is an essential component of the Government's efforts
to encourage private sector development and elicit a supply response following the devaluation.
The first phase, under the proposed program, aims at stabilizing the financial sector; a second
3      Cameroon, which shares a common regional central bank--Banque des Etats d' Afrique Centrale
(BEAC) with five other countries of the region, has the most diversified financial sector in the
zone. The sector is composed of: (i) eight commercial banks; (ii) eight non-bank financial
institutions; (iii) a postal savings bank; (iv) sixteen insurance companies and a reinsurance
company; (v) a housing bank; (vi) a social security institution (CNPS); (vii) a number of mutual
savings and loans cooperatives; and (viii) a recovery agency (SRC). Two additional banks
operate without being properly licensed. A Central Bank auction money market was launched on
July 1, 1994. Cameroon does not have yet a bond or equity market but studies to this end are
under way. Commercial banks dominate the financial sector accounting for about 64 percent of
total assets; the social security institution accounts for 14 percent and the insurance industry for 12
percent. With a network of 104 branches throughout the country, commercial banks employ more
than 2,200 persons; the insurance sector employs about 1,400.



8
phase, under the next adjustment operation, will emphasize financial deepening, involving
housing and SME finance, rural finance, the development of term lending and equity finance
instruments. The first phase builds on the fiscal stabilization program and the debt settlement
strategy described above. It incorporates monetary, regulatory and supervisory reforms. It
addresses the judicial framework, in addition to the specific problems of the banks and insurance
companies.
26.   Monetary policy and regulatory framework. The Central Bank, BEAC, which has the
primary responsibility for the conduct of monetary policy, has introduced a number of
encouraging reforms recently, with support from the IMF and IDA. A more rigorous annual
regional and country monetary programming exercise designed to better reconcile monetary and
fiscal policy in relation to macroeconomic targets has been established. BEAC has been
successful in containing inflation since devaluation, but at the cost of high interest rates. Except
for a short period after the devaluation, interest rates have been positive in real terms. BEAC is
progressively moving towards indirect monetary controls.  The regional money market
established after devaluation has had a slow start, but BEAC expects to introduce "negative
bidding" in early 1996, through the issue of Central Bank bills, whereby commercial banks
submit offers to BEAC to invest their excess liquidity. When circumstances permit, BEAC will
shift to a market-based interest rate structure. Bank margins have been fully liberalized at the
national level. Regionally the maximum lending rate is set at 22 percent, well above rates
charged by commercial banks.
27.   COBAC, established in 1992, is the regional agency responsible for bank supervision.
Its prudential regulations are generally sound and the agency has been satisfactorily carrying out
reviews of banks. Improvements are needed in several areas, however, such as the reporting by
banks and the speed of COBAC's intervention, especially in banking crises. More importantly,
COBAC's effectiveness has been constrained by the refusal of some Cameroonian courts to
accept that decisions reached in application of regional treaties take precedence over national
regulations. To resolve this problem, the Government has issued a circular to magistrates
informing them of the two laws, four ordinances, seven decrees and two ministerial acts
abrogated or modified by the two regional treaties and advising that the 1990 ordinance on bank
liquidation has been abrogated by the treaties. In addition, regulation and supervision will be
introduced for the 250 or so agricultural savings cooperatives which play an important role in
financial intermediation, but are currently unregulated. Finally, as a conservative measure,
Cameroon will shortly increase the minimum capital requirement for banks to CFAF I billion
and thereafter gradually to CFAF 2 billion.
28.   Banking Sector Reform. The banking sector suffers from a pervasive presence of the
Govemment as shareholder, borrower and depositor, and from distressed balance sheets. Tables
3, 4 and 5 in Annex A provide key financial indicators on commercial banks. Non-provisioned,
non-performing private sector loans represent 48 percent of total private sector credits and 31
percent of total credits. Government debt accounts for a further 31 percent of total credit. Banks
generally have high operating expenses, which range from 75 to 138 percent of net banking
product (the difference between interest and commissions received and paid). Only one large
and one small bank are considered to be sound. The biggest bank experienced a run on deposits
after BNP, its foreign partner, left the country in October 1994. In 1995, the bankruptcy of the
Meridien International Bank Group in the Bahamas and Luxembourg led to the freeze of the off-
shore deposits of its Cameroonian affiliate. Also, the financial situation of the Credit Agricole
has been seriously weakened in recent months by mismanagement. Overall, the current



9
framework is not sustainable, and funding unavailable for the additional capital injection of
about CFAF 100 billion (US$200 million) that would be required to constitute adequate
provisions, cover foreign exchange losses, and meet COBAC's prudential norms.
29.   A transparent plan to restructure five banks will be implemented by the Government
with the objective of attaining a reduced but sustainable banking sector, which should permit the
operation of sound monetary policy and support the Government's goal of encouraging private
investment and private sector development. The principles governing the proposals are that all
institutions involved in restructuring should be the subject of independent audits (already
completed); Government should not issue additional debt to cover shortfalls in assets; and
shareholders (public and private) should bear their share of past losses. Restructured banks will
be recapitalized from private sources and the Government will withdraw from the sector, holding
only minor shareholdings, where necessary, as a stop-gap or bridging measure (in no case to
exceed 20% of share capital). The overall plan is designed to minimize social and economic
costs, especially for small depositors (whose deposits would be protected up to a certain ceiling),
and recognizes the need to protect public and private creditors, whose deposits are essential for
the operation of their enterprises. A key part of the program is the search for professional
partners for banks and insurance companies that would bring sound commercial practices, solid
management and internal control capacity; the Government is currently in discussion with
several interested parties to this end. An advisor has been appointed under French financing, to
assist Cameroon with the implementation of financial sector reform.
30.    More specifically, one of the five banks, endowed with a good customer base, will be
restructured by its largest foreign shareholder, which will share past losses with the Government
in proportion to its share of capital, bringing the bank's net worth back to zero. The bank will
then be recapitalized to prudential norms, mostly by the private partner4. The Government will
keep a 20% participation on a temporary basis, until other private investors can be found. Non-
performing assets will be fully provisioned, and an active recovery policy pursued by the bank
(no assets transferred to SRC). Proceeds from the recoveries on credits provisioned under the
restructuring plan will be deposited in a special account jointly owned by the Government and
the foreign partner in relation to their respective share in the absorption of losses. Operating
expenses will be reduced through lay-offs and branch closings. An agreement has been signed
with the foreign partner laying out a detailed action plan for the restructuring of the bank.
Because of budgetary constraints, the restructuring will be completed over a 2-year period. Of
the four banks, which are not viable on their own, one will be liquidated. The other three will
first be allowed to transfer non-performing assets and an equivalent amount of liabilities
(including deposits) to the loan recovery agency (SRC). In this regard, all depositors will receive
equal treatment in that only deposits over a certain threshold will be transferred to SRC. Small
depositors will be thereby protected. The banks will then be liquidated or merged into new
entities that would be taken over by new foreign and/or Cameroonian banking partners and
investors. The new banks will have much lower operating expenses than the original four,
having fewer branches and staff. Care will be taken to limit the burden of government debt.
Simulations of income statements will check on the long-term viability of the new entities. To
prevent an immediate run on these new entities, their demand deposits may have to be
transformed into time deposits with staggered maturities. If private banking investors cannot be
found in a reasonable time, the banks will be recapitalized by non-bank investors and
4      Capital asset ratio is currently set at 5% by COBAC; the amount of capital required is further
determined by fixed assets and large credits.



10
performance-based management contracts will be signed with banks, which are renowned for
their good financial standing and high-quality management.  The steps involved in the
restructuring are mapped in the Letter of Development Policy. The Financial Sector Reform
Tranche will be released after: (i) the agreement with a foreign bank referred to above has
been implemented; (ii) another bank has been placed into liquidation and a
banking/judiciary liquidator appointed; (iii) the non-performing assets and frozen deposits
of the three other banks: (a) have been separated from performing assets; and (b) have
been transferred to SRC; (iv) the three banks have been restructured in a manner
satisfactory to IDA; and (v) performance-based management agreements satisfactory to
IDA regarding the three banks have been executed by the respective parties thereto.
31.   The cost of this program is substantial, but far less than the cost of not restructuring.
Overall, about 1,300 bank employees would become redundant. The cost to Government is
CFAF 20 billion and to private shareholders CFAF 28 billion, in terms of loss of equity and
recapitalization. Under the program, public and private deposits totaling a massive CFAF 120
billion will be frozen at the SRC, until recoveries are made5. Measures will be taken to avoid
such deposit losses in the future. Bank supervision will be improved through better bank
reporting and enforcement of COBAC decisions.  Discussions are ongoing with private
shareholders and bank managers to improve systems and risk management, and train staff. On
the other hand, if the four banks close down, the total loss of deposits would be about CFAF 300
billion. Furthermore, a banking collapse of this magnitude might well provoke a general
banking sector crisis, which would in turn deprive many exporters, manufacturers and merchants
of their main source of funds. Thus the restructuring is clearly advantageous in net terms to the
private sector, which considers lack of credit and poor financial intermediation to be leading
constraints to growth.
32.    Loan Recovery. SRC was created in 1989 to help with bank restructuring. Assets of
some CFAF 600 billion were transferred to it, with many of the transfers undocumented and, in
the event, of little value. Overall, SRC has recovered CFAF 20 billion in cash and CFAF 60
billion has been settled through compensations with deposits. This has permitted some small
private sector depositors to recover their funds. SRC has been set up as a liquidation unit rather
than a recovery agency, with the proceeds of recoveries in each liquidation distributed among the
claimants according to legal liquidation rules. Its mandate is ill-defined, its operating costs are
excessive and it has suffered from political interference and a lack of judicial support, which has
compromised its effectiveness in repossessing assets. The Government has prepared an action
plan to make it more effective. It will be restructured and downsized, and its priorities will be
better defined with quantitative targets (CFAF 15 billion in the first year and CFAF 20 billion in
subsequent years). It will use more effectively the privilege of the Treasury granted to it in 1994,
a powerful instrument to enable it to recover assets with the same seniority rights as the
Treasury. The portfolio to be recovered will be ranked on the basis of agreed criteria, including
age, size and the probability of recovery.  Recovery efforts will concentrate on recently
transferred loans from the current restructuring exercise, on a few large debtors and on high-
profile individuals with the means to repay their loans. The latter, whose arrears total CFAF 48
billion will be required to regularize their payments immediately. The composition of SRC's
Board of Directors will be modified, through an amendment to its by-laws, to include
The only way to keep these deposits alive would have been to increase government indebtedness,
in order to replace non-performing assets. This is not feasible in view of Government's
budgetary constraint and the burden this debt would have imposed on the new banks.



11
representatives from groups with a large stake in the recoveries who will have at least one third
of the votes. The General Manager will no longer be appointed by decree. He will be appointed
by the SRC's Board with a two-thirds majority. The registry of bank borrowers in the Central
Bank will also serve as registry of delinquent borrowers. Delinquent borrowers will be
prohibited from borrowing from any bank, and from participating in the privatization of public
enterprises and in bids for government purchases of goods and services. Release of the
Financial Sector Reform Tranche will be subject to (i) amendment of SRC by-laws, (ii)
implementation of a new organigram acceptable to IDA and reorganization of its personnel
and their remuneration including the introduction of "performance incentives"; and (iii)
publication in the media of a Government declaration stating that delinquent borrowers
will not be allowed to borrow from banks, participate in bids for privatization and
government purchases. Bidding documents will incorporate a clause preventing delinquent
borrowers from participating in the bids.
33.   Currently, the legal framework and the judicial system fail to support the enforcement of
financial contracts and the recovery of bad debts. A Roundtable on Justice and Financial
Institutions held in Yaounde in November 1994 concluded that three problems require attention.
First, debtors should no longer be able to oppose application of the accelerated recovery
procedure to the uncontested part of a claim. Second, they should no longer be able to block
SRC's right to use the privilege of the Treasury. In the future, this privilege should also apply to
real property, including machinery and equipment. Third, freezing of assets pending court cases
will be easier, quicker and with limited recourse. Implementation of appropriate amendments
to the corresponding laws (89-201, 92-008 and 94-327) to expedite judicial credit recovery
will be a condition for release of the Public Finance Management Tranche.
34.    The administration of justice in Cameroon is also fraught with many problems.
Judgments often contradict the law and political interference and corruption are widespread;
debtors are permitted to adopt dilatory measures for settlement of claims against them. The
courts are overloaded. The Office of the Clerk of the Court and the bailiff system work slowly
and inefficiently. These problems are attributable in part to the economic crisis of the last
decade, which has led to a chronic lack of resources, equipment and supplies, as well as reduced
salaries for judges who currently earn less than non-commissioned officers in the Army.
Recognizing the gravity of the situation, the Government has started to increase budgetary
allocations for the Ministry of Justice in the FY96 Budget Law. Government will resume
publication of the official Gazette and start publication of court proceedings. It will strengthen
the judiciary inspection to oversee the performance of judges. These measures will not bring
overnight a clear improvement in the judicial system, but are a first step in a long process of
change that goes beyond the life of the credit.
35.   The Insurance Sector is also in severe financial difficulty. Premium arrears (CFAF 36
billion) exceed annual turnover, and claims are paid with substantial delays, if at all. Operating
expenses are excessive and investment returns low. Investment instruments are inadequate. As
a result, none of the insurance companies meets all required prudential norms. The industry has
not been properly audited by the Ministry of Finance since 1988, nor has it voluntarily submitted
any reports to the authorities. There is a shortfall in technical provisions and in capital of about
CFAF 74 billion. Some companies are technically bankrupt but continue to operate. The sector
is a net user of financial resources, whereas it should be a net source of term financing for the
economy. Restructuring is urgent, for both private and public sector companies.



12
36.   Regulation and supervision have been overhauled. Insurance in the franc zone is now
regulated and supervised according to the terms of a treaty recently signed under the aegis of
the Confirence Interafricaine Des Marches dAssurances (CIMA).  While awaiting the
establishment of the regional supervisory structure, the Ministry of Finance in Cameroon has
restructured its insurance supervisory unit, downsizing it from 36 to 14 staff. The unit will
perform off-site supervision on the basis of mandatory quarterly returns and has started on-site
inspections of all insurance companies at least once every two years, in line with recently
approved procedures acceptable to IDA. This will be reinforced by external audits and improved
disclosure. Its mandate will henceforth cover CNPS, which currently escapes any financial
regulation and supervision.
37.   Restructuring should involve not only recapitalization, but also new management,
internal reorganization, and establishment of adequate controls and mechanisms for collection of
overdue premia.  Sanctions (including the withdrawal of licenses) will be taken against
companies that do not respond to the directives of the supervisory unit. Restructuring of the
three government-owned companies (AMACAM, SOCAR and CNR) will proceed as follows.
AMACAM has been placed in liquidation and a liquidator has been appointed. Financial and
operational audits of SOCAR and CNR, to assess their financial condition and prospects for
privatization, have been completed. SOCAR will be liquidated. A roundtable of potential
investors led by general agents will be convened to recreate new companies around the customer
base of SOCAR. The new companies (one for general insurance and one for life), should be
established before end-June 1996. New partners are being sought for CNR. Its privatization will
be done in two steps (June 1996 and June 1997). If private partners cannot be found, the
company will be liquidated. Altogether, 550 employees may lose their jobs in the insurance
sector.
38.   The cost of restructuring the private insurance companies will be assessed following the
inspections to be performed by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. These costs will be
entirely borne by the private sector partners. In case the three public companies are liquidated,
the cost to the Government would amount to CFAF 1.5 billion in lost share capital. Private
partners will lose CFAF 352 million. Claims of CFAF 36 billion against the insurance
companies would be erased. This is, however, no indication of the true cost to policy holders;
many of these claims have been outstanding for 8-10 years and policyholders have already
absorbed their losses; some of the payments are due to policyholders who have not paid their
premiums and are thus not entitled to benefits.
D.    Public Enterprise reform
39.   Public enterprise reform was addressed in the 1989 SAL, with primary emphasis on
liquidation and performance contracts for enterprises deemed worthy of rehabilitation. As an
initial step, 22 public enterprises and agencies were dissolved and another 39, including six
banks, legally or voluntarily liquidated. Performance contracts were established for 25 of the
largest public enterprises. Performance did not improve, however, with a budgetary cost to the
Government of about US$2 billion in 1989-92. In FY94, financial losses of the sector are
estimated at about 3.5 percent of turnover and 10 percent of value added. Because of its tight
cash situation, the Government has progressively reduced subsidy payments. To this end, water
rates were increased by 15 percent on September 30, 1995. Public enterprises are no longer able
to get credit on demand from the banking system.



13
40.    Lack of progress in addressing problems in the sector led the Government to realize that
the rehabilitation approach should be supplanted by privatization.  The objective is the
divestiture of all public enterprises engaged in productive activities and commercial services,
while improving the performance of those remaining in the public portfolio by subjecting them,
when possible, to market forces. In July 1994, the Government identified 15 of the larger
enterprises to be privatized, including the main enterprises in the transport and agricultural
sectors. By early 1995, five enterprises had been liquidated, including the national bus company
(SOTUC); the management of two others had been privatized (Airports and the banana
subsidiary of the Cameroon Development Corporation - CDC); and minority share positions had
been sold in three companies. HEVECAM, one of the largest agroindustries, was put up for sale.
In addition, one company has been fully privatized and five others put up for sale. In July 1995,
President Biya reaffirmed his support for the new approach, and expanded the scope of
privatization by including the main public utilities in the list of firms whose
ownership/management was to be transferred to private operators.
41.   In this context, a new General Statute on Public Enterprises was enacted in August
1995, so as to expose public enterprises to market pressures and to redefine the liquidation
process. Under the new legislation, public enterprises are not allowed to continue in operation if
their cumulated losses exceed more than 50 percent of their paid-in capital. In addition, the
Government has decided to impose a hard budget constraint to public enterprises and closely
monitor their financial situation to avoid building up new arrears. The 17 largest public
enterprises are now required to submit quarterly financial reports to the Ministry of Finance,
including key financial data for the past two quarters, updates of prior estimates for the current
quarter and estimates for the following two quarters. The scope of these reports will be widened
and the number of firms required to submit them increased over the next 12 months. A new
institutional framework for privatization is being established, that will effectively separate the
activities of portfolio management and privatization, simplify and speed up privatization
procedures, and ensure their transparency. The Government has also hired a privatization expert
to help revamp and speed up the privatization program. Sales of enterprises in FY96 are
projected to yield budgetary revenues of about US$60 million. To this end, a timetable has also
been established for completing, before June 1997, the privatization of the main agricultural
enterprises, and the privatization of the share capital or management of the principal public
enterprises in the transport sector and the three utilities. The Government will also sell its
minority shares in all parastatals.  An IDA-financed Technical Assistance project under
preparation will assist the Government with privatization of specific companies. Privatization
questions will be more fully addressed in the Enterprise Development and Privatization Credit
scheduled for FY97.
E.    Regulatory and Incentive Framework
42.    Background. A substantial trade and price liberalization was achieved in the previous
phase of the adjustment program. As of February 1994, all quantitative restrictions had been
eliminated on imports with the exception of petroleum products, and price controls were limited
to petroleum products, medicines, textbooks, maritime transport and certain public services
(electricity, water, public transport and port fees). The Government recognizes that continued
improvement in the regulatory and incentive framework is indispensable for efficient resource
use, conservation, and private sector development.  In that spirit, on July 1, 1995, the
Government eliminated import surcharges on concrete reinforcing bars, plastic bags, and flatbed
trailers, and reduced the rate on cement from 20 to 10 percent.



14
43.   In the agricultural sector (accounting for 25 percent of GDP and 30 percent of
exports), the coffee and cocoa sectors have been fully liberalized via the adoption of a new law
and application decrees in August and November 1995. Reference prices and the stabilization
mechanisms have been eliminated. Quality control remains under the responsibility of the
National Cocoa and Coffee Office (ONCC) until June 1996, when it will be transferred to the
profession. The implementation decree for the new Forestry Code was adopted in August 1995,
and introduces a market-based system of auctions to allocate concessions.
44.   In the transport sector, major reforms are needed after years of inadequate
maintenance, deteriorating financial and technical performance by the public enterprises
operating in the sector, and a regulatory framework which handicaps competitiveness in
agriculture, industry and commerce. Important reforms will be undertaken to liberalize and
revise the regulatory framework. Maritime transport will be liberalized. Technical discussions
have begun with the Government on a series of reforms that will remove the obligation on
shippers and transporters to obtain loading authorizations from either the Administration or the
Shippers' Council. The liberalization would apply to liner traffic and bulk transport (including
domestic cabotage). These reforms should take effect before the privatization of CAMSHIP, the
shipping company. The Government also intends to take measures to simplify and speed up
international trade and transit procedures for international and regional trade. Fast-track import
clearance is being considered for containers that have been preinspected and sealed by
preinspection companies in the country of departure, provided also that duties have been fully
paid. Internal transport will also be liberalized particularly regarding allocation of traffic
between competing trucking companies. These issues will be followed up in the proposed
Transport Sector Project and the Enterprise Development and Privatization Credit, which will
include regulatory reforms that will eliminate restrictive practices and barriers to entry in sectors
being privatized.
45.   The petroleum sector retains a key position in the Cameroonian economy, despite the
fall in output. A major reform of this sector is under way. The monopoly of SNH over the
supply of crude oil to the refinery was abolished in July 1995. The monopolies held by
SONARA and SCDP over refined products and over distribution will be abolished in June 1996:
46.   In the pharmaceutical sector, the regulatory framework continues to restrict the supply
of essential and generic drugs, thus increasing their cost to consumers, despite the recent
liquidation of ONAPHARM, the public agency responsible for the import and distribution of
drugs. The Government is preparing a new regulatory framework in this area, including, inter
alia, the elimination of excessive annual drug registration and certification fees.  Such
dispositions increase the cost of essential and generic drugs and act as an effective barrier to
entry to small distributors. The new regulatory framework is expected to become effective in
1996. In parallel to these efforts, the Government is considering the creation of drug supply
centers with the participation of the non-profit private sector.
PART II.      THE PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
A.    Objectives and Size of the Proposed SAC
47.   The proposed Credit would support a medium-term government program whose long-
run objective is to double per capita income in Cameroon over the next 20 years. As described
in Part 1, the program focuses on improving public finance mobilization and management,



15
restructuring the financial sector and creating a favorable environment for private sector
development through state divestiture and regulatory reform. The program is based on specific
monitorable actions contained in the Credit Agreement and Letter of Development Policy. The
Credit, in an amount of US$150 million, would be disbursed in three tranches of US$50 million
each. The first tranche would be made available on credit effectiveness; the subsequent tranches
could be released upon evidence of satisfactory implementation of the overall adjustment
program, including a satisfactory macroeconomic framework and fulfillment of specific
conditions relating to public finance management and the reform of the financial sector. These
two tranches are independent and would each become available as soon as the respective
conditionalities have been met.
B.    Tranche conditionality
1) General
* Satisfactory progress in implementing the program, including a satisfactory
macroeconomic framework (as evidenced by the existence of an active IMF
program) and implementation of the following measures:
2) Public Finance Management Tranche
a) Fiscal receipts and non-wage expenditures
*  Measures have been taken to reduce export taxes on the export of goods except for
forestry products by at least 10 percent (para. 10);
*  (a) attainment of the aggregate public expenditure target for priority ministries
referred to in para. 16, which should exceed 44 percent of aggregate spending
ceilings for all ministries (excluding expenditures on public debt, pensions and
severance payments) for FY96; and (b) allocations in the FY97 Budget Law for the
same priority ministries which in the aggregate exceed 44 percent of aggregate
budgetary allocations excluding debt service, pensions, and severance payments;
b) Civil Service reform
* Adoption of organization and staffing plans, satisfactory to IDA, and implementation
in accordance with timetables relating thereto for the ministries mentioned in para.
14;
c) Other
* Implementation of appropriate amendments to the laws (89-021, 92-008, and 94-
327) to expedite judicial credit recovery (para. 33);
3)    Conditions for Financial Sector Reform Tranche
* (a) the agreement between the Borrower and the major foreign partner for the
restructuring of one bank has been implemented in accordance with its terms; (b)
one bank has been placed in liquidation and a banking/judiciary liquidator
appointed; (c) the non-performing assets and frozen deposits of three other banks: (i)



16
have been separated from performing assets; and (ii) have been transferred to SRC;
(d) the three banks have been restructured in a manner satisfactory to IDA; (e)
management agreements satisfactory to IDA regarding the three banks have been
executed by the respective parties thereto (para. 30);
* (a) amendment of SRC by-laws; (b) implementation of a new organigram and
reorganization of its personnel; and (c) publication in the media of a declaration by
the Government that delinquent borrowers will be prevented from borrowing from
financial institutions, participating in bids for the privatization of public enterprises
and government purchases. Bidding documents will include clauses preventing
delinquent borrowers from participating in these bids (para. 32).
C.    Procurement and Disbursement
48.    A Country Procurement Assessment Report was completed in April 1994 which
concluded that Cameroon's procurement practices were inadequate. Under the Economic
Recovery Credit of May 1994, Cameroon started to reform its procurement regulations,
strengthen the capacity of the technical ministries, improve collaboration between its customs
services and the preshipment inspection company, and review the role of the Direction des
Grands Travaux du Cameroun (DGTC), a parastatal institution in charge of execution of large
infrastructure projects. Progress to date is as follows: (i) three Presidential decrees have been
issued (June 1995) on a new Code of Public Contracts, which is satisfactory to the Bank, on the
creation of ministerial tender boards, and on the strengthening of the capacity of technical
ministries; (ii) the customs computer system is being upgraded; (iii) the collaboration between
customs services and the preshipment inspection is being improved; and (iv) Cameroon has
presented a proposal for review of the role of DGTC.
49.   Both private and public sector imports would be eligible for financing and subject to ICB
procedures for amounts exceeding US$2 million equivalent in accordance with procedures
consistent with Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD loans and
credits", published by the Bank in January 1995. A simplified standard ICB document,
advertising procedures, and format of the bid evaluation report acceptable to the Bank will be
agreed upon prior to the availability of the first bidding documents to the public. For lesser
amounts, imports by the public sector would follow national procurement regulations and those
by the private sector would follow established commercial practices. All imports would be
subject to preshipment inspection with regard to quality and quantity of imports. Preshipment
inspection would also apply to price for non-ICB procurement.
50.   The credit would reimburse the foreign exchange costs of Cameroon's general imports,
excluding goods financed by other bilateral or multilateral agencies and goods specifically
prohibited in a negative list defined under the SITC or equivalent classification. Imported goods
purchased on the local market will not be eligible. Financing under the credit of imports of
foodstuff and petroleum products would be limited to aggregate amounts of US$45 million and
US$20 million respectively.  The Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA) would be
responsible for collecting the relevant supporting documentation (description of advertising
procedures, evaluation summary of bids, comparative statement of prices received, dates of
contract and payment, copy of contract and invoice together with import verification certificate)
and for preparing withdrawal applications. All contracts for amounts estimated to cost US$10
million or more shall be subjected to prior review procedures in accordance with paragraphs 2



17
and 3 of Appendix 1 of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD loans and credits".
Disbursements would be against Statement of Expenditure (SOEs) for eligible contracts valued
at US$1 million equivalent, or less. The supporting documentation for these would be retained
by the CAA and would be made available to Bank staff and to subsequent external auditors. The
nature and origin of the goods as well as the payment date would be indicated on the SOEs.
Expenditures for goods procured under invoices for US$20,000 equivalent or less would not be
eligible for financing out of the credit proceeds. All other disbursements would be made against
full documentation submitted to IDA. The minimum withdrawal application size would be US$2
million equivalent. To enable the Government to meet urgent foreign exchange needs, IDA
would disburse for payments for eligible imports which could be limited to an aggregate amount
of US$30 million, for which payments were made not more than six months prior to the date of
the Credit Agreement. In addition to standard auditing covenants, an audit report, completed by
auditors and according to procedures acceptable to IDA, would be submitted to IDA no later than
three months after the full disbursement of the Credit.
D.    Implementation, Monitoring and Supervision
51.   The program will be implemented by the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the
Ministry of Justice.  More specifically, the newly created Technical Committee for the
Supervision of the Adjustment Program will ensure overall coordination of the reforms. The
program will be intensely and jointly monitored by the Technical Committee and the Bank. A
total allocation of 50 staff weeks will be made for supervision of the operation in 1996-97.
E.    Benefits and Risks
52.   Successful implementation of the adjustment program  would produce substantial
benefits in the areas of public finance, the financial system, and development of the private
sector. Improved tax administration should contribute to an improvement in fiscal revenues at
existing tax levels, limiting the need for additional increases in tax rates. In turn, this should
permit a higher level of private savings and hence investment. Reduced anti-export bias in the
tax system will increase the competitiveness of Cameroonian products in international markets,
thus contributing to badly needed export growth. It will also lead to higher producer prices for
the corresponding commodities, contributing to poverty reduction.  Rationalizing forestry
taxation will spur more efficient resource allocation and conservation, and ensure that forestry
products are properly priced from  an economic and environmental standpoint.  On the
expenditure side, rightsizing the civil service should release resources for non-wage expenditure
and wage adjustment linked to performance. At the same time, the shift of budgetary resources
towards transport infrastructure, health, education and agriculture will enhance factor
productivity, stimulating growth and poverty reduction. Restructuring the Government's internal
debt through securitization should improve the liquidity of its suppliers, provided that the
financial instruments are serviced on time. Restructuring the financial sector will avoid possible
chaos in Cameroon and other members of the BEAC zone, while permitting an increase in the
supply of credit to real sectors. The privatization of management and ownership of banks should
eliminate political interference in the allocation of credit. At the same time, progress on the
privatization of key firms in transport and agricultural sectors, as well as continuing reforms on
the regulatory front and in the business environment, will speed up the development of a
competitively efficient and export-oriented private sector, which is essential to a successful debt
workout and growth in the Cameroonian context.



18
53.    The main risk for the proposed operation is that the adjustment program might go off-
track on account of a revenue shortfall or because of political opposition on the part of vested
interests. A revenue shortfall could arise because of an economic downturn or because of
continued inefficiency in the tax and customs administration. Under these conditions, it could
prove difficult to: (i) reduce fiscal anti-export bias, with attendant consequences for
competitiveness and poverty reduction in rural areas; and (ii) increase budgetary expenditures in
the key development sectors. On-time payment of internal debt-service obligations might also
be jeopardized. This risk would be addressed through further cuts in low-priority areas and, if
necessary, additional revenue mobilization measures. The second risk is of slow implementation
of the adjustment program because of political opposition to the reforms, e.g. with respect to
privatization of banks' management and ownership and improved loan recovery from delinquent
debtors. Financial sector reforms involve substantial institutional development, which is a slow
process continuing well beyond the release of tranches. Similarly, implementation of the debt
strategy requires that the Government continue to assign it a high budgetary priority. However,
recent experience with adjustment in Cameroon suggests that the Government can indeed
implement difficult reforms in the face of opposition from vested interests. In any event, the
operation requires a number of strong prior actions before the release of each tranche in order to
be sure of the Government's continued commitment to adjustment throughout the life of the
operation. Moreover, Bank staff will be working closely with counterpart staff to identify
potential difficulties and design appropriate remedies as needed. Furthermore, sufficient funds
will be allocated to allow close supervision of the project.
PART 3: RECOMMENDATION
54.    Recommendation. I am satisfied that the proposed credit would satisfy the Articles of
Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C., January 17, 1996



ANNEX A
Page 1 of 2
Tables
A. Government and Public Enterprise Debt
Table 1: Govemrnent debt and arrears (billion CFAF)                               Table 2: Public Enterprise Domestic Debt
as of October 1995
Debt        Arrears                                                         Debt          Arrears
Financial sector, o.w.                     573.18        229.74               Govemment (general)                      10740           6290
BEAC                                      318.17         1.00                Government (on lent loans)               12500           41 60
Commercial Banks                          199.00        199 00               Other Public Enterprises                  37.50          37.50
Housing Bank                               29.78         19.20               Private suppliers                         19.60          19.60
Insurance Companies                        26.23         10.54               CNPS                                      79.00          79.00
Recovery Corporation (SRC)                75.30          75.30
Private non-financial sector, ow.          411.81        393.65               Banks                                     64.30           0.00
Public works companies                     97.69        79.53                Insurance Companies                       9.60            9.60
Others                                    308.17        308.17               Total                                    517.70          325 50
SNI Bonds                                  5.95          5.95
Public Bodies and Enterprises, o.w.        525.80        393.60
CNPS                                      216.00        98.00
Commercial public enterprises             308.60        294 40
Other                                      1.20          1.20
Indviduals, ow.                            281.09        281.09
Salaries                                   38.92        38.92
Frozen                                    214.44        214.44
Expropriations                             27.05        27.05
Damages                                    0 68          0.68
Total                                      1791.88       1298.08



ANNEX A
Page 2 of 2
B. Key Characteristics of the Banking Sector
Table 3: Consolidated Balance Sheet of the Banking Sector, as of
September 1995
(billions of CFAF)                                        Table 4: Current Structure of Bank Ownership
1. Assets                         2. Liabilities                              Bank   Govt. %        Forelgn Partner.
Tresorerie                92.0      Tresorerie                         61.5        BICIC          100      BNP (36%) until 10/94
claims on public sector  205.4        o.w. BEAC                        28.7        SGBC            45      Ste Generale (37%), other 18%
claims on private sector  193.4       Public sector deposits          139.2        SCB-CL          35      Credit Lyonnais
doubfful loans, net      106.1      Private sector deposits           454.8        BMBC            25      Meridien
(provisions)              78.0                                                     SCBC            34      Standard-Chartered
Other                     69.6      Other                              65.2        CAC             80      DEG
Fixed Assets              47.7      Shareholder equity                 -6.5        CCEI            0       None
Total                   714.2       Total                             714.2
Table 5: Key financial characteristics of commercial banks (1994-1995)
A       B        C         D         E       F       G             TOTAL
Non Performing Credits/
PrivateSectorCredit(%)        73.9    36.3       10.6      54.7    67.2    68.3    11.3             48.3
Performing private sector
loans/total credit (%)        24.0    51.8       49.1      24.9    11.5   35.7    98.2              38.3
Provisions/Non Perfoming
Private Credits (%)           57.1    21.2       82.3      59.6    34.6   19.2    90.5              43.2
Additional Provisions
Required (CFAF billion)       12.0     0.0        0.0      16.0      4.0   16.4      0.0            48.4
Operating Expenses/
Net Banking Product(%)       100.5    97.1        n.a.     88.9    90.1    60.4      n.a.    not available
Net Banking Product
(CFAF billion)                 8.3     6.0        n.a.      6.7     3.3    5.4       n.a.    not available
Profit (CFAF billion)        -25.0    -1.6        n.a.    -20.6      0.3    0.0      n.a.    not available
Additional Capital needed     29.0    26.1        0.0      34.5      3.7   16.0      0.0           109.3



ANNEX B
Page 1 of 12
Policy Matrix
A. Fiscal Policy
Improve fiscal revenues, reduce
distortions affecting corporate
income tax, attenuate anti-export
bias, and reform forestry
taxation
1. Increase fiscal revenues    Increase the rate of certain  Increase of the rate of the TCA and tax on   July 1995
taxes                        petroleum products in the context of the
1995/96 Budget Law
Improve the recovery of import  - Signing of decrees entrusting a    December 1995
taxes and duties             specialized firm with the assessment and
supervision of payments of import taxes.
- Signing of contract with the selected firm   December 1995     Board Presentation
- Coming into force of the new system  Mid- January 1996
Eliminate exemptions not     - Legal and administrative measures     1995-96 Budget Law and
consistent with the CAEMC                                            throughout the program as
treaty (tax and customs reform)                                      necessary
Improve the recovery of      - Administrative measures for TCA and   Throughout the program
domestic indirect taxes      excise taxes, in particular for the
improvement of the system of tax
identification numbers
2. Reform corporate income tax    Reduce distortions and tax  - Reduction of the scope of preferential  1995/96 Budget Law
subsidies                    regimes (investment code, free trade zone)  December 1995
- Reform of corporate income tax       1996/97 Budget Law
3. Reduce anti-export bias     Phase out export taxes except    1. Duties have been reduced and their  July 1995
on forestry products         ceiling fixed at 15 percent
2. Continue with the reduction of these
duties                                 July 1996                 Reduction of duty rate
by at least 10 percent
(Public Financ Tranchce)



ANNEX B
Page 2 of 12
A. Fiscal Policy (continued)
- -      s       .       -s.-reTiming.-...    .......... ......                                .......... ........................-.....
_ ,,,, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......                      ....,,.-.....
Improve the reimbursement        Preparatory work to be carried out          January to June 1996
mechanism of the TCA paid
by exporters on their purchases
4. Continue with the              1. Improve the recovery of the    Preparation of measures is under way
rationalization of forestry       stumpage fee and concession
taxation so as to:                rent (area tax)
(a) promote sustainable
exploitation;                     2. Adjust the concession rent    1) Preparatory studies to be carried out    January to March 96
(b) mobilize appropriate tax      (area tax), the stumpage fee     2) Measures to be taken                      1996-97 Budget Law
revenues;                         and export duties so as to
(c) promote an efficient domestic  increase the share of domestic
forestry products industry        taxes and fees.



ANNEX B
Page 3 of 12
B. Civil Service
Improve the efficiency of the  Reorganization of ministries  Phase I (Civil Service, Industrial
administration and the quality of  through the implementation of    Development and Commerce,
the civil service             organization and staffing plans    Economy and Finance, Health,
(POE) including personnel     Education, Labor, Social Affairs):
rationalization through a
departure and redeployment    - implementation of the departure and   July 1995 to end-December  Completion of the
program.                      redeployment program               1995                      departure program
from these ministries
(Board Presentation)
Phase 2
2.1 (Agriculture, Livestock, Forestry,
Research, Mines Water and Energy,
and Public Works)
- completion of preparatory studies  end-March 1996
- signing of decrees defining the  end-May 1996
organization and staffing plans of the
ministries
-implementation of departure and   end-August 1996          Approval and timely
redeployment program                                         implementation of
organization and staffing
plans in these ministries
(Public Finance Tranche)
2.2 (Territorial Administration,
Youth):
- completion of preparatory studies  Completed
- signing of decrees defining the  November, 1995 - January
organization and staffing plans    1996
- implementation of departure and
redeployment program               March 1996



ANNEX B
Page 4 of 12
B. Civil Service (continued)
.-g ''''''"'"""' '' W =' ...................     '"              ' .  ............                                                                     ..................m-"m
Improve the efficiency of public    Reorganization of ministries  2.3 (Posts and Telecommunications,
administration and the quality of   through the implementation of   Tourism, Transports):
civil service:                    plans (POE) including
personnel rationalization       - completion of preparatory studies    in progress
through a departure and         - signing of decrees defining the
redeployment program            organization and staffing plans of the
ministries
- implementation of the departure and   before June 1996
redeployment programs
Phase 3 (Urban Affairs, Transports,
Foreign Affairs, Culture, Justice,
Higher Education):
- starting up of preparatory studies  March 1996
- completion of studies               June 1996
- signing of decrees defining the     September 1996
organization and staffing plans
-implementation of departure and      December 1996
redeployment programs
Improve the supervision and       Implementation of the           Completion of pilot phase              End-January 1996
management of civil service and   integrated computerized system
payroll                          for civil service and payroll    Implementation for all ministries      December 1996
management (SIGIPES)



ANNEX B
Page 5 of 12
C. Public Expenditures
Make the budget a better tool
for economic and social
development
1 . Increase the volume and   1 . Increase budgetary        Under the 1995-96 Budget Law, budgetary    Budget Law adopted on
improve the quality of public  appropriations for these     appropriations for these ministries represent 44   July 1, 1995
expenditures in priority sectors    ministries.             percent of total budget (excluding public debt,
and ministries (Agriculture                                 pensions and severance pay) as against 41
Education, Forestry,, Economy                               percent for the previous year
and Finance, Livestock, Justice,
Technical and Scientific                                    The objective is to ensure that, for the 1995-96   Monthly follow-up of    Attainment of this
Research, Health, Transports,                              fiscal year, actual total expenditures of these  implementation    objective
Public Works,)                                              ministries represent at least 44 percent of total                 (Public Finance Tranche)
expenditures of all ministries.
In order to reflect changes in GDP, the 1996-    1996-1997 Budget Law   Attainment of this
1997 Budget Law will be programmed and                            objective
executed so as to increase significantly the                      (Public Finance Tranche)
share of priority expenditures in total
expenditures, as compared to fiscal year 1995-
96
Monthly follow-up to
(Indicative target: the growth of priority  be carried out
expenditures should, in case of an increase in
total expenditures and after consultation with
the World Bank, be superior to total
expenditures by 50 percent at least).
2. Increase the share of non-    In 1995-96, non-wage appropriations rose from   Monthly follow-up to
wage expenditures in these   39 to 43 percent of total budgetary        be carried out
budgetary appropriations     appropriations for these ministries; the
objective is to maintain this share in terms of
actual expenditures for fiscal year 95-96.
Increase the volume of public  Improve and accelerate the PIP   The PIP has been completed for the 1995/96-    March-December 1995
investment within the context of   preparation process. No public   1998/99 period, after technical consultations
an improved PIP, notably in   investment should be carried  with the IDA and other donors
terms of sectoral strategies  out outside the PIP.
definition and project selection.



ANNEX B
Page 6 of 12
D. Public Sector Debt
Settle Government and Public   Development of a settlement     Done                              November 1995
Enterprises' domestic debt     strategy
Agreement in principle with    First draft of agreement with     January 8, 1996              Board
APPECAM (banker's              APPECAM completed.
association) for the securitization   BEAC gave its approval in
of debt to banks and agreement    principle
in principle with BEAC to open
a special account
Signing of protocols                                              February 1996               Financial Sector Tranche
Government/commercial banks
for the securitization of debt
E. Monetary Policy
Liberalize interest rates      Liberalization of bank margins   Done                             July 1995
Develop money market           Introduction of negative bids                                     January 1996
through the issue of Central
Bank bills



ANNEX B
Page 7 of 12
F. Regulation of Financial Institutions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......... :..                      . ..  ...    :     -      :    - -: ...- : - - - : ---...
Ob)e~~~~~~tives   .  ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ....  ....                             ...  ...                  .............i~~gcdii~a1
Strengthen regulation and       Circular to magistrates                                                     December 1995           Board
supervision of commercial banks  informing them of sections of
national legislation invalidated
by the two COBAC
conventions (1990-1991)
Modification of the 1990 edict   Content identified                         January 1996
on bank liquidations
Modification of the decree                                                  January 1996
organizing the "Conseil
National de Credit"
Tighter control of banks by                                                 Continuous
COBAC
Development of regulation for                                               December 1996
savings and loans cooperation
Strengthen regulation of       Harmonization of national                                                   June 1996
insurance companies             legislation with CIMA code
Restructuring of insurance    Action plan defined; decree modifying intemal   February 1996
division within Ministry of   organization issued; on-site inspections have
Finance                       begun



ANNEX B
Page 8 of 12
G. Judiciary Apparatus
Strengthen judiciary apparatus so  Roundtable on justice and                                       November 1994
that it provides effective support  financial institutions
for the enforcement of contracts
and the recovery of loans
Establishment of follow-up                                          February 1995
committee and sub-committees
Increase of relative share of                                       Continuous
Justice in the budget
Resumption of publication of                                        April 1996
official Gazette
Publication of Court Decisions                                      April 1996
Preparation and inscription in    Preparatory work completed        March 1996
Parliament of modification to
laws 89-201, 92-008 and
decree 94-237
Adoption by Parliament of                                           June 1996                Resource Management
these laws                                                                                   Tranche
Restructuring of office of Clerk                                    December 1996
of the Court                .



ANNEX B
Page 9 of 12
H. Banking Sector
.  ..cti~         .                                               V    ss                          T    g........_
Restructuring of Banking Sector   Signing of a convention with a                                    December 1995             Board
foreign partner for the
restructuring of one bank
Final choice of scenario of                                          January 1996              Board
bank restructuring (cleaning up
of balance sheets/ mergers /
liquidation)
Development of legal                                                                           Financial Sector
framework                                                                                      Tranche
- Elaboration of legal texts on    First draft of texts              January 1996
mergers and transfers; of letters
of agreement between
shareholders; of conventions of
transfers and purchases of
assets and liabilities
- Publication of edict on bank    First draft prepared               January 1996
restructuring
- Agreement in principle with    Done                                December 1995
BEAC on consolidations
Preparation of cleaning up of                                                                  Financial Sector
balance sheets                                                                                 Tranche
- audit of main banks        Done                                    October 1995
- selection of assets, liabilities                                   January 1996
and off-balance sheet items
transferred to SRC
- simulation of                                                      January 1996
income/expenditure statements



ANNEX B
Page 10 of 12
H. Banking Sector (continued)
...........~~mS                                                                                         miif
Implementation of                                                                            Financial Sector
restructuring                                                                                Tranche
- Elaboration and signature of                                      February-March 1996
merger protocols
- Obtainment of prior                                               February 1996
authorization and/or licenses
by new banks
- Implementation of legal                                           February 1996
transactions and transfers to
SRC and the new banks
- Liquidation of one bank                                           February 1996
- Finalization of negotiations    Contacts made with individuals and banks   March 1996
with investors and managers



ANNEX B
Page 1 Iof 12
1. Loan Recovery
~~~~....    .......
Restructure the Recovery      Design and approval of        First draft available                  December 1995            Board
Corporation (SRC)             restructuring plan
Implementation of the new                                           February 1996            Financial Sector
corporate structure                                                                          Tranche
Issuing of decree modifying                                         March 1996
by-laws
Implementation of new                                               April 1996               Financial Sector
management structure                                                                         Tranche
Improve recoveries through    Agreement with BEAC to        Done                                   December 1995
accompanying measures         extend registry to cover
delinquent borrowers
Publication of statement in                                                                   Financial Sector
medias announcing that                                                                       Tranche
delinquent borrowers will be
denied access to bank credits
and to bids on privatization and
public procurement.
Introduction in bidding
documents for privatizations
and public procurement of a
clause barring delinquent
borrowers from presenting a
bid
Updating by SRC of list of                                          Continuous
delinquent borrowers sent to
the Centrale des Risques
List of delinquent borrowers                                        Continuous
sent by commercial banks



ANNEX B
Page 12 of 12
J. Insurance
Restructuring of public insurance  Decree to withdraw license of   Done                               December 1995             Board
companies                      AMACAM
Appointment of judiciary      Done                                    December 1995             Board
liquidator
Finalization of audit of      Done                                    December 1995
SOCAR
Agreement on action plan for    Done                                  December 1995             Board
SOCAR
Implementation of liquidation /                                       June 1996
privatization
Finalization of audit of CNR  Done                                    December 1995             Board
First phase of privatization                                          June 1996
Second phase of privatization                                         December 1996



ANNEX C
Page I of 19
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
I. INTRODUCTION
1.    Early in 1994, the Government adopted a new economic recovery strategy that broke
with past adjustment efforts.  Consequently, the protracted economic downturn that the
Cameroonian economy had experienced since the mid-1980s was halted at the end of fiscal year
1994/95.
2.    An important element of the new strategy was the 50% currency devaluation of January
1994 undertaken jointly with other countries in the CFA zone. The economy responded
favorably to the devaluation, as reflected in the expansion of exports that led to a positive real
growth rate of 3.3 % of GDP in 1994/95, as against a 4 % decline a year earlier.
3.    The devaluation was immediately followed by corrective adjustments, and by an
increase in the rates of public utilities and prices of goods produced by public enterprises brought
under the purview of the common-law tax system. Following implementation of these measures,
inflation was brought under control and contained within limits consistent with the preservation
of the gains in external competitiveness brought about by the devaluation. The inflation rate was
maintained at 13% during 1994/95 and remained stable from January to June 1995.
4.    Budgetary performance improved significantly throughout the 1994/95 fiscal year. Tax
revenues rose by more than 50% relative to 1993/94, and the primary fiscal balance recorded a
surplus equivalent to 3% of GDP, as against a 2 1/2% deficit for the previous year.
5.    Performance in the traded goods sector improved appreciably, as reflected notably in a
dramatic financial turnaround of agro-processing industries and a significant improvement in
farmers' income (coffee, cocoa, cotton). Activity in domestically oriented industries, however,
remains hampered by unfavorable overall economic conditions, including weak domestic
demand.
6.    To consolidate the economic recovery recorded in 1994/95 and foster continued
improvement, the Government has adopted a new program of economic adjustment and far-
reaching reforms for 1995/96. This program is supported by an IMF Stand-by arrangement
approved on September 27, 1995. The present Letter of Development Policy sets out the
measures recommended for implementation under the adjustment program, as well as the main
reforms on which the return to sustainable growth depends.
II. MEDIUM-TERM OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGIES
(1995/96-1997/98)
7.    To consolidate the improvement recorded in 1994/95, which has continued during the
first six months of 1995/96, the Government intends to pursue resolutely the implementation of
its strategy aimed at restoring macroeconomic balance and ensuring sustainable growth. This



ANNEX C
Page 2 of 19
program, of which the devaluation of the CFA franc constituted a turning point, revolves around:
(i) a policy of domestic demand management to contain inflation within reasonable limits, so as
to preserve the gains from the January 1994 exchange rate adjustment; (ii) the disengagement of
Government from productive activities transferable to the private sector, improved efficiency
and greater transparency of government interventions in the provision of basic public services;
and (iii) the pursuit of the trade liberalization process and the elimination of all constraints to the
free functioning of the labor, goods, and services markets.
8.    A major objective of the Government is the elimination of poverty generated by the drop
in the purchasing power of the rural and urban population. In particular, the Government will
seek to improve the access of the population, notably its poorest segments, to basic social
services (health and education). To this end, the Government intends to maintain the economy
on a path of positive real growth, averaging 5% of GDP per year.
9.    With the Government having clearly opted for disengagement from productive activities,
the private sector will become the driving force behind economic growth. To this end, the
Government intends to provide economic agents with a transparent environment, free of
distortions, that will encourage product diversification and the achievement of higher levels of
output.
III. THE ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
A. MACRO-ECONOMIC POLICIES
1) Fiscal Policy
Revenues
10.   A significant increase in government revenues has been recorded since 1994/95. Owing
to a particularly high debt burden, however, the revenue growth has been insufficient to enable
the Government to fully meet its financial commitments.
11.   The growth of government revenue thus constitutes a major objective of the adjustment
program. Government revenues in 1995/96 are expected to increase by 33% from 1994/95 and
reach CFAF 707 billion, reflecting a growth of non-oil revenue of more than 3% of GDP. This
increase in non-oil revenue is expected to result from: (i) the broadening of the tax base; (ii) the
strengthening of the tax administration in general and the customs department in particular; (iii)
the proceeds from the privatization of certain important public enterprises in the agro-processing
sector and the transport sector; and, mostly, (iv) new fiscal measures adopted in the context of
the 1995/96 Budget Law, which are expected to yield some CFAF 150 billion. These measures
include: (a) the increase of the special tax on petroleum products by CFAF 40 / liter for premium
grade gasoline, CFAF 35 / liter for gas-oil, and CFAF 20 / liter for kerosene; (b) the increase of
the standard rate of the turnover tax (TCA) from 15% to 17% and of the reduced rate from 5% to
8%; (c) the extension of the export tax to include semi-processed logs (which, until then, had
applied only to logs); and (d) the elimination of all preferential tax regimes and customs
exemptions that are not consistent with existing legal provisions.



ANNEX C
Page 3 of 19
12.   At the same time, pre-shipment inspection has been extended to all imports with the
exception of crude oil and oil companies' imports. Finally, the decree No. 95/004 of December
7, 1995 has transferred to a pre-shipment inspection company the responsibility for assessment
and control of import tax collection.
13.   The adjustment program aims at: (i) increasing tax revenues through improved tax
administration and the broadening of the tax base (through the reduction of exemptions); (ii)
rationalizing the corporate income tax; (iii) attenuating anti-export bias; and (iv) pursuing the
reform of forestry taxation.
14.   Raising revenues. A reform and restructuring of the tax administration (supported by
France) is under way. In the meantime, the Government has decided to entrust a specialized firm
with the assessment and supervision of collection of import levies. This should lead to
elimination of (a) unjustified exemptions and (b) documentary fraud (underestimation of dutiable
values, misdeclaration of tariff positions). The Government is also taking steps to complete and
modernize the computer system of the Customs administration. In the field of domestic indirect
taxes, primary attention will be given to improving the system of tax identification numbers,
without which efficient administration of the TCA is impossible. At the same time, steps will be
taken to better control the tax base, deductions, and the timely remittance of TCA due to the
Treasury. The authorities are currently identifying measures to reduce smuggling and internal
fraud for products subject to excise taxes (mostly tobacco).
15.   Reform of corporate income tax. The aim of the reform is to build a tax system that
fosters growth without creating distortions. In this respect, the authorities have already taken
measures to reduce the scope of the preferential regimes (Establishment Conventions, Free Trade
Zone). The Government intends to pursue the reform of corporate income taxation within the
context of the next Budget Law.
16.   Reduction of anti-export bias. Exports are currently penalized by duties and the
shortcomings of the indirect tax restitution mechanism, mainly as regards the TCA. The
objective of the Government is to phase out export taxes and replace them with more appropriate
taxes on the agricultural sector. For the TCA, the objective is to further improve and accelerate
the mechanism of TCA restitution to exporters, subject to appropriate verifications of exporters'
claims.
17.   Forestry taxation. At present, most tax revenues in the forestry sector are raised
through export duties imposed on logs. Under the new Forestry Code, however, exports of logs
will be banned within a few years. Hence, there is an urgent need to find alternative fiscal
measures on forestry products so as to protect forest resources; mobilize appropriate revenues;
and develop an efficient domestic forestry products processing industry. The Government has
already incorporated these objectives in the 1995-96 Budget Law, with an increase in the area tax
(minimum concession rent) and the introduction of export duties on industrially transformed
logs. The reform of forestry taxation will continue in the context of the next Budget Law with a
view to reducing progressively the share of export taxes in total revenue and raising the share of
domestic taxes. This implies: (i) better recovery of the concession rent (area tax); (ii) increase in
the concession rent (area tax) and stumpage fees; (iii) establishment of progressive stumpage
fees (i.e. higher rates for more valuable species); and (iv) a reduction in export duties.
Furthermore, the proposed measures should avoid a decrease in total revenues.



ANNEX C
Page 4 of 19
Expenditures
18.   Fiscal constraints demand the continuation of a tight government expenditure policy
based on clearly established priorities. Within the context of the Government's policy of
disengaging from the productive sector and reorienting its mission towards regulation and the
provision of basic public services, the Government will continue to give priority to such essential
sectors as health, education, basic infrastructures and rural development.
19.   Within this context, and through the control of the wage bill, the Government will pursue
its policy of public expenditure reform that rests mainly on the increase of capital expenditures
in social services (health, education) and basic infrastructures.
20.    Reflecting changes in nominal GDP, the 1996-97 Budget Law will be programmed and
executed so as to increase the share of key sectors in total expenditures from 1995-96. In case of
an increase in total expenditure ceilings relative to 1995-96, the growth rate of priority
expenditures (health, primary and secondary education, transport, public works, livestock,
forestry, economy and finance, justice) will significantly exceed that of total expenditures. In
case of a decrease in total expenditures, key expenditures will be reduced by a lower proportion
than total expenditures.
21.    To ensure the permanence of these policies, the Government will periodically undertake
in-depth reviews of public expenditures in conjunction with its partners, including in particular
the World Bank.
Public Investment Program
22.    With regard to public investment, the Government will implement the measures listed in
the Public Investment Program (PIP), taking into account the reorientation and redimensioning
of government economic actions as well as the financial constraints faced by the economy.
23.    Within this context, public investment should seek to: (i) effectively support economic
growth in the short and medium term through a rigorous selection of public investment projects;
(ii) improve the conditions for sustainable development, notably in the social service sectors
(health, education, employment) and communication infrastructures; and (iii) support the private
sector, particularly in sectors in which the economy has a comparative advantage (such as the
wood industry, the mining industry and, mostly, the agro-pastoral industry).
24.    For the medium  term, the four-year programming of public investment will be
maintained. The Government will come to an agreement with its partners regarding size and
structure of the Public Investment Program (PIP), and no public investment will be carried out
outside the framework of the latter.
2) Monetary and Credit Policy
25.    Monetary policy will be conducted with a view to controlling inflation and strengthening
the foreign assets position. To achieve the latter, the authorities' interest rate policy (borrowing
and lending rate) will involve maintaining a non-penalizing differential between Cameroon and
its main trading partners (notably France). Real interest rates will be kept positive. In the
context of the interest rate liberalization pursued by Cameroon together with its other BEAC



ANNEX C
Page 5 of 19
partners, the Cameroonian authorities have eliminated the ceilings on bank spreads. The
maximum lending rate was recently raised to 22% by the regional authorities.
26.   A money market auction came into being on July 1, 1994. Negative bidding through the
issuance of Central Bank securities will be introduced in January 1996 in order to allow
commercial banks to invest their excess liquidity.
B. STRUCTURAL REFORMS AND SECTORAL POLICIES
1. Structural Reforms
Civil Service Reform
27.   The civil service reform comes within the scope of the measures adopted by the
Government in order to improve public sector management. As expressed in the June 1995
declaration by the President of the Republic on the country's economic policy, this reform is
based on the principle of good governance as a guarantee of confidence, justice, transparency
and equity. Indeed, the strategies adopted and the measures implemented so far convey the
Government's determination to improve the current environment and to build an efficient civil
service in terms of its operation and delivery of services to the population. These measures and
strategies also aim at making the civil service more attractive and ensuring civil servants a
decent standard of living and an acceptable work environment.
28.    Since 1987, the Government has implemented several measures to reduce the civil
service staffing levels. These measures included: (i) freezing recruitment, which has been
strictly limited to schools for training of civil servants; (ii) pensioning off all personnel that have
reached retirement age; (iii) establishing the same age-limit for retirement for all categories of
staff; (iv) making retirement mandatory after 30 years of service; and (v) implementing the civil
service departure program (plan social).
29.    Following implementation of these measures, the number of active personnel (including
armed forces and police) has been brought down, from 188,000 officers in June 1990 to 166,000
in June 1995, representing a decrease of close to 12% of total staff.
30.    Several measures have also been implemented to reduce the wage bill: (i) since 1989,
salary increments due to civil servants on the occasion of their promotion have been withheld;
(ii) in 1991, the level of mission travel expense allowances was scaled back; (iii) non-wage
benefits for civil servants were reduced in 1991; (iv) in January and November 1993, civil
service wages were reduced by 50%; and (v) three censuses have been conducted (1987, 1992
and 1993) to ensure the elimination of ghost personnel from the payroll data base. As a result of
these measures, the annual wage bill has been contained at CFAF 190 billion since 1994/95, as
against CFAF 300 billion in 1990/91, amounting to a 37% decrease.
31.   The Government will continue and accelerate the implementation of civil service reform,
the objective of which is the improvement of efficiency in public services. To this end, the main
measures and actions will aim at: (i) completing the preparation and implementation of the
organizational and staffing plans in all ministries; (ii) rightsizing the workforce relative to needs,



ANNEX C
Page 6 of 19
while improving the skills match; and (iii) implementing the integrated computerized system for
civil service and payroll management (SIGIPES).
32.    The Government intends to pursue the restructuring of the ministries through the
implementation of the organizational plans adapted to their mission and to reduce the civil
service workforce in accordance with the conclusions of the studies on the organization and
staffing plans (POEs). The objective is to have an overall civil service workforce below 160,000
by 1996/97, taking into account retirements and the departures from civil service in the context
of the civil service restructuring plan.
33.    The reduction of the civil service workforce is being carried out through two
mechanisms: a redundancy departures program  and voluntary departures.  The departures
program aims at improving the efficiency of the civil service through the elimination of excess
staff as well as personnel whose profile does not match the requirements of the particular
position they occupy (in terms of education, experience, age). It also includes provision for the
gradual absorption of redundant staff into the private sector.
34.   In application of the principles set out above, the POEs have been completed in seven
ministries: Civil Service and Administrative Reform, Industrial and Commercial Development,
Economy and Finance, Education, Health, Labor, Social Affairs and Women's Affairs.
Including retirements, employment in these ministries have been reduced by 7,102 officers by
end-December 1995 (4,094 redundancies and voluntary departures, and 3,008 retirements). The
timetable for the continuation of the POEs is set out in the following paragraphs.
35.    For the ministries intervening in the rural sector, that is: (i) the Ministry of Agriculture
(MINAGRI); (ii) the Ministry of Livestock, Fishing and Animal Husbandry (MINEPIA); (iii) the
Ministry of Environment and Forestry (MINEF); (iv) the Ministry of Scientific and Technical
Research (MINREST) and the Ministry of Mines, Water and Energy (MINMEE): (a) the POE
studies will be completed before the end of March 1996; and (b) the new organizational and
staffing plans will be approved and the corresponding decrees signed by end-May 1996, and staff
will be redeployed by end-August, 1996.
36.    For the ministries whose POE studies are at a relatively advanced stage, that is: (i) the
Ministry of Territorial Administration: (a) the studies undertaken by the experts from the
Permanent Secretariat for Administrative Reform (SPRA) are completed; (b) the new
organizational and staffing plans were approved in September 1995; (c) the corresponding
decrees were signed in November 1995, and the staff restructuring will be completed by March
1996; and (ii) the Ministry of Youth and Sports (MINJES): (a) the studies undertaken by the
SPRA experts are completed; (b) the approval of the staffing plans occured in September 1995;
(c) the corresponding decrees will be signed in January, 1996 and the staff restructuring will be
completed by March 1996.
37.   For the other ministries whose studies will be financed externally, that is: (i) the Ministry
of Urban Affairs and Housing; (ii) the Ministry of Foreign Affairs; (iii) the Ministry of Higher
Education; (iv) the Ministry of Culture; (v) the Ministry of Justice; (vi) the Ministry of
Communication; (vii) the Ministry of Post Office and Telecommunications: (a) the POE studies
will start in March 1996; (b) the completion date for the POE studies has been set for end-June
1996; (c) the new organizational and staffing plans will be approved by end-September 1996,
and the staff restructuring will be completed by end-December 1996. Finally, with a view to



ANNEX C
Page 7 of 19
improving staff moral and efficiency of public services, the Government intends to improve,
within the limits of available resources, employment conditions of the remaining civil servants.
Public Enterprise Reform
38.    Since 1986, the Government has recognized the need to completely reorganize its public
sector portfolio (220 enterprises). To this end, it created the Public Enterprise Rehabilitation
Mission in June 1986, charging it with formulating a new policy on government equity
participation and developing regulations for the supervision, control and management of state-
owned enterprises.
39.    After an initial phase of studies, the implementation of the reform started in 1988/89 and
went through two distinct stages: (i) a first phase, which ended in June 1994, the main
component of which was the review of the scope of the portfolio and the rehabilitation of the
largest enterprises; and (ii) a second phase, which started in July 1994, the main objective of
which was government divestiture. Despite numerous difficulties, the action plan for the first
phase of reform, adopted by the Government in consultation with the World Bank and set forth
in Economic Strategy and Recovery Declaration adopted in May 1989, was implemented with
the following results as of June 30, 1994: (i) a significant reduction of the government portfolio
through the liquidation of close to 36 percent of the enterprises, of which 22 were statutory
bodies and 57 limited companies. This portfolio reduction resulted in appreciably lower direct
government subsidies, which went from a yearly average of CFAF 150 billion to less than CFAF
20 billion in 1993/94; (ii) the technical and financial rehabilitation of 25 public enterprises,
including some of the most important ones, and a significant rationalization of the
Government/enterprise relationship including the definition of precise economic and financial
objectives for the enterprises; and (iii) the privatization of five enterprises (OCB, SEPBC,
SOCAMAC, COCAM, SCDM) and the compulsory liquidation of three others (SEAC,
CREVCAM and GETRAM).
40.    The Declaration of General Policy relative to public and parapublic enterprises adopted
by the Government in May 1994 defined new rules for government involvement in the economy.
These regulations imply a disengagement from the productive sector and the reorientation of
government activity towards basic development. The legal and institutional framework that
served as the basis for the implementation of this new policy consists of: (i) the ordinance of
June 22, 1990, regarding the privatization of public enterprises and its application decree of
August 30, 1990; and (ii) the ordinance of August 17, 1995, defining the General Statute of
Public Enterprises.
41.    This new orientation of public enterprise reform was reflected as of July 14, 1994 in a
presidential decree that listed 15 new enterprises to be privatized. This brought to 22 the total
number of enterprises to be privatized by that date. An additional step was taken on June 1, 1995
with the decision to associate the private sector in the management of public utilities (water,
electricity and telephone), for which preparatory work has started.
42.    The first implementation measures of this new policy have led to the divestiture and
liquidation of seven enterprises during the last 18 months (Onaphram, OPV, Socatour, Seda,
Sotuc, Soderim and Cenafop) and the privatization of eight others, including three by sale of the
Government's minority share (SPFS, SRL and CHOCOCAM), two by management contract
(Aeroports du Cameroun and a banana plantation) and three by sale of assets (ONDABP



ANNEX C
Page 8 of 19
Yaounde and Muyuka, as well as Sofibel). The preparatory work for the privatization of the four
key enterprises of the transport sector (CAMSHIP, CAMTAINER, CAMAIR, REGIFERCAM)
has also been started.
43.    However, the Government is aware that the privatization process has been slower than
expected, and that improvements are urgently needed. In order to support the emerging
economic recovery, it intends to: pursue methodically, and at a sustained rhythm, its policy of
divestiture; accelerate the restructuring of the sector; and reinforce the financial supervision of
the enterprises maintained in the Government's portfolio. The following measures will be taken:
(i) simplification of the decision-making procedure as regards privatization, so as to reduce the
number of steps; (ii) adjustment and clarification of the legal framework for privatization in
some key areas; (iii) privatization of public enterprises in a more sequential fashion, so as to
allow for the completion of preparatory work before adoption of the decree disclosing the short-
list of enterprises admitted to the privatization procedure (the objective is to shorten the time lag
between the publication of these decrees and the actual transactions); and (iv) for the
privatization of enterprises in monopoly situations, implementation of mechanisms putting an
end to these monopolies and/or, in the case of certain public services, establishment of a
regulatory framework to avoid any abuse of dominant position. The same approach will be
adopted for public enterprises whose divestiture is not immediate.
44.    The Government is equally aware that, owing to the size of the enterprises put up for
sale, the privatization process will succeed only if substantial external investments are mobilized
and the Government promotes broad national participation. To this end, it intends to implement
the following additional measures: (i) launching a large-scale communication's campaign to
present the privatization program both domestically and abroad; and (ii) implementing
arbitration mechanisms to settle potential disputes that could arise in the context of the
transactions, in lieu of domestic courts of law. It will also encourage the creation of an
investmentlprivatization fund to support the participation of nationals in the privatization
process.
45.    The implementation of the policy of divestiture should result as a matter of priority in:
(i) privatization of the four public enterprises of the transport sector, that is, CAMAIR,
CAMSHIP, CAMTAINER and REGIFERCAM, as well as the CNIC; (ii) privatization of the
largest agro-industries, including HEVECAM, SOCAPALM, CAMDEV, SODECOTON,
CAMSUCO, SCT, Station ONDAPB de Douala, and Station Pilote Laitiere de Ngaoundere; (iii)
association of the private sector in the management of the three main public utilities, water,
electricity and telecommunications; (iv) continuation of the divestiture of banks, insurance
companies and other financial institutions (SOCAR, CNR, BICIC, etc.); (v) progressive
privatization of the various semi-public companies operating for the most part in the processing
industry; and (vi) completion of the liquidations begun as of June 30, 1995 under the scope of
activities of the Rehabilitation Mission and not yet completed.
46.   As regards the reorganization and restructuring of the public enterprises that will be
maintained within the Government's portfolio, priority will be given within the next three years
to those whose economic and social function is particularly sensitive. The relations of these
enterprises with the Government will henceforth be governed by performance contracts and other
appropriate mechanisms. In addition to the removal of subsidies to enterprises operating in
markets, these measures will aim mainly at reducing their production costs, improving their
technical and financial performance, and strengthening transparency in management. In order to



ANNEX C
Page 9 of 19
assess the impact of these actions, the Government will regularly publish a report for public
enterprises highlighting: (i) the consolidated financial accounts of these enterprises; (ii) financial
flows between the Government and public enterprises; and (iii) changes in arrears and cross
debts.  This report will be completed for 20 enterprises before June 30, 1996, and be
progressively extended to all enterprises within two years.
Financial Sector Reform
47.    The financial sector has continued to deteriorate. Five commercial banks, representing
70% of the assets of the banking sector, are technically bankrupt. The contraction of money
supply and foreign assets indicates a loss of confidence in the banking system. No insurance
company meets the prudential regulations of the Inter-African treaty on the insurance industry
(Confirence Inter-Afticaine des Marches d'Assurance or CIMA). Under these conditions, the
restructuring of the financial sector takes on particular urgency as an essential component of the
structural adjustment program.
48.   In this context, the Government intends to implement a strategy focusing on the
institutional environment and restructuring of banks as well as the insurance sector.
Institutional Environment
49.    The Government will reduce its share in the capital of financial institutions and to
withdraw from their management. From now on, government share in capital will be temporary
and limited to a maximum of 20%.
50.    The Government commits itself to support the Central Africa Banking Regulatory
Agency (COBAC) in the supervision of financial institutions and to take the necessary steps to
enforce COBAC decisions. (Appeals against such decisions will be lodged in conformity with
the procedures defined by the treaties creating the Banking Regulatory Agency and harmonizing
banking regulations in Central Africa).  In particular, the Government will ensure the
harmonization of the domestic regulations with these two treaties. The monetary authorities
(MINEFI) have issued in December, 1995 a circular notifying magistrates of the two laws, four
ordinances, seven decrees, two circulars (arret6s) and four decisions abrogated or modified by
the COBAC Conventions. This circular will mention the changes introduced by the Treaties to
the Ordinance of 1990 on the liquidation of financial institutions. This Ordinance will be further
modified in January 1996 to take into account the specificities of SRC. The decree organizing
the Conseil National de Credit will also be modified in January, 1996 to make it compatible with
the two treaties.
51.    Similarly, the Government will take the necessary steps, before June 1996, to harmonize
domestic regulation with the Inter-African treaty on the insurance industry (CIMA).
52.    Regulations on credit and savings cooperatives will be introduced before December,
1996. The Minister of Finance has asked the regional monetary authorities to be involved in the
preparation of such legislation. Work on this matter has already started.
53.    The substantial domestic public debt seriously hinders economic recovery.  The
Government is aware of the necessity to face up to this problem without delay for the economic
recovery to be sustainable. Public debt will be settled with the assistance of Cameroon's foreign
partners in line with a strategy adopted in November, 1995. The objectives of the strategy are:



ANNEX C
Page 10 of 19
(i) to allow Government to regain the status of good borrower and become a key actor in the
development of financial markets; (ii) to help the financial sector manage the payment system
more efficiently and carry out resource mobilization and allocation for the benefit of economic
development; and (iii) to allow the private sector to clearly comprehend the institutional and
financial environment in which it functions.
54.   The strategy, which covers all debt categories, rests on a four-step approach: (i)
inventory of the debt; (ii) validation of the debt through an audit by firms of international
reputation; (iii) definition of the regulatory framework; and (iv) settlement of the debt. The
recommended debt treatment, based on the principles of transparency and equality among
creditors of a same category, is irreversible. A document describing this strategy in detail has
been sent to the World Bank.
55.   The regulatory framework of this strategy has been defined respectively by the legal
provisions that govern the privatization/liquidation of public and semi-public enterprises, as well
as by the Ordinance No 95/003 of August 17, 1995 that defines the statutes of these enterprises;
the decree No 94/61 1/PM of November 30, 1994 defining the regulations that apply to the issue
and management of negotiable Government securities; the ministerial circular No
417/M1NEFI/CAB/CAA of December 30, 1994 defining the organization and functioning of the
Management Committee of negotiable government securities; and the ministerial circular No.
95/00094/MINEF/CAB/CAA/DG of August 4, 1995 defining the mode of determination of the
maturity of zero coupon bonds.
56.   Debt settlement must lie within the scope of government financial operations and, as
such, is subject to budgetary constraints which dictate that cash payments be limited and
settlement be carried out mainly though securitization. The latter is under way for the
commercial debt. Banking debt will be securitized as part of the restructuring of the sector.
Other instruments recommended for internal debt settlement may include compensations and
equity conversions within the context of the privatizations. The inventory and audit are under
way. The Government, together with the World Bank and other donors, will determine the need
to extend the terms of reference of the auditing firms or undertake other reviews, for example of
the Treasury.
57.   Within the context of the banking sector restructuring, government debt will be
securitized at a floating interest rate adjustable on a yearly basis and reflecting the average cost
of banking resources plus a small margin. Half the debt will be amortized linearly over 12 years
after a grace period of 4 years on repayment of the principal. The principal on the other half will
be paid off in one single payment at maturity (30 years). To comfort the banks, and upon the
request of the Government, the Central Bank has accepted to open a depository account to make
interest and/or principal payments to the banks. This account will be provisioned by the
commercial banks' fiscal receipts, complemented if necessary by other government resources
transiting through BEAC. The Government will ask the Central Bank to remunerate this
account. Interest payments on the securitized debt will be made half-yearly. At each maturity
date and after the payment has been made, any amount in the depository account exceeding 30
percent of the following maturity will be transferred to the government account with BEAC.
COBAC will ensure that the prudential treatment of those government securities does not affect
the current banking sector restructuring scheme. For the part repaid in fine at maturity, the
Govermnent will establish an offshore trust fund as soon as its financial situation permits it. The
Government will sign in early January 1996 an agreement in principle on securitization with the



ANNEX C
Page 11 of 19
bankers' Association, APPECAM. It will sign in March-April 1996 the agreement with the
BEAC on the depository account. The settlement of the other debts will be carried out by
securitization in accordance with the conditions set out in the document defining the debt
settlement strategy.
58.    The Government will strengthen the judicial system with the aim of improving the
enforcement of financial contracts and the recovery of bad debt. A Round-Table on Justice and
Financial Institutions was held in Yaounde in November 1994. The Round-Table follow-up
Committee will carry on with its work. To facilitate the recovery procedure and the seizure of
goods, appropriate revisions will be implemented to law 89-021 of December 29, 1989
establishing a simplified procedure for the recovery of civil and commercial claims; law 92-008
of August 14, 1992 laying down the provisions relating to the enforcement of court orders; and
decree 94/237 of June 24, 1994 setting out the details of implementation of the "privilege du
Tresor" granted to the Societe de Recouvrement des Creances du Cameroun. The preparatory
work for the amendments will be carried out in March, 1996. The bills will be presented to
Parliament during the June session. The inspection department of the Ministry of Justice will be
reinforced. The publication of the Official Gazette will resume before April, 1996. Carefully
selected court orders will be published. The Office of the Clerk of the Court dealing with
commercial cases will be reorganized before December, 1996, and the necessary measures will
be taken to accelerate the handling of court decisions. The Government commits itself to raising
the share of the Ministry of Justice in its budget.
59.    Other measures will be taken to improve the recovery of bad debts, which constitutes an
essential component of the financial sector reform. A specific strategy has been developed to
that effect, as described in the following paragraphs.
60.   A plan has been adopted for the restructuring of the Recovery Agency (Soci6te de
Recouvrement des Creances du Cameroun, SRC). First, this plan provides for the downsizing of
SRC, improved allocation of responsibilities and establishment of an internal structure geared to
recoveries'. The internal audit department will report hierarchically to the Board of Directors,
while maintaining a functional relationship with the general manager. Its role will be to control,
not to manage. The recovery departments, as well as the debt verification services, require the
support of lawyers. A Legal Department will provide support to the Recovery Department and
the Claims Department. The recovery will be carried out by specialized agents organized in
groups. The cases will be distributed among agents by debtor, rather than by bank. With this
new structure, a system of allocation of recovery proceeds will have to be established for cases in
which a single debtor has obligations to several banks. In an initial stage, this allocation will
take into account existing guarantees. The rest will be prorated according to the debt owed to
each bank, under the supervision of the internal audit department.
61.    Second, a staffing plan will be implemented to lay off inefficient employees and select
officers better able to pursue loan recoveries.
62.    Third, the portfolio will be restructured to increase the recovery rate through: (i) a more
thorough treatment of the pool of recoverable credits; (ii) the preselection of credits according to
their size and probability of recovery; and (iii) an inventory of all guarantees.
An annex to this letter, describing organization and tasks, is available upon request.



ANNEX C
Page 12 of 19
63.   Finally, an incentive framework will be implemented. An expatriate recovery expert
will have as a mandate to organize recovery efforts to maximize proceeds and assess the new
credits that will be moved from restructured banks as a result of the current restructuring. The
expert will be assisted by two local employees that he will train. The preselection of credits
should aim at focusing the recovery efforts on large debtors and personalities with means to
repay their loans. It is likely that these efforts can concentrate on a few thousand cases.
Computerization should involve as a priority preselected credits, as well as the centralization of
information by debtor and/or creditor for all banks. The computer system should be kept at an
appropriate size and adapted to the specific requirements of loan recovery. To purchase the
necessary computer equipment, SRC will make an invitation to tender after having established
adequate terms of reference. The new organizational structure will be implemented in February,
1996. The SRC will be assisted by the World Bank for the computerization, the selection and
the fees to be paid to the recovery expert.
64.   Quantitative recovery targets have been established. They are CFAF 7.5 billion for the
fiscal year ending June 30, 1996, and CFAF 9 billion (for the existing portfolio) for the following
fiscal year, plus 7% of the new portfolio transferred from restructured banks.
65.    The by-laws of SRC will be modified by decree to ensure the presence of the
beneficiaries of the recoveries on its Board of Directors. Representatives of depositors and
APPECAM will have at least a third of all votes on the Board. The by-laws will be modified so
as to confirm with the new General Statute of Public Enterprises. In particular, the general
manager will be appointed by the Board of Directors with a two-thirds majority. The by-laws
will also set out the appointment procedure of the representatives from Government and the
beneficiaries. The decree modifying the by-laws will be issued in March, 1996 at the latest, and
the new Board of Directors will be in place by April, 1996.
66.   The Registry of Bank Borrowers (Centrale des Risques) established by BEAC contains a
list of delinquent borrowers in its column 14. This document is updated every two months.
Commercial banks send their lists regularly. SRC will update its list immediately and will send
updated lists every second month.
67.   Before February 1996, the Government will publish in newspapers a notice stating that
delinquent borrowers will not be allowed to have access to bank credits nor to bid in the
privatization process, investment funds and public procurement. Invitations to tender for
privatizations and public procurement will clearly mention this ban.
68.   COBAC has committed itself vis-a-vis the Government to supervising commercial banks
more closely and sanctioning those which grant loans to debtors mentioned in column 14 of the
Centrale des Risques.
Bank Restructuring
69.   The restructuring of the banking sector follows a global approach. It is undertaken in
close collaboration with BEAC and COBAC. The restructuring plans developed for each bank
include a financial package and specific measures to: (i) decrease operating costs (notably
through staff reductions and the closure of some branches); (ii) improve internal controls; and
(iii) strengthen debt recovery.



ANNEX C
Page 13 of 19
70.   A restructuring of five banks is proposed. In the case of one bank, an agreement in
principle has been reached between its major foreign partner and the Government. Both will
share past losses in proportion to their participation in the capital of the bank. The foreign
partner undertakes to recapitalize the bank in conformity with prudential regulations while the
Government will keep on a temporary basis a maximum of 20% in the capital. In total, the
Government will bring CFAF 13 billion and the partner CFAF 17 billion. Payments will be
made over a period of two years. The agreement for the restructuring of the bank has been
signed in December, 1995.
71.    Given existing constraints one bank will be liquidated. Three other banks will undergo a
thorough "cleaning up" of their balance sheets whereby non-performing assets and
corresponding liabilities (including deposits) will be transferred to the SRC. This process started
end-September 1995 by a study of the legal framework; it will end with the identification of new
shareholders.
72.    The healthy parts of one of these three banks will remain independent, in association
with a new private partner. This partner will organize a round table to finalize the privatization
of the bank. If such a partner cannot be found by a reasonable date, a management contract will
be signed with a bank. The management contract will ensure that the manager shares the losses
or profits from its management. A round table will be organized by this manager, who will be
free not to invest in the bank. The healthy parts of the other two banks will be merged and a
2
round table will be organized to this end . To facilitate the search for the private partner, the
Government intends to hire a specialized firm.
73.   To allow for the protection of more deposits, government debt will be kept in the healthy
structures of the banks. Debt to the banks will be securitized for all banks according to the
principles elaborated -in the debt settlement strategy. If need be, the Government will also
negotiate with BEAC the consolidation of the refinancing granted to some of these banks in
order to ensure a satisfactory degree of liquidity for the new institutions. This consolidation will
not increase total government debt vis-A-vis the banking sector (including BEAC). BEAC has
given its agreement in principle to these consolidations.
74.   The following steps will be followed: elaboration of a legal framework for mergers and
transfers, letters of understanding among shareholders, and conventions for the purchase and/or
takeover of assets (January, 1996); publication of the decree relating to the restructuring of
financial institutions under the 1995/96 Finance Law (January, 1996); certification of the bank
accounts (December, 1995); establishment of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet items
transferred to the SRC, with particular attention given to the selection of deposits (January,
1996). The Government commits itself to keeping the small depositors in the healthy bank
structures. A detailed study of the larger accounts will be carried out to minimize social and
economic costs. Also, efforts will be made to protect the deposits made by the Social Security
Institution and the postal savings bank. In order to prevent a run on the restructured banks,
deposits transferred to them will be the subject of a moratorium on withdrawals during a
transitional period. Before the finalization of the individual plans, simulations of income
statements will be carried out to verify that the burden of government debt is not too high; that
the envisaged mergers will be carried out at the lowest possible cost; and that operating costs
2
It is not impossible, however, that these two banks remain independents.



ANNEX C
Page 14 of 19
have been minimized (January, 1996). The plans will be submitted to the World Bank. These
measures will be followed by the elaboration and signature of merger protocols (February-
March, 1996); obtainment of authorizations and/or agreements by the new banks (February,
1996); structuring and enforcement of legal transactions and transfers to the SRC and the new
banks (February, 1996); and finalization of the negotiations with investors and/or management
operator (March, 1996). At the same time, the Government will sign with all banks protocols of
securitization of government debt in accordance with the agreement in principle with APPECAM
(February, 1996).
The Restructuring of the Insurance Sector
75.   Procedures laid out by the CIMA Code will be fully respected. The decree of August 16,
1995 reorganizing the Ministry of the Economy and Finance defines the structure of the
Insurance Division within this department. The Government has undertaken the restructuring of
this division with a view to adapting it to the framework set up by the ClMA code and reducing
operating costs (notably through a downsizing that will bring the number of staff from 34 to 17).
At the same time, the internal organization has been modified and a new organizational chart has
been established. Implementation of the new structure is expected for February, 1996.
76.   The insurance division will perform on- and off-site supervision of private insurance
companies within the framework of CIMA. It will require from these companies that corrective
measures be taken if necessary, and will take appropriate action to ensure enforcement of these
measures (including the withdrawal of the agreement).
77.   For public companies, the Government will cancel AMACAM's agreement in
December, 1995 and a liquidator will be appointed at that time.
78.   An audit of SOCAR shows that the company cannot continue to operate.  The
Government will take the necessary steps to liquidate SOCAR. A healthy customer base will be
preserved and will constitute the basis of two new companies (Casualty and Life) according to
the principles defined by CIMA. The Government will seek legal support to establish the
framework within which this procedure can be carried out. The Govemment will undertake
additional studies to determine if these entities are viable in the long run. If they are not,
SOCAR as a whole will be liquidated and its customer base distributed among other companies.
If they are viable, the market value of these entities will be assessed and the Government will
organize a round table (with general agents and other possible partners) to constitute the capital
of these two new insurance companies. This procedure will be carried out in consultation with
the World Bank. The privatization will be completed by June, 1996.
79.   An audit of CNR has shown the precarious situation of the company. The Government
is determined to privatize the company in two steps. The first step, to be completed by June,
1996, will include restructuring measures (without government cash outlay) and a partial
privatization with the assistance of regional reinsurance underwriters. The second step will be
completed by December, 1996. If the privatization proves impossible, the company will be
liquidated.



ANNEX C
Page 15 of 19
2. Sector Policies
Agricultural Sector
80.    The agricultural sector has been profoundly affected by the economic crisis; however, it
has shown signs of a vigorous and sustainable recovery since the upturn in the price of
Cameroon's main exports since 1993, especially since the devaluation of the CFA franc.
81.    In order to achieve the desired turnaround in the agricultural sector, the Government has
taken a set of measures along the following lines since 1989: (i) progressive liberalization of the
marketing of inputs and traditional exports; (ii) progressive privatization of the operations linked
to the development of agriculture; (iii) restructuring/privatization of agricultural sector public
enterprises, so as to attain a better financial situation and a stronger autonomy in internal
management; and (iv) greater self-reliance of agricultural producers in terms of cost recovery
and the creation of new cooperatives.
82.    These measures aimed mainly at creating an environment propitious to the stimulation of
agricultural production, ensuring the availability of food supplies, and, most importantly,
improving the productivity of farms and reducing their cost of production in order to make
agricultural products more competitive at home and  abroad.   These measures were
complemented by the devaluation of the CFA franc.
83.    The main objective of the Government for the agricultural sector within the context of its
medium-term strategy is to consolidate the gains in competitiveness of Cameroonian products,
and to lead producers to significantly increase their production.
84.    Within the context of this medium-term strategy, a special emphasis must be placed on
the improvement of the institutional framework and the restructuring/ privatization of public
enterprises in the agricultural sector. A thorough revision of traditional government services in
this sector is proposed in order to allow the private sector to play a more important, if not
predominant, role in these services, and to encourage greater self-reliance of producers in the
future. This is notably the case in the coffee and cocoa sectors, for which the implementation
decree on the law on trade of coffee and cocoa has just been published.
85.   In the medium term, setting up a framework of improved incentives for all the producers
of the rural sector is one of the main objectives of the Government in order to restore sustainable
competitiveness and sector growth. By and large, this framework requires measures that will
lead to greater liberalization of agricultural products and inputs, and to a greater simplification of
the regulatory and fiscal incentive framework.
86.    The Government also intends to ameliorate the incentive framework within the
agricultural sector through a tax system adapted to the profitability of the sector and to its
specificities. On the basis of the studies already undertaken, a detailed review of the current
situation will be carried out with a view to proposing the implementation of a tax system that
favors investments in the sector, notably the creation of small and medium enterprises
(simplified tax regime, tax relief). The current system of export taxes will be revised so as to
boost production and avoid penalizing competitiveness.



ANNEX C
Page 16 of 19
87.    The implementation of a framework of improved incentives is a key element supporting
the Government's policy of diversification and processing of agricultural products. The
Government intends to favor the diversification of exports and products for the domestic market.
The recovery of output must necessarily include the development of new exports. A pilot project
is being carried out by a private firm to establish appropriate organizational and institutional
arrangements for the fruit and vegetable industry. These actions will be reinforced both at the
international and regional levels.
88.    The agricultural sector reform cannot be envisaged without revision of the institutional
framework. Harmonizing the diverse sub-sector policies is essential because the multitude of
ministries and departments dealing with the agricultural sector has created serious coordination
problems at all levels. Special emphasis will therefore be placed on coordination, management
and supervision of the medium-term program, which covers all agricultural sub-sectors.
89.    The creation in July 1994 of the Ministry of Economy and Finance (also in charge of
Economic Stabilization and Recovery) facilitates this coordination. It should be noted, however,
that the civil service reform will also affect the ministries that deal with the agricultural sector.
90.   In the field of research, the Government's objective is to restructure agricultural research
activities thoroughly. To this end, the Government has already developed, with the support of
donors, a restructuring plan that aims at merging the current research institutes into a single
entity in charge of all agricultural research activities in Cameroon. A technical audit has been
carried out to define the priorities of the new structure and build its organization on new
foundations. Within the next three years, efforts will be made to clarify the Government's policy
in terms of research. This policy will aim at ensuring the durability of research financing
through cofinancing between the Government and users. Eventually, a Common Research Fund
financed by donors and the Government will allow for efficient on-site research. Research will
be managed by an autonomous management system. The long-term National Plan for Research
has been developed with the support of the FAO and was adopted in 1995.
91.    The necessary link between research and agricultural development will be ensured by a
regional management committee in charge of advising regional centers. As regards the various
industries, the regional centers will implement, through the research programs, the research
orientations necessary for the national development of agriculture. On the basis of contract
relationships, prospective research clients will have to provide a part of the necessary resources
to finance specific projects.
92.    The Government intends to implement a new policy of agricultural training and
extension. Training schools have been taken out of the public service and brought closer to
users. The improvement of the qualifications of the officers in charge of extension will permit
the shift from the traditional approach to actual counseling. As regards the general training
system, a study is under way to strengthen basic technical training. Special emphasis will be
placed on (a) the elimination of illiteracy in rural populations and on (b) immediately usable and
operationally relevant training. Further, the courses and existing syllabi will be revised; the
objective is to develop a framework for the revision of syllabi and rural training institutions
before end- 1996.
93.    The Government has implemented a credit policy for the rural population based on a
better definition of future development efforts and the regulatory framework. This new policy



ANNEX C
Page 17 of 19
should allow access to credit on conditions in line with investment profitability in the
agricultural sector. At the same time, it should stimulate the mobilization of domestic savings.
94.   An information service has been created which discloses information on prices in the
coffee-cocoa sector. On the basis of this experience, and to the extent that appropriate structures
are available, similar devices will be put in place in other industries (fruits and vegetables, palm
trees and hevea, cotton, meat, fish, etc.). The early-warning system put in place by the
Government to secure sufficient food supplies on markets will be extended to all agro-pastoral
products in the country so as to facilitate their marketing.
95.    The implementation of these reform  measures, proposed in the context of the
Government's medium-term strategy, should allow all agricultural sectors to return to a path of
growth, and the economy to growth of 4% to 5% per year, beginning 1995/96. The expected
growth of the agricultural sector as a result of this strategy is an essential condition for the
takeoff of the economy as a whole. It is also the only means of ensuring the success of the
Government's efforts towards poverty elimination. The envisaged reforms thus aim largely at
alleviating the regulatory burden that paralyses the development of the private sector, and at
creating a new balance between the respective roles of the private sector and the Government;
the latter should mainly focus on the creation of a propitious environment for private production
activities.
Transport Sector
96.    The objective of the Government is to ensure greater efficiency as well as the sustainable
and coherent development of the transport sector, so as to enhance its contribution to economic
growth, the alleviation of poverty and the protection of the environment.
97.    The strategy to meet this objective is: (a) improve sectoral policy management through
the redefinition of the Government's role: disengagement from activities transferable to the
private sector and concentration on planning, regulation, and policy development; (b) provide a
more balanced allocation of resources between investment and maintenance expenditures
through the strengthening of institutional capacity; (c) improve the efficiency of the sector
through regulatory reform aimed at liberalization, improved competitiveness and the
establishment of market-based incentive mechanisms; and (d) implement an environmental
protection policy.
98.    To implement this strategy, the Government has prepared a medium-term program that
aims at:
1) privatizing or liquidating enterprises from the transport sector (CAMAIR, RNCFC,
SOTUC, CAMSHIP AND CAMTAINER) that have a significant impact on the
efficiency of the transport system and government revenues;
2) divesting Matgenie;
3) restructuring Labogenie and opening the market to competition;
4) rehabilitating the road network, the channel to the port of Douala, the railway and the
port system;



ANNEX C
Page 18 of 19
5) maintaining these transport infrastructures through a broader privatization of work
execution, the development of labor-intensive techniques and, for road maintenance, the
definition of a priority network;
6) reorganizing the Ministries in charge of roads and transport;
7) liberalizing maritime transport and other means of transport;
8) restructuring the ONPC to improve port efficiency and ensure the provision of
services at a lower cost;
9) redefining the role of CNCC so as to provide better support to shippers;
10) facilitating transit transport in the context of the UDEAC regional reform program;
and
I 1) providing a better alignment of the various regulations with the reform program.
The Government's action plan to implement this strategy appears in the annex to the
transport sector strategy declaration.
Social Sectors
Health
99.   A program to improve health and nutrition has been developed with the support of the
World Bank. This program respects the principles of the "Bamako initiative", in the sense that
health expenditures must benefit the entire population. It is based on the concept of Health
Districts. A network of preventive health centers will be developed around each hospital district.
Government resources will be rationalized, while additional resources will be mobilized from the
population and donors.
100.  The strategies of this sector program revolve around: (i) the provision of health care at
every level of the system; (ii) the rationalization of the management of infrastructures,
equipment and human resources; (iii) the sustained access to essential medicines; and (iv)
decentralized management and involvement of the local communities.
101.  The Primary Health Care approach makes up an essential dimension of the new health
policy. In this respect, the strategies adopted aim at: (i) revitalizing the outlying health units; (ii)
focusing on priority programs; (iii) promoting community participation in the management of
health care services; and (iv) social mobilization.
Education
102.  With respect to the distribution of resources in the country (number of nursery schools,
primary and secondary schools, higher education institutions, number of teachers), there is an
imbalance among the endowments allocated to the various provinces. The provinces that are
traditionally behind with respect to schooling are also relatively poorly endowed with
infrastructures.
103.  As a whole, the programs of the formal education system do not tally with the needs of
the desired socio-economic environment. Technical education is not adapted to the needs of



ANNEX C
Page 19 of 19
Cameroon's agriculture-based economy, explaining the training/job inadequacy that has
prevailed for several years.
104.  The Government intends to increase the enrollment ratio, which has been seriously
affected by the economic crisis. Emphasis will be placed on energizing of the technical and
professional secondary education system, which needs to train students in sufficient numbers and
quality to allow for their direct integration into the workplace. Guidelines for the development
of professional education will also be developed.
Employment
105.  The labor market in Cameroon is characterized by two features: (i) rapidly increasing
labor supply, in terms of both quantity and quality; (ii) stagnating labor demand, especially the
demand for wage labor. The primary result of this dynamic of the Cameroonian labor market is
an explosion in unemployment which is around 20% on average. The urban unemployment rate
in Cameroon is one of the highest in Africa. Another effect is the high unemployment rate of
university graduates. While the economy suffers from structural employment deficiencies, the
education system continues to glut the job market with a labor force trained to serve the modern
sector, which, at present, can absorb only a limited volume of workers.
106.  With respect to job promotion, the Government intends to emphasize improvement of
the productivity of agro-pastoral activities and the promotion of small and medium enterprises,
as well as microenterprises. Road building appears to be an essential element for the promotion
of rural employment. The strategies followed by the National Employment Fund (FNE) need
strengthening and financial support.
Environment
107.  Efforts to address the degradation of the environment have focused primarily on the
development and adoption of a forestry policy, the preparation of a general strategy of
management of parks and reserves, the clarification of migration policies, the revision of forestry
taxation, the progressive adaptation of land legislation, and research on the agriculture-breeding
association, agro-forests and fertility management.
108.  Cameroonian authorities will also encourage the rational exploitation and long-term
preservation of natural resources. The Forestry Code, which has just been revised, has laid down
the principles and procedures of sustainable management of resources.  The planning of
domestic forestry activities has been enriched in the last few years with the adoption of the first
Plan d'Action Forestier Tropical (PAFT) developed in Africa with the support of the FAO and
donor countries.
109.  The Government attaches great importance to environmental management. A national
plan for the management of the environment is being prepared that will lay the foundations of a
coherent policy in this field and will define its legal and institutional framework. The forestry
policy has already been revised and a new Forestry Code has been promulgated.



ANNEX D
Page I of 4
Supplemental Credit Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of key processing events
Time taken to prepare:     14 months
Project prepared by:       Government with IDA assistance
Appraisal:                 October-November, 1995
Negotiations:              December 20-22, 1995
Board Presentation:        February 8, 1996
Closing date:              December 31, 1996
The Task Team Leader is Brendan Horton (AF3C1). Richard Westebbe (AFRCA) is Lead
Advisor, and Hasan Tuluy (AFSCO) Peer Reviewer. The Public Finance component team
consists of Brendan Horton, Gloria Bartoli (AFTPS), Katrina Sharkey (EDIRP), Vicente Ferrer
(AF3AE), and Leif Muten, Consultant. The Financial Sector Team is directed by Andr6 Ryba
(AF3IE) and includes Shinichi Mori, Chau Huong and Bernard Mensah (AF3IE), Christian
Chedeville, Pierre Leduc and Marguerite Jouet, Consultants. The Public Enterprise Team is led
by Eric Boucheny (AF3IE) and includes Vicente Ferrer (AF3AE), Jean-Noel Guillossou
(AF3IN), Bernard Mensah (AF3IE) and Ghislaine Bouillet-Cordonnier, consultant. Substantive
inputs were also provided in a variety of different areas by the Resident Mission, in particular
Joseph Ingram, Bernard Momo and Clotilde Ndomb, Economists. Christine Moumal (AF3C1) is
the Staff Assistant. The Managing Division Chief is Jerome Chevallier. The Department
Director is Andrew Rogerson.



ANNEX D
Page 2 of 4
Section II: Special conditions
Actions taken during Project Preparation:
* Adoption of Budget Law for FY96 including:
0  Increase in TCA rates (standard rate from 15 to 17 percent, reduced rate
from 5 to 8 percent), and excise rates for petroleum (50 percent for premium
grade gasoline, 90 percent for diesel oil); revision of forestry taxation
(increase in rates of stumpage fees and minimum concessional rentals,
extension of export taxes to processed timber products, including those
exported by firms with Free Trade Zone status);
0  Increase in budgetary allocations on priority sectors from 41 to 44 percent of
total budgetary appropriations;
* Completion of organization and staffing plans in three Ministries (Civil Service,
Industry and Commerce, Economy and Finance);
* Preparation of a global strategy for settlement of Government's internal debt;
* Promulgation of a new General Statute on Public Enterprises (regarding both
management and liquidation);
* Liquidation of five public enterprises including Sotuc (national bus company),
privatization of managmentlownership of two large companies, seven companies
privatized, and three major companies put up for sale (sugar, tobacco, and rubber);
privatization process launched for main agricultural and transport sector parastatals;
* Adoption of implementation decree for new Forestry Code;
* Adoption of new law completing liberalization of coffee and cocoa sectors, and
corresponding implementation decrees;
* Elimination of the monopoly of SNH over deliveries of crude oil to the National
Petroleum Refinery (SONARA); and elimination of SNH subsidy in its delivery
price to SONARA.
Board Presentation conditions:
1) General:
* Satisfactory first review of the Stand-by Arrangement.
2) Publicfinance management:
* Publication of a decree, acceptable to IDA, stipulating that (a) import duties are
henceforth payable on basis of PSI's company assessment, (b) goods are released to
the importer only on said company's certification that duties have been effectively
paid into the Treasury's account in BEAC;



ANNEX D
Page 3 of 4
* Signature of contract with designated PSI company;
* Effectively terminated employment of at least 5300 civil servants, in line with
Organizational and Staffing Plans for seven ministries.
3) Financial Sector and Judicial reform:
*  Issued a circular to magistrates informing them of the four ordinances and seven
decrees abrogated or modified by the two regional treaties; and amended the 1990
ordinance on bank liquidation and the decree establishing the "Conseil National du
Credit";
* Signed with Soci&e Gdn6rale (Paris) an agreement for the restructuring of SGBC
and submitted to IDA a satisfactory plan for the restructuring/liquidation for four
other commercial banks;
*  Announced its decision on the future of SOCAR, CNR;
*  Appointed a judiciary liquidator for AMACAM;
*  Signed an agreement with the bankers' association for the securitization of
Government debt to commercial banks and secured agreement from BEAC to open
an escrow account.
Tranche Release Conditions:
1) General:
* Satisfactory progress in implementing the program, including a satisfactory
macroeconomic framework (as evidenced by the existence of an active ESAF) and
implementation of the following measures:
2) Public Finance Management Tranche
a) Fiscal receipts and non-wage expenditures:
*  Measures have been taken to reduce export taxes on the export of goods except for
forestry products by at least 10 percent (para. 10);
*  (a) attainment of the aggregate public expenditure target for priority ministries
referred to in para. 16, which exceeds 44 percent of aggregate spending ceilings for
all ministries (excluding expenditures on public debt, pensions and severance
payments) for FY96; and (b) allocations in the FY97 Budget Law for the same
priority ministries which in the aggregate exceed 44 percent of aggregate budgetary
allocations excluding debt service, pensions, and severance payments;
b) Civil Service reform:
* Adoption of organizational plans, satisfactory to IDA, and implementation in
accordance with timetables relating thereto for the ministries mentioned in para. 14;



ANNEX D
Page 4 of 4
c) Other:
* Implementation of appropriate amendments to the laws (89-021, 92-008, and 94-
327) to expedite judicial credit recovery (para. 33);
3)    Financial Sector Reform Tranche:
*  (a) the agreement between the Borrower and the major foreign partner for the
restructuring of one bank has been implemented in accordance with its terms; (b)
one bank has been placed in liquidation and a banking/judiciary liquidator
appointed; (c) the non-performing assets and frozen deposits of three other banks: (i)
have been separated from performing assets; and (ii) have been transferred to SRC;
(d) the three banks have been restructured in a manner satisfactory to IDA; (e)
management agreements satisfactory to IDA regarding the three banks have been
executed by the respective parties thereto (para. 30);
*  (a) amendment of SRC by-laws; (b) implementation of a new organigram and
reorganization of its personnel; and (c) publication in the media of a declaration by
Government that delinquent borrowers will be prevented from borrowing from
financial institutions, participating in bids for the privatization of public enterprises
and Government purchases. Bidding documents will include clauses precluding
delinquent borrowers from participating in these bids (para. 32).



ANNEX E
Page I of 1
PORTFOLIO PERFORMANCE AND MANAGEMENT
As indicated in the CAS, the Cameroon portfolio has been in active transition falling
from 14 IBRD-financed operations in 1991 to five operations (Table 1), of which two are IDA
Credits and three are IBRD-financed Loans, which are being rapidly wound down.
X_hI~I~~Is Struc~r~ $ I~RD .~,4XA   f"I"  m       U
Project              Original    Cancellation   Undisbursed
Amount
A. IBRD
Livestock Development Project   34.6        13.6        7.24
Agricultural Extension and Training  21.0               11.10
Food Security                   23.0                    16.46
B. IDA
Transport Sector TA             10.2                    10.28
Fertility Health and Nutrition  43.0                    43.96
Considerable progress was made recently under the Agricultural Extension and Research
Project. The extension service has been streamlined and is much more focused on key activities
to improve farmers' yields. It will be closed by December 1996 and replaced by an IDA-
financed project in FY97. The IDA project would also incorporate key successful components of
the Livestock Project and in particular the tsetse fly eradication component, while the others,
which have all received unsatisfactory ratings, will be canceled. Similarly, the Food Security
Project will be downsized to the two components with satisfactory ratings (financing of micro-
projects and nutrition education), whose primary beneficiaries are women.  The other
components will be canceled.






IMAGTIN -T
R e ipiO r t N o : F-  .7i73 CM 4
Type: FR



