Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2813-2 CM
(Amendment)
Second Agreement Amending
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated February 13, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER 2813-2 CM
(Amendment)
SECOND AGREEMENT AMENDING
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 13, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a Development 
Credit Agreement (Second Structural Adjustment Credit) dated February 14, 1996 (the 
Development Credit Agreement) for the purpose of providing support during the 
execution of the structural adjustment program as described in Recital (A) of the 
Development Credit Agreement (the Program);
(B)
the Borrower and the Association have entered into the Agreement Amending 
Development Credit Agreement (Second Structural Adjustment Credit) dated April 3, 
1996, whereby additional assistance was made available to the Borrower for the purpose 
of providing support during the execution of the Program, and the procedures for the 
disbursement of the proceeds of the credit  provided for in the Development Credit 
Agreement (the Credit) were simplified;
(C)
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide further additional 
assistance in the support of the Program during its execution by increasing the amount 
made available under the Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to seventeen million five hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 17,500,000);
Page  2
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Amendments of the Development Credit Agreement
Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended by:
(a)
substituting the period at the end of paragraph (x) by a semicolon and 
adding the word "and" after such semicolon; and
(b)
adding the following paragraph (y) reading:
 
"(y)  "Second Amending Agreement" means the Second Agreement Amending the 
Development 
Credit Agreement (Second Structural Adjustment Credit) between the 
Borrower and the Association 
dated February 14, 1996."
 
Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is modified to 
read:
"Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the 
terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in the Development Credit 
Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to one hundred 
thirty-eight million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
138,600,000) 
(the Credit), which includes: (a) an original amount in various currencies 
equivalent to one hundred million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 100,700,000) 
(the Initial Financing); (b) an additional amount in various 
currencies equivalent to twenty 
million four hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 20,400,000) (the First Additional 
Financing); and (c) a second 
additional amount in various currencies equivalent to seventeen 
million five 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 17,500,000) (the Second Additional 
Financing)."
Section 1.03. Paragraph (b) (i) of Section 2.04 of the Development Credit 
Agreement is amended by adding after the term "canceled" the following proviso:
"; provided, however, that any commitment charge on: (A) the First 
Additional Financing 
shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of 
the Amending Agreement; and (B) the Second 
Additional Financing shall accrue from a 
date sixty days after the date of 
the Second Amending 
Agreement;"
 
Section 1.04. Paragraph (h) of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement is 
amended by substituting "SDR 87,600,000" by "SDR 105,100,000" in its first 
subparagraph.
Section 1.05. The word "and" is added at the end of the paragraph (j) of 
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement and a new paragraph (k) is inserted to 
read:
"(k) After a date twelve months from the date of the Second Amending 
Agreement, no 
withdrawal shall be made from the Credit Account in respect 
of expenditures to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Second Additional 
Financing. At any time after such date, the 
Association may, by notice 
to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Second 
Additional Financing from the Credit Account or any part thereof."
Section 1.06.  The title of Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement is 
modified to read: "Actions Referred to in Paragraphs (g) (iii) and (h) (iii) of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement."
ARTICLE II
Page  3
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Second Amending Agreement shall not become effective until 
evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association 
that the execution and delivery of this Second Amending Agreement on behalf of the 
Borrower have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 
of this Second Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an 
opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the 
Association showing, on behalf of the Borrower, that this Second Amending Agreement 
has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the 
Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 2.03. This Second Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on 
the date upon which the Association shall dispatch to the Borrower notice of its 
acceptance of the evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Second Amending Agreement.
Section 2.04. If this Second Amending Agreement shall not have come into force 
and effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this Second Amending 
Agreement, this Second Amending Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder 
shall terminate, unless the Association establishes a later date for the purposes of 
this Section. If this Second Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions 
of this Section, the Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect, as if this Second Amending Agreement had not been executed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Second Amending Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
By /s/ Jerome Mendouga
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Andrew Rogerson
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
