Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2813 CM
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated February 14, 1996
CREDIT NUMBER 2813 CM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 14, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON (the 
"Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the "Association").
WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received a letter, dated February 6, 1996, from 
the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the 
"Program"), declaring the Borrower's
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the 
Association in the financing of urgently needed imports required during such 
execution; and
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided 
in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the 
Credit in three tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereof 
set forth below (the "General Conditions") constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
Page  2
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
 
"'Project' means the imports and other activities that may be financed 
out of the 
proceeds of the Credit pursuant to the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit 
Agreement.";
 
(b)
Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
 
"(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, 
the Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish to the Association a report, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request, 
on the execution of the Program referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of 
their 
respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Credit.";
 
(c)
the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and
 
(d)
the second sentence of Section 5.01 shall be modified to read:
 
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories of any country which is not 
a 
member of the Association or for 
goods produced in, or services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) 
for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of 
goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited 
by a 
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII 
of the Charter of 
the United Nations."
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"BEAC" means Banque des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale, the Borrower's 
central bank;
(b)
"BICIC" means Banque Internationale pour le Commerce et l'Industrie du 
Cameroun;
(c)
"BMBC" means Banque Meridien-BIAO du Cameroun;
 
(d)
"CAA" means the Borrower's Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement;
 
(e)
"CAC" means Cr\02dit Agricole du Cameroun;
(f)
"CFA Franc" or "CFAF" means Franc de la Communaute Financiere en Afrique 
Centrale, the currency of the Borrower;
(g)
"Environmentally Hazardous Goods" means goods, the manufacture, use or 
import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party;
(h)
"MINAGRI" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture; 
 
(i)
"MINEDUC" means the Borrower's Ministry of National Education;
 
(j)
"MINEF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Environment and Forestry;
 
(k)
"MINEFI" means the Borrower's Ministry of Economy and Finance;
 
(l)
"MINEPIA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Livestock, Fisheries and 
Animal Husbandry;
(m)
"MINJUSTICE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Justice;
Page  3
(n)
"MINMEE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Mines, Water and Energy;
 
(o)
"MINREST" means the Borrower's Ministry of Scientific and Technical 
Research;
(p)
"MINSANTE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health;
 
(q)
"MINT" means the Borrower's Ministry of Transportation;
 
(r)
"MINTP" means the Borrower's Ministry of Public Works;
 
(s)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to a letter dated September 21, 
1994 between the Borrower and the Association;
(t)
"SCBC" means Standard Chartered Bank Cameroon;
 
(u)
"SGBC" means Societe Generale de Banques au Cameroun;
 
(v)
"SITC" means the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 
(SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 
343 (1986); and
(w)
"SRC" means Societe de Recouvrement des Creances du Cameroun.
 
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to one hundred million seven hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR100,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1997 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the "Accrual Date") to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the Accrual Date or at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment 
date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
Page  4
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
May 15 and November 15 commencing May 15, 2006, and ending November 15, 2035. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on November 15, 2015, shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 Dollars for 
five consecutive years and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent 
to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and 
after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify 
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the 
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the 
principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the 
Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or 
all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an 
annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the 
Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. (a) CAA is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
(b)
Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the Borrower hereby 
entrusts the Director General of CAA with responsibility for the preparation of 
withdrawal applications under the Credit and for the collection of the documents and 
other evidence to be furnished to the Association in support of such applications; 
such withdrawal applications shall to the extent practicable be consolidated so as to 
apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts of not less than SDR350,000 equivalent.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program and the actions specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
Page  5
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, 
including any action specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound 
accounting practices the  expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such 
year, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and 
other documents, or customs certificates, as appropriate) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audits 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon 
to 
support the related withdrawals.
 
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Page  6
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 (a) of this Agreement, the 
Minister at the time responsible for economy and finance of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Yaounde
Republic of Cameroon
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINEFI
8260 KN
Yaounde
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
By /s/ Jereme Mendouga
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
Page  7
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the 
proceeds of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account for expenditures made 
(or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost 
of goods required during the execution of
the Program and to be financed out of such proceeds.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
expenditures for goods included in the following SITC groups or 
subgroups, or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Association by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
 
112
   --
Alcoholic beverages
 
121
   --
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122
   --
Tobacco, manufactured (whether
or not containing tobacco 
substitutes)
525
   --
Radioactive and associated 
materials
667
   --
Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof,
fuel elements (cartridges), non
irradiated for nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
 
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum
group metals (except watches and
watch cases) and goldsmiths' or
silversmiths' wares (including 
set
gems)
971
  --
Gold, nonmonetary (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)
(b)
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods supplied from 
the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
SDR20,100,000 may be made on account of payments made for such expenditures before 
that date but after the date six months
before the date of this Agreement;
(d)
expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing less than $20,000 
equivalent;
Page  8
(e)
expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance; and
(f)
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or 
for luxury consumption;
(g)
expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent to SDR13,500,000 
for petroleum products and SDR30,200,000 for foodstuffs; and
(h)
expenditures for Environmentally Hazardous Goods.
 
3.
Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the procurement of goods 
estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 may be required by the Association upon the 
basis of statements of expenditure under such terms and conditions as the Association 
shall specify.
4.
No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to pay 
amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and the total amount of such commitments shall have 
reached the equivalent of SDR33,600,000, unless the Association shall be satisfied, 
after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on 
evidence satisfactory to the Association:
(a)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the 
Program;
(b)
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is consistent 
with the objectives of the Program; and
(c)
that either the Public Finance Management Tranche Conditions or the 
Financial Sector Reform Tranche Conditions have been fulfilled. For the purpose of 
this paragraph and of paragraph 5 of this Schedule, the term "Public Finance 
Management Tranche Conditions" means, collectively, all the actions specified in Part 
A of Schedule 3 to this Agreement and the term "Financial Sector Reform Tranche 
Conditions" means, collectively, all the actions specified in Part B of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
5.
No further such withdrawal or commitment shall be made after the aggregate of 
the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account and the total amount of 
such commitments shall have reached the equivalent of SDR67,200,000, unless the 
Association shall be satisfied, after a further such exchange of views:
(a)
with the further progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of 
the Program;
(b)
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is consistent 
with the objectives of the Program; and
(c)
that the Tranche Conditions remaining after the fulfillment of the 
requirements under paragraph 4 (c) of this Schedule, as the case may be, have been 
fulfilled. For the purpose of this paragraph, the term "Tranche Conditions" means 
either the Public Finance Management Tranche Conditions or the Financial Sector Reform 
Tranche Conditions, as the case may be.
6.
If, after either exchange of views described in paragraphs 4 and 5 above, the 
Association shall have given notice to the Borrower that the progress achieved and 
actions taken are not satisfactory and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower 
shall not have achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Association, 
then the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit or any part thereof.
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
Page  9
Part A:
General
 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 (the "Guidelines"), and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines, subject to the provisions of paragraphs 2.63, 2.64 and 2.65 thereof.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
Goods estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured:
1.
by purchasers required to follow the Borrower's public procurement procedures 
for the importation of goods, under contracts awarded in accordance with such 
procedures, provided that such procedures shall have been found acceptable by the 
Association; and
2.
by other purchasers:
 
(a)
under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines; or
(b)
in the circumstances described in paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines, under 
direct contracting procedures in accordance with the provisions of said paragraph of 
the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Prior Review
 
With respect to each contract estimated to cost more than $10,000,000 
equivalent, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
2.
Post Review
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 3
Actions Referred to in Paragraphs 4 (c)
and 5 (c) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
Part A:
Release Conditions for the Public Finance Management Tranche
 
1.
The Borrower has reduced by no less than 10 percent the rate of all exit taxes 
(droits de sortie) on the export of goods (except for forestry products) provided for 
by its Law No. 94/002 of July 1, 1994, Portant Loi de Finances de la R\02publique du 
Cameroun pour l'Exercise 1994-1995, as
amended.
2.
The Borrower has adopted reorganization plans (plans d'organisation des 
effectifs) satisfactory to the Association for the following Ministries:  (a) MINAGRI; 
(b) MINEF; (c) MINEPIA; (d) MINMEE; (e) MINREST; and (f) MINTP; and is current in 
their implementation in accordance with
timetables relating thereto.
3.
The Borrower has furnished evidence satisfactory to the Association showing that 
the aggregate public expenditures under its Law No. 95/010 of July 1, 1995, Portant 
Loi de Finances de la Republique du Cameroun pour l'Exercice 1995-1996 for the 
Page  10
following Ministries: (a) MINAGRI; (b)
MINEDUC; (c) MINEF; (d) MINEFI; (e) MINEPIA; (f) MINJUSTICE; (g) MINREST; (h) 
MINSANTE; (i) MINT; and (j) MINTP; have been no less than 44 percent of aggregate 
spending commitments for all of the Borrower's Ministries (excluding expenditures on 
public debt, pensions and severance payments) as specified in the Borrower's circular 
No. 002 CAB/PM of August 9, 1995.
4.
The Borrower's 1996-1997 budget has been enacted and the aggregate proportion of 
allocations made for the Ministries referred to in paragraph 3 of this Part is higher 
than the proportion of allocations made for such Ministries in the Law No. 95/010 of 
July 1, 1995, Portant Loi de Finances
de la Republique du Cameroun pour l'Exercice 1995-1996.
5.
The Borrower has enacted legislation satisfactory to the Association to 
institute procedures which expedite judicial credit recovery including:
(a)
amendments to Law No. 89/021 of December 29, 1989, Fixant une Procedure 
Simplifie de Recouvrement des Creances Civiles et Commerciales;
and
(b)
amendments to Law No. 92/008 of August 14, 1992, Fixant Certaines 
Dispositions Relatives a l'Execution des Decisions de Justice.
Part B:
Release Conditions for the Financial Sector Reform Tranche
 
1.
The agreement dated December 29, 1995 among the Borrower, the shareholders of 
SGBC and SGBC for the restructuring of SGBC has been implemented in accordance with 
its terms.
2.
BICIC's, CAC's and SCBC's non-performing assets and frozen deposits: (a) have 
been separated from performing assets; and (b) have been transferred to SRC.
3.
BMBC has been put into liquidation and a banking/judicial liquidator has been 
appointed.
4.
The Borrower has implemented the restructuring of BICIC, CAC and SCBC in 
accordance with paragraphs 69 to 74 of the Program.
5.
The Borrower has, in accordance with paragraphs 60 to 65 of the Program: (a) 
amended SRC's by-laws; (b) implemented a new organigram for SRC and reorganized its 
personnel; and (c)  established a new Board of Directors of SRC.
6.
The Borrower has adopted measures concerning the treatment of delinquent 
borrowers in accordance with paragraphs 66 and 67 of the Program.
