CREDIT NUMBER 2813-1 CM
(Amendment)
Agreement Amending
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
and
IN9TERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                ,1996


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2813-1 CM
(Amendment)
AGREEMENT AMENDING
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1996, between REPUBLIC
OF CAMEROON (the "Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the "Association").
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower aid the Association have entered into a
Development Credit Agreement (Second Structural Adjustment Credit) dated February 14,
1996 (the "Development Credit Agreement"), for the purpose of assisting the Borrower in
the financing of its structural adjustment program as described in recital (A) of the
Development Credit Agreement (the "Program");
(B)    the Borrower has requested the Association to provide further additional
assistance towards the financing of the Program by increasing the amount made available
under the Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 20,400,000);
(C)    the Borrower and the Association wish to simplify the procedures for the
disbursement of the proceeds of the credit provided for in the Development Credit
Agreement (the "Credit") and for the purpose to amend the Development Credit
Agreement as herein provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter a.ia, of the foregoing, to
provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Amendments of the Development Credit Agreement
Section 1.01. Paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) of Section 1.01 of the Development
Credit Agreement are deleted in their entirety and the following paragraphs are
substituted therefor:


﻿-2-
"(a)   Section 2.01, paragraph 9, is modified to read:
" 'Project' means the program referred to in the Preamble to the
Development Credit Agreement in support of which the Credit is made.";
(b)    The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
(c)    Section 4.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree,
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the deposit
account specified in Section 2.02 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement.";
(d)    Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit
Agreement and of these General Conditions. Except as the Association and the
Borrower shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of
expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for
goods produced in, or services provided from, any such territory; or (b) for the purpose
of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or import,
to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.";
(e)    The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(f)    Section 9.04 is deleted, and Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 are
renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07; and
(g)    Section 9.05 (c), as so renumbered, is modified to read:
"(c)   Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the Program
referred to in the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, the performance by
the Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.".


﻿-3-
Section 1.02. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended by
deleting the word "and" at the end of paragraph (v) and by inserting at the end of said
Section a new paragraph as follows:
"and; (x) "Amending Agreement" means the Agreement Amending the
Development Credit Agreement".
Section 1.03. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is modified to
read:
"Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to one hundred and twenty one million one hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 121,100,000) (the "Credit"), which includes: (a) an original
amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred million seven hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 100,700,000) (the "Initial Financing"); and (b) an additional
amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty million four hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 20,400,000) (the "Additional Financing).".
Section 1.04. Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is modified to
read:
"(a)   Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this Section,
the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the Credit
Account in support of the Program.
(b)    The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first
request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in BEAC, a
deposit account in CFA Francs on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
All withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into such
deposit account.
(c)    The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be
used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement. If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the
Credit shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure excluded pursuant to
the provisions of said Schedule 1, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (i) deposit into the deposit account referred to in paragraph (b) of this
Section an amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Association shall so


﻿-4-
request, refund such amount to the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association
upon such request shall be credited to the Credit Account for cancellation.".
Section 1.05. Paragraph (b) (i) of Section 2.04 of the Development Credit
Agreement is amended by adding after the term "canceled" the following proviso:
"and that any commitment charge on the Additional Financing shall accrue from a
date sixty days after the date of the Amending Agreement.".
Section 1.06. Paragraph (b) of Section 2.09 of the Development Credit Agreement
is modified to read:
"(b)   Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the Borrower hereby
entrusts the Director General of CAA with responsibility for the preparation of withdrawal
applications under the Credit".
Section 1.07. Paragraphs (a) and (c) of Section 3.01 of the Development Credit
Agreement are amended by substituting the words "Schedule 3" by the words "Schedule
2".
Section 1.08. Section 3.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is modified to
read:
"Section 3.02. Upon the request of the Association, the Borrower shall:
(a)    have the deposit account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement audited in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(b)    furnish to the Association as soon as possible but in any case not later
than four months after the date of the Association's request for such audit, a certified
copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)    furnish to the Association such other information concerning said
deposit account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably
requested".


﻿-5-
Section 1.09. Paragraph (b) of Section 3.03 of the Development Credit
Agreement is amended by deleting the words "including those of the Special Account"
after the word "Section".
Section 1.10. Paragraph (c) of Section 3.03 of the Development Credit
Agreement is deleted in its entirety.
Section 1.11. Paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement are modified to read:
"For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
(a)    expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services
supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(b)    expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any
national or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another credit or a loan;
(c)    expenditures for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups
of the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published
by the United Nations in Staiistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or
any successor groups or sub-groups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by
the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group         Sub-group           Description of Items
112             -                 Alcoholic beverages
121             -                 Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122             -                 Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not
containing tobacco substitutes)
525             -                 Radioactive and associated materials
667             -                 Pearls, precious and semi-precious


﻿-6-
stones, unworked or worked
718           718.7               Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated,
for nuclear reactors
728.43          -                 Tobacco processing machinery
897           897.3               Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
group metals (except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
971             -                 Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold
ores and concentrates);
(d)    expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-military purpose
or for luxury consumption;
(e)    expenditures for Environmentally Hazardous Goods ; and
(f)    in furtherance of the purposes of Section 5.01 of the General Conditions,
expenditures: (i) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or
for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (ii) on account of
any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or import is
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII
of the Charter of the United Nations".
Section 1.12. Paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement is
renamed (g) and amended by substituting "SDR 33,600,000" by "SDR 54,000,000" in its
first subparagraph and by renaming subparagraphs (a), (b) and (c) as (i), (ii) and (iii)
respectively.
Section 1.13. The new sub paragraph (g) (iii) of Schedule 1 to the Development
Credit Agreement is amended by substituting "paragraph 5" by "paragraph (h)" and, in the
last two lines, "Schedule 3" with "Schedule 2".
Section 1.14. Paragraph 5 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement is
renamed (h) and amended by substituting "SDR 67,200,000" by "SDR 87,600,000" in its


﻿-7-
first subparagraph and by renaming subparagraphs (a), (b) and (c) as (i), (ii) and (iii)
respectively.
Section 1.15. The new subparagraph (h) (iii) of Schedule 1 to the Development
Credit Agreement is amended by substituting "paragraph 4 (c)" by "paragraph (g) (iii)".
Section 1.16. Paragraph 6 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement is
renamed (i) and amended by substituting "paragraphs 4 and 5" with "paragraphs (h) and
(g)".
Section 1.17. The word "and" is added at the end of the new subparagraph (i) of
Schedule 1 and a new paragraph (j) is inserted to read:
"(j) after a date twelve months from the date of the Amending Agreement, no
withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to pay amounts to or on
the order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Additional Financing. At any time after such date, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Additional Financing from the Credit
Account or any part thereof.".
Section 1.18. Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, is deleted in its
entirety and Schedule 3 is renumbered as Schedule 2.
ARTICLE H
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Amending Agreement shall not become effective until evidence
satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association that the
execution and delivery of this Amending Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 of this
Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or opinions
satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the Association showing, on behalf
of the Borrower, that this Amending Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and is legally binding upon the
Borrower in accordance with its terms.


﻿-8-
Section 2.03. This Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on the
date upon which the Association shall dispatch to the Borrower notice of its acceptance of
the evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement.
Section 2.04. If this Amending Agreement shall not have come into force and
effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this Amending Agreement, this Amending
Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the
Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section. If this Amending
Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the Development Credit
Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if this Amending Agreement had not
been executed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
By    41
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By4&i
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


