Document of                    FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2518-GH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF TIIE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO TIE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
AND EEC SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FOR A
SECOND NATIONAL INVESTMENT BANK PROJECT
April 25, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reciplents only in the performnce of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witout World Blank autherluton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
February 1973 - June 18, 1978
US$1 = 01.15
01      US$0.87
June 18 - August 26, 1978
The exchange rate was floating, gradually moving
from US$1 - C1.15 to US$1 = 01.69
Since August 26, 1978
US$1 = C 2.75
el    =  US$0.36
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Ghana          July 1 - June 30
NIB                          January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB            -   African Development Bank
ADB (Ghana )   -   Agricultural Development Bank of Ghana
BHC            -   Bank for Housing and Construction
DEG            -   Deutsche Entwicklung Gesellschaft
DSI            -   Development Service Institute of NIB
EIB            -   European Investment Bank
EEC            -   European Economic Community
FED            -   European Development Fund
GCB            -   Ghana Commercial Bank
KfW            -   Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
NIB            -   National Investment Bank



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GHANA - SECOND NATIONAL INVESTMENT BANK PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Ghana
Beneficiary:         National Investment Bank
Amount:              IDA Credit of US$19 million equivalent; EEC Special
Action Credit of approximately US$6 million equivalent.
Terms:               Standard 1/
Relending Terms:    The Government would relend to NIB US$12.2 million for
term lending and US$12 million for working capital
lending, at 13-1/2 percent per annum. In cases where the
Government assumes the foreign exchange risk on term
loans, it would charge a foreign exchange risk premium
of 10 percent per annum on outstanding loan balances.
Amortization on the term lending portion would conform
substantially to the aggregate of the amortization sched-
ules of NIB sub-loans; funds relent for the working
capital portion would be repaid at the end of the fourth
loan cycle under the Revolving Import Fund scheme.
Project              The project aims at expanding and rehabilitating Ghana's
Description:        manufacturing and agro-industrial capacity with special
emphasis on the contribution of the industrial sector to
increased foreign exchange earnings and savings and
improved domestic linkages with agriculture and other
sectors. The IDA credit would provide foreign exchange
for: (a) term loans (US$12.2 million) for capital invest-
ments to expand and rehabilitate industrial capacity; (b)
working capital loans (US$6 million) to finance importa-
tion of spare parts and raw materials required to improve
utilization of the existing industrial capacity; and (c)
technical assistance (US$0.8 million) to strengthen
Ghana's export program and NIB's promotional and appraisal
activities. The EEC Special Action credit of approxi-
mately US$6 million would be utilized solely for working
capital sub-loans. The project faces no major risks
except that the uncertain economic environment could
affect NIB financed projects. This is, however, an
acceptable risk given the present direction of the Govern-
ment policy and the progress so far made in implementing
the economic stabilization program.
1/   The EEC Special Action credit would be provided under the same tenns _s
applicable to the IDA credit except that a variety of EEC currencies will
be used and repaid in the amounts disbursed.
This documnent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without *'Xrld Bank authorization.



* ii-
Terms of Loans       (a) Term Loans: Interest at 18-1/2 percent per annum
to NIB's Sub-       plus a one-time 1 percent service fee and 1 percent
Borrowers           per annum commitment fee.  In addition, sub-borrowers
would have an option of either assuming the foreign
exchange risk or paying a foreign exchange risk pre-
mium of 10 percent per annum on outstanding balances
with the Government assuming the foreign exchange risk.
The premium would be refundable in an amount equal to
5 percent of actual export sales of sub-borrowers but
not exceeding the aggregate amount of premium paid over
the entire sub-loan period. Amortization of up to 15
years including 3 years of grace.
(b) Working Capital Loans: interest at 18-1/2 percent
per annum with sub-borrowers assuming the foreign
exchange risk. Amortization of up to 2 years.
Free Limits:         For term loans, US$200,000 subject to an aggregate
limit of US$5 million;
For working capital loans, US$50,000 subject to
an aggregate limit of US$3 million.
Procurement:         Through normal commercial channels.  Disbursements from
the EEC Special Action credit would be in respect of
goods from EEC member countries and the developing coun-
tries eligible to receive assistance under the EEC Special
Action Account.
Debt Covenants:      Maximum debt equity ratio of 5:1
Projected NIB Performance:         -------Year ending December 31 -------
(O Millions)
Actual
Project Approvals:                 1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982
Loans:                           21.3   14.0   32.6   39.0   46.8   56.2
Local Currency                  8.7   10.5   12.8   15.4   18.5   22.2
Foreign Exchange               12.6    3.5   19.8   23.6   28.3   34.0
Equity:  Local Currency           1.4    1.4    2.1    2.6    3.1    3.7
TOTAL APPROVALS              22.7   15.4   34.7   41.6   49.9   59.9
Project Income Statements:
Total Revenues                   14.1   18.8   24.5   24.8   34.5   39.6
Financial and Admin. Expenses   8.7   10.5   14.5   17.3   20.5   23.7
Provisions and write-off          3.2    1.0    0.4    0.8    1.4    1.1
Net Income as % of net worth    9.4   18.5   15.0   12.8   17.1   19.6
Project Balance Sheets:
Current Assets                   37.0   73.4   96.2   92.8   79.6   82.5
Net NIB Loans                    95.7  115.0  121.6  135.0  157.7  174.4
Equity Investments               13.1   13.2   15.0   17.3   20.2   23.5
Fixed Assets (net)                2.3    2.8    3.2    3.7    4.3    4.9
TOTAL ASSETS                148.1  204.4  236.0  248.8  261.8  285.3



- iii -
Actual
Project Balance Sheets: (Con't)  1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982
Current Liabilities               49.1   48.0   42.6   44.0   47.8   59.5
Medium and long-term loans        75.4  120.2  148.2  152.6  151.7  149.6
Paid-in Share Capital             19.0   29.0   35.0   40.0   40.0   40.0
Reserves                           4.6    7.2   10.2   12.2   22.3   36.2
TOTAL LIABILITY & EQUITY  148.1  204.4  236.0  248.8  261.8  285.3
Debt/Equity Ratio                3.1:1  3.3:1  3.3:1  3.0:1  3.5:1  3.5:1
Estimated
Disbursements:                          IDA FY (US$ Millions)
80       81        82        83
(a) IDA Credit
Annual               5.9       7.2       4.3       1.6
Cumulative            5.9     13.1      17.4      19.0
(b) EEC Special
Action Credit
Annual               3.6       2.4         -         -
Cumulative            3.6      6.0       6.0       6.0
(c) IDA/EEC
Combined
Annual               9.5       9.6       4.3       1.6
Cumulative           9.5      19.1      23.4      25.0
Appraisal Report:   Report No.  1743a-GH dated April 16, 1979.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
AND EEC SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA FOR A SECOND
NATIONAL INVESTMENT BANK PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit of US$19 million equivalent, on standard IDA terms, and a
proposed EEC Special Action credit, expressed in the currencies of the nine
EEC Member States equivalent to about US$6 million, 1/ to the Republic of
Ghana, to help finance a Second National Investment Bank (NIB) project.
The EEC and IDA credits, except for US$0.8 million to be used for technical
assistance, would be relent by the government to NIB at 13-1/2 percent per
annum. Amortization on the term lending portion would conform substantially
to the aggregate of the amortization schedules of NIB sub-loans; funds relent
for the working capital portion would be repaid to the government at the end
of the fourth loan cycle under the Revolving Import Fund scheme.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "Ghana: Economic Position and Prospects;
Prospects for Exports of Processed Products; Financial Structure - A Flow of
Funds Approach" (1533a-GH) was distributed to the Executive Directors in
June 1977. A sector report entitled "Ghana Agricultural Sector Review" (1769-
GH) was distributed in April 1978. An updating economic report entitled
"Ghana: Economic Memorandum" will be distributed shortly. Basic economic
data and selected social indicators are summarized in Annex 1.
Basic Structural Characteristics of the Economy
3.        Agriculture is the largest sector of the economy accounting for
40.7 percent of GDP in 1975-76. Industrial production and services accounted
for 21.6 and 33.3 percent respectively in the same period. Although Ghana
had traditionally enjoyed a fairly high standard of living compared with most
other West African nations, the growth performance of the economy in recent
years has been uneven and poor. In the period 1970-77 the annual rate of
real GDP growth has averaged only 0.6 percent, implying a decline in per
capita income of 2.1 percent annually, as population has been growing at
2.7 percent. The per capita GNP is estimated at US$380 in 1977.
4.         The most significant factor underlying Ghana's poor economic perfor-
mance in recent years has been the fact that there was virtually no growth in
the volume of exports, which depend almost entirely on a few traditional
export commodities--cocoa (of which Ghana is the world's largest producer),
1/   In accordance with the agreement between the EEC Member States and IDX
dated May 2, 1978, standard IDA terms will apply to the EEC Special A tion
Credit except that a variety of EEC currencies will be used and repaid in
the amounts disbursed.



timber, manganese, gold, diamonds and bauxite, whiclh together constitute 88
percent of exports. In addition to contributing 60 percent of the country's
export earnings, cocoa provides around 30 percent of government revenues and
employs more than 20 percent of the labor force. Cocoa exports have declined
substantially in recent years due principally to low producer prices, inade-
quate rehlabilitation efforts, shortage of imported inputs and transport equip-
ment. Aggravated by adverse weather conditions in 1975-77, cocoa output in
1977-78 hit an all time low of 227,000 tons, compared with well over 400,000
tons in the early 1970s. Production of most of the minerals is stagnating,
because of depletion of the mineral ore reserves, poor transport facilities
and run down equipment.
5.        Near-self sufficiency had been reached in basic cereal production
with the "Operation Feed Yourself" program launched in 1972. But food pro-
duction has been depressed recently with the prolonged drought in 1975-77,
inadequate support services and lack of fertilizers and inputs requiring
foreign exchange.  Rising food prices have been an important component of
the high inflation rate.
6.        Manufacturing in Ghana remains heavily dependent on imported in-
puts. This has resulted in recurrent balance of payments crises and an
accumulation of external debt. Manufacturing contributed 14 percent of GDP
in 1971 but this figure has declined progressively to 10 percent in 1977 due
to the lack of raw materials and spare parts caused by continuing foreign
exchange shiortages. Most plants are estimated currently to be operating at
around 30 percent of installed capacity.   This sector provides full- and
part-time employment to about 12 percent of the labor force.
7.        Traditionally, Ghana has imported its entire petroleum requirements,
mostly in the form of crude oil which is refined domestically and used chiefly
as a source of fuel for the transport sector.  Recently, some oil deposits
have been discovered and commercial exploitation has commenced. Production
in 1979 is expected to meet about one-sixth of Ghana's oil requirements.
Hydroelectric power meets most of Ghana's energy requirements.
8.         Despite its economic problems, Ghana lias in the past devoted con-
siderable efforts to development of its human resources. The education
system is well established, elementary education has been free and universal
since 1962, public health facilities are fairly widespread and current gov-
ernment development strategy is to give rural areas priority. It is the
declared policy of the Government to achieve a more equitable income dis-
tribution by increasing productive investment in the rural areas, by expanding
low-cost rural housing and water supply, and by improving feeder roads.
Recent Developments
9.        The military government that took office in early 1972 inherited
a critical balance of payments position. Large medium- and short-term debts
had been incurred and foreign exchange reserves were virtually exhausted,
largely as a result of a liberal import policy and a decline in cocoa pro-
duction and export. In an endeavor to redress the situation, the previous
Government, in December 1971, had introduced a 44 percent devaluation of the



- 3 -
cedi in terms of the IJS dollar. The new Government, shortly after taking
over, revalued the cedi, reducing the previous devaluation to about 20 per-
cent. In addition, the Government enacted an import retrenchment program
which hit the industrial and distributive sectors hard, causing GDP to fall
by 2.5 percent in 1972. A recovery followed in the next two years (growth
rate in CDP of 5.6 percent each year) encouraged by the greater availability
of imports facilitated by favorable price developments for cocoa, gold and
timber.
10.       The strong improvement in the balance of payments in 1972 and 1973,
ended abruptly in 1974 when the impact of higher oil prices and a breakdown of
the import licensing system caused a foreign exchange crisis. But the situ-
ation was reversed in 1975, and at the end of that year exchange reserves had
increased to US$150 million (about two months' imports) following a reenforce-
ment of import controls and a drawing on the IMF Oil Facility. Tightening of
import restrictions, however, caused GDP to decline by 4.8 percent in 1975 and
5.7 percent in 1976. In 1977 the decline halted and GDP is estimated to have
risen by 1.2 percent as a result of favorable growth in the agricultural
sector spearheaded in part by a record increase in cocoa export prices in
spite of a lower export volume. The rise in cocoa export prices more than
compensated for the loss in revenue which would have resulted from the lower
export volumes. This somewhat eased Ghana's foreign exchange position in
1977/78.
11.       The rapid rise in price levels has been one of the most arresting
features of the Ghanaian economy in recent years. In 1977, the national
consumer price index rose 116.3 percent after registering increases of 56.3
percent and 29.7 percent in the two preceding years. According to unofficial
estimates, the annual rate of inflation in the first nine months of 1978
abated, however, to 68 percent. Local food prices rose sharply, by 78 percent
in 1976, and 139 percent in 1977, as a result of prolonged drought and the
stringent limitations on food imports. Another major factor exerting strong
pressure on prices has been rising Government budget deficits financed
by the banking system (the major part by the Bank of Ghana) and the rise in
the money supply. In 1977 alone, the money supply rose by 50 percent. With
no significant increases in production in the economy, the rate of inflation
accelerated. For some time, the Government attempted to dampen inflation by
limiting sales of certain consumer goods (e.g. milk, sugar, mackerel, baby
foods, cement) through approved outlets at controlled prices. However,
the scheme turned out to be unworkable and was abandoned in mid-1977. The
current policy is to work towards the gradual dismantling of price controls.
12.       Faced with a critical foreign exchange shortage, stagnating produc-
tion, spiralling inflation and a greatly overvalued exchange rate, Government
commenced a program of stabilization in June 1978. A managed downward "float"
of the cedi was introduced, and in August 1978, a 58 percent devaluation took
place which changed the rate to 02.75 to one US dollar, compared with a fixed
rate of ¢1.15 = US$1 (which had been in force from 1973 until June 1978).



- 4 -
Government also announced its intention to pursue a flexible exchange rate
policy. The devaluation was quickly followed up with a tough budget for
1978/79 which aims at drastically reducing the overall budget deficit to about
0738 million, compared with a deficit of about ¢2.2 billion in 1977/78. This
is to be achieved through cuts in real capital and current expenditures and
from an improved revenue effort resulting from highler duties and better tax
collection. Other measures include: a doubling of cocoa producer price from
040 to ¢80 a headload to stimulate production; a 25 percent limit on increases
in money supply in 1978/79; and tightening of credit. Financial intermedi-
aries were given new guidelines for lending which give preferential treatment
to agriculture and export industries especially those using local raw mate-
rials. Bank reserve ratios were increased, as were deposit and lending rates,
in order to reduce liquidity in the economy and control inflation. Treasury
Bill discount rate was raised from 7-3/4 percent to 12 percent. In support
of government's stabilization policies, a one-year standby arrangement of SDR
53 million and a Trust Fund Loan of SDR 25 million (totalling US$102 million)
were approved by the IMF in January 1979, based on a program including under-
standings on external borrowing, credit expansion, and fiscal performance.
Progress under the stabilization program will be reviewed by the IMF and
Government in May 1979.
13.       In March 1979 the Ghana Government effected a currency reform in an
attempt to further reduce liquidity in the economy and restore confidence in
the currency. Old Cedi notes were exchanged for new ones at two rates. For
amounts up to old 05,000, 7 new Cedis were exchanged for 10 old Cedis; for
amounts exceeding old t5,000, 5 new Cedis exchanged for 10 old Cedis. Bank
deposits, Government securities, share certificates and coins retained their
former values. The effect of this measure should be to contract money supply
and dampen inflation.
Prospects
14.       Ghana is relatively well endowed in terms of natural resources and
has the potential to achieve a rate of growth considerably in excess of its
performance so far this decade. The country's slow growth in revenues and
export earnings have severely hampered progress towards the goal set out in
the Five-Year Development Plan (1975/76 to 1979/80) and the restoration of
economic stability is an essential prerequisite for Ghana to resume effec-
tive development. Recent measures on the balance of payments and the budget
reflect an awareness of needed policy directions, but the severe external
resource constraint and the rate of inflation will require a sustained effort
to restore external and domestic equilibrium.
15.       Ghana's growth prospects over the next few years will depend to a
considerable extent on constant re-assessment and follow-up actions in support
of the objectives of the current stabilization program. Key policy measures
should continue to aim at: (a) correcting the imbalance on external account
through a more realistic structure of prices and costs and the maintenance



of a viable exchange rate; (b) reducing the strong inflationary tendencies
associated with large public sector deficits; (c) promoting an expansion of
domestic production through more appropriate price incentives, more assured
supplies of necessary inputs and greater productivity of investment, and (d)
the implementation of a public investment program aimed primarily at expanding
the productive capacity of the economy, with emphasis on the export sectors.
Stabilization is clearly a formidable task and is likely to take time. On
the basis of the policy advances effected so far, and with improvements in
performance over the recent past, growth in GDP of 3 percent per annum should
be feasible. With more exceptional performance improvements, the economy is
capable of even higher rates of growth. However, the attainment of even a
modest rate of growth will require that Ghana's own efforts be supported by
an augmented flow of external assistance to overcome the present external
resource constraint.
External Debt and Credit-Worthiness
16.       An agreement on a long-term rescheduling of Ghana's medium-term
external debt was concluded in March 1974. Under this agreement, all payments
due after February 1, 1972, in respect of pre-1966 debt obligations, will be
paid over a period of 28 years, including a grace period of 10 years, at 2-1/2
percent per annum. At present, Ghana's medium- and long-term external public
debt is small; debt outstanding and disbursed at end 1977 is estimated at
US$785 million representing only 5 percent of GDP. The public debt service
ratio was about 4 percent and is expected to rise only modestly to around
7.0 percent in the late 1980s after the grace period on the rescheduled debt
expires in 1982. The short-term debt as of September 1978 stood at US$376
million of which US$60 million were originally 180-day import credits dating
before 1972, US$215 million were commercial bills for goods exported to Ghana
after 1972 as well as for services and US$60 million were backlog of transfers
and dividends.
17.       As at end-December 1978, a total of US$295.8 million had been com-
mitted by the Bank Group to Ghana (US$190.5 million in Bank loans and US$105.3
million IDA credits), of which US$121.5 million was yet to be disbursed. As
at the same date Bank loans and IDA credits represented 7.7 percent and 10.1
percent respectively of the country's total public external debt, and service
payments on Bank loans and IDA credits accounted for 16.4 percent and 2.4 per-
cent respectively of the country's external debt service. Ghana is relying on
official sources for the bulk of the external capital required to support its
development program, and relatively little of its medium- and long-term borrow-
ing is on commercial terms.
18.       In view of the present direction in Government policy, Ghana can be
considered creditworthy for limited Bank lending.  This is also supported by
the low present and prospective debt service ratio. However, the country's
vulnerability to fluctuations in the export earnings of cocoa and the gener-
ally difficult economic situation make it desirable that future debt service
obligations should be kept as low as possible. Therefore, IDA credits will
have to constitute the bulk of Bank Group assistance to Ghana in the next few
years. This is also consistent with Ghana's relatively low per capita income.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GHANA
19.       Since 1962, when the Bank Group financed its first operation in
Ghana, the Bank has made 10 loans totalling US$190.5 million and 13 credits
totalling US$105.3 million. Bank Group lending has covered power generation
and distribution, highways, agricultural development (including oil palm,
cocoa, sugar, livestock, fisheries and smallholders), water supply, telecom-
munications and a DFC operation. Ghara is also a beneficiary of a Bank-
financed cegional clinker project covEring three nations (Togo, Iv.)ry Coast
and Ghana). The recent high inflatior in Ghana and the shortage of foreign
exchange have adversely affected the implementation of several ongoing proj-
ects. Anaex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits to
Ghana as of February 28, 1979, with nctes on the execution of ongo[ng projects.
There are no IFC investments.
20.       The principal objectives of Bank Group assistance to Ghaxa are:
(a) to su?port the adoption of economic policies designed to strengthen
the balance of payments and improve dcmestic demand management, (b) to help
rehabilitate and expand production of cocoa, the country's main foreign
exchange earner, (c) to promote agricultural and industrial diversification,
particularly for export promotion and efficient import substitution, and (d)
to improve the country's esssential infrastructure so as to relieve con-
straints upon economic growth. The Bank Group is also supporting projects
which would raise the living standards of the poorer groups of the population.
21.       In line with the country's development priorities, future Bank
Group lending will place increasing emphasis on the agricultural and indus-
trial sectors. In agriculture, an integrated smallholder project designed
to improve farm incomes and standards of living of up to one million farming
population in the Volta Region has been appraised. This would be the second
Bank-financed integrated agricultural project in Ghana, following a similar
smallholder project in the Upper Region which is being implemented. In order
to support further agricultural development, a feeder roads project has been
appraised which would improve, rehabilitate and maintain about 1,500 km of
feeder roads. Following the two ongoing cocoa projects - one in the Eastern
Region and the other in the Ashanti Region - further assistance is contem-
plated for increased cocoa output to strengthen Ghana's foreign exchange
earnings. As a prelude to a third project, a cocoa sector study will shortly
be undertaken to analyze the present constraints to increased production
and to make future policy recommendations for the sector. In industry, the
proposed second line of credit to NIB seeks to stimulate increased production
and improved capacity utilization in priority manufacturing and agro-indus-
trial enterprises so as to expand the industry's contribution to foreign
exchange earnings and savings and strengthen linkages with other sectors.
This would be followed by a small-scale industries project, currently under
preparation, which would provide financial and technical assistance to small
entrepreneurs utilizing local raw materials.



22.        In infrastructure, a railway rehabilitation project aiming at
strengthening the finances and operations of the Ghana Railways Corporation
and improving the capacity of the railways for the movement of Ghanaian
exports is being considered. A technical assistance project designed to
strengthen the Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation, which had been assisted
under previous Bank Group projects, has recently been appraised. Also under
consideration is an urban development project which would seek low cost
solutions to Ghana's urban problems and provide sites and services, infra-
structural and social services as well as urban employment in low income
areas.
23.       ks noted in Part I of this Report, Ghana has experienced severe
economic difficulties during the last few years and, as a consequence of the
deteriorating situation, there was a hiatus in Bank Group lending during the
last two years. Continued improvement in the government's management of the
economy will be important in determining the level of future Bank Group
lending.
PART III - THE MANUFACTURING AND FINANCIAL SECTORS AND INSTITUTIONS
The Manufacturing Sector
24.       Manufacturing industry accounts for 10 percent of GDP and employs
about 12 percent of the labor force. The major activities of the sector are
timber and wood products, building materials, food processing, fabrics and
textiles and metal products. In the past the manufacturing sector received a
great deal of official attention and favor. Shortly after attaining its
independence in 1957, Ghana embarked upon an ambitious program intended
to transform its predominantly agrarian society into an industrialized economy.
During 1956-66, muclh of the investment was in state enterprises, financed
mainly by suppliers' credits and budgetary deficits. Many of these enter-
prises proved to be inefficient and uneconomic, protected only by high import
tariffs and quantitative controls. Since mid-1960's, however, more encourage-
ment was given to private entrepreneurship with greater recognition of tradi-
tional manufacturing activities mostly carried out in snall-scale enterprises.
25.       Manufacturilg industry in Ghana suffers from a ntmiber of structural
weaknesses. The most significant is industry's excessive dependence on
imports and resulting under-utilization of capacity due to the severe foreign
exchange shortage.  Ghanaian industrial firms typically have little domestic
linkages with other sectors. The production of indigenous consumer goods
and intermediates based on local materials has been lhampered by an overvalued
currenicy and price conttrols which make industrial crops unattractive to
Ghanaian farmers. Technology has been unnecessarily capital-intensive, in
part because of factor price distortions arising from duty-free imports of
machinery, extensive recourse to suppliers' credit financing and an inappro-
priate licensing system.  As most industries are excessively dependent on
imported raw materials and components, the effect of severe import restric-
tions during the last few years has been particularly heavy on this sector.
As a result, the sector is estimated to have operated at 30 percent of capacity
in 1977, with capacity utilization in individual firms varying from 10 percent
to 70 percent.



- 8 -
26.       In 1977, the Goverlnment formulated a policy framework for manufac-
turing which aimed at rationalizing allocation of foreign exchange resources
to reflect the sector's priorities, stimulating industrial exports and expand-
ing domestic linkages with other sectors. The import licensing authorities
were directed to channel foreign exchlange to agro-industries emphasizing food
and local raw material processing, to export-oriented enterprises, to priority
companies suffering from underutilized capacity, and to labor-intensive activi-
ties. A set of incentives, including export bonus and an import bonus tax
structure favoring firms using domestic inputs was meant to support the pro-
gram. A special 0 30 million export credit facility was set aside for manu-
facturers with export contracts.  Unfortunately, the overvalued exchange rate,
the foreign exchange shortage and the continuing high level of inflation
neutralized most of the Government efforts.
27.       The macro-economic policy changes over the past few months have
improved the sectoral outlook and the investment climate. Steps have already
been taken to phase out price controls on all but the most essential con-
sumer items, as part of a policy to progressively place greater reliance on
market mech-ianisms.  In addition, the Government will limit the creation of
new industries to the following categories: (a) agro-industrial and fishing
enterprises, including plantations, processing and storage facilities; (b)
enterprises, particularly small-scale, using local materials; (c) export-
oriented industries based on local inputs; (d) local building materials
industries; and (e) foundry and engineering works producing replacement
parts.
Financial Sector
28.       Monetary policy in Ghana aims at achieving two objectives:  (a) to
contain overall expansion of money supply; and (b) to influence the flow
of credit to priority sectors.  Under a recent set of guidelines, the Govern-
ment has increased the average cash reserve ratio of banks to 48 percent (from
20 percent in 1976 and 42.8 percent in 1977).  Interest rates were also raised
substantially.  New deposit rates now range from 12 to 13 percent as compared
with 4-1/2 to 8 percent previously.  New Central Bank lending rates to banks
are 12 to 14-1/2 percent, while new lending rates of banks are 13 percent to
agriculture, 15 percent on Government-guaranteed loans and 18-1/2 percent on
all otther loans.  The Governrnent has also tiglitened credit allocation guide-
lines for banks, with agriculture, export trade and inidustry beinig allowed the
greatest degree of credit expansiorn.  Banks are required to limit ttieir
lending in commslerce, consumiiier credit and import trade to pre-June 1978 levels.
29.       Currently 12 banks, including the Central Bank (bank of Ghana),
are operating in Gharna.  The main banking institutions whichl )rovide medium
and long-term credit are:  the Agricultural Development Bank (ADB) servicing
smallholder and commercial farmLers and fishing industries; thie baLnk for
Housing and Construction (BIlC) financing housing, civil works and building
materials indtistries; and the National Investment Bank (NIB) servicing the
manufacturing, agro-industrial ana related service indlustries.  All of the
above are governmenit-owned institutions.  The Development Finance Departmenit



-9-
(DFD) of the Central Bank is operating a guarantee scheme to promote commer-
cial bank lending to small-scale industries and low and middle-income housing
and has sponsored the establishment of five rural banks to serve agriculture.
Major commercial banks including the Ghana Commercial Bank (GCB), Barclays
Bank (Ghana) and Standard Bank (Ghana) have extended some medium-term credit
in the past but their present activities are confined essentially to short-
term credits. Thus NIB is virtually the sole source of term lending for
industry in Ghana.
National Investment Bank
A.   Ownership and Capital Structure
30.       The National Investment Bank (NIB), a publicly-owned development
finance companiy, was created in 1963 to promote and finance mainly private
but also public enterprises in all productive sectors. It is the main
Ghanaian institution for providing medium- and long-term financing to the
manufactiAring sector. Funds are extended through term loans, subscription
shares in enterprises, or both. NIB also provides short-term financing to
term borrowers throtugh the institution's commercial banking facilities. In
addition, NIB performs preliminary project reviews and feasibility studies
to identify and promote investment opportunities. NIB has an authorized
share capital of ¢ 40 million. The current paid-in share capital stands
at t 29 million of which the Government of Ghana holds ¢ 25 million (86
percent). nTe Deuitsche Entwicklung Cesellschaft (DEG) of Germany has agreed
to subscribe AM 2 million and, combined with further anticipated subscrip-
tions by the Governnment and private investors, the full authorized share
capital is expected to be subscribed by mid-1980.
B.   Management and Organization
31.       NIB has a Board of six members with the Managing Director acting as
Clhairman.  The other members include the Managing Director of GiLna Commercial
Bank (GCB), the Deputy Governor of the Central Bank, the Principal Secretaries
of thie Ministries of Finance and Industry and a representative from the pri-
vate sector.  The Board, which meets once a month, approves ill loans and
investments above ¢ 250,000. Applications below 4 250,000 are approved by a
House Committee composed of NIB's senior management.
32.       nhe nucleus of the organization consists of the three Regional
Operations Departments, the Development Service Institute (DSI), the Financial
Department and the Legal Department.  A Commercial Banking Department operates
under the Financial Department. The Regional Departments share the tasks of
project promotion and identification with DSI, which is charged withi the re-
sponsibility for NIB's project preparation and appraisal activities.  Decen-
tralization of operations has become an important objective of NIB. Six branch
offices in the major centers outside Accra provide commercial banking services,
receive and screen loan applications and supervise ongoing projects.



- 10 -
33.       NIB has a total staff of 374, of which 80 are at the professional
level. Mr. E.R. Obeng-Ansong, the Managing Director since January 1978 and
previously Deputy Managing Director, is supported by competent and experienced
senior staff, including the Chief Financial Officer, Director of DSI and the
thiree Regional Directors. Overall quality of the professional. staff is good.
There is some turnover at lower levels; however NIB is successful in recruit-
ing and training new staff both through in-house programs and through courses
offered abroad.  Further strengthening of NIB's project identification apprai-
sal and supervision activities would be provided through technical assistance
to be financed under the proposed credit (para. 54 below).
C.   Operating Policies
34.       NIB's Act limits its debt/equity ratio to 3:1.  Its other major
finanicial policies, as stated in its By-Laws, include the following:  (a)
NIB's financial exposure is limited normally to 75 percent of the total cost
of a pro;ject; (b) as a rule, NIB refrains from majority participation in
enterprises it assists (in cases where it has majority participation under
exceptional circumstances, it will seek to return to a minority position
as soon as feasible); (c) equity investment in any single enterprise is re-
stricted to 10 percent of NIB's ow-n equity and total equity investments are
limited to NIB's paid-in share capital plus reserves; and (d) NIB will limit
its total exposure (loans, equity and guarantees) in any one enterprise to
20 percent of its total equity.
35.       Since September 1978, NIB charges 18-1/2 percent interest on non-
agricultural local currency term loans and 17-1/2 percent on local currency
agricultural loans. In addition NIB charges a 1 percent per annum commit-
ment fee on undrawn balances and a one-time 1 percent service fee. Short-term
borrowers pay 18-1/2 percent with no charges. These rates conform to Central
Bank regulations and result in a 5 percent spread above the present Central
Bank rate of 13-1/2 percent. Furthermore, NIB enjoys a comfortable average
5-1/2 percent spread on its local resources.
D. Operations
36.       As at September 30, 1978, total cumulative loan approvals amounted
to t 157 million of which 87 percent were to the industrial sector and the
renmainder (13 percent) were to agriculture and financial institutions. The
equity portfolio and guarantees outstanding amounted to 0 15.0 million and
¢ 4.7 million respectively. In terms of the number of individual operations,
the above amounts correspond to 779 loans, 55 equity investments and 9 guar-
antee approvals. As of September 1978, NIB had extended loans of over 4 1
million each to 25 companiies, representing a total of t 84 million or 56
percent of total loan value. The remaining loans numbering 754 tended to



- 11 -
smaller operations with an average loan size of 0 87,000. The proportion
of NIB loans to private sector (as opposed to public enterprises) increased
steadily from 63 percent by value in 1974 to 88 percent in 1978. In terms of
geographic distribution, about 31 percent of the loans outstanding by value
went to the Greater Accra Region, while the remainder (69 percent) went to
other parts of the country. The main industrial activities for which loans
were approved involved tiles and ceramics, agro-industries, mining and quarries.
Other important subsectors include wood products, textiles and metal works.
37.       Since the Bank's initial contacts with NIB, arrears have presented
a major problem. An important contributing factor has been the shortage of
foreign exchange for spare parts, raw materials and equipment. Other reasons
for arrears have been marketing and technical problems, weak management and
the impact of bad weather on agricultural loans. The percentage of portfolio
affected by arrears of more than three months, excluding projects under
construction, was reduced from 77 percent by the end of 1975 to 31.2 percent
as of December 1977. The most recent exposure rate as of September 1978 was
22.3 percent. During 1977, 83 loans had been rescheduled amounting to 0 19.1
million. Of these, 55 were agricultural loans, representing 20 percent by
value of portfolio affected, whose repayments were affected by poor weather
conditions. Manufacturing loans constituted 53 percent of portfolio re-
scheduled (16 loans), the majority of whose problems were caused mainly by
under-utilized capacity resulting from the shortage of foreign exchange. The
remaining 12 projects operating in service industries faced managerial and
technical problems as well as foreign exchange scarcities.
38.       Recently NIB has considerably tightened up collection procedures and
rigorously pursued accounts in arrears. Of 338 loans outstanding, excluding
projects under construction, as of September 1978, there were 139 loans
amounting to 0 15.6 million affected by arrears of more than 3 months, all of
them in the private sector. The absolute amounts in arrears was 0 6.0 million
or 8.5 percent of portfolio outstanding. Of these 139 loans, legal action has
been taken or contemplated against 56 clients. To cover these arrears, provi-
sions for bad debts had been increased to 0 7.2 million, representing 6.3
percent of outstanding term loan and equity portfolio. The provisions more
than adequately cover absolute amounts in arrears, and are considered suffi-
cient to cover possible defaults on existing loans.
E.   Financial Position
39.       As of September 30, 1978, NIB's financial condition remained
basically sound with equity and reserves totalling 0 35.2 million and term
borrowing of 0 111 million against a total term loan and equity portfolio
of 0 135.6 million. NIB's net profits increased substantially from 0 536,000
in 1974 to 0 2,174,000 in 1977. Net profit as a percentage of average total
assets increased somewhat moderately from 1.5 percent in 1974 to 1.7 percent
in 1977, reflecting rapid increases in total assets and provisions for bad
debts. Between 1974 and 1977, gross income as a percentage of average total
assets rose from 7.3 percent to 10.6 percent, largely as a result of a marked
increase in return on loan portfolio, while return on average net worth
increased from 6.5 percent in 1976 to 18.5 percent in 1978. NIB's accounts
are satisfactorily audited by qualified auditors (Panel, Fitzpatrick & Co.).



- 12 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
40.       The proposed credit would be the second line of credit to NIB by
the Bank Group. The objectives of the first project, which was approved in
1975 (a US$10 million loan, 1180-GH), were to provide foreign exchange for
sound industrial, agro-industrial and tourism projects and to assist the
institutional growth of NIB. Despite the current environment, NIB's perfor-
mance in identifying new projects of economic priority has been particularly
effective. So far, a total of 30 sub-projects representing total investments
of about US$29 million have been approved by the Bank. Ten sub-projects were
in agro-industries; eight sub-projects in manufacturing half of which depended
mainly on local inputs; eight sub-projects in the service industries, and the
remaining four were in the quarry industry. The loan is almost fully commit-
ted except for about US$0.1 million, which is expected to be committed shortly.
41.       A report entitled "The National Investment Bank of Ghana" - Staff
Appraisal Report (No. 1743a-GH, dated April 16, 1979) is being distributed
separately. The project had originally been appraised in April 1977 but, due
to the deteriorating macro-economic situation at the time, further processing
was held in abeyance. The project was reappraised in November/ December 1978.
Negotiations were held in Washington, D. C. from April 4 to April 9, 1979.
Mrs. Mary Chinery-Hesse, Principal Secretary, Ministry of Economic Planning
and Mr. E.R. Obeng-Ansong, Managing Director of NIB represented the Borrower
and NIB respectively in the negotiations.
Project Objectives
4?.       The project would assist in expanding and rehabilitating Ghana's
manufacturing capacity with special emphasis on the sector's contribution to
increased foreign exchange earnings and savings and improving domestic link-
ages with agriculture and other sectors. The project also aims at increased
utilization of the existing industrial capacity through provision of foreign
exchange working capital and thereby to bring about an immediate increase in
industrial output, which is urgently needed to underpin the government's
current economic stabilization program. The formulation and implementation of
a nation-wide export and marketing program and strengthening NIB's promotional
and appraisal capacity would be additional objectives of the project.
NIB Pipeline and Resources
43.       NIB has a sizeable pipeline of investment projects at various stages
of preparation. The NIB's most recent pipeline as of September 1978 contained
25 manufacturing, agro-industries and related service projects requiring term-
financing. These projects amount to ¢ 89 million, of which ¢ 57 million
(US$20.8) represents a foreign exchange requirement. Of the 25 projects, 21
projects are in the private sector and the remaining 4 projects are publicly



- 13 -
owned enterprises. Of the projects in the private sector, 16 project applica-
tions are to assist existing enterprises requiring expanded capacity, while
the remaining 5 projects will be new ventures. By types of activities, wood
processing which is mainly export-oriented, is the largest category accouniting
for 32 percent of total costs of the pipeline, followed by building materials
and ceramics (31 percent) and agro-based industries (12 percent).
44.       In reviewing existing companies encountering production and opera-
tional problems due to foreign exchange working capital shiortages, NIB lhas
identified 62 firms, of which NIB estimates that 52 companies requiring
¢ 28 million (US$10.2 million) in foreign exchange for working capital would
immediately qualify for assistance under Government's and NIB's guidelines
(see paras. 27 and 55). About 20 of these companies are in the export
field, representing 36 percent of the amounts required. As NIB staff contin-
ues exploring the demand for such short-term financing, it is estimated that
additional eligible companies requiring at least a further US$10 million will
be identified within the coming months.
45.        Based oni its pipeline, NIB expects to approve about t 72 million
in term financing during 1979 and 1980, representing about US$16 million
in foreign exchange (t 44 million). In addition, NIB would require during
this period about US$20 million in foreign exchange to finance the working
capital program.  As at September 30, 1978, NIB's foreign exchange resources
position showed a surplus of about 4 6.5 million (US$2.3 million).  Other
than about US$0.1 million remaining uncommitted on the Bank's first line
of credit to NIB, DM2 million expected from DEG's equity investment and
about US$0.9 million equivalent available from FED Indicative Aid Prograimme,
the proposed IDA and EEC credit would constitute the only expected major
external source of foreign exchange during 1979 and 1980. NIB's management
intends to approach other possible lenders to fill the estimated foreign
exchange resource gap of about US$5.0 million which would begin emerging in
late 1980. To sum up, NIB's projected foreign exchange commitments during
1979 and 1980 are expected to be met from the following sources:
Commitments (1979-80)
(in US$ Millions)-
Sources                           Term Lending       Working Capital Lending
NIB's net resource position
as of September 30, 1978               2.3
Proposed IDA/EEC line of credit        12.2                    12.0
Proposed Government allocation                                  3.0
DEG equity investment                   1.1
FED Indicative Aid Program              0.9
Uncommitted balance of Bank's
first line of credit                   0.1
Others (resource gap)                    -                      5.0
16.6                   20.0



- 14 -
46.       The local currency resource requirements to 1980 amounting to about
0 28 million would be met by: (a) net cash generation mainly from term
lending and commercial bank operations; (b) equity subscription following the
raising in 1977 of NIB's authorized share capital from ¢ 20 million to ¢ 40
million; (c) issuances of Government guaranteed NIB bonds; NIB has raised
substantial funds in this manner in the past.
Project Description
47.       The project would provide foreign exchange to finance the following
components: (a) term loans (US$12.2 million) for expansion and rehabilita-
tion of productive capacity of high priority manufacturing, agro-industrial
and related service enterprises; (b) a two-year working capital program
(US$15 million) for importation of spare parts and raw materials to assist
high priority ongoing projects whose operations have been adversely affected
by the shortage of foreign exchange; and (c) technical assistance to the
Government (US$0.5 million) for preparation and implementation of an export
and marketing program and to NIB (US$0.3 million) for project identification,
appraisal and supervision activities. The proposed IDA credit of US$19
million would cover term loans (US$12.2 million), part of the working capital
component (US$6 million), and technical assistance (US$0.8 million). The
remaining foreign exchange working capital requirements would be met by the
proposed US$6 million credit from the EEC Special Action Account and a US$3
million allocation from the Government's own resources.
Re-lending Terms
48.       The IDA credit for term lending (US$12.2 million) and working
capital (US$6 million) and the US$6 million EEC Special Action credit for
the working capital component, would be relent by the Government to NIB at
13-1/2 percent interest per annum in accordance with a subsidiary loan agree-
ment satisfactory to IDA (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.01).
The repayment by NIB of the amount relent for the term lending component would
conform substantially to the aggregate of the amortization schedules of NIB's
sub-loans to term borrowers. The amount relent for the working capital
component totalling US$12 million would be repaid to the Government at the end
of the fourth loan cycle under the Revolving Import Fund scheme as described
in paragraph 53 below. Of the US$0.8 million of the IDA credit earmarked for
technical assistance, US$0.3 million would be advanced to NIB as a grant,
while the remaining US$0.5 million would be used directly by the Government.
In order to simplify procedures, relending of the proceeds of the EEC credit
from government to NIB would be denominated in one currency, i.e., US dollars
(as would the proceeds of US$6 million of the IDA credit), although the
Government's repayment obligations to EEC would be in a mixture of EEC
currencies in accordance with the provisions of the EEC Special Action Account.
Term Lending
49.       NIB's term loans would finance full direct and estimated indirect
foreign exchange capital costs of manufacturing, agro-industrial and related
service enterprises of all sizes, whose operations are consistent with the
criteria agreed with the Government and NIB (see para. 55 below). Foreign
exchange costs would represent approximately 65 percent of the total invest-
ment costs of sub-projects. Firms selected would be both existing companies



- 15 -
requiring equipment and machinery for expansion and rehabilitation, as well as
new projects eligible under recent Government guidelines (see para. 27 above).
It is expected that the proposed amount would be fully committed by early
1981. A maximum maturity of 15 years, including 3 years of grace, would be
authorized.  It is estimated that the average life of a sub-loan would be 7
years. A free limit on individual sub-loans of US$200,000 and an aggregate
free limit of US$5 million are proposed.
50.       In line with the current maximum interest rate applied by NIB and
other banking institutions in Ghana, term loans under the proposed project
would carry an 18-1/2 percent interest per annum. Also, a 1 percent
per annum commitment fee on undrawn balance and a one-time 1 percent service
fee will apply in accordanlce with normal NIB practices. In addition, sub-
borrowers utilizing term loans would have an option of either assuming the
full foreign exchange risk or paying a foreign exchange risk premium of 10
percent per annum on outstanding sub-loan balances with the Government assuming
the full foreign exchange risk. This latter option would afford protection to
term sub-borrowers from sudden and potentially unmanageable increases in their
repayment obligations. The full amount of the foreign exchange risk premium
under this option would be passed directly to the Government by NIB. As a
measure to encourage exports, however, sub-borrowers opting to pay the premium
would be eligible to receive a refund of the premium paid equal to 5 percent
of their actual export sales up to the aggregate amount of the premium paid
over the entire sub-loan period (draft Project Agreement, Section 3.05).
Working Capital Lending
51.       The working capital component of the project would finance the
importation of spare parts and raw materials urgently needed by priority
enterprises which either have had to halt operation or are operating signi-
ficantly below capacity due to foreign exchange shortages. NIB would pro-
vide each selected sub-borrower a sub-loan amounting to 80 percent of the
foreign exchange needs with the sub-borrower contributing the remaining 20
percent in cash (Cedis) which would be immediately converted into foreign
exchange by the Government. The selection of enterprises eligible for the
working capital assistance would be guided by the same criteria as applicable
to term loans (see para 55 below). The working capital sub-loans would carry
interest at 18-1/2 percent per annum. No commitment or service charges would
apply in accordance with normal NIB practices for such short-term credits.
The average life of each sub-loan would be 18 months with a maximum maturity
of 2 years in any individual case; no prepayment privileges would be permit-
ted. Working capital sub-borrowers would assume the full foreign exchange
risk between the Cedi and the US dollar. The government would assume the risk
with respect to exchange fluctuations between the US dollar and EEC currencies
(draft Project Agreement, Section 3.05). For this component, a free limit of
US$50,000 per enterprise and an aggregate free limit of US$3 million are
proposed.
52.       The current maximum interest rate of 18-1/2 percent which would
apply to NIB sub-loans under the proposed project is still negative when



- 16 -
measured against current inflation rates. Nevertheless, it represents a sub-
stantial increase over former rates (8 to 12-1/2 percent) and a move in the
right direction, taking into account the additional 10 percent foreign exchange
risk premium. This level is also consistent with the Government's stabilization
objectives which aim at reducing the rate of inflation to 25 percent by 1980
and below 20 percent in 1981 and thereafter. It was agreed that the interest
rate and the exchange risk premium would be reviewed periodically and modified
upon agreement between the Government, IDA and NIB (draft Project Agreement,
Section 3.05).
Revolving Import Fund
53.       In order to achieve maximum impact of the foreign exchange working
capital component and to promote allocations of foreign exchange in support of
high priority enterprises, NIB would establish and administer a Revolving
Import Fund from the repayments of the working capital sub-loans (US$12
million), which would revolve four additional times under the Fund arrange-
ment. New applications for foreign exchange under each of the four lending
cycLes will continue being 80 percent covered by NIB's credit (through the
Fund) with the 20 percent balance constituting the clients' cash contribu-
tions, and the entire amounts converted by the Government into foreign
exchange. The Government gave an assurance that all the local currency
amounts received in this Fund would be converted into foreign exchange in this
manner (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.02). Including the
approximate eight-year life of the Fund, the project would generate a total of
US$75 million in foreign exchange for working capital financing. The eligi-
bility criteria, terms and conditions of the sub-loans from the Fund would be
identical with those applicable to initial working capital assistance as
stipulated in para 51 above. While sub-borrowers would bear the US$/Cedi
exchange risk during the period when sub-loans are outstanding, the Government
would assume the full foreign exchange risk during the period when the funds
are in the hands of NIB (i.e., after collection of loans from previous lending
cycle but before commitment of new loans for the subsequent cycle).
Technical Assistance
54.       Primary objectives of technical assistance to NIB would be to reor-
ganize and strengthen NIB's project identification and promotion efforts
to permit it to reactivate and improve its project pipeline, which has rundown
over the past year, and to bolster NIB's appraisal and supervision capacity.
The project would provide US$300,000 to enable NIB to obtain about 3-1/2
man-years of expert and consultant services including an industrial economist
and short-term consultants in selected sub-sectors. The project would also
provide US$500,000 for 6 man-years of technical assistance to assist the
Government in formulating and implementing an export promotion program with
emphasis on non-traditional exports. While this would involve reviewing
existing export policies and programs, main focus would be placed on insti-
tutional and procedural improvements as well as establishment of an actual
export program and mechanism, including exploration of long-term contractual



- 1 7 -
agreements with overseas buyers. The average man-monthl cost of the techtnical
assistance is estimated at US$6,70U.
Investment Criteria
55.       NIB has considerably strengthened and tightened its project invest-
ment guidelines to conform with new credit regulations and the government's
investment priorities in allocating foreign exchange to ensure that it is
financing projects of the highest priority.  All sub-projects receiving loans
or equity of over US$200,UO0 would undergo an economic rate of return analysis.
Financial analysis would be conducted on all sub-projects involving loans above
US$50,000. For both ternm and working capital financing under the proposed
project, priority would be given to export-oriented projects and projects
utilizing at least 40 percent local raw materials in production. Consider-
ation would also be given to maximum utilization of installed industrial
capacity and efficient import substitution schemes. In general, NIB would
give priority to enterprises whose production output contains 40 percent or
more domestic value added and in all cases would require a mininum of 30
percent domestic value added.
Procurement and Disbursement
56.       The EEC Special Action credit which would finance a part of the
working capital component would be disbursed by IDA as Administrator against
goods supplied from EEC member countries and the developing countries eligible
to receive assistance under the EEC Special Action Account. Foreign exchange
disbursements from the EEC/IDA lines of credit would, in the case of each
working capital sub-loan, represent 80 percent of the total foreign exchange
requirement with the Government allocating the remaining 20 percent in foreign
exchange. Procuremernt would be handled through normal commercial channels.
Disbursements would be 100 percent of the foreign currency costs of imported
goods, 80 percent of the invoiced price of imported goods purchased locally,
70 percent of invoiced price of goods produced in Ghana with substantial
import content and 50 percent of the costs of civil works. Technical assis-
tance personnel to be financed under the project would be employed with
qualifications and on terms and conditions saitsfactory to IDA (draft Project
Agreement, Section 2.11; draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.01).
NIB's Financial Forecast
57.       Over the period to 1982, NIB's financial performance is expected
to be satisfactory. Net profit as a percentage of average total assets is
projected to rise to 2.1 percent by the end of 1979, while net profit as a
percentage of average net worth is estimated to increase to 19.6 percent.
Growth in profitability will be due to increased earnings on an expanded
loan portfolio and also to commercial banking profits.  IHighter lending
rates will more than offset the effects of increased costs of NIB's borrowed
resources. Liquidity is adequate; debt service coverage remains at a minimum
of 1.9 throughout the period. NIB will continue its policy of maintaining



- 18 -
adequate provisions for bad debts and plans to increase general reserves.
NIB's debt/equity ratio, incorporating the proposed IDA/EEC lines of credit
would, however, exceed the present 3:1 limit. It was agreed that NIB's
debt/equity ratio limit should be increased to 5:1, which is still consi-
dered a conservative ratio as compared with other similar institutions (draft
Project Agreement, Section 3.03).
58.        I)uring the last few years NIB has considerably strengthened and
improved supervision and collection procedures and has been able to control
arrears quite effectively (see paras 37-38 above). The most recent exposure
rate of 22.3 percent as of September 1978 represents a significant improvement
and it is important that NIB continue to press for recovery of arrears and to
limit the exposure rate to an acceptable level. It was agreed that NIB would
take all nieasures satisfactory to IDA to maintain the proportion of its
portfolio affected by arrears of more than 3 months at below 30 percent (draft
Project Agreement, Section 3.07).
Beriefits
59.       Benefits of the project include increased output and employment in
the industrial sector, increased foreign exchange earnings and savings, more
efficient utilization of the existing capital base, and the promotion of
Ghanaian entrepreneurship. Also, the development of non-traditional exports
and promotion of greater links to domestic inputs would help to ensure
industry's long-term viability by reducing its reliance on imported inputs and
diverifying Ghana's export industries. The financial rate of return on sub-
projects will be adequate to assure viable enterprises. NIB's new investment
criteria are expected to assure that approved sub-projects carry high economic
rates of return.
60.        Considering its sound institutional development since the first Bank
loan and its important role in Ghanaian inldustrial development as a sole
source of term financing, NIB merits continued Bank Group assistance. With
the severe shortage of foreign exchange in Ghana which has had a particularly
hard irmipact on the manufacturing and agro-industrial sector, Bank Group
support at this time will be important for the continued sound development of
this sector.
Risks
61.       Wlile thlere are no major institutional risks involved in lendinig to
NIB, the uncertain economic environment could affect NIB financed projects.
However, given the present direction of the government policy and the progress
so far made in impleraenting the economic stabilization program, this is an
acceptable risk.



- 19 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Ghana and the Association, the draft Special Action Credit Agreement between
the Republic of Ghana and the Association acting as the Administrator of the
EEC Special Action Account, the draft Project Agreement between the Associa-
tion and NIB, the draft Project Agreement between IDA acting as the Adminis-
trator of the EEC Special Action Account and NIB, and the Recommendations of
the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association are being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors.
63.       In addition to the features of the Development Credit Agreement, the
Special Action Credit Agreement and the Project Agreements which are referred
to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III, an additional condition
of effectiveness of both the Development Credit and Special Action Credit
Agreements would be that a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to IDA
has been concluded between the Government and NIB.
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and that the proposed EEC
Special Action credit would comply with the Agreement between the EEC member
states and the Association concerning the EEC Special Action Account.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
development credit and the proposed EEC Special Action credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
Washington, D.C.
April 25, 1979



- 20 -
Annex 1
GHANA - SOCIAL INDICATORS                              Page   1  of  5  pages
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERACtf)
LANI) AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KMA_.)                                                            (MOST RECENT EITIMATE)'
TOTAL         238.5                                    GHANA                          SAME                  NEXT HIGHER
ACRICULTURAL  134.0                                               MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPH5C                   tNCOME
1960k'     I97Qb/       ESTIMATE          urREGIONS'E               GEOUPS
ClNP PER CAPlTA (0U$)                       210.0      270.0         380.0              223.6                    867.2
ENERGY CONS'MPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)           106.0       173.0        157.0(76)           86.7                     578.3
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL, POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                              6.8         8.6         10.6
DREAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)        23.1       29.2          32.0(75)           13.6                     46.2
POPULAT10N PROJECTIONS
POPIILATION IN YEAR 2000 (MIL)                                    21.0
ST4TIONARY POPULATiON (MIL)                                       57.0
YE%R STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                             2130
POPULATION DENSITY
PEb  SQ. EN.                            29.0        36.0          44.0               18.4                    50.8
PE, SQ. KE. AGRICULTURAL LAND          46.0        63.0          79.0               53.6                    93.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YkS.                              44.5        46.9          47.5(77)           44.4                    42.9
15-64 YRS.                              52.3        49.5          49.5(77)           52.7                    53.5
65 YES. AND ABOVE                        3.2         3.6           3.0(77)            2.8                      3.5
POPU .ATION GROWTII RATE (PERCENT)
I FAL                                     4.4        2.4           3.1                2.6                      2.5
URdAN                                    8.2         4 7           4.9                5.8                     4.7
CRD0. BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)            50.0       49.0          48.0(77)           46.9                     37.8
CRUDE DEATII RATE (PER THOUSAND)           26.0       20 0          17.0(77)           20.6                    10.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                     ..         3.2           3.3(77)            3.1                      2.5
FAMILY PLANNINC
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)             ..         8.3          32.0(76)
USERS (PERCENT OP MARRIED WOMEN)          .          2 0           2.1(77)            2.5                    20.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)                105.2      101.0          79.0               94.2                   107.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                         89.0        99.0         101.0               90.1                   105.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)                45.0        46.0          53.4               55.2                    63.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE              ..         10.0!!        16.3               17.1                    21.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE            36.0       29.0          23.0(77)            ,,                      8.0
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECIANCY NY BIRTH (YEARS)           36.5       45.0          48.0(77)           43  7                   57.2
INFANT' MORTALITY RATE (PER THOUSAND)       ..         ..          115.0              138.4                    53.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ,,         35.0          35.0               22.4                    56.8
URBAN                                             86.0          96.0               66.3                    79.0
RURAL                                   ,,        14.0          14.0               10.4                    31.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)                                                                                               30.9
TOTAI.                                            55.0          56.0               23.9                    45.4
UlRBAN                                  ,,        92.0          95.0               70.3                    16.1
RUPAI.J                                           40.0          40.4               14.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN               21000.0    129S0.4fl    1(C200.1(Y6)         217575                   2706.8
POPULATI(N l'ER NURSING PERSON           2740.0O,    107O.0f/      9.860(27)         3473.8                  1462.,
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                 E370.0       760.0         600.0              645.4                   493.3
URBAN                                              770.0         440.0              172.9                   22946
RUITRAL                                   . .      790.0         720.0             1292.6                  29147.9
ADMISSTONS PER HOSPITAL BED                 ..          ..           ..                19.2                    22.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SfZE OF HOUSENOLD
TOTAL                                                4.7                              4.9                     5.2
U10AM                                     ..          ..           ..                 5.0                     5o
RURAL                                     ..         ..            ..                 4.7
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL.
URBAN                                     ..          ..           ..                 ..1.
RURAL                                     ..          .-                                                      2.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT OF
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  ..          ..            ..                 ..                     64.2
R1URAL                                                                                                    3647.4
_ _URA_ _ _  .          _,_ _ _ _ _ _ _  .       _  . _ .    _         _ .3. .1. 3_



-  21. -                                               Annex  I
Page 2 of 3 pages
GHANA - SOCIAL lNDICATORS
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES)
(MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)a/
GHANA                         SAME                   NEXT HIGHER
MOST REEN        GEOGRAPHIC                   INCOME
1960'/ _97Qb          ESTIMAT'E bh      REGIONC/  _G p__           ROUPd/
EDt(A'll ON
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   IT1OAl.                       59.0      61.0          44.0(76)           $2.1                      99.8
FEMALE                      39.0      53.0          38.0(76)           37.6                       93.
MALE                        80.0       69.0         50.0(76)
SECONDARY: TOTAL                          3.0      11.0          50.0t76)            8.0                       33.8
FEMALE                       1.0       6.0          39.0(76)            5.0                       29.8
MALE                         4.0       16.0         59.0(76)
VOCATIONAL. (PERCENTr OF SECONDARY)      13.0      23.0          17.0                7.2                      12.8
l'LU'PIC-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                                  31.0      30.0          30.0               43.2                       34.9
SECONDARY                                 .        1 17.0        23.0               22.8                       22.2
ADIILT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)             27.0-/    30.0          30.0               20.3                       71.8
CONSlUMPTION
PASSENCER CARS PER T'HOUSAND
POPULATION                                3.0       5.0           6.2(76)            3.9                       12.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                               17.0      78.0         107.0(75)           40.1                      104.5
IV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                                Oi./      1.8           6.0(75)            2.2                       28.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL. INTEREST")
CIRCULATION PER TIOUSAND POPULATION    30.0        34.0          51.0(75)            3.9                       45.2
CINEMA ANNUAIL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA        2.0       2.0           0.1(75)            1.2                        4.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCT: (THOUSANDS)           2700.0    3300.0        3700.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                         40.2      41.8          41.6               32.6                       25.7
AGRICULTIURE (PERCENT)                   63.8      58.4          54.0               73.3                       46.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                      14.1       16.7          19.0                -
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                    41.3      38.8          37.6               42.0                       33.8
MALE                                     48.9      45.6          44.3               54.8                       48.1
FEMALE                                   31.5      32.2          31 .0              27.3                       17.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                   1.2       1.3           l.4                1.2                       1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME RECEIVED BY:
HICHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..        ..            ..                25.7                       23.6
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS          ..        ..            ..                55.1                       52.3
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..         ..            .                 5.8                        4.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..         ..           ..                14.5                       13.1
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERIY INCOME
LEVEL (Us$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..        ..          265.0              108.8                      191.9
RURAL                                   ..        ..          137.0               74.1                      193.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL. (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..         ..         152.0              124.4                      319.8
RURAL                                   ..         ..         127.0               59.6                      197.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                   ..        ..            ..                26.8                       19.8
RURAL                                   ..        ..            ..                47.6                       35.1
Not available
Not applicable
NOI'ES
a/  The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage o,f countries among the
inidicators depends on availability of data and is not uniforum.
b/ Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969 and 1971;
and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
e:  Africa South of Sahara; d/ Intermediate Middle Tncome ($551-$1135 per capitl, 1976);  el 1966-68;  f/ Registered,
not all practicing inI the country;  g/ 1962;  h/ The rate is for ages 6 and ovc;  i/ 1964.



Annex 1
- 2  -                                                                   Page 3 of 5 pages
IOUe ITh. adjusted group averagsS fe- each. Indicator are Ppoplstio--weiSht.d geomsattic Meaps, excluding the catrte. values of the keierred the .vot
poPulated country in each group. Coverage of CDutired, smong the iodicstors depend, on availability of date anW is not opifors. Due to lack of d.te.
stoup averages for Capital Surplus oil Saportar. and  odAicer-o. of  .ccaos to voter sad anor.ta di.p .. l, hu                 ing .-om   di.trilutian  and pov..rtyar
simple populatioa-weigbtsd geeintric meanks without the "enlusion of exttome values..
LAM   ARYA (thoussed eq. km)                                                                ponuAletiopne   'oetel bed -  totl   ia."cai    Population  (total,
Total - Total surfear.era  onoeprieing land £ree end inland waters.                          urban  end trkk)l  divided b  thei'r repctv   2:eber of hospital bade
Agiutrl- Most recant eatimat. of agriculturel area used temporarily                   available ia public and priv ta gmeneal end epecialiaed hospital cod ro-
ot pereameetly for crops, pastures. mArbat sod kitthen gardens or to                       habilitationrenteatrs.  Nospitals are anta6liseogas pereapantly staffed by
Ii. tallow.                                                                                at least ena physiodas.  letablishlesmt  provijopg priocipally Cu.todI*I
carek are not included.  Seorai hospitalp. bomemeg. intlude health snd nedi-
cufP P5   APItA (OB    - ON? per ospit.alsiatces at torrent market prices,                col centers not pereseenly staffsd by,a. phynitlen (but by a nediet1 4s-
ecitdb   Ms taoversion Method as World Bank Atles (1975-77 basis);                aistant. nurse, aidwif.. etc.) ebich offer ia-patient accosmod.tioc and
1SC0. 1570. sad 197Y7 jars.                                                                provide a limited   ags of eediaal fatg.Litiae.
frIj,'',,  o,'A               - Total nue"bar  f admissions to or dischergo.
.0   'ffjT~ ~~          Annual GonoomprLao of Coommercial energSy                 frmhosta    divided by the number of bead.,
(colesligitspetrolem, natural gs eada hydra- * nuclear end gao-
thee-eel eleotricity) it itilogrse of coal equivalent per capita.                      tOUSnIc
iver  eso  o   oshl  (ess   a   bseqq.l-itl.urban,,, and CoUaI 7
!2"f2L &.ITIA TI CPAbueodcnssso                                                                                    rru   f  mj6,hswo ehr  living qiarters
T.,                            ~~~~~~~- AA Of July 1; if not available.           and their Main seals.  A bocoder or ledger many or many not be included in
seevags pfhwe~irotiiiadii    1960.  197D, and 1977 datna.                        tha hoasahold for statistical poepasee.  StatistIcal definitions of hue
lfrbe   eo   tn (aecet'of total)   R atio of urban to total popula-                          hold vary.
non:diferen  deinILan  of arbn  r... smy affect coepar.biliry                      Avcs  ubro   eem   e  co     od   ra.adrrl- Average 0u00-
of data mwSg countries.                                                                    bar of perooe ar  oo   Lin ll   chs   s.   ua ccupie  Conventional
PgRgln.at   ngj5y,t                                                                          dulf   , respectively.  Dwellirge exclude moo-pers"asnt structures end
bfi...    a,a;.~7Kid-ysar populationt par square kilmoster (100 herteras                    unoccupie  parts.
ftotal ara"Ccogs to electricitY fOsrrent of':ge4fta) -  oa,urban. andprural -
Per so. he. aericlur, lead - Computed us above for agricultural lend                        Conve"tional dwellings wihoeti  r   slvn    u rtesa arce.tag,
only.                                                                                      of total, urban, anid rural dwellings respectively.
(ouaIo _   as Loru  ur  (nrcentl - Children (0-16 years), vawrking-seeo
(1-4Pas,Qa4 retired (65 years sod over) aks percentages of nid- 
year population.                                                                       Altemooentra4
Ponuletion  ro thac   (aerosat) - total. and urban - Compound annuel                       Primary school - total, sAd feesla - Total end fma.a~  anro11eent of all ago.,
growth  eten of toal And urban mId-year populations foe- 1950-bU,                          at the prtnary lo.vl as psercentage. of r.spattivaly primary school-ag.
1960- 70. and 1970-75.                                                                     populations: normally includes children agod 6-11 years but adjusted Ifor
Ce-ode birth rt..  (Der thousand) - Annual live births p.r thoue.ad of                       diffrerat lengths of primary edacatise; for countries with universal 6d.-
mid-year population; can-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                       Cation, enroll"mnt nay exceed 100 percent since moma pupils are below or
1970 end five-year averase  ending in 1975 for moor recent esiae                            bove ths oficalsosl age.
Crue dathrat  (mr thousead) - Annua  deaths per thousand of.smid-                    Seomoysho   -Z   LfWfgi  - Comuited ea  above; encendary odors-
Year populerion: ten-year &ritbmetiL aviragee endiam; in 1960 end 1970                     tip.t requires at lIe St u a year  ef :,pree  primary instrruction; pro-
and five-ym4r average ending in 1a7) for most recent estimate.                             video general vocatioal,ort             Iahr  eiftg inetr6ctisms fee pupils
Gross   gna jgj5.(pg rae- Average number of deaghtars a woman will bear                      usually of 12 to 17 yearei of ago; correapeadence moorage are genkerally
in her normal reproductive period if she experienc.s present age-                          excluded.
specific fertility rates; ues-lly five-year averages ending in 1960,                    7oainlerlen   preto   aptaW#g   - Vocatiamal inetitutions in-
1970. end 1975.                                                                            cld  techncal  indutrial, e  oth                I      hich operate, iadepond.ntly
yanily olnnina -   cceator'. Annual (tb92eemds) - Annual amber of                       or asdapertenta of secondary iOstitutSees,
sc.optors of birth-control devIrse  under auspices of national cfnily                  Pupil-teacher ratio - oriery, ~scng~    - Total etudents enrolled 1.
planning progree.                                                                          pronary alod secondary levels Viwded bWkembers of teachers to the .ratt-
laI   i   -ur   or.Cen oj.   glg-C  Prcetag  of                                       .pudioe 100.1..
maryrid  waK of deild-beniag ag   1-dyar)woueblt-oco                                     Adult Ltsracy rate ia;nt             iaate eAlfaeo (able tn read and write) o
devices to alI married women is ease ego group.                                            a peroerage of tote1  adlt pepuletion aged 10 years And nose.
MODhOD6 Th1U0                                                                         COVSMTIfPOg
lode oCfo   couc             ar           19lgf70 910   - Index number of par             Paeanr e(per toen   oalta    Passenger rare comprise mrotr Care
o"PIct  annual prodoctiat  1f al   odrmoiis                                               eting less then eight  aesn ecue  ambulances. hearses and military
par Canitaasly  fcAlorime (percent of re.miremonts) - Coeputed from                        Vehicle..
energ  eqiaetof.  not food s-opliss aveilabl# in country per ..pit.                    rAadio eteiveare leer husn    glai)- All typee of Treceiver, for radio
per dsy.  Available supplias comprise domestic production , imports loeo                 broadcasts to gea"ral p~ublic        cbeumand of pupulation. excludes unlicensod
~sports, and changes in stock.  tiat supplism exclude animal feed, seekds,              receivers in coun.tries mad in years when ragietratie  of radio sets  -ac  in
quantities ..ad Cn food processing, and losses in distribution.  Se-                    affect; date For rerent years aay ant be comparable sipe ma.t rountrios
quiremets ware eatiseted by ?AO based on physiological needs for nor-                   abolished licensing.
mel act ivIty mod health considering environmntal tempereture, body                     TV receivers  Der tkoueaad  M11guiei) - TV receivere  fan broadcest to g m..rT
weights. oge and sex distribution. of population, and allowins 10 per-                     public per thousanid population; eetludaa velisensyd TV fecciusre )v coon-
rent for waste at boweaheld level.                                                         tris. sad in Years them  IrJegitwatiso of- l  se   .ea Ic Offsect.
PerceotSsuply  f rotin scne  ec  z~  -  rotinconer  of par                     VsWsoutcicllon(e housand eeuealggI_     - Shows.the averag.e irCula-
repit. net  .upply of cud per day..  Wet supply or food is d.fiped es                     rtiot of "daily S."ra ..InTeres.t a4ew'paper , d.finod asepaTi.dicaI publi-
.bova.  taqukirWfet1a    far all countries established by USDA provide for                 Cation devotedf primarily toretarding general neWS.  It is tonoidoced t
a  inmu   llvao oc   f 60 Sr.-  OS  otetl protein par day mand 20 gre-ma             ha "daily" if it ap ear t Isaac  four tiee a week.
ofeInal ad palM  protein, of which 10 grams should be animal proerin.                Cinenas 4ancual attendants vor capita set ves" - lased on rhoi nuber of ticket.
Thea. oteid.Cardser  l.owr than those of 71 gream  of total protein and                    sold doting tbh  year. icludingadfsi.  to dr_ive-i  niewsa  cod Mobil.
23 ge-a. of ..t-el protein as en average for the world, proposed boy                       .nits.
PAO in the Thiod World rood Sukrrey.
Per anir oroein uppl fro  anial ad ouen  -Protein supply of food          DIf&YPLOhIA
derived foon animals cod pulees In grame per day.                                       Total labor force (thousands) - Economically arrive pee                -1,irlding se-ed
Child (ae   -)mraiy oe(e  huad   - Annual. dath. per thouka-                                 forces end unemployed hut .noluding houseeives, studenta. Ot-  .lf Ini-
adin age gro-p 1-4 years. to chlldrsn In thi. age group.                                 tions In various countries ore not coomparable.
HVtAIT%                                                                                    Peal        Lgeranil  - Fengml* labor forces as percentage of total labor forc.
i.las ePtac   tbrhres)-Aeaouaroyet   flf                                                  rgi     oltr  (oerret) - Labor forte in farming. forestry, hurting mnd fishine
Av.r.g...mb..  r y..C.of lif.As percentage of toal labor foe-es.
renaining at birth; usually five-year drga  ndi.ine 1i 60  1970,                        Inainfecn)- Labor forte in mining, ronstreuction, occura..rucini pnd
mod 1975.                                                                                  electricity, --cT and gas as petrcentage of total labor foe-co.
afgaot mortality rjare(ettous             - Annual deaths of infants..cder                                                                                 Intbnto  aefe-et -ttl   ae      eae-Ttal, male, sand
o Yeasr of  Sge pe- thousan.d live blrhCe.feaelbrto.                                                             u   oroae    f  hi   epclepryuloricn
ACcaso to Safe eaeus       nnio   o       aia)-ttl ur              a,end rural -              rho.. ore ILl's adjusted participotiot  fates C.flectIng soc_us
Ounbur ofpoi   tota.  urha.. end rurl   .ih.....be  cos  to                                ocruot,re of th. population, and long tise trend.
safe v.Vec supply (includes treated surface aeater  or untreated but                    E.0                       - 0    - rai   f  popultion undan 15 .d 65 end ove.t
uncontaminated water nooh As that fr.. pr.t.cted brshola., oprinige.                       the 1aber foe-r  to age grouptof 15-P64 y  r-p
mand ..anitary veils) as percentagea of their reepsotivs populations,
lo an urb.n  res a public fountain or standpost loteted not sore                      mNCO"e ol!"amns 111ytt
'han 200 macev  fro. a house nAY be considered as being within re.-                     perentlane of DriV.ea lacose, )hoth In rash mand hid) receiv.d by ri,h.at S
sonable  ccss of that hougs.  In tre-al Areas resannabl  anC.... would                     perceent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent. sod poore~st 40 prCetroI
imply thattcthe housewife or members of the household do not heve to                       o  household,.
spend a dspoportiynrcots part of the dayInfthgttfil.
uatar ..ei.                     ,              n  echn   tetoil'
Ac&!    o nce A 4aoragl _(2scci of 22puarioo)_-_total. ugben at                           _olt                    vrTy Incoe, leve 16 oS$.   capIt)-ub                  an nd rural
octal-1  Noabr o f People (Etoal, ucbau, And rural) served by enreesolute poverty inroe   lve  isthat inom   leve  belwbebi     a rIoTrol
dispra a.  . peroartsges of their respective populaflens.  latrate                         nutritianally adequat  die, plus a....ntiel ron-food rsq.iremsnat. is cot
dinpceol osy iloluds tho coi1a-tiop  and di.poacl. with or without                          atfnrdable.
ratnant, of hoa.o excreta and v..t.-twotr by water-bee-ta syertse                       Esiatedreaiv  ovrr  ucs  level ye                       sa aia     r     aned r-rl 
or tho  00 or pt privie and setlor ietallaioes.                               isacv    poverty income Isoel is thattoem   le            I ... Chat oa-n-bhvd
tuouatio oa ohaloln  -Population divided by number of practicing                      per Capita personal income of the  nnty
physttan  quaifie   Pro., a sadioul 8Cbool At universityI.. lee.                   teieedn lotIcan below soat tnm lIl(pcc)-uban  n u ,rl-
Kooclatlon ost nurolon nereor - Ppulation divided by umber of         Perrnt of population  (urbanu andn ruralr     whol erwh eithtre"aheblutet. ot"- c
pr-atirilkg Male en  feal gadat  nur-s.a  pracatioal nauree,. and                          "leisPnnr" winhaevr is greater.
tonaoAnalysis. mand P-nj otiva  D.prtoont



Annex 1
-23-                            Page 4 of 5 pages
GI!M-:: FCC.O"OIC DATA
GNP PER CAPITA in 1977: US$380
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1974                      ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTI (I, constant. prices) 1
Cedis Mln.    X                1967-70            1970-74
GNP at market Pricc-s            4634       100.0              4.7                 3.8
Gross Domestic Investment         608        13.1             16.4                10.9
Gross National Saving             527        11.4             42.7                 3.0
Current Account Balance          -197         4.3
Export of Goods, NFS              854        18.4              1.7                -1.0
Import of Goods, NF'S            1053        22.7              1.7                 2.6
OUTPUT AND LABOUR FORCE
Output in 1974             Labour Fcrce, 1970
Cedis Mln.    %             Mln.           %
Agriculture                     2383       51.1           1.787         57.2
Industry                         845       18.1            .485         15.3
Services                        1432       30.8            .861         27.5
Total                           4660      100.0           3.133        100.0
GOVERNMENT FINAN!CE
Central Government
Cedis Mmn.   % of GDP           Cedis Mln.   Z of GDP
1975/76                          1976/77
Total Revenue and Crants                      814.8         14.1             1106.3         11.8
Total Expenditure and Net Lending            1604.6         27.8              2228.0        23.8
Overa]l Deficit (-)                          -789.8         13.7              1121.7        12.0
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES
1972      1973       1974       1975       1976       1977
'(Million Cedis outstanding and period)
Money and Quasi Money                    563       686        853       1138       1582       2286
Bank Credit to Public Sector             555        515       670       1245       2006       3227
Bank Credit to Private Sector            186        178       222        312        395        527
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP         20         20       18.3      19.7       16.9       13.9
General Price Index (1963 - 100)         226     266.4      315.3      408.9      639.3    1382.5
1/ 1974 is the last year for which constant price data are available.



Annex 1
Page 5 of 5 pages
- 24 -
BAlANCE OF PAXIENTS                                 MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1974-77)
1975    1976    1977
(Mill]ion US$)                                          US$ Mln.
Current balance       -1.8   -74.1   -42.3          Cocoa Beans                   471.3       58.4
Trade balance      150.4    88.8   130.4          Cocoa Products                  73.8       9.1
Exports            800.9   779.0   970.0          Timber-Logs                    50.9        6.3
Imports           -650.0  -690.2  -839.6          Timber-Sawn                    25.8        3.2
Timber-Products                 5.1       0.6
Invisibles (net)   -152.2  -162.9  -172.7            Gold                           71.8       8.9
Services            -196.7  -189.6  -192.2           Diamonds                       10.9       1.4
Transfers              44.5    26.7    19.5          Manganese                      14.1       1.7
All Other Coods                83.8      10.4
Capital accounts    126.0   -44.7    46.1
Official, long-                                      Total.                        807.5    1.00.0
term                23.6      7.6    48.5
Private, long-                                       EXTERNAI. DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1977 (Estimate)
term                68.8      6.9    22.0
Private, short-                                                                             US$ MIn.
term 1/             33.6   -62.2   -24.4
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed
Overall balance       124.2  -118.8       3.8        Total outstanding & Disbursed           785.0
Grocss international reserves                       DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1977
(end of period)      149.9   104.2   162.3
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed
Total outstanding & Disbursed              3.4
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                  IBRD/IDA LENDING, (DEC. 31, 1978) (Million US$):
February 1973 - June 18, 1978                                                         IBRD    IDA
US$ =   1.15
Outstanding & Disbursed            65.9    86.5
Since August 26, 1978                             Undisbursed                        104.2    17.3
US$ = ¢ 2.75                                  Outstanding incl. Undisbursed  170.1   103.8
1/ Includes errors and omissions but not current payments arrears.



- 25 -                      ANNEX TI
Page I of 6 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GHANA
A. STATFMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of February 28, 1979)
I.oan or                                                             US$ million:  Amount (less
Credit   FiscaL                                                          cancellation,)
Number    Year    Borrower                 Purpose                  Bank       IDA 1/  Undisbursed
Three loans and seven credits ftully disbursed                      56.5      42.2
205-GH    1970   Republic of Ghana        Cocoa Rehabilitation                  8.5       0.7
354-GCH    1972   Republic of Ghana       Sugar Rehabilitation                 15.6        1.8
438-Gi1    1973   Republic of Ghana       First Highway                        13.0        0.6
499-CH    1974   Repuiblic of Ghana       Second Water Supply                  10.4        1.5
500-CG    1974   Republic of Ghana        Livestock Development                 2.0        0.8
531-GH    1975   Republic of Ghana        Oil Palm                             13.6       11.4
1122-GH   1975   Post & Telecom-         Telecommunications         23.0                 21.3
munications
1180-0GH   1975   Republic of Ghana      National Investment
Bank                      10.0                   2.8
1181-GH   1975   Republic of Ghana       Ashanti Cocoa              14.0                   8.2
1182-GH   1975   Republic of Ghana        Second Highway            18.0                  10.4
1291T-GH  1976   Republic of Ghana       Agricultural Develop-
ment                      21.0 2/               17.8
1380      1977   Volta River Authority Kpong Hydroelectric          39.0                  34.1
1381      1977   Electricity Corpora-
tion of Ghana          Third Power                9.0          _        4.2
Total                                            190.5     105.3      115.6
of which has been repaid                         21.6        1.6
Total now outstanding                           168.9      103.7
Amount sold                   0.4
of which has been repaid    0.2                 _0.2       _
Total now held by Bank
& IDA 1/                                        168.7    103.7
Total undisbursed                                98.8      16.8       115.6
1/   Prior to exchange adjustments.
2/   lnterest subsidy fund (Third Window).



- 26 -                    ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6 pages
B. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit No. 205       Eastern Region Cocoa Rehabilitation Project:
US$8.5 million Credit of June 26, 1970;
Effective Date: March 12, 1971;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project closing date has been extended by four years to December
31, 1979. However, it is most likely that by that date no more than 49,000
acres or 96 percent of project target can be rehabilitated and approximately
34,000 acres or 94 percent of project target replanted. The project's slow
progress las been due to a variety of reasons such as adverse weather condi-
tions, too low cocoa producer prices compared to other crops, weak management
and a smaller area suitable for cocoa than originally estimated at appraisal.
Loan documentation and loan recovery remain unsatisfactory and credit arrange-
ments need modification following reorganization of cocoa marketing. The
matters are currently under discussion with government.
Credit No. 500       Livestock Development Project; US$2.0 million
Credit of July 26, 1974; Effective Date:
May 4, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Because of unanticipated difficulties in acquiring necessary land
and cost overruns resulting from higher cattle prices due mainly to the
Sahelian drought, the Executive Directors approved a revised project de-
scription in August 1976. The project now includes: (i) development of
two commercial ranches for 4,000 head of cattle, (ii) credit for 20 private
livestock producers, (iii) the preparation of a follow-up project, and train-
ing for ranch managers. Revised project foreign exchange costs are estimated
at US$2.3 million.  Improvements in management performance and ranch physical
development have recently been effected. Action is still required on:
completing ranch water supplies; implementing a GLC Board decision to engage
management consultants; utilizing Government funds allocated for GLC and,
obtaining foreign exchange facilities from the Bank of Ghana for the purchase
of feeder steers. These issues have been the subject of recent discussions
between the Bank Group and government and the GLC and action is expected.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -                ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6 pages
Credit No. 531       Oil Palm Project; US$13.6 million Credit of March 5, 1975;
Effective Date: June 30, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
With a total planted area of about 1,000 ha after the planting
program commenced in 1977, progress of the project is satisfactory. It is
anticipated that the appraisal target of 5,200 ha plantings on the nucleus
estate and individual farms will be reached by the end of 1981 or well
before project completion by December 1982. Construction is progressing
satisfactorily and consultants for design of the oil palm mill have been
selected. Training of junior and senior staff has commenced.
Credit No. 499       Second Water Supply (Accra/Tema) Project;
US$10.4 million; Credit of July 26, 1974;
Effective Date: January 7, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
This Project is being co-financed with CIDA and ADB. Although
execution of the Bank-financed component is substantially complete, overall
implementation is expected in mid-1981, about 2 1/2 years later than origi-
nally envisaged. While foreign cost component is within original estimates,
the local cost component has more than doubled; but because of substantial
devaluation of the Cedi, the overall estimated cost at completion expressed
in US dollar is close to original estimates. Due to prevailing high infla-
tion, the effect of the 100% tariff increase of July 1977 has been eroded
and further tariff action and other local funds are needed to complete
the project and maintain the financial viability of the project's bene-
ficiary, the Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation (GWSC). The Association has
urged GWSC to submit proposals for a tariff increase to Government.
Loan No. 1122        Telecommunications Project:  US$23 million Loan of
June 10, 1975; Effective Date: January 23, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The project has experienced a slippage of about two years; project
execution is in procurement stage. There is an increase of about US$7.0 mil-
lion in the foreign cost of the project which has resulted from a change
in the type of switching equipment and the depreciation of the US dollar.
Government is now approaching external donors for the financing of this cost
overrun. Due to the unfavorable inflationary economic situation in Ghana,
GPT's financial performance has been unsatisfactory. Government approved in
1978 a tariff increase of 80% for the telecommunication service and 40% for
the postal service. However, these were not sufficient and further tariff
increase of up to 60% are required during FYs79-80 for GPT to meet increasing
operating expenses and achieve the covenanted 9% rate of return.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6 pages
Loan No. 1180        National Investment Bank Project; US$10 million
Loan of December 23, 1975; Effective Date:
March 2, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project provides for a US$10 million loan to the National
Investment Bank to help finance industrial, tourism and agro-industrial devel-
opment projects and to support small and medium scale private enterprises.
The loan has progressed satisfactorily with about US$0.1 million remaining
uncommitted and approximately US$7.2 million disbursed.  The institutional and
procedural improvements introduced under the project have withstood strenuous
tests over the past two years and NIB's operational performance has been
noteworthy given continued economic difficulties in the country. Partially due
to low production levels resulting from insufficient foreign exchange for
spare parts and raw materials, arrears have built up. However, this has been
controlled through a more intensive follow-up actions and collection efforts,
although rescheduling of sub-loans has been required in some cases.
Loan No. 1181        Ashanti Region Cocoa Project; US$14 million Loan of
December 23, 1975; Effective Date: February 23, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Project consists of replanting and maintaining 42,500 acres of
hybrid cocoa in the Ashanti Region. At September 30, 1978, close to the
end of the planting season, cumulative planting was 21,572 acres, leaving
20,928 acres to be replanted out of the combined Bank and BADEA appraisal
target of 42,500 acres. The major difficulty met by the project's efficient
management is insufficient farmer response due to an unattractive producer
price for cocoa. The project's planting program was also severely affected by
the 1977 drought which caused heavy losses among the newly replanted areas,
which made a second replanting in 1978 necessary. To ensure the achievement
of the physical targets, the loan closing date has been extended by two years
to December 31 1980.
Loan No. 1291-T      Upper Region Agricultural Development Project;
US$21 million Loan of June 28, 1976; Effective
Date: April 11, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
The project, the first Bank operation for integrated smallholder
agricultural development in Ghana, would provide most of the 125,000 farm
families living in the Upper Region with improved support services, farm
inputs and physical infrastructure. The project is being co-financed by the
ODM. Two principal objectives are to increase farm incomes via increase in
agricultural production and to establish permanent farm support services.
The loan became effective on April 11, 1977, and most key staff have been
appointed. Ministry of Agriculture personnel have been integrated satisfac-
torily. Earlier delays in procurement, due to cumbersome procedures, are
being worked out. Suitability of some senior staff has been questioned and
replacements are being sought. Considerable local cost overruns are envisaged
due to high rates of inflation in 1977-78.



- 29 -                   ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6 p.ages
Loan No. 1380-Gil   Kpong Hydroelectric Project, US$39 million Loan of
March 24, 1977; Effective Date: August 24, 1977:
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Contracts have been awarded for civil works, generating equipment,
spillway and power-house gates and the transformers at Kpong. All the other
major contracts are out for bidding. Construction is progressing satisfac-
¶            Lorily for the main civil works, although there is a slippage of four months.
Heavy local cost overruns are being experienced as a result of high inflation.
The Government has recently approved a tariff increase which should substan-
tially improve VRA's finances although probably not sufficient to achieve the
agreed rate of return objectives. VRA also proposes to raise about ¢ 80
million througlh public bond issues.
Loan No. 1381-GH    Third Power Project, US$9 million Loan and US$9 million
Credit No. 689-GH   Credit, both of March 24, 1977; Effective Date:  June 10,
1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Slippage has been experienced during the past year because of delays
in civil works design and execution. Due to these delays and high inflation,
local cost overruns are rapidly building up. In order to ease ECG's finance,
a combination of tariff increases and government borrowing/equity contribution
is needed. A tariff increase of 30 percent for domestic consumers and 80
percent for commercial consumers was introduced with effect from April 1,
1979.
Credit No. 438-GH   First Highway Project:  US$13.0 million Credit of
November 2, 1973; Effective Date: January 28, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project includes the rehabilitation of about 150 miles of paved
roads; preparation of a road maintenance program; acquisition of traffic
control and pavement survey equipment; and preinvestment studies. The re-
habilitation works are about 70% complete, but progress is slowed by a severe
shortage of spare parts, bitumen and other imported materials. The contractor
for the Yamoransa-Takoradi road declared bankruptcy in January 1979, while at
the same time the contract experienced significant excess quanities in earth
works and drainage works, mainly due to inaccuracies in detailed engineering,
amendments to standards and additional excavations of unsuitable materials.
The project is expected to have a cost overrun of the order of US$9.0 maillion;
of this US$6.0 million is in foreign exchange of which US$2.7 million is due
to dollar depreciations. Alternative courses of action are currently under
discussion between the Bank Group and governmenit.



- 30-
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6 pages
Loan No. 1182-GH    Second Highway Project:  US$18 million Loan and US$10
Credit No. 594-GH   million Credit, both of December 23, 1975; Effective
Date: March 30, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project includes assistance to (i) Ghana Highway Authority to
strengthen maintenance management and planning, execute a four-year mainte-
nance program including comprehensive training, reconstruct 16 miles of road,
and study feeder road needs; and (ii) the Bank for Housing and Construction,
with related technical assistance, to enable them to onlend to domestic con-
tractors.  Less than 25% of the programmed equipment-intensive road mainten-
ance was completed during 1978. This was due primarily to country-wide
shortages of lubricants, spare parts, fuel, and other imported inputs caused
by the severe shortage of foreign exchange which the country is facing. Other
project components are proceeding satisfactorily.



ANNEX I__
- 31 -
GHANA
SECOND NATIONAL INVESTMENT BANK PROJECT
Supplemental Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:   not applicable
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:   NIB/IDA
(c) Date of the first Bank mission
to consider the Project:               April 12, 1977
(d)  Departure of Appraisal and              April 12, 1977;
Re-appraisal Missions:                 November 20, 1978
(e)  Negotiations completed:                 April 9, 1979
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:          July 30, 1979
Section 11:  Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
The following special conditions are incorporated in the draft
Development Credit, Special Action Credit and Project Agreements;
(a)  The Government and NIB to review periodically with IDA
the interest rate and foreign exchange risk premium
(para. 52);
(b)  The Government to convert all locaL currency amounts in the
Revolving Import Fund into foreign exchange for relending
to NIB sub-borrowers (para. 53);
(c) NIB's debt-equity ratio to be increased from 3:1 to 5:1
(para. 57);
(d) NIB to take measures satisfactory to IDA to maintain the
proportion of its portfolio affected by arrears at below
30 percent (para. 58); and
(e)  Conclusion of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Govern-
ment and NIB (a Condition of Effectiveness, para. 63).



