DOCUME~NTS     CREDIT NUMBER 901 GH
SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT NUMBER     7 GH
Project Agreement
(National Investment Bank Project)
between
.INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPEGIAL ACTION ACCOUNT
established with funds contributed by
the MEMBER STATES of the EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY
and
NATIONAL INVESTMENT BANK
Dated                 26         , 1979


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 901 GH
SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT NUMBER  7 GH
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1979, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as ADMINISTRATOR of the
Special Action Account established with funds contributed by the
MEMBER STATES of the EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY (hereinafter
called the Administrator) and NATIONAL INVESTMENT BANK (herein-
after called NIB).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Republic of Ghana (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the International Development Association (the
Association), the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to nineteen
million dollars ($19,000,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition
that NIB agree to undertake such obligations toward the Associa-
tion as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by the Special Action Credit Agreement of even date
herewith (hereinafter called the Special Action Credit Agreement)
between the Borrower and the Administrator, the Administrator
has agreed to make to the Borrower a Special Action Credit
(hereinafter called the Special Action Credit) on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Special Action Credit Agree-
ment, but only on condition that NIB agree to undertake such
obligations towards the Administrator as are hereinafter set
forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and NIB, part of the proceeds of the
credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement
and the proceeds of the Special Action Credit will be made
available to NIB on the terms and conditions therein set forth;
and
WHEREAS NIB, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Developm%ent Credit Agreement with the Borrower and the
Administrator's entering into the Special Action Credit Agreement
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations herein-
after set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
IT


﻿- 2--
-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Preamble to this Agreement, in the Special Action Credit
Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project;
Management and Operations of NIB
Section 2.01. NIB shall carry out the Project, described in
Section 3.01 of the Special Action Credit Agreement, and conduct
its operations and affairs, with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate economic, financial and investment
standards and practices, with qualified and experienced manage-
ment and in accordance with its Charter and By-Laws.
Section 2.02. (a) In accordance with ana' subject to the
provisions of the Special Action Credit Agreement, NIB shall
submit Investment Projects to the Administrator for approval
or for authorization for withdrawals to be made from the Credit
Account.
(b) When submitting a Sub-loan or a Working Capital Loan
(other than a free-limit Working Capital Loan) or an Investment to
the Administrator for approval, NIB shall furnish to the Adminis-
trator an application, in form satisfactory to the Administrator,
together with the following: (i) a description of the Investment
Enterprise and of the Investment Project to be financed thereunder
including a description of the expenditures for such Investment
Project proposed to be financed by NIB and an appraisal of the
Investment Project; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of the
Sub-loan, Working Capital Loan or Investment, including the
schedule of amortization of the said Sub-loan, or of repayment
to the Borrower of the amount to be used for the said Investment;
and (iii) such other information as the Administrator shall
reasonably request.
rt


﻿-3-
(c) The appraisals pursuant to (b) (i) above shall be form-
ulated in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Adminis-
trator and shall include inter alia a calculation of the internal
financial rate of return where the proposed Sub-loans and Working
Capital Loans exceed fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) and the
evaluation of economic rate of return on Sub-loans which exceed
two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000).
(d) Each request by NIB for authorization to make with-
drawals from the Credit Account shall contain:.(i) in respect of
a free-limit Sub-loan or free-limit Working Capital Loan, a
summary description of the Investment Enterprise and the Invest-
ment Project including a description of the expenditures proposed
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the terms and
conditions of such free-limit Sub-loan or free-limit Working
Capital Loan including the schedule of amortization therefor; and
(ii) in respect to a Working Capital Loan, sufficient evidence
that the Borrower has committed not less than one-fifth of the
foreign exchange requirement for an Investment Project to be
finance under such Working Capital Loan.
(e) The amortization schedule applicable to each Investment
Project shall provide for an appropriate period of grace, and,
unless the Administrator and the Borrower shall otherwise agree:
(i) shall not extend beyond two years from the date of approval
by the Administrator of such Investment Project or of authoriza-
tion by the Administrator to make withdrawals fvom the Credit
Account in respect of such Investment Project; ard (ii) shall
provide for approximately equal quarterly aggregate payments of
principal and interest or approximately equal quarterly payments
of principal.
(f) Except as the Administrator and NIB shall otherwise
agree, NIB shall submit applications for approval of Investment
Projects pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this
Section and requests for authorizations to withdraw from the
Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (c) of this
Section on or before December 31, 1980.
Section 2.03. (a) NIB undertakes that unless the Admini-
strator shall otherwise agree, any Working Capital Loan will be
made on terms whereby NIB shall obtain, by written agreement or
other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the
interests of the Administrator and of. NIB, including, in the
case of any such Working Capital Loan: (i) the right to require


﻿-4-
the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Invest-
ment Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance
with sound technical, financial and managerial standards and
to maintain adequate records; (ii) the right to require that
the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Working
Capital Loan be used exclusively in the carrying out of the
Investment Project; (iii) the right of the Administrator and of
NIB to inspect such goods and the sites, works, plants and cons-
truction included in the Investment Project, the-operation thereof
and any relevant records and documents; (iv) the.right to require
that the Investment Enterprise take out and maintain such insur-
ance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consis-
tent with sound business practice and that, without any limitation
upon the foregoing, such insurance cover hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery of the goods financed out
of the proceeds of the Working Capital Loan to the place of use or
installation, and that any indemnity thereunder be payable in a
currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or
repair such goods; (v) the right to obtain all such information as
the Administrator or NIB shall reasonably request relating to the
foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial
condition of the Investment Enterprise; and (vi) the right of NIB
to suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to
the use of the proceeds of the Working Capital Loan upon failure
by such Investment Enterprise to perform its obligations under
its agreement with NIB.
(b) NIB shall exercise its rights in relation to each
Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests
of the Administrator and of NIB, (ii) comply with its obligations
under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and (iii),
achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.04. NIB shall furnish to the Administrator all such
information as the Administrator shall reasonably request concern-
ing the expenditure of the proceeds of the Working Capital Loans,
the Project, the Investment Enterprises, the Investment Projects
and the Working Capital Loans.
Section 2.05. NIB shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Administrator
shall otherwise agree, NIB shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of assigning, or amending,
abrogating or waiving any provision of, the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.


﻿-5-
Section 2.06. Except as the Administrator and NIB shall
otherwise agree, NIB: (i) shall not sell, lease, transfer or
otherwise dispo3e of any of its property or assets, except in
the ordinary course of business; and (ii) shall take all action
necessary to maintain its corporate existence and right to carry
on operations and to acquire, maintain and renew all rights,
powers, privileges and franchises necessary or useful in the
conduct of its business.
Section 2.07. NIB shall cause each of its Subsidiaries (if
any) to observe and perform the obligations of NIB under this
Agreement to the extent to which the same may be made applicable
thereto as though such obligations were binding upon each of such
Subsidiaries.
Section 2.08. NIB shall not amend its By-Laws except in
agreement with the Administrator, and shall exchange views with
the Administrator on any proposal to modify its Charter.
Section 2.09. If NIB establishes or acquires any subsidiary,
NIB shall cause such subsidiary to observe and perform the obli-
gations of NIB hereunder to the extent to which such obligations
shall or can be applicable thereto, as though such obligations.
were binding upon such subsidiary,
Section 2.10. In evaluating all its lending operations, NIB
shall apply the investment criteria specified in the Schedule to
this Agreement.
Section 2.11. With respect to the Project, NIB shall employ
experts and consultants, with qualifications and on terms and
conditions acceptable to NIB and the Administrator, to assist in
strengthening NIB's project identification appraisal and supervi-
sion activities and improving its staff training programs.
Section 2.12. NIB shall maintain and administer the Revolving
Import Fund referred to in Section 3.03 of the Special Action
Credit Agreement in accordance with terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Administrator.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. NIB shall maintain records adequate to record
the progress of the Project and of each Investment Project


﻿- 6 -
(including the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations and financial condition of NIB and shall enable the
Administrator's representatives to examine such records.
Section 3.02. NIB shall: (i) have its accounts and finan-
cial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii) furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but
in any.case not later.than five months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements
for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Administrator shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concern-
ing the accounts and financial statements of NIB and the audit
thereof as the Administrator shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 3.03. Except as the Administrator and NIB shall
otherwise agree, NIB shall not incur or permit any Subsidiary to
incur any debt if, after the incurring of such debt, the consoli-
dated debt of NIB and all its Subsidiaries then incurred and
outstanding would exceed five times the consolidated capital and
surplus of NIB and all its Subsidiaries. For the purpose of this
Section:
(a) The term "debt" means any debt incurred by NIB or any
Subsidiary maturing more than one year after the date on which it
is originally incurred, including debt assumed or guaranteed by
NIB or by a Subsidiary.
(b) Wherever reference is made in this Section to the
incurring of debt, such reference shall include any modification
of the terms of payment of such debt. Debt shall be deemed to be
incurred: (i) under a loan contract or agreement on the date
and to the extent the loan is drawn down pursuant to such loan
contract or agreement; and (ii) under a guarantee agreement,
on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been
entered into but only to the extent the guaranteed debt is
outstanding.


﻿-7-
(c) Whenever in connection with this Section it shall
be necessary to value in terms of NIB debt payable in foreign
currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing lawful
rate of exchange.
(d) The term "consolidated debt of NIB and all its Subsidia-
ries" means the total amount of debt of NIB and all its Subsidia-
ries excluding: (i) debt owed by NIB to any Subsidiary or by any
Subsidiary to NIB or to any other Subsidiary; and (ii) debt
referred to in paragraph (e) (ii) of this Section.
(e) The term "consolidated capital and surplus of NIB
and all its Subsidiaries" means the aggregate of: (i) the total
unimpaired paid-in capital, surplus and free reserves of NIB
and of all its Subsidiaries after excluding therefrom such amounts
as shall represent equity interests of NIB in any Subsidiary, or
of any such Subsidiary in NIB or in any other Subsidiary; and
(ii) such amount of any other loan which the Administrator may
determine to be included in the consolidated capital and surplus
of NIB.
Section 3.04. Except as the Administrator and NIB shall'
otherwise agree, NIB shall not make any repayment in advance of
maturity in respect of any of its borrowings (other than deposits)
having an original term exceeding one year.
Section 3.05. NIB shall charge Working Capital Loan Sub-
borrowers interest rate of 18-1/2% per annum which shall be.
subject to review and modification, from time to time upon agree-
ment between NIB, the Borrower and the Administrator. Investment
Enterprises receiving Working Capital Loans shall assume the full
foreign exchange risk thereof.
Section 3.06. NIB shall take such steps satisfactory to the
Administrator as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk
of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between
the various currencies (including Cedis) used in its borrowing and
lending operations.
Section 3.07. NIB shall take all measures satisfacatory to
the Administrator to maintain the amount of its arrears outstanding
for a period of three months or more at below 30% the aggregate of
its outstanding Loans.
ti.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. (a) The Administrator and NIB shall cooperate
fully to assure that the purposes of the Special Action Credit
will be accomplished. To that end, the Administrator and NIB
shall from time to time, at the request of either party,
exchange views through their representatives- with regard to
he progress of the Project, the performance by NIB of its
2.-igations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan
AL-eement, the administration, operations and financial condi-
tion of NIB and other matters relating to the purpose of the
Credit.
(b) NIB shall furnish to the Administrator all such infor-
mation as the Administrator shall reasonably request concerning
the administration, operations and financial condition of NIB and
its Subsidiaries, if any.
(c) Within five years of the project completion report
prepared in respect of Loan 1180-GH, NIB shall prepare and
furnish to the Administrator a report, of such scope and
in such detail as the Administrator shall reasonably request,
on the execution and initial operation of the Investment
Projects, their costs and the benefits derived and to be
derived from them, the performance by NIB and the Admin-
istrator of their respective obligations under this Agree-
ment and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Special Action
Credit.
Section 4.02. NIB shall promptly inform the Administrator of
any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere
with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Special Action
Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof or the performance
by NIB of its obligations under this Agreement or .the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.
Section 4.03. NIB shall enable the Administrator's repre-
sentatives to inspect the records referred to in Section 3.01 of
this Agreement and any relevant documents.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which either the Development Credit
Agreement or the Special Action Credit Agreement becomes
effective, whichever shall be the earlier.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of the Administrator and of NIB thereunder
shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the earliest date on which both the Development
Credit Agreement and the Special Action Credit
Agreement shall have terminated in accordance with
their respective terms; or
(ii) a date 15 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If either the Development Credit Agreement, or the
Special Action Credit Agreement, terminates in accordance with its
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this
Section, the Association, or the Administrator, shall promptly
notify NIB of this event, and if then the other Credit Agree-
ment remains in force all obligations under this Project Agreement
of NIB and of the lender under that Credit Agreement shall remain
in force.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement or the
Special Action Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hind or by mail, telegram,


﻿- 10 -
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Administrator:
Administrator of the Special Action
Account
(International Developlent Association)
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For NIB:
National Investment Bank
P.O. Box 3726
Accra, Ghana
Cable address:                      Telex:
INVESTBANK                         INVESTOR
Accra                              2161
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of NIB may be taken or executed by its
Managing Director or such other person or persons as the Managing
Director shall designate in writing, and NIB shall furnish to the
Association and the Administrator sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all 6ollec-
tively but one instrument.
*A


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL ACTION
ACCOUNT established with funds
contributed by the MEMBER STATES of the
EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY
By
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
NATIONAL INVESTMENT BANK
By
Authorized Representative
Vh-1


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE
Investment Criteria
A.   For the purposes of the Project Agreement, NIB shall review
Investment Projects in accordance with the following evaluation
guidelines consistent with the Borrower's economic priorities and
the requirements for foreign exchange allocations.
B.   For Sub-loans, Working Capital Loans and Investment financing
under the Credit, Investment Projects shall be screened and
reviewed in accordance with criteria favoring enterprises which
would efficiently earn or save foreign exchange and, as such,
would support the following:
(i) export-oriented projects in which incremental foreign
exchange earnings are proven to be significantly in
excess of foreign exchange used in production;
(ii) utilization of indigenous raw materials: preference
will be given to projects utilizing at least 40% local
raw materials in production;
(iii) maximization of installed industrial capacity will be
favored in credit allocation, so long as other economic
and financial efficiency standards are met; and
(iv) import substitution schemes shall be screened to ensure
net foreign exchange savings in subsectors not experi-
encing excess capacity.
C.   In general, NIB shall give priority to Investment Projects
whose production output contains not less than 40% domestic value
added.   In certain firms which offer other economic advantages,
such as high export earnings, employment creation or linkages
within the economy, NIB shall accept a minimum of 30% local value
added.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
1974
FOR SECRETARY


