Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY                                       Report No. 10458-RO
Report No. 10458-RO   Type: (SAR)
LUCCA, F. / X32642 / H5 067/ EClAG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ROMANIA
PRIVATE FARMER AND ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PPOJECT
MAY 18, 1992
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recpients only in the performance of
thefr oflicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Leu (plural Lei)
US$1 = Lei 200
Leu 1   US$0.0050
Lei ger US Dollar
Official Rate          Market Rate
1990     November              20                35
1991     April                 60               200 (Interbank)'
1991     November             180               300
1992     March                200               350
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AB         -   Agricultural Bank
CAP        -   Agricultural Production Cooperatives
CB         -   Romanian Commercial Bank
CEC        -   National Savings Bank
DB         -   Romanian Development Bank
EC-PHARE   -   European Economic Commission/Economic Assistance
for the Restructuring of Poland, Hungary and Romania
FESAL      -   Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan
FI         -   Financial Intermediaries AB and DB
FTC        -   Foreign Trade Company
GOR        -   Government of Romania
IMF        -   International Monetary Fund
Judet      -   Administrative District
LIB        -   Limited International Bidding
MAFI       -   Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry
MEF        -   Ministry of Economy and Finance
MOT        -   Ministry of Trade
NBR        -   National Bank of Romania
OED        -   Operations Evaluation Department (of the World Bank)
PFESP      -   Private Farmer and Enterprise Support Project
RBFT       -   Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade
SAL        -   Structural Adjustment Loan
SME        -   Small and Medium Enterprise
TA         -   Technical Assiatance
1 The interbank rate applies to other foreign exchange transactions. The
interbank market for foreign exchange was establ.ished in April 1991.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ROMANIA
PRIVATE FARMER AND ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJ=CT SUMMARY                                      i-i i
I. INTRODUCTION ...............                                     1
II. AGRICULTURAL SECTOR .2
A. Background.                                                  2
B.  Irrigation   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    4
C.    Mechanization  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   4
D. Research and Extension.                                      5
E. Agroprocessing .6
F.  Marketing, Prices and Foreign Trade  . . . . . . . . . . . 6
G.  Sectoral Adjustment Policies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
H. Future Prospects .10
I. Bank's Strategy and Role .13
III.  LAND REFORM AND FARMER ASSOCIATIONS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
A. Background .14
B.  Dismantling of CAPs and Reorganization of the Land . . . . 15
C.  The Impact of the February 1991 Land Law . . . . . . . . . 16
D. Government Strategy and EC-PHARE Assistance .17
IV. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR .18
A. Background .18
B. The BankiTig System .19
C.  The Role of The National Bank of Romania (NBR) . . . . . . 22
D.  Major Romanian Banks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
E. Other Domestic Banks .25
F.  Financial Intermediaries under the Project . . . . . . . . 26
V. THE PROJECT .27
A.  Project Objectives and Rationale for Bank Involvement  . . 27
B.  Summary Project Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
C. Detailed Features .29
D. Project Cost and Financing .30
E. Procurement .32
F. Disbursements .32
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (cont'd)
Pace Ng.
VI.  PROJECT ZMPLEMENTATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
A. Overview . . . ..               . .33
B.  Credit Operations  ...... .  .  .   .  .  .             .  34
C.  Reporting and Evaluation  ...   .   .          .... 38
D.  Accounts and Audit ....... . . . . . . . .      .    .    .    . 39
E.  Bank Supervision .       .  .  .  .  .  . .   . . . . . . . 40
F.  Environment  . . . . . . . . . ....... . .... 40
VII.  PROJECT LENEFITS, RISKS, AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT  . . . . . . 40
A.  Benefits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
B. Risks  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . . . . . . 42
C.  Environmental Impact .....  ..  .   .......  ..  .   . 43
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
A. Assurances . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
B.  Conditions ........   .         ..............   . 44
C.  Recommendation.. . . . . . . .   . ...    ..  .   . 44
1. Financial Intermediaries
2. Institutional Development Activities by Other Agencies
3. The Economics of Agricultural Production in Romania and
Proposals for an Initial Negative List of Production
Subsectors to be Excluded from Project Investment
4. Estimated Disburement Schedule
5. Reform of the Agricultural Information System
6. Selected Documents Available in the Project File
ME    IBRD No. 23664
Thie report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission to Romania in
January 1992 comprising Messrs. F. Lucca (task manager), J. Yaron, W. Zijp
(Bank), M. Borish, R.P. Harrison, J. Intrator, R. Lacroix (Bank consultants),
and E. Caputo (Italian Cooperative Association). Contributions in assuring
the EC-PHARE program of technical assistance were made by Ms. V. Alliata.
Peer reviewers were Mr. C. Ceaki, Mr. J. DUster and Ms. M. Bromhead.



- i-
SAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ROMANIA
PR! VATS FASMZR Atm EBITERPRISE SUPPOb..j2MQJEQt
LOAX AND PROJECT SUM=ARY
1err.w rZ'Romania
henIU iclariews          Private farmers, food processing and marketing
enterprises
AmounU                   US$100 million equivalent
Z3l3 tnanl A.Mcl23   Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF), and
Agricultural Dank (AD) and Romanian Development Bank
(DB) as Financial Intermediaries (Flu).
Rolendino Terms:  (i)   From the Government to the financial intermediartes
(FI) in either domestic currency (lei) at the then-
prevailing National Bank of Romania (NDR) discount
rate, or in dollars at LIBOR plus a margin to be
determined by the Ministry of Economy and Finance
(NFF).
(ii)   From the Flo to the beneficiaries in either lei at the
NIR discount rate (variable) plus a spread to be
decided by the FIs, or in dollars at LIBOR plus the
NSF margin and the FI spread.
Project ObilctLvest    The objective of the project is to support private
sector development in rural areas and through this,
raise agricultural output, increase efficiency of
production, generate employment and improve living
standards. The project aims to achieve this through
financing credit to private farmers and other private
businesses for (a) the establishment and expansLon of
rura. enterprlses in order to improve input supply and
marketing services and increase business activity, and
(b) on-farm investment ln order to increase
production. The project has close policy links with
both the proposed Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) and
the proposed Financial and EnterprLse Sector
Adjustment Loan (FESAL).



- ii -
3roiect DeucrLatlon:  The loan would finance private investment in viable
agricultural and other rural buuinesses through a credit
line expected to take five years to disburse. It is
intended to be wide ranging and demand led excluding
those ineligible subsectore which are assessed not to be
economically viable. It would cover both investmert
items and incremental working capital for: (a)
agricultural production including certain types of
livestock agricultural machinery and related services;
(b) processing of agricultural products, particularly
small- and medium-scale investment to increase value
added in the rural areas; (c) marketing and trade of
agricultural products, especially for transport,
wholesaling and rCZAling of both agricultural outputs
and inputs; and (d) other rural businesses.
PrSeect Benefits:     The main benefit of the project would be increased
private rural sector business activity and improved
rural institutions. The credit provided by the project
would support both (a) private on firm investment which
would contribute significantly to agricultural
production and efficiency; and (b) much needed private
investaent in iri.xt distribution, agricultural services
and product marketing. Enhanced competition in the
rural banking syste-. and broader access to credit
threugh the support c  new business entrants would
contribute to creatA - x competitive economic
environment. The pro4-.t, indirectly, would support the
Government's economic reform program by creating
additional employment and new sources of income in rural
areas. Finally, because of its positive overall effect
on agricultural production and efficiency, the project
would make the country more competitive in international
markets, resulting in a favorable impact on its balance
of payments.
Proeect Rlsks         The main project risk is that subloans would not be
fully or promptly repaid. This could occur primarily
because there is little experience with lending to
private farmers and small businesses in a free market
environment, entailing higher than usual financial risk
for borrowers as well as Fla. To address this, the
project provides for application by the FIs of sound
lending criteria. Assistance in the preparation of the
lending operations manual and associated training
currently being provided by the Dank will help implement
this. A more minor risk is that because businesses may
be reluctant to borrow for goods which appear expensive
on a historical basis, the drawdown of project funds
could be slower than anticipated. This risk would be
mitigated once the effects of macroeconomic reform are
seen to be working, and borrowers understand the
rationale of the new price relationships.



- iii -
Xstimated Proiset Cost.:l
Local      EogigA       Total
-------- US$ million --------
On-Farm Investment                            16.5         16.5        33.0
Agricultural Processing                       22.2         35.5        57.7
Marketing, Distribution and Services          26.0         48.0        74.0
Total                                    64.7       100.0        164.7
la Based on total investment costs plus incremental investment in working
capital.
Financing Plant
Local reign              Total
-------- USS million ---------
IBRD                                      100.0        100.0
Participating Banks            20.0                     20.0
Subborrowers                   44,7                     44.7
Total                    64.7        100.0       164.7
Estiuated Disbursements:
Bank FY:  93     94     95      96     97     98
------------ USS million ------------
Annual               15      32     35      8      8       2
Cumulative           15      47     82     90     98    100
Closina Date: June 30, 1998
ERR - Minimum of 15% for subproject
FRR - Minimum of 15% for subproject
MR:  IBRD No. 23664



S TAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ROMANIA
PRIVATE FARMER AND ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01       Romania has a population (1990) of 23.4 million including a work
force of 11.7 million.  Its economy" grew rapidly from 1948 to 1979, but
stagnated during the 1980s. Since the revolution in 1989 there has been an
economic decline. Overall GDP fell about 7% in 1990 and the general consensus
is that in 1991 --al GDP fell by 10%, exports by 30%, and imports by 45% from
their 1990 levels. Per capita income is now estimated at about US$1,300.
Agriculture together with agroindustries account for about 20% of GDP and
about 35% of the total labor force.  The country with its continental climate
and some of the most uniformly fertile soils in south eastern Europe has sound
K -         conditions for a flourishing agriculture.  Unti. the 1980s Romanian
agriculture met domestic food consumption requirements for temperate products
and ws8 a large net exporter.  However, output and productivity which had
increated steadily between 1950 and 1980 fell alarmingly between 1980 and 1989
due main'.y to the inability of the centrally planned system to deliver
cr. _cal inputs.
1.Z:2      At the time of the 1989 revclution the state presence was pervasive
in ajriculture.  Of the ha 10 million of cultivated land, including ha 3
million under irrigation, 29% was operated by state farms and 59% by centrally
ma._ged production cooperatives (CAPs). The small private sector comprising
about. 1 million peasants had access to about 12% of the poorest cultivated
land as well as to grazing areas for livestock. The bulk of the food
processing and distribution system was run by state companies which were
generally technically inefficient and in poor Zinancial condition.
1.03       Since the revolution the government has embarked on an ambitious
program of system reforms to liberalize the economy. The principal elements
of these reforms which apply to the agricultural sector include: (a) the
decollectivization of the CAPs; (b) the redistribution of lands to private
farmers as a consequence of the recently enacted land legislation,Z
involving privatization of over ha 8 million; (c) permission for non-state
units to market their production through non-state channels; and (d) producer
price liberalization in three different stages in November 1990, April 1991
and July 1991 for all but a few strategic products. This liberalization
appears to have already generated a positive supply response from private
sector agriculture, particularly for products which can easily be marketed
privately.
1/   For a detailed analysis of the Romanian economy, see Report No. 9497-RO
dated September 13, 1991.
V    Land Fund Act - reported in Official Gazette of Romania III year -
No. 37, February 20, 1991.



-2-
1.04       The project was identified following Bank economic and sector work
including the findings of the Country Economic Memorandum Mission of November
1990 and the rechnical Assistance and Critical Imports Project Appraisal
Mission. Following closely behind the proposed Structural Adjustment Loan
(SAL) through which the Bank is assisting Romania in broad macroeconomic
reform, this project is designed specifically to further support the
agricultural privatization process by the timely provision of much needed
credit to newly privatized farmers and other rural businesses. Ongoing
financial and management audits of likely participating banks, which are being
undertaken as part of the preparation of the proposed Financial and Enterprise
Sector Adjustment Loan (FESAL) is helping to ensure the strengthening of the
rural credit system so that it can effectively deliver the much needed finance
for investment. The preparation work undertaken by the Bank in bringing the
project to fruition has initiated important actions funded by other donors
which would (a) strengthen the policy making capacity of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Food Industry (MAFI) to assist in the refocussing of its role
from a centrcl planning agency controlling production to a support agency
concerned with creating a policy environment which enables market led growth
to take place; (b) assist in reorienting agricultural research and extension
towards supporting the changed agricultural structure; and (c) substantially
improve market information availability. The project would be implemented
through the Ministr! of Economy and Finance (MEF) and selected financial
intermediaries (FIs). The bulk of project disbursement (86%) would span a
three-year period (late 1992 to late 1995).
1.05       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$165 million, of
which US$100 million (61%) is foreign exchange.  The Bank loan of US$100
million to Government would finance part of the PIs' lending to the private
rural sector during the project period. The remaining investment resources
would be provided by the Flo themselves and Investors.
II. AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Background
2.01       Land and Climate.  Romania has a land area of 237,000 km2 of which
ha 10.1 million (43%) is under crops and ha 4.7 million (20%) is in meadows
and pastures. Forestry is also important and covers about ha 6.5 million, or
about 28% of the country's total land area. The climate in Romania is
generally continental with hot summers and cold winters. Rainfall in the
areas of better soils, which are situated in the Danube plain, is typically
about 500 mm annually; it is distributed throughout the year but is erratic.
irrigation is important in some areas for high value crops (horticulture,
potatoes, sugar beet) and desirable, but not essential, for cereals.
2.02       Prior to the 1989 revolution primary production was undertaken by
about 365 state farms, 3,784 state production cooperatives (CAPs), and one
million private farm houssholds, mainly livestock keepers. The breakdown of
the ownership of land in 1990 was as follows:



- 3 -
Table 2.1:  LAND OWNERSHIP BY SUBSECTOR AND TYPE OF UWk (19900
State              Private
Units     CAPs     Famp          Total
--- million hectares ---------
Annually Cultivated Land            2.1       6.6        0.8         9.5
Vineyards & Orchards                0.2       0.3        0.1         0.6
Subtotal Cropped Land            2.3       6.9       0.9         LQ-
Pastures & Meadows                  2.2       1.5        1.0         4.7
Total Agricultural Land          458.4                1.9        14.8
2.03       As a result of the 1991 land law, about ha 6.9 million of cropped
land and ha 1.5 million of pastures and meadows belonging to the former CAPS
are being privatized,!/ bringing the total area of agricultural land under
private control to ha 10.3 million.
2.04       Past Performance.  Between 1950 and 1980 the agricultural sector
was massively mechanized and soils were intensively fertilized. Gross
agricultural output increased at an aiverage annual rate of 4.5% - more than
trebling over the period, largely as a result of improved yields for both
crops and litestock. In parallel, the proportion of the labor force in
agriculture fell from 74% to 29% as more than 3 million peopl.e moved out of
agriculture to provide manpower for industrial development. As a result of
this growth, Romanian agriculture met domestic food consumption requirements
for temperate products and was a large net exporter of agricultural products.
By the early 1980s, agric"ltare exports, of which about 50% were to the EC,
accounted for about 23% of tctal exports. Between 1985 and 1989, however,
agricultural production declined at an estimated annual average rate of about
4% for crops and 5% for livestock. This resulted from decreasing factor
productivity which was partly due to shortages of imported inputs and partly
to the deterioration of the irrigation systems and of the agricultural
machinery park.
2.05       The overall decline in crop production has continued through 1990
and 1991, with est'mated falls in production between 1989 and 1991 of 12% for
oilseeds, 31n  f.-r sugarbeet, 51% for potatoes and vegetables and 37% for fruit
being part;  .ompensated by a 4% increase in cereal (mainly maize) production.
Livestock >,duction increased overall between 1989 and 1991.  Meat and wool
production increased by 12% and 13% respectively, which in value terms more
than offset falls in milk and egg production (1% and 5% respectively). Lack
of necessary critical inputs continued to be a major reason for declining
productivity. For example, mainly because of the allocation of domestically
Y    Although this land is now outside public sector control, the process of
identifying its ownership and allocating it to particular individuals is
still at an early stage (see para 3.05).



manufactured fertilizer for export, fertilizer used for the 1991 crops was far
too low.1 For agrochemicals and livestock production there have also been
serious shortages, due to lack of foreign exchange for importo.V
8.  irrgatila
2.06       Over the past 30 yeirs, a massive Irrigation program has taken
place in Romania, and currently about ha 3.2 million have been equipped with
irrigat.ion facilities. Most of the irrigated land is in the plains and about
half of it is on state farms. However, the absence of an effective system to
collect user fees and shortages of foreign exchange in recent years have
resulted in inadequate maintenance and non-replacement of essential spare
parts. As a result there has been a drastic decrease in irrigation
efficiency.  Drainage work is now requir-4    cver ha 1 million.  Furthermore,
much of the irrigation system as it is  ,    tly operated is extremely energy
intensive and not cost effective.  Basic deci-ions need to be made on which
crops and areas to irrigate on the basis of their financial and economic
viability and on how to restructure the whole system to introduce efficiency
and ensure sustainability. A study to review this has been commissioned under
the Bank's Critical Imports and Technical Assistance loan (Loan 3363-RO).
C. Mechanization
&.07       In 1990 the agricu?"ural sector in Romania was servad by 127,000
tractors, down about 17% from 1989, 41,500 cereal combine harvesters, about
17,000 maize combine harvesters, and 5,500 self propelled forage harvesters.
The present ratio of approximately 1 tractor per ha 75 of cultivated land is
one of the lowest in Europe and substantially below the ratio Romania
experienced in the early eighties (1 tractor per ha 53). It is estimated that
availability of tractors in Romania iE currently about 40% below the optimum
level.  Furthermore, the age structure of   * machines is poor (e.g. 70% of 45
hp tractors are over six years old) and theg proportion in good working order
is low. There are similar problems with other agricultural equipment,
particularly with combine harvesters and balers.
2.08       This unhealthy situation has been caused by lack of replacement of
agricultural machinery, due both to a policy of virtually no imports having
been made and ali- to the diminishing performance of Romanian agricultural
machinery factories. Because of low controlled sales prices, Romanian
factories have been unable to earn sufficient revenue to modernize and
restructure their plants and coneequently are operatizag at 30-40% of capacity.
Thus, the.4 has been considerable queuing for tractors. For example, in 1990
1J   It was estimated by MAFI to have been only 24% of the technical
requirements.
J   Imports of agrochemicals in 1991 were about half of those in 1990, and
41% below the level initially planned, while imports of protein meal in
1991 were only about 370,000 tons soybean meal equivalent compared with
actual imports of about 900,000 tons in 1990 and a planned figure for
1991 of about 950,000 tons.



-5-
private farmers received 2,969 (30-45 hp) tractors as again&lz a rsgstered
demand of 30,000 - less than 30%. The level of unsatisfied demand eased
somewhat in 1991 as domestic prices for tractors were substantially
increased1V &nd some 7,000 tractors were sold to private individuals (about
80% for cash and 20% on credit). There in still some overhang o0 demand, and
this, together with new demand from the private sector which is likely to be
generated as a result of price liberalization and the corresponding increase
in farm profitability, may not be met solely by existing local manufacturers.
However, the trade and exchange rate liberalization measures being introduced
are starting to result in competitive supply of A variety of foreign machinery
in the Romanian market, thereby alleviating this physical bottleneck.V
D. Research and Extension
2.09       Agricultural research in Romania is entirely undertaken by the
public sector. The largest of the crop research institutes is the Cereal and
Technical Plant Research Institute (ICCPT) located in Fundulea, near
Bucharest. It has its own network of 13 regional agriultural research
stations, none of which, however, conducts serious agricultural economic
research. There is also no formal agricultural extension system charged with
the responsibility of disseminating information among farmers in a permanent
systematic manner. There is a need for an agricultural research policy to.
serve the new market economy. There are major gaps in technological and
economic information in areas pertaining to small farmer production including
production and marketing economics, the role of sociology, the role of
productivity and the use of small farm machinery. In the field of specialized
livestock research, technological advances are required in farm management
economics, animal huebandry, disease control and epidemiology, and grassland
management and conservation. Much of this te-hnology can be effectively
transferred from developed countries which have accumulated a large body of
technical and practical knowledge about lives;ock production. Nevertheless,
domestic research capability is needed to identify potentially useful
technologies and management techniques. The absence of an extension system in
Romania is typical of all Eastern European countries. The creation of a more
effective system of agricultural information oriented to the needs of the
private sector needs to be put in place, especially now that several hundr3ds
of thousands of additional farm operators will need direct technical
assistance. A thorough review of the research and information services needed
to spur private agricultural development is warranted. A study on this
subject will be undertaken in parallel to the project (Annex 2, para 4(d)).
1/   Prices in January 1992 are about lei 1.4 million for a 45 hp tractor, or
about $7,000 at the official exchange rate. This is equivalent to export
parity.
v    The Technical Assistance and Critical Imports Loan (No. 3363-RO) has had
a modest input in alleviating this bottleneck through financing US$7
million worth of spare parts as against a possible annual need for
foreign exchange in the mechanization sub-sector of over US$100 million
annually.



- 6 -
S. AaroDrocessna
2.10       Agroindustry in Romania comprLses the following major processing
sectorst meat, milk, edible oil, fruit and vegetables, bakery and fish. Food
processing is mainly undertaken by state enterprises. There are about 400
major industrial units in the agroprocessing sector, employing some 300,000
people, which genezate about 10% of all industrial production. Following the
new privatization laws recently approved by parliament, and the consequent
privatization of the land, the numbers of farmers and middlemen interested in
participating in value added operations in the food processing area are
increasing rapidly. However, they are in great need of technical and
financial assistance. Although substantial foreign exchange has been
generated in recent years by the export of processed foods, very little
capital has been plowed back into restructuring or modernization of plants.
The renult is that their technical and economic status has severely
deteriorated. The extent to which it will be economically and technically
feasible to restructure state-owned processing enterprises is presently
unclear. fowever, new private sector processors deriving from the new reform
system are entering the marketplace especially in the fields of bakeries, beer
and meat processing. An agroindustry study, originally introduced under the
Bank's Technical Assistance and Critical Imports Loan, is now being undertaken
and financed by EC-PHARE. The study is expected to claseify agroindustries in
the state sector by standards of technical, economic and financial viability
and to identify the types of units worth restructuring, indicative levels of
investment, and to makF broad proposals for the disposal of those operations
which are not potentially viable.
F. Marketing. Prices and Foreign Trade
2.11       Marketina System.  The provision of food products is organized
through three channele: sales through the state managed distribution system
(the organized channels); informal free markets; and consumption out of own
production. Distribution through organized channels in 1990 accounted for
about 60% of total food expenditures. Commodity groups where the state's
share in marketing is smallest are milk and dairy products (27%) and fruits
and vegetables (35%). In general, the state control over agricultural inputs
and the use of strong measures to encourage private operators to deliver a
substantial part of their output to state units has tended to keep the share
of government procurement high. Private food processing to date has been a
cottage industry with units operated mostly from farmers' homes. Although
peasant markets are the main outlet for private food sales, farmers do not own
marketing facilities but rent stalls daily in designated areas. With the lack
of permanent sales outlets in these markets, the absence ot wholesale
distribution systems, and deficient transport, private farmers face
difficulties in marketing their products. The relatively high prices in
peasant markets partially reflect farmers' high unit marketing costs which are
largely caused by low daily sales volume. There is a need for substantial
changes in marketing and distribution of agricultural products. The increased
fragmentation of production brought about by land reform means that for
perishable products, such as fruit and vegetables, marketing facilities need
to be developed in the production areas. This will require substantial



-7-
private investment ln wholesale and retall markets, facilities, cold stores,
trucks, etc., which could be financed under this project.
2.12       Three major thrusts of the new food marketina 2olicv promoted by
the authorities are decentralization; elimination of state intermediaries; and
the privatization of outlets. Rationing and the state's effective monopoly
have now been abolished, with the exception of some basic goods currently in
short supply.]' For all other commodities, it is intended that procurement
contracts in the future will be executed voluntarily between wholesalers,
retailers and agricultural producers. However, there has not yet been a
substantial influx of private commercial wholesalers and commission agents
within the food distribution system. The new emphasis on elimination of state
intermediaries is directed at reducing the state's influence on procurement
and distribution. In particular, the controls exercised by state agencies are
to be phased out in an effort to encourage formation of private sector
marketing and trading concerns.
2.13       Through the privatization laws, it is intended that all state
enterprises presently engaged in wholesale and retail trade will be converted
to commercial companies and eventually privatized. This process has already
started for example, 14 previously state-owned flour mills have recently been
sold to private bidders. Through this ongoing reform process, the entire food
distribution system could be fully commercialized in the medium term and
operated largely by the private sector. Nevertheless, if private initiative
is to succeed, it must secure finance for investment and working capital.
2.14       Prices.  Romania has recognized that the system of administered
prices used in the past ofte.. gave wrong economic signals and has now embarked
on moving towards a market economy within which supply and demand determine
prices. This process is not yet completed. Over the past two years, there
has been a significant move towards liberalizing prices. Controls on retail
prices of agricultural products were substantially removed by the July 1991
price liberalization. Now only certain types of basic food products, sold
through state-owned channels, such as bread, liquid milk, butter, vegetable
oil, sugar, chicken and certain inexpensive meat cuts have fixed (and
subsidized) prices at the retail level (para 2.12). Fixed procurement prices,
often in the form of a contract between the state farm and the procurement
agency continue to be the norm for state farms. Until recently, these were
determined centrally on an historical 'cost plus' basis which in times of
inflation set prices too low for sustainable production. Now Government has
indicated a willingness to move away from this price setting methodology and
I,   Commodities of agricultural origin which are still subject to price
control when processed by state owned companies account for about 20% of
food expenditure. In January 1992 explicit levels of subsidy at the
retail level, which are paid to state owned companies selling goods at
controlled prices are 55% for bread, 68% for edible oil, 67% for sugar,
71% for liquid milk and 80% for butter, 71% for chicken and 22%-46% for
various inexpensive meat cuts. Government views these subsidies as a
short term transition measure and is planning to eliminate them over the
next two years, with the first reduction (by 25%) on May 1 1992.



- 8 -
proposes to uet transfer prices between state-owned commercial agencies at
levels based on 'border prices.' This change will be an important step
towards removing distortions in the sector. Private producers, both
individual farmers and farmers, associations, can sell to state units at
procurement prices and sometimes at negotiated prices. Products that can be
marketed directly, such as fruit and vegetables, livestock products or items
ior inter farm use (seed, livestock, etc.) are not subject to controls but are
naturally constrained by farmers' physical ability to transport and market
their goods. Nevertheless, because the state sector still handles a large
proportion of traded agricultural products (e.g. about 60% of wheat, 90% of
oilseeds, 60% of meat but only 30% of maize), the levels of 'procurement
prices' have an important influence on prices in the private sector.
2.15       Although, following initial liberalization, free market farm gate
prices were reported as not being very different from controlled price levels,
it appears that, with the impact of inflation and the devaluation of the lei,
a substantial price gap soon developed, particularly with cereals, small
livestock and livestock products for which there is a strong demand from other
farmers or households. Price differentials vary by commodity but, typically,
private market prices for these types of products as of the end of October
1991, were 30-70% above official procurement prices.2'
2.16       The levels of official prices at the farm gate at end October 1991
for both inputs (fertilizer, concentrates, mechanical services) and outputs
roughly corresponded to 'border prices', when calculated at the old official
exchange rate of lei 60 per US$. Compared with the unified exchange rate
introduced in November 1991, initially of lei 180 per USS, they were therefore
very low - about a third of world prices. Although official farm prices were
increased by an average of about 60% on December 17, 1991, they were still
well below 'border' levels at.the official exchange rate in January 1992. The
main impact of the low overall real level of aaricultural prices is that the
'terms of trade' are weighted heavily against the sector, thereby depressing
output. The distortion between official and orivate market Prices has had a
further deleterious effect in that state distribution agencies have found it
increasingly difficult to procure adequate cereal and other basic food
supplies domestically. During autumn 1991 it became substantially more
profitable for small scale producers either to feed grain to pigs or chicken,
which could be sold later on the private market or to withhold grain and wait
for its price to be lncreased, rather than to sell it to the state agencies at
the procurement price. Furthermore, because state importers of key inputs -
protein for animal feed, intermediate products for fertilizer or pesticide
manufacture, parts for tractors and equipment - have had severely rationed
quantities of foreign exchange available to them, allocation of inputs which
are also at low (subsidized) real prices is still effectively administered by
MAFI. This results in their being allocated according to the Ministry's
objectives rather than being subject to market demand, and so being purchased
by end users with the highest marginal return to these factors of production.
1/   Following unification of the exchange rate (see para 2.17) and adjustment
of official prices in November and December 1991, the differentials
appear to have fallen.



-9-
Clearly, all of the.e distortions - low absolute prices, differentials between
private market and official prices and rationing of subsidized imported inputs
- need to be minimized and preferably eliminated altogether for the market to
function efficiently. Further, a sustainable interest rate and rate of
exchange policy needs to be established.
2.17       To achieve the vital goal of 'getting agricultural prices right' in
Romania, and thereby setting the stage for agricultural growth, the ongoing
procees of liberalizing internal and external trade needs to be carried
through especially now that the exchange rates for public and private sector
businesses have been unified. Through SAL preparation, preparation of this
project and parallel sector work, intensive dialogue on this subject has taken
place between the Bank and Government. There is now broad agreement that the
aims should be (i) both agricultural and input and output prices should
approximate to border prices at the farm gate level for most products and that
key imported inputs should be freely available and not subsidized; (ii)
consumer subsidies which may be necessary to keep certain key foods affordable
should be transparent, impact only at the retail level and be reduced over
time; and (iii) the sales volume of price controlled items should gradually be
reduced.
2.18       Romanian foreian trade in agricultural products is dominated by
state-owned Foreign Trade Companies (FTCs). Before the Government placed a
ban on agricultural export in 1989, agricultural exports were running at about
$0.5 billion annually. Close to half of agricultural exports were livestock
products, mainly frozen pork, mutton and beef, canned beef, butter and cheese.
Fruit and vegetables followed with about 20% of export earnings. The
remainder wgas mainly cereals to the Soviet Union. About 70% of agricultural
export in 1989 was in convertible currency, about half of which went to EC
countries (mainly live sheep, butter, cheese, canned meat, fresh fruit, wine
and seeds). Almost all vegetable exports went to Austria, Switzerland and
Sweden. The removal of the export bans,11 and the liberalization of
agricultural trade, together with the recent unification of the exchange rate,
aro all important elements of the macroeconomic reform process which are
expected to be supported by the proposed SAL. With the resultant development
of economic incentives and the ongoing relaxation of price controls, thereby
increasing the influence of market forces, the product mix and location of
Romanian agricultural activity is likely to change significantly. The export
mix is also expected to change, possibly towards higher value products as the
export market focus moves increasingly to convertible currency markets. These
changes will take place gradually as producers and traders use their new
autonomy and the most profitable use of resources in individual cases becomes
clearer. To facilitate these market-driven changes and encourage enhanced
productivity, it will be important to support the necessary capitalization of
the new private farmers, processors and traders.
3/   Some of the restriction on exports, notably pig meat, had been removed by
January 1992.



- 10 -
G. Sectoral Adiustment Policies
2.19       The broad policy aim within the agricultural sector is that it
should be competitive, both domestically and internationally, and that prices
of and international trade in agricultural commodities, including key inputs,
should be liberalized in the medium term. The sector would thus grow in a way
dotermined by comparative advantage which could be expected to lead to a
growth in agricultural exports once this policy becomes operational. To
foster the ongoing privatization in the agricultural sector and hasten the
more complete introduction of market forces and financial discipline, the need
for additional major adjustments in marketing and investment policies is
recognized. Necessary adjustments include: (a) the introduction of viable
competition in marketing and service activities which are presently largely
undertaken by state-owned commercial production and distribution companies;
(b) the progressive reorientation of state-owned companies, including state
farms, towards more commercial operation; (c) the institutional strengthening
of governmental policy-making and farmer support agencies; (d) the extension
of financial sector reforms to rural and farmer support agencies and to rural
financial markets; and (e) a broad upgrading of the technological basis for
production (applied research), both at the farm level and in the processing
and input supply industries. This proposed project would make a major
contribution to (a) above by expanding credit and foreign exchange
availability to SMEs starting up in this subsector. The institution building
activities, developed during project preparation and now being programmed by
EC-PHARE (Annex 2), would address (c) above.
H. Future Prosoects
2.20       Romania has sound economic potential for agriculture.  Traditional
crops and livestock (cereals, oilseeds, pig meat) can be produced at costs
well below border prices (see Annex 3) and it is likely that better returns
still would be obtained from more intensive products such as fruits and
vegetables. Nevertheless, although agriculture will certainly be an important
sector of the Romanian economy, its growth rate in the medium-term is open to
conjecture. Tentative projections are for real growth of between 3% and 4%
p.a. between 1993 and 2000.-I Technically, this is feasible; indeed,
provided the land ownership/organization issue can be rapidly clarified, and
necessary inputs made available at economic prices, considerably higher growth
rates could be expected given the low base.>/ However, there are other
factors which also influence projections. With undistorted pricing of energy,
the area irrigated is likely to fall significantly, with a consequent negative
effect on production. Additionally, agricultural growth may be constrained by
the market for some products (para 2.22).
2.21       In the short term (1992) prospects for agricultural production
appear grim. Partly because of shortages of fuel and equipment, and partly
1/ Romania: Draft SAL Initiating Memorandum, February 1992.
3/   Agricultural output in 1992 is probably going to be 25% below the 1988
figure.



- 11 -
because of the reorganization of land ownership, both wheat planting and the
area of land plowed in autumn 1991 (for other 1992 crops) was substantially
below normal. D'Even with a massive effort in spring 1992, it is likely that
(i) total planted area will be below normal; and (ii) some plantings will be
late or seed beds will be prepared hurriedly thereby causing yields to fall.
2.22       Because of conflicting distortions in the past - subsidized prices
for food but rationed supply, it is difficult to determine whether aggregate
domestic demand for food will rise or fall in response to liberalization. In
the longer run, increasing population estimated to grow at about 0.5% p.a.
coupled with a projected growth in GDP per capita averaging about 3% between
1992 and 2000 would generate substantial aggregate increased domestic demand
for agricultural products, although the product mix and relative prices could
be expected to change.
2.23       On the export front, Romania already has niche markets for some
items while the liberalization of the economy could be expected to result in
private initiatives which would give impetus for further development of
specialty export products. In the longer run, the prospects of reduced trade
barriers to Europe and the restoration of demand from the Eastern Europe and
Central Asia Republics should give rise to a modest increase in the potential
for expansion of meat and grain exports.
2.24       Credit demand in the sector, both from producers and emergent
marketing/processing enterprises, is strong. This is not surprising given the
negative real interest rates which existed in 1991. The rate of private
credit uptake in 1991 and projections for 1992 indicate a demand far in excess
of the proposed disbursements under this project, even against the background
of rapidly increasing nominal interest rates.
2.25       Provisional results from a survey of demard by the main banks
lending to agriculture suggest agroindustrial private sector borrowing
requirements for 1992 of about US$70 million for a range of investments,
including bakeries, breweries, milling, meat processing, and fruit processing.
In the private agriculture production subsector, there is strong demand for
credit for agricultural machinery (including tractors), livestock, greenhouses
and the establishment of orchards and vineyards. There is a considerable
shortage of agricultural machinery on offer and, as in the past, sales are
likely to be determined by availability. It is estimated that in total about
US$200 million worth of domestically manufactured tractors (improved by the
inclusion of foreign components) and other agricultural machinery will be
available for delivery in 1992, of which 75% is expected to go to the private
sector. Assuming half of this is financed through loans, credit demand for
Romanian agricultural equipment by the private sector would be about US$75
million in 1992. Besides equipment from domestic sources, there will also be
significant demand for imported specialist equipment.
M1/   Winter wheat plantings in autumn 1991 were ha 1.56 million compared with
an average of ha 2.32 million in the previous three years, while the area
of plowed land as at December 31 was about ha 1 million compared with a
norm of ha 5 million.



- 12 -
2.26       The further liberalization of prices, together with a policy of
setting official prices at levels close to border prices (see paras 2.14 to
2.17), should result in a significant improvement in the agricultural terms of
trade compared with the recent past. For example, in March 1991, the time of
spring planting decisions, official prices of wheat, maize and sunflower were
lei 2.00, 2.40 and 4.00 per kg respectively. By early 1992, border prices for
the same commodities, converted to lei at the official exchange rate, were lei
25.0, 17.6 and 59.6 per kg respectively (Annex 3, Table 3). These figures are
higher than the year earlier financial prices, by factors of 12, 7 and 15
respectively, which is far greater than the increases over the same period of
either consumer prices or wages. On the same basis, there would also be a
substantial, but in total lesser, increase J.n the price of variable
agricultural inputs (seeds, fertilizer, chemicals, mechanization), the cost of
which typically represents 50-65% of crop output value at border prices (but a
lower figure if, as in the past, availability of inputs is restricted).
Profit per hectare under border price conditions for most crops would be
substantially higher in real terms than under the past system of low fixed
prices and subsidized inputs. Movement towards border prices would clearly
strengthen the financial viability of operations in this sector, thereby
increasing credit demand. Even _n the short run, the investment credit needs
of agriculture and the associated processing and marketing sector are likely
to exceed US$200 million of disbursements annually.
2.27       A broad brush estimate of agriculture's 'balance sheet, puts the
aggregate value of total assets in agriculture and agroindustries, part of
which would normally be financed by credit, at about US$10 billion, excluding
the value of land. More thaa half of this is already in private hands, yet
the present (end 1991) outstanding balance of formal credit to the private
sector is under US$100 million. As assets change handb, and real investment
and reinvestment is made at a rate likely to be about US$1 billion annually,
under stabilized conditions a strong demand for investment credit will be
generated provided that both inflation and interest rates are below 10-15%.
If high interest rates continue over the next year or so and suppress long
term investment credit demand, there will still be strong demand for short
term credit. In particular, seasonal credit will be required for production
by new agricultural entities and there will also be continued demand by
emergent marketing firms in subsectors such as cereals/bread or oilseed
processing which buy seasonal crops at harvest time but market their products
year round.
2.28       Recent visits to bank branches and discussions with private
borrowers revealed that while there is a shortage of private equity capital,
as would be expected after 40 years of communism, there were still many
examples of profitable emergent firms which were creditworthy bank customers.
Particular areas of profitable private activity reviewed included agricultural
produce transport, bakeries, meat processing, brewing, sheep production for
export and greenhouse production of flowers. Given the rapid expansion of the
number of clients being served, however, and the increasing volume of credit
extended, the banks will need to be cautious in assessing the soundness of
potential borrowers and the viability of the proposed investments.



- 13 -
I. Bank's Strateav and Role
2.29       The Bank's lending strategy in agriculture is to support the
jovernment effort to establish a stable macroeconomic environment conducive to
a gradual development of market-driven private agriculture. This strategy is
in line with the aims of the structural adjustment loan (SAL) recently
appraised by the Bank. More specifically, the Bank strategy and its role in
agriculture is conceived within a medium-term strategy aimed at providing
support to privatization via (a) implementation of the land privatization act;
(b) gradual elimination of state monopolies operating in processing and
distribution; (c) strengthening of (i) the rural financial intermediation
system, (ii) the research and extension servicee, and (iii) the government
policy- and strategy-making capacity; and (d) providing credit for both
investment and incremental working capital to private farmers and other rural
based private businesses. While (a) and (b) above fall within the framework
of the proposed SAL, (c)(i) would be pursued under both thie project and the
proposed FESAL and (d) would be directly addressed by the project.
2.30       The proposed project is the first agricultural operation conceived
within the above-mentioned agricultural strategy to support the emerging rural
private sector. It would help channel vital capital and, in particular,
convertible currency resources directly to the emergent private sector.
Because of this clear need for resources, and the potential for private sector
development, the project could be implemented in parallel to other more
comprehensive agricultural eector studies. Over the next eighteen months,
findings from the project-related sector studies under preparation may provide
the basis for a more comprehensive Bank operation to support further
development of a market economy in the agricultural sector. The Bank is
presently conducting regional studies in East Europe on land reform and
agricultural pricing and is contemplating a major study on agricultural trade.
Further work on agricultural incentives and cooperatives is now under
consideration; an irrigation study is under way, and a forestry review has
been initiated.
2.31       Relationshils with Other Aoencies.  The Bank has also been
instrumental in coordinating external assistance from multilateral (EC-PHARE)
and bilateral agencies in support of the agricultural sector. Specific
activities which will facilitate the effective implementation of this Project
and which have been fostered by the Bank but will be financed by other
agencies, mainly EC-PHARE, would include strengthening of:
(a) the banking system's capability to provide credit efficiently to
rural borrowers;
(b) policy and strategy formulation capacity within MAFI;
(c)   technical assistance services to rural undertakings;
(d)   the Agricultural Information System - education, research,
extension;
(e)   the agroindustry subsector through undertaking a detailed study;



- 14 -
(f) market information for agricultural products; and
(g) cadastral services.
A detailed description of these institutional development activities and the
implementation arrangements for them is provided in Annex 2.
2.32       Lessons Learned.   The most relevant lessons learned with regard to
agricultural projects from OED reviews and the most recent financial sector
operations are (i) macroeconomic stability and sector sustainability are basic
prerequisites for investment; (ii) the banking system needs to be cleared of
uncollectible arrears and establish capital and provisions adequacy; and (iii)
appropriate accounting systems need to be established in the corporate sector
to achieve financial tran.parency and accountability. All previous Bank
lending to the agricultural sector in Romania was made prior to 1985. By 19P'
Romania had ceased borrowing from the Bank and by 1989 had fully repaid all
outstanding Bank loans, many ahead of schedule. Previous agricultural loans
were all planned investments with funds passing through the Agricultural Bank
(AB). The main lessons to be learned from the several loans for intensive
livestock (pigs, poultry and dairy cows) were that, although individual
subprojects generally performed adequately, the severely restricted
availability of key imported inputs - in that case protein feed - meant that
the overall impact of the livestock projects on the economy was probably
negative. Massive financing of irrigation projects, all of which are energy
intensive, resulted in operations which were not financially and economically
viable. This is one of the reasons that an irrigation study (para 2.06) has
been commissioned. Clearly, the system of centrally chosen projects,
controlled prices, physical allocation of resources and unavailability of
foreign exchange to agriculture, despite the fact that it was a key exporting
sector, has resulted in unsatisfactory performance. This project takes
account of these lessons: firstly, subprojects will result from effective
credit demand and not be administratively selected; and, secondly, because of
the movements towards (a) freeing up prices, and (b) a liberalized
agricultural trade regime, which would permit key inputs to be imported and to
be freely available in the market with financial prices close to economic
prices, the types of investment made are likely to be economically viable.
III. LAND REFORM AND FARMER ASSOCIATIONS
A. Backoround
3.01       Following World War II, the country's existing agricultural and
consumer cooperatives were incorporated into the centralized planning approach
of the communist government. Private agricultural lands we-e expropriated and
reorganized into collectives (called agricultural production 'cooperatives'
(CAPs)) and state farms. The collectives were structured into a country-wide
system of 41 regional unions, one for each Judet (administrative district),
under the control of a national union headquartered in Bucharest. Party
officials were often appointed to the key positions at the national and
regional levels. At the local level, the CAPs were required to supply state



- 15 -
factories and retail outlets with a portion of their output and pay a tax to
the government based on their profits. The system left little incentive for
either individual or group initiative, although it did serve as an important
means of providing employment.
3.02       After the revolution of December 1989, in February 1990, a new law
on agricultural associations provided for the independent development of the
cooperatives. This initial step toward privatization of the cooperatives was
given an important impetus with the promulgation of the new land law in
February 1991, which provided for the return of much of the expropriated farm
land to its original owners or their descendants. On the basis of these two
laws, the CAPs are in the process of being dismantled.
B. Dismantlina of CAPs and Reoraanization of the Larnd
3.03       Under the new law, n.   ssets of the CAPs are being distributed to
their members; 60% on the basis e  work contribution over the past decade and
40% on the basis of previous land ownership. In all, it is reckoned that
there will be about 6 million individual land owners or laborers resulting
from the breakup of the CAPs. Many of these are city dwellers who have
hereditary title to land but are not actively involved in agriculture. Three
broad types of organization are resulting from the reorganization of CAPs.
These include legally constituted associations which have the right to borrow,
family associations which are normally looser groupings and are not a 'legal'
entity and so must borrow through their members and individual farmers
operating independently. Included in the legally formed associations are both
associations growing out of part of the original CAPs and a?so associations
growing out of the old inter-cooperative economic associatiLns which were
normally specialized units e.g. pig farms, dairy farms, etc. This latter
group have generally formed into private joint stock companies rather than
farmer associations.
3.04       As of January 1992, Romania had 2,250 legally constituted farmers'
associations with ha 1.1 million (ha 489/association) and embracing 390,293
families (173 families/association). An additional 1,597 associations were
being processed which, using the same average area, would mean that in total
about ha 1.9 million, or 23% of the old (1990) CAP land area was likely to be
operated through legally constituted farmers associations in 1992. At the
same time, newly organized family associations numbered 8,338 and occupied ha
1.2 million (ha 144/family association). An additional 1,814 family
associations were being processed, which would bring the total to 10,152 and
area farmed to about ha 1.5 million, or 18% of former CAP land. Combined,
legally constituted and family associations are likely to operate about 41% of
former CAP land in 1992.
3.05       Parallel with the breakup of the CAPs, the Government has a program
to give title to the 6 million beneficiaries of decollectivization. This is
indeed a massive task. The number of parcels of land involved has been
estimated at anything from 13 to 24 million. Progress has been rapid in terms
of broadly identifying the land areas involved. At the commune level, the
local commissions have established 99% of the land to be distributed and at
the Judet (district) level, 91% of commune proposals have been approved.



- 16 -
Despite progress on this front, the cadastral survey process has been slower
than expected, creating delay. in the issuance of ownership claims and full
land title and registration. This process is reported to ba constrained by
insufficient technicians assigned to the task (5,500), inadequate coordination
and planning among the interrelated phases (adjudication, demarcation,
registration, title distribution, and ongoing training), and lack of required
information systems (hardware and software). As of early January 1992, only
43,556 titles had been issued against 4.5 million ownership claims. An
additional 1.7 million ownership claims are expected to be issued in the next
two to three months. The immediate consequence of these delays is reduced
investment and production in agriculture. Unless these problems are soon
resolved, medium- and long-term impact will also include reduced collatera
availability among private farmers and associations for bank loans. One of
the main tasks of MAFI in the coming months will be to ensure acceleration of
the cadastral survey. They could begin by deploying underutilized technicians
and specialists, which are estimated to number 14,000, and working closely
with EC-PHARE consultants and Dutch consultants to implement more efficient
processing and planning standards.
3.06       Technical assistance comprising both experts and equipment for
surveying to support the cadastral service is already in place and being
funded by EC-PHARE.  Additional support specifically for lank.. registration is
being provided using Bank Dutch Trust Fund resources. The rate at which full
title to land can be distributed is presently unnlear and would be heavily
dependent on the amount of resources committed to the program. However, it
would be unreasonable to expect that the millions of plots involved could be
identified, mapped in detail and registered on behalf of 6 million
beneficiaries in less than about 5 years. Therefore, in the short- and
medium-terms many farmers will have to rely on the common understanding that
they are entitled to a certain area of land within a large block rather than
specifically owning an individual parcel.
C. The Impact of the February 1991 Land Law
3.07       In the summer of 1991, the Bank and MAFI recruited 40 agricultural
university students to carry out a random sample survey of farmers who were
beneficiaries of the Land Privatization Law of February 1991 and had inherited
land formerly operated by the CAPs. Survey teams interviewed 1,243 households
and 210 farmer associations. The major findings of the survey are that within
the sample cover, most (65%) farmers have elected, for the time being, to
cultivate land in associations. On average, these new associations (which are
larger than the national average) cover less area (500 ha) and have fewer
members than the former CAPs. These smaller sized units are likely to be more
manageable by the new emerging private farmers than the old CAPs and could
provide a foundation for the formation of smaller commercial farms. Those
farming in associations indicated that they have chosen to do so because they
have more access to machinery and equipment and to technical assistance.
Individual farmers, on the other hand, indicated a high inclination to farm
independently and also to undertake processing and marketing activities of
agricultural products on their own. All farmers, whether farming collectively
or individually, indicated a need for capital investment and stated that they
would be willing to finance it with long-term credit i' it were avatlable



- 17 -
through the banking system. Specific items which they felt they would need
credit for were agricultural machinery, livestock, small-scale processing
equipment for bakeries, dairy plants, and butcheries.
3.08       In the expectation that the trend towards smaller associations and
individual private farms will continue, technical assistance is now needed for
the development of new more intensive cropping systems and of appropriate
processing and marketing services, with the aim of adding value to
agricultural production. Because of the perishability of many agricultural
products, the linking of processing and marketing with production can lead to
greater rural incomes and improved efficiency. As a result, there is a strong
demand among producers for the financing of small- and medium-size
agricultural enterprises. However, because of lack of experience, technical
assistance to support such processing and marketing activities would be
required.
3.09       Various other information important for understanding the emerging
social and production structure of newly formed groups was derived from the
survey. With regard to age the survey indicated that about half of the
individual farmers are more than 51 years old, while in the farmers
associations, about 35% of the farmers are over 55. Most of the young people
living on the farms increase family incGme through off-farm employment. With
65% of the persons in primary production, processing or marketing being
female, it is clear that women are playing a prominent role in the evolution
and development of the new market oriented rural sector.
3.10       In contrast to the CAPs which were managed at the local level by
only a few trained technicians, and in which management's primary role was to
meet centrally-determined production targets, the members of the no-
associations are active participants in decision making at all levels from
production to marketing. The survey also indicates that most association
members are remunerated by the association for the use of their land by
receiving a combination of shares of the output and part of the net earnings.
3.11       The new managers of the associations are elected by the members.
While most of the managers interviewed expressed a high degree of optimism
about the potential of their associations and described plans for expanding
operations and entering into new economic activities, many lack the management
and business skills necessary to improve operational efficiency and evaluate
the feasibility of new ventures. Training is required in such areas as farm
management, including cash-flow analysis, cost-benefit analysis, processing
and marketing skills, and maintenance of agricultural machinery and equipment.
D. Government Strateov and EC-PHARE Assistance
3.12       Government agricultural policy looks upon the new land ownership
structure as an essential element in the privatization and growth of the
agricultural sector. It is the expressed intent of the Government to give the
farmers full control over their own production and marketing operations.
Nevertheless, the physical nature of the land (large, flat fields, with
villageB far from the land) in some of the more productive regions of the
country means that there will be a strong economic reason for carrying out



- l8 -
much of the field work on the land using large scale equipment. Creating the
right kind of organization to ensure compatibility between individual control
on the one hand and the potential benefit from economies of scale on the other
will be a major challenge within the sector.
3.13       The transition from CAPs to individual units or voluntary
associations requireie  a tuajor restructuring of the country's agricultural
institutions, including those providing inputs, extension services, marketing
information and credit; some significant changes have already taken place.
There is an evident danger that the farmer associations will not evolve beyond
the joint farm management/production stage and will simply functtan as smaller
collective farms. At present, no real guidance or support is being provided
to aseist the associations with planning, improving operations, or equipping
the members with managerial, financial, organizational and technical skills.
EC-PHARE is planning to implement an interim support and training service
which would be an important step in assisting the associations through this
transition period, and enable them to expand their operations and develop
their husiness activities on a sound financial basis. This type of assistance
could make a strong contribution to the promotion of private sector
development. Many of the farmers have already taken action to establish their
own primary level associations ard restructure their production activities.
To move through this transition phase successfully, the new farmer
organizations and the institutions providing them with agricultural services
will require specific technical assistance and training.  A series of
initiatives are being undertaken by the Bank to assist EC-PHARE to define an
appropriate technical assistance program in this area (Annex 2).
3.14       In the - -dium- to long-term, it :. expected that initial land
allotments will r r,onsolidated through sale and leasing. Markets in inputs
and servicee 'rr %..tall private farmers will improve and the capital stock
inherited from the Ci.Ps will be replaced by buildings and machinery more
appropriate for smaller scale production, and that the producer associations
will eventually evolve into traditional marketing cooperatives. During the
transition stage, however, these newly formed associations will need to make
important adjustments in order to survive in the new market environment. At
the same time, Government will need to ensure that the privatization of
agricultural services and inputs supply proceeds rapidly and that markets for
outputs operate more freely.
IV. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
A. Background
4.01       The objective of the Government of Romania is to establish an
efficient and broadly-based financial sector, as a fundamental component of a
competitive market economy. In order to achieve this objective, an extensive
program is being introduced to transform the financial system, based on three
principal elements: (1) efficient monetary and credic policies; (2)
strengthening of the banking syste.1.; and (3) deepening of the financial system
through the development of capital markets.



- 19 -
4.02       Support for this program of financial sector reforiki is being
provided mainly by multilateral agencies, such as the IMF, the Bank, and the
European Community (under its PHARE program). The strategy of the Bank is to
assist the overall reform of the financial system while addressing through a
number of operations also the specific needs of the industrial, agricultural
and service sectors of the economy. The first such operation in the new
lending program for Romania was the Technical Assistance and Critical Imports
Loan (Loan 3363-RO) for US$180 million equivalent which was submitted to the
Board in June 1991. The second is the proposed (SAL) to support the
Government's program of macroeconomic reforms. Also in the pipeline are two
interlinked sectoral projects to promote private sector development and
transition to a market economy as follows:
(a)   this project, the Private Farmer and Enterprise Support Project
(PF.SP); and
(b)   the Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment .oan (FESAL;,
scheduled to be appraised in September 1992.
4.03       The reform of the financial sector will have an important impact on
the Agricultural Bank (AB) and the Romanian Development Bank (DB), the two
banks which, after agreement on a satisfactory restructuring program and the
initiation of its implementation, are expected to play the major rcle in
carrying out the credit program of the project.
B. The Bankina System
4.04       Until December 1989, the Romanian financial system existed to
implement the central plan; flows of funds were controlled administratively,
leaving little role for central baa..cing or commercial banking functions. The
National hank of Romania (NBR) was charged with note issue, but had limited
responsibility for money, credit, or interest rate policy. As risks were
assumed by the government, banks maintained little or no capital, and no
agency existed to supervise financial institutions. Banks provided limited
services to their clients and had scant authority to allocate credit. Savings
were mobilized through the Savings Bank (CEC), which lent out a small portion
of its resources in the form of housing loans and passed the remainder to the
NBR which used these funds to refinance loans made by the banking system. The
Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade (RBFT), DB and AB, respectively, were
responsible for lending to the trade sector, the state enterprise sector and
agriculture, mostly with funds borrowed from the NBR. In effect most of the
money onlent was never recovered and written off both sides of the balance
sheet with the authorization of the MEF. In addition to serving as the bank
of issue, the NBR also had quasi-commercial banking functions, taking deposits
from state enterprises and cooperatives and making short-term direct loans.
4.05       The post-revolutionary governments are dedicated to moving towards
a market economy. In the financial sector a two-tier banking system was
created in December 1990 by spinning off all the commercial banking
transactions from the NBR to create the Romanian Commercial Bank (CB). The CB
and three other state-owned banks (RBFT, DB and AB) all became commercial
banks, registered as joint stock companies and operating under the authority



- 20 -
of two banking laws approved by the Romanian Parliament in April 1991. The
government increased the capital of the banks somewhat but still left them
undercapitalized. Several private banks were licensed and have begun
operating (Mindbank, Bank Tiriac, the Cooperative Credit Bank, Banca
Renasterea Creditului Romanesc and Dacia Felix). The Romanian commercial
banking sector now comprises six state-owned banks, five private or mixed
capital banks and the Bucharest branches of five foreign banks, making a total
of 16 in all. The system io completed by several insurance companies (of
which the two largest were formed by splitting ADAS, the state insurance
monopoly), about 850 credit cooperatives and several hundred small credit
unions set up by the trade unions.
4.06       In terms of deposit mobilization CEC still enjoys a dominant
position, lending most of its funds either to the NBR or through the interbank
market to the commercial banks. However, in 1991 the four major state-owned
commercial banks have been permitted to compete more actively for deposits and
to diversify their lending business in line with their new freedom to function
as universal banks. The AB has begun to finance activities outside
agriculture, while other banks are starting to compete in the agricultural
sector. The banks have set up departments to lend to the private sector, and
credit extended to this sector accounted for as much as 10% of credit flows in
the first six months of 1991 (paxa 4.07). However, the low level of deposit
and lending interest rates, far below inflation, and the absence of adequate
collateral remain serious constraints on the growth of this market.
4.07       In general, banks have been left free to determine their lending
and deposit-taking activities. Each of the state-owned banks ultimately
reports to a 5-person committee, which includes representatives of the NBR,
NEF, and the National Privatization Agency (NAP). However, this committee
approves broad policy, meets infrequently, and shows no signs of interfering
with bank business decisions. The state-owned banks appear to be devoting
limited resources to the credit evaluation process, and are mainly lending to
the state-owned enterprises (Regie Autonome) sector with explicit, signed
guarantees from the MEF. Their lending in 1991 has been concentrated among
state-owned commercial companies, regie autonome, newly created private sector
firms, and individuals. The NBR has not intervened in specific lending
decisions nor has it provided any guarantee.
4.08       Structure of the Banking System.  The present financial system in
Romania is structurally imbalanced and underbanked, specially in terms of
customer choice. The savings bank, CEC, holds around 63% of aggregate bank
deposits, yet lends very little to customers, placing most of its funds with
NBR and the Romanian commercial banks. On the other hand, the four main
commercial banks have modest customer deposits but account for over 90% of
aggregate domestic lending. To improve the efficiency of intermediation in
the system it would be desirable for the main commercial banks in Romania to
progress towards a structure waereby their loan portfolios were funded mainly
from customer savings and other deposits. One way this could be achieved
would be through the gradual assimilation of CEC branch offices to the
commercial banks. The future role of CEC within the banking system is
currently being reviewed by Government. All four commercial banks together
have 385 branches and only CEC has an extensive network (2,300 branches and,



- 21 -
until recently, 3,000 post offices acting as agents). CEC's monopoly on
household deposits will be partially broken by the new Post Office Bank, which
will take on the deposits placed through the post offices, but more radical
measures are probably needed to reshape the system. The new private banks
have very small networks, except for Bankcoop which intends to establish at
least one branch and two agencies in each of Romania's 41 districts (judets).
4.09       Institutional Development of the Banks.  The banks in Romania need
a massive program of institutional development covering the following areas:
*    training at all levels covering especially basic banking skills,
credit assessment, foreign exchange dealing, treasury management,
customer calling and marketing skills, securities trading,
accounting and modern administrative techniques;
*     full financial audits and portfolio reviews to GAAS standards;
*    computerization and systems development to provide general ledger
accounts and accurate management information; and
*    strategic diagnostic studies to examine each bank's market
position, financial performance and management, to review options
for the future and to prepare detailed strategic and business plans
with a view to getting the banks ready for eventual privatization;
*    the appointment of experienced credit advisors to each of the main
banks to establish credit policies and design appropriate loan
authorization and review procedures.
Most of this institutional development is being provided under the preparation
of the FESAL with EC-PHARE financing. Part of it is being provided with funds
made available in the context of the preparation of this project using
Japanese Trust Fund resources. AB and DB, expected to be the project FIs,
will initiate a restructuring program before they become eligible as conduit
for project funds (para 6.06).
4.10       Present Finanicial Condition.  The Romanian banking system is
fundamentally undercapitalized. On September 30, 1991, capital and reserves
for all Romanian banks (excluding the National Bank) totalled lei 55.4 billion
compared with total liabilities of lei 1,265 billion, or a leverage ratio of
22.8 to 1. The total capital and reserves of lei 55.4 billion represented
6.58% of the system's lei 842.5 billion in total loans (which include loans of
lei 93.1 billion to the government). Although final figures for December 31,
1991 are not yet available for all the banks, the problem of under-
capitalization has probably become more severe, because a surge in lending
activity in the last quarter, after NBR lifted the restrictions on credit
expansion (para 4.13), was not matched by a proportionate increase in equity.
4.11       At present it is extremely difficult to assess the collectibility
of the banks' risk assets, the great majority of which (probably as much as
90% or more) consists of loans to state enterprises. The operational audit of
t!, major banks as at December 31, 1991, carried out by international



- 22 -
auditors, has commenced in February 1992 and will assist in quantifying the
size of the problem. The Government is committed to taking whatever steps are
necessary to ensure that possible losses to banks from non-performing loans to
state enterprises do not result in the insolvency of the banking system.
Between 1988 and September 1990 losses exceeding lei 250 billion were written
off using budSatary funds. In 1991 Government has assumed the responsibility
for 95% of bad and doubtful loans to state enterprises totalling around lei
150 billion which were identified in July 1991 (Government Decision 447/91),
with the banks absorbing the remaining 5% over a period of several years. It
is evident that before real progress can be achieved in the restructuring -
let alone the privatization - of the Romanian banking system, it is necessary
to quantify the uncollectible state enterprise loan portfolios of the banks
and determine Government's role in relieving the banks of this burden. At the
same time, appropriate measures need to be taken to improve and strengthen the
banks' lending, credit analysis and risk assessment procedures, to reduce the
level of future losses and to ensure that no state pressure is applied to
grant loans to non-creditworthy public (or private) enterprises or for non-
viable economic activities. Steps are being taken in this regard for Fla
(para 6.06).
C. The Role of the National Bank of Romania (NBRI
4.12       Bank Supervision and Reaulation.  The banking laws adopted on April
1, 1991 endowed NBR with sole supervisory authority over banking companies,
with very broad authority to write regulations. NBR's Banking Regulation and
Supervision Department, supported by the IMF and its consultants, has made
considerable progress in developing policy recommendations and prudential
rules, which will serve as a foundation for both off-site analysis and on-
site inspections. In January 1992 the Department commenced its first detailed
on-site inspection of a bank.
4.13       Imolementation of Monetary and Credit Policy.  During the first
nine months of 1991 NBR applied strict credit ceilings as was recommended by
the IMF, using bank by bank ceilings to limit the growth of money supply to
about 15% annually with the intent to curb inflation, which in this period was
over 100%. As a result of this tight monetary policy, the total domestic bank
credit (excluding credit to Government) stood at lei  49.4 billion in
September 1991, only 9.6% over the December 1990 amount. Enterprises, unable
to obtai.n credit from the banks, stopped paying their suppliers; consequently,
inter-enterprise arrears which at the beginning of 1991 had been estimated at
lei 100 billion rose to lei 1.2 trillion, almost 40% of GDP, by the end of
November 1991. Alarmed by the growth of arrears NBR abolished credit ceilings
during the fourth quarter and banks were once more allowed to lend. Total
bank credit grew to lei 898.8 billion at the end of November 1991, a growth of
19.9% in just two months, and further growth was experienced in December 1991.
AB was one of the banks that substantially increased lending in the last
quarter of 1991, its net balance of outstanding credit growing by 50%,
equivalent to lei 134 billion, in the three-month period. These figures on
growth do not include loans made in January 1992, but recorded in December
1991, under the Global Compensation Scheme (Law 80 dated December 23, 1991).
This scheme is an attempt to reduce the inter-enterprise arrears which have
had a highly negative effect on the real sectors of the economy. Preliminary



- 23 -
estimates, made in mid-January 1992, indicated that the net credit injected
into the banking system would be around lei 400 billion.
D. Maior Romanian Banks
4.14       Agricultural Bank.  AB, first established in 1948, underwent
several organizational and structural changes over time and was converted, in
December 1990, into a joint stock company, still fully owned by the state, and
a universal bank. Based on total assets it is the fourth largest bank in the
system with about 18% of total bank assets. In total lending it is the second
largest bank with a portfolio equivalent to 25% of total credit from the
banking system. The provisional 1991 balance sheet indicates that the AB
sourcea of funds were as follows: CEC (30%), NBR (40%), sight deposits (27%),
and equity (3%). Until recently, AB has specialized in lending to
agricultural producers and to the food processing industry, and its major
customers were state farms, state-organized agricultural cooperatives and
state-owned processing plants. Since 1990, AB has given increasing emphasis
to previding banking services and credit to the private sector, including
individual farmers, private small-scale enterpri3es and the newly formed
farmers, associations, successors to the former agricultural production
cooperatives; AB is also expanding its lending and banking services to other
sectors of the economy. As AB is expected to play the leading role in project
implementation more detailed information on its organization, financial
position, lending operations, interest rates and its involvement in the
private sector is provided in Annex 1.
4.15       Provisional financial statements for AS (prepared at end-January
1992) for the year ending December 31, 1991 show total assets of lei 329.1
billion (US$1.6 billion), comprising a loan portfolio of lei 306.2 billion
(93%) and other assets of lei 22.9 billion. Gross income, was lei 3.7
billion. Refinancing facilities from NBR of lei 135.8 billion and loans and
deposits from CEC of lei 97 billion financed over 76% of AD's outstanding loan
portfolio, the balance being financed from customers' current account deposits
and AB's equity of lei 9.3 billion, which was equivalent to 2.8% of total
assets on December 31, 1991. Although AS only partially (60%) meets the Basel
convention recommended capital equity requirements, the return on equity (40%)
and the return on assets (1%) are to be considered satisfactory. Its capital
structure shows an adequate long-term debt to equity ratio of 10:1. The
Government has raised the statutory capital from lei 6 billion to lei 9
billion in March 1992. Its accounts and the 1991 financial statements are
being audited by external auditors in accordance with GAAS. A manual of
lending guidelines for agricultural credit in accordance with Bank
requirements is being prepared. AB has a small core of adequately qualified
staff and is undergoing a specialized training program for management and
staff financed by EC-PHARE.
4.16       Romanian Dank for Develooment.  DB was established in 1948 as the
successor to ~he National Society for Industrial Credit, and specialized in
medium- and long-term credit for industrial development and short-term
advances to industries for working capital. It is state-owned and holds only
about 10% of the banking system's total assets, making it the fifth largest
bank. In terms of lending DD is the fourth largest, with 14.1% of total bank



- 24 -
credit. DB has 41 branches (one in each district like the other major banks),
35 sub-branches and 66 agencies, and a total staff of about 3,000.
4.17       As of December 31, 1991, the total assets of DB stood at lei 245
billion, comprising a loan portfolio of lei 198 billion and non-performing
loans of about lei 21 billion for which Government has agreed to take
responsibility. (In 1990, Government funded the writing off of bad loans
amounting to lei 15 billion.) DB's liabilities, as of above date, comprised
lei 110 billion or about 50% in sight and time deposits, including deposits
from the State Insurance Company; another 31% (lei 76 billion) was refinancing
provided by NBR, borrowing from other banks, mainly CEC, was equivalent to 15%
(lei 36 billion), and Government deposits equalled 4% of total liabilities.
4.18       Romanian Commercial Bank S.A.  CB was established in December 1990
when the commercial banking activities of the National Bank were restructured
and transferred to a separate bank. CB is state owned and has inherited a
large portfolio of loans to state enterprises. It is the second largest bank
in the system, with 24.5% of the total assets, but by far the largest lender
with about 33% of the total lending by the Romanian banking system. The bank
has 41 branches, one in each judet (district) of Romania, and 112 sub-branches.
and agencies. CB intends to open an additional 10 to 15 sub-branches in 1992.
Total staff number about 8,750, of whom about 1,150 are in the headquarters.
4.19       As of November 29, 1991, the total assets of CB stood at lei 410.8
billion, comprising a loan portfolio of lei 301.8 billion and loans to
government of lei 35.7 billion. At present, lending activities are
concentrated on the industrial and service sectors; CB intends to widen its
portfolio and expand activities to other sectors of the economy, including the
agriculture sector.
4.20       Of CB's liabilities, lei 117.6 billion or 28.6% came from sight and
time deposits from the public, deposits of investment funds of enterprises and
cooperatives, and the State Insurance Company. Another 12.8% were deposits
of Government and the remaining liabilities consisted of refinancing from the
NBR (5.8%) and borrowing from other banks, primarily CEC (35.1%).
4.21       Romanian Bank for Foreian Trade S.A.  RBFT was established in 1968
to take over the activities previously handled by the International Division
of NBR. In the past it had a virtual monopoly on all Romanian foreign
exchange transactions and its lending operations financed import and export
activities. In January 1990, RBFT obtained approval to widen the scope of
its activities and operate as a commercial bank, whilst other banks were
authorized to carry out foreign exchange transactions. The bank is state-
owned and, from January 1, 1991, its legal status has changed to that of a
joint stock company. Its total assets of lei 428.6 billion at November 30,
1991, or 25.6% of the commercial banks' total assets, make it the largest bank
in the system, but it ranks only third in domestic lending, with a portfolio
of 18.9% of total credit from the banking system. RBFT's total assets of lei
428.6 billion comprised a loan portfolio of lei 170.1 billion (of which lei
54.4 billion in foreign exchange include non-performing loans of about lei 25
billion) and deposits with NBR of lei 137.5 billion. Liabilities included
time and sight deposits of lei 105.4 billion (25% of total), foreign currency



- 25 ^
deposits of residents - lei 24.1 billion (6%) and foreign liabilities of lei
133.1 billion (31%) - lei 44.0 billion in convertible and lei 89.1 billion in
non-convertible currencies.
4.22       Currently, RBFT has six branches and plans to open about 10 new
branches in the medium term. Its total staff numbers around 1,025 employees.
RBFT has entered into five joint ventures with foreign banks/financial
institutions, three of which have branches in Bucharest. The objective of
R8FT is to continue to exploit its position as the bank specialized in foreign
exchange transactions while diversifying into other banking services.
4.23       Romanian Savings Bank.  CEC, established in 1864, is a state-owned
savings bank, mobilizing deposits from the population and channelling the bulk
of its resources to other banks to finance their lending operations. Total
assets, at as November 30, 1991 amounted to lei 326.7 billion, making it the
third largest bank in Romania. However, about 84% of its assets consisted of
interbank loans (lei 275.3 billion), whilst CEC's loan portfolio stood at lei
45.4 billion, consisting of housing loans only. CEC is a major source of
fui:ds for AB financing about one-third of AB's loans as of above date. CEC
liabilities consisted of sight and time deposits of lei 241.3 billion and a
Government pension fund of lei 58.8 billion. Given the highly negative
interest rates in real terms paid on deposits in 1991, CEC's deposits steadily
decreased, from lei 268.5 billion at the beginning of 1991 to lei 241.3
billion at the end of November 1991.
4.24       CEC total staff numbers about 13,000 and it has the most extensive
branch network, with a total of about 2,600 branches. In addition, until
recently 2,800 post officws and 776 credit cooperatives have also served as
proxy branches of CEC. However, following the establishment of the new Post
Bank, which opened for business in January 1992, post offices will no longer
serve CRC and the Post Bank could become a strong competitor in mobilizing
savings from the general public and providing credit for consumer goods and
housing.
E. Other Domestic Banks
4.25       The Coolperative Credit Bank (Bankcoon).  In 1990 the Union of
Consumer Cooperatives and the Union of Credit Cooperatives decided to set up
Bankcoop, a private commercial bank to be owned partially by the Romanian
consumer and credit cooperatives and partially by private shareholders. The
bank was officially registered in September 1990 and opened for business in
December 1990. The shareholders are 1,200 consumer cooperatives (52%), around
600 credit cooperatives (20%), the State Insurance Company (ADAS) (4%) and
private individuals (24%). The Bucharest branch of Bankcoop was opened in
December 1990; it currently has 41 branches and 50 sub-branches, planning to
open an additional 40 sub-branches by June 1992. Bankcoop's staff numbers
approximately 2,000.
4.26       Bankcoop intends to operate as a full service commercial bank.  It
accepts deposits although its principal depositing customers will be the
consumer and credit cooperatives which are its main shareholders, but Bankcoop
will also serve private individuals and provide current and savings accounts



- 26 -
services. On the lending side Bankcoop will concentrate on supporting small
businesses throughout Romania in the agricultural, service and light industry
sectors, competing with AB and CB.   The future prospects for Bankcoop appear
promising although the new bank is likely to find itself constrained in its
ambitious expansion plans by the scarcity of trained banking staff.
4.27       At the end of November 1991, Bankcoop's total assets amounted to
lei 30.2 billion and its total loan portfolio stood at lei 23.5 billion.
Liabilities comprised sight and time deposits of lei 11.6 billion and
borrowing from NBR - lei 14.6 billion. In the medium term Bankcoop could
develop sufficiently to become an intermediary for Bank funds, although at
present it is too small and weak to fulfill that role.
4.28       The Romanian Credit Cooperatives.  In Romania there are around 835
small 'credit cooperatives' which function as mutual funds for the benefit of
their members. Each is independently constituted, with its own funds provided
from members' contributions as part of its capital and by deposits, has its
own balance sheet and management. On average each credit cooperative has
around 5,000 members, of whom approximately one-third are borrowers. Loans
are granted mostly to meet the personal needs of members (consumer durables,
weddings, etc.) although in the countryside some loans are also made to
purchase livestock, seeds, etc. Loan collections of the credit cooperatives
have been good, as members' loan repayments are usually deducted from their
monthly salaries and community pressure within the villages ensure that tardy
borrowers pay up. Up to now the lending capacity of any credit cooperative
has been limited strictly to its own mutual fund, with no borrowing permitted
from external sources. This has effectively restricted lending to any
individual member to a low multiple of his contribution (up to 3.5 times) and
inevitably leads to lengthy waiting lists of potential borrowers. The
Romanian credit cooperative system comprises around 4,500,000 individual
members, of whom around 1,600,000 are borrowers. Total assets of the system
were lei 10.7 billion at December 31, 1990 of which lei 8.7 billion comprised
loans to cooperative members and lei 1.2 billion deposits with banks. Most of
the bank deposits were with AB, CEC and CB, but as Bankcoop extends its
network some of the deposits of the credit cooperatives are likely to be
transferred to the new institution. In the long run it would probably be
beneficial for the Romanian banking system if many of the credit cooperatives
were absorbed by Bankcoop. However, initially, Bankcoop does not want to
force the pace. The management of Bankcoop feels that if the bank grows
successfully, some of the credit cooperatives may seek to merge, whilst others
will prefer to remain independent.
F. Financial Intermediaries under the Prolect
4.29       At present, three of the commercial banks (AB, DB, CB) are actively
involved in financing investments in agriculture and agroindustries and have
expressed interest in participating in the proposed project. Because of their
present financial statue, only two of these banks, AB and DB, will act as
Financial Intermediaries (FIs) under the project (para 6.06). At present,
financial plans are being prepared to improve the capital structure and
operational efficiency of these institutions. In this regard the Bank is
prcviding Institutional support on lending operations to AB and DB under



- 27 -
preparatory facilities with Japanese Trust Fund financing while auditing
training and computerization is being financed by EC-Phare. If, in the course
of the next three years, before the cutoff date for commitments expires,
another bank becomes qualified for project participation, the Bank will
consider amending the loan documents to allow its participation.
V. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Obiectives and Rationale for Bank Involvement
5.01       Proiect Obiectives.  The objective of this project is to support
private sector development in rural areas and through this, raise agricultural
output, increase efficiency of production, generate employment and improve
standards of living. The project aims to achieve this through financing
credit to private farmers and other private businesses for (i) on farm
investment in order to increase production; and (ii) the establishment and
expansion of private rural SMEs in order to improve input supply and marketing
services and increase business activity. The project has close policy links
to two other Bank operations, the SAL which has been recently appraised and
the proposed FESAL, currently under preparation.
5.02       Major problems in agriculture result from (i) the lack of
investment over the past decade; and (ii) the total upheaval of the structure
of the sector into units for which much of the present equipment and
technology is inappropriate. Because of these, both substantial investment
and radical changes in support systems will be required to get the sector 'on
track.' This project addresses the critical investment constraint. Through
provision of credit and associated foreign exchange directly to private
agriculture and other private rural SMEs the project will help alleviate the
financial resource bottleneck.   As indicated earlier (paras 2.19 and 3.13),
technical assistance activities designed to address the second of these
problems are being undertaken mainly by EC-PHARE and cover (i) strengthening
of the key FIs to ensure sound appraisal of agricultural and related projects;
(ii) policy analysis within MAFI, thereby keeping in focus the need for
liberalized prices and unrestricted access to key inputs; (iii) the need for
specific management advice within the new farmers associations thereby helping
ensure well-directed investments; (iv) the framework for an improved
agricultural information system for the long run benefit of the whole sector;
and (v) improved market information by introduction of a system within the
Ministry of Trade which would benefit producers, intermediaries and consumers
by making prices transparent and so increasing market efficiency.
5.03       Regardless of its precise level of growth, the agriculture sector
will remain a vital and major part of the Romanian economy. Given that there
is very little practicable opportunity for substitution of labor for capital
in many agricultural tasks, substantial reinvestment will be needed annually
to maintain an acceptable level of mechanization. The sector will also
require investment to respond to the changes in unit size resulting from
decollectivization. Furthermore, the removal of restrictions on private
investment and the set of market based incentives now facing small and medium



- 28 -
sized enterprises (SMEs) in the rural areas is likely to generate substantial
investment demand by emerging businesses in marketing, services and
processing. Because of the high value added in this latter group of
activities, the bulk of project resources would be oriented towards them.
This proposed project recognizes the likely investment needs of the rural
sector and the challenges to be met in the successful implementation of the
reform process in Romania.
5.04       Rationale for Bank Involvement.  The country economic memorandum
(CEM) and subsequent sector work as well as the preparation and appraisal of
this project have confirmed that agriculture is likely to remain an important
sector in Romania in the long run, and in the short term it has tl  potential
to be an important engine for growth. Key areas for early action t.o
rehabilitate agriculture include (i) the strengthening of the rural financial
intermediation system; (ii) the elimination of agricultural production and
marketing monopolies; (iii) price and agricultural trade liberalization; and
(iv) the prompt implementation of the land privatization law. Bank
intervention in these areas is proposed within the framework of a medium-term
strategy aimed at continuing privatization of the sector and at promoting
stability, production efficiency and profitability. Policy and institutional
issues in most of these areas are being addressed by the proposed S*L,
particularly with regard to fiscal and agricultural trade liberalization,
demand management, reforming of enterprises, and completion of the land
reform. In addition, the Technical Assistance and Critical Imports Project,
the preparation activities under the proposed FESAL and EC-PHARE are providing
support for the implementation of the medium-term agricultural strategy in the
areas of restructuring and strengthening of the commercial banking system.
5.05       Government is deeply committed to developing the agricultural
sector and is keenly aware of its economic potential. However, as a result of
the liberalizations of prices over the past eighteen months and unification of
the exchange rate and the concern for the impact of these on the cost of
living, a system of low fixed consumer prices and corresponding subsidies has
been introduced as a transition measure. Partly as a result of this, it is
not practicable to expect an immediate movement towards fully liberalized
trade and consequently distortions in financial prices and signals are
expected to continue in the short term. In the longer term, Government is
fully wedded to the goal of stable undistorted financial prices, and the SAL
Letter of Intent indicates this. Specific SAL goals are to gradually
eliminate subsidies by 1993 which should allow the liberalization of farm gate
prices. In thio regard, within the framework of the SAL, Government has
undertaken to carry out a study of prices and subsidies and has Invited the
Bank to participate in a study of the agricultural sector with a view to
coming up with policies which would lead to continued sectoral growth.
Against this background, it can be expected that in the medium term, financial
prices will become close to economic prices. In the meantime however, some
distortions can be expected. The project would address this by initially
excluding investments in likely nonviable subsectors (para 5.08).
5.06       The PFESP will be the first important Bank operation to assist the
Government to implement a strategy for agricultural and rural development
aimed at transforming the sector into a predominantly private and market-based



- 29 -
economy. Through the PFESP, the Bank would help the privatization process by
directly supporting financial assistance to the beneficiaries of the new Land
Law and other newly formed private businesses.
B. Summary Proiect Description
5.07       To achieve the above objectives (para 5.01) the project would
support the following activity:
Credit Proaram. The project would provide credit (proceeds of
US$100 million equivalent Bank loan plus internally generated
funds) for much needed investment and incremental working capital
in viable private rural enterprises within subsectors for which the
broad economic viability has been predetarmined.
C.  Detailed Features
5.08       The loan would finance Private investment in viable agricultural
and cther rural businesses. At least 80% of the loan proceeds would E:inance
private agroprocessing and agricultural marketing activities while no more
than 20% would be available to finance primary produ_tion. It can be
justified by considering that under present inflation and in the process of
gradually dismantling public agricultural enterprises there is higher
profitability and there are more active entrepreneurs in these commercial
activities than in primary production. As regards primary production, it is
intended to be wide ranging and demand-led within those broad subsectors which
are currently assessed to be economically viable. Investment in ineligible
subsectors identified to be nonviable because of poor potential economic
returns or problems of long gestation period at a time of high interest rates,
would not be eligible under the project. Investment in ineligible subsectors
which would be reviewed semiannually by the Bank and the borrower, provides
for exclusion of lending in sugar beet, tobacco, orchards, vineyards, large-
scale intensive poultry production, certain types of pig production, and
large-scale intensive milk and beef production (see Annex 3 for details of
ineligible subsectors). The loan would cover both investment items and
incremental working capital ($10 million). Financing of the latter would
cover working capital needs associated with and deriving from the financing of
investment under the loan. It is estimated that incremental working capital
financing would require about 10% of the loan proceeds. Funds would be made
available to partially finance expenditures by private individuals, farmer
associations or private companies in the following indicative categories:
(a)  processina of acricultural Products, particularly small- and
medium-scale investment to increase value-added in the rural areas;
(b)  marketina and trade of aaricultural oroducts, especially for
transport, wholesaling and retailing of both agricultural outputs
and inputs including inter alia pickup trucks, cold storage and
freezer facilities, holding & handling equipment, shop fitting and
other facilities for food and agricultural product retailing;



- 30 -
(c)  other rural businesges such as transport, agrotourism and other
activities or services which contribute to the development of
private initiative in rural areas; and
(d)  aaricultural production covering a wide range of products, but
excluding those in ineligible subsectors predetermined as unlikely
to be economically viable (Annex 3). Subsectors financed would
include certain types of livestock, most types of crop production,
and the provision of agricultural machinery and related services,
including tractors and corresponding ancillary equipment.
Aggregate lending under this component will be 20%.
D. Proiect Cost and Financina
5.09       The estimates of investments to be supported by credit under the
project are only indicative and based on Fla' estimated demand. Actual
lending would vary in response to real market demand. Preliminary Bank
estimates which have been agreed to by the Flo expected to participate under
the project indicate a loan amount of US$100 million equivalent to be
disbursed over a five year period. The loan would support an aggregate
investment1/ of about US$165 million. Of this, about US$33 million is
assumed to be on-farm investment with an estimated foreign exchange cost of
50%. The cost of the agroprocessing component of the project is estimated at
US$58 million with US$35 million (61%) foreign exchange. The cost of the
marketing, distribution and services component is estimated at US$74 million
of which US$48 million (65%) is foreign exchange. The relatively small
allocation for agricultural production investment credit is justified by the
likelihood that it may take some time for inflation and interest rates to
fall, thereby reducing the attractiveness of production investment relative to
investments in marketing and services which typically have shorter pay back
periods. The total investment financed under this project is likely to be
only a small part of the country's agricultural investment needs, estimated at
US$3 billion over the next four to six years.
1V   Defined as total medium and long-term investment plus incremental working
capital investment over the five-year main project period.



- 31 -
Table 5.1: ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS /i
Loai  Forein  frai    Lkcal Foref an  Totlat  Percent
CoMonent                ---- Lef MilLionLt -----  - US$ Milion v. -   Base Cost
On-Farm Investment      3,300  3,300  6.600   16.5  16.5   33.0   50    20
Agricultural Processing  4,440  7,100  11,540   22.2  35.5   57.7   61    35
Marketing, Distribution
and Services           5.200  9.6D0  14.800   2.0 48.0   74.0    6 
Total              12.9J4   2.00   3.9.40   64.7   61 140
/a Based on total investment costs plus incremental fnvestment in working capital.
Lb  Based on lei 200 u USS1.00.
Table 5.2s PROPOSED FINANCING PLAN (USS Miliosr)
Financino Source
Financial
World Bank    Intermediaries  Subborrowers    Total
1992/93               30.0              6.0            13.0         49.0
1993/94               40.0              8.0            18.6         66.6
1994/97               30.0              6.0            13.1         49.1
Total             100.0             20             47 4.7z
5.10      The proposed Bank loan would be made to Romania for 17 years
including a five-year grace period at the Bank's standard variable interest
rate. The loan would finance about 61% of total project cost, equivalent to
the estimated foreign exchange cost (both direct and indirect). FIs and
subborrowers together would provide subproject financing mainly in local
currency for the equivalent of about US$64.7 million or about 39% of the
estimated total project cost. As a general guideline, subborrowers would be
required to contribute from their own resources no less than 15%V of
subproject cost and FI would provide from their own resources an average of
20% of subloan financing. The remaining 80% of subloan amounts would be
refinanced by MEF out of the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan.
1/   Although minimum subborrower contributions would normally be 15% of
subproject cost, experience has shown that in some cases subborrowers
choose to contribute more than the minimum percentage, or are required by
participating banks to increase their share in subproject financing.



- 32 -
E. Procurement
5.11      Much of the credit under the project would be for a large number of
emall farmers and SMEs. Farmers and other borrowerc would generally be free
to purchase tractors and other machinery in accordance with their own choice.
Import regulations are being sufficiently liberalized to allow foreign
suppliers into the Romanian market on a competitive basis. An important
project objective is to contribute to the development of a competitive network
of private dealers of agricultural equipment and supplies. This would place
the commercial risk of the overall transaction on the private sector and thus
accelerate private initiative development and reduce the role of government.
Foreign suppliers would have a strong incentive to team up with local
entrepreneurs and use their talent and contacts in the development of local
networks. It is expected that a considerable competitive local network in
most segments of the agricultural equipment and supplies market could develop
during project implementation. Contracts up to US$25,000 would be awarded as
a result of direct contracting for the purchase of small value goods by
private investors. To ensure competitive procurement practices, contracts
between US$25,000 and US$200,000 would be executed under local shopping on the
basis of three quotations. Contracts from US$200,000 to US$l million would be
exe"uted under international shopping on the basis of three price quotations
f-~om at least two countries. Contracts for more than US$1 million would be
let under LIB procurement procedures. The table below summarizes the
procurement methodology:
Table 5.3: PROCUREMENT METHODS tUSS Millionl
Proiect Elements               LI8          OtherLU        Total Costs
Credit Component              32.9          131.8              164.7
(20.0)         (80.0)            (100.0)
TOTAL                                    131.8              164.7
(80.0)           (100.0)
LA Contracts of up to US$25,000 direct purchasing; from US$25,000 to
US$200,000 local shopping; from US$200,000 to US$1 million international
shopping.
Note: Figures in parentheses indicate amount to be financed under the
proposed loan.
F. Disbursements
5.12      The proposed Bank loan of US$100 million would be disbursed over a
period of five years (1992-1997). On the basis of the standard Bank
disbursement profile adopted, the expected project closing date would be
December 31, 1997. To ensure that the project has an effective flow of credit
funds, a mid-term review will be undertaken by the Bank and the borrower at



- 33 -
the end of the second year of project implementation. Commitments for
subprojects which require civil works construction and/or import of machinery
would be approved until September 30, 1995. A schedule of the estimated
disbursement of the proposed Bank loan is summarized in Annex 4.
5.13      All disbursements under the project would be against subloan
expenditures converted at the official exchange rate and would be administered
by MEF. The proposed disbursement percentage of 80% of subloan amounts would
on aggregate cover the direct and indirect foreign exchange costs and would
maintain appropriate incentives for FIe to sustain their resource mobilization
efforts. All withdrawal applications would be made on the basis of certified
statements of expenditures (SOEs). Supporting documentation would be retained
by MEF and Flo for at least one year after receipt by the Bank of the audit
report for the year in which the last disbursement was made. This
documentation would be made available for review by the auditors and by
visiting Bank missions upon request.
Disbursement Plan
Loan Allocation       % of Expenditure
Cateaorv                            (USS million)          to be financed
I. Agricultural Production            20.0             80% of amount of
eligible subloans
II.  Agricultural Processing,          80.0             80% of amount of
Marketing, Distribution,                           eligible subloans
and Services
5.14      SPecial Account.  To facilitate disbursements of the proposed Bank
loan, a Special Account would be established by MEF in the Agricultural Bank
and maintained in US dollars on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank,
with an authorized allocation of US$8 million covering an estimated four
months' expenditures. Applications for replenishment of the account would be
submitted quarterly, or earlier, after one-third of the funds have been
disbursed. In addition, monthly bank statements which have been reconciled by
the borrower would accompany all replenishmefit requests. Records of the
special account proceeds and expenditures would be kept by MEF. The special
account would be audited under the project auditing arrangements. Assurances
to this effect were obtained at negotiations (para 6.23).
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Overview
6.01      The project would be implemented with the aid of existing
institutions and agencies, and would assist in the creation of a new,
commercially-oriented infrastructure. MEF would administer the Bank Loan and



- 34 -
Fla would onlend loan proceeds, made available by MEF, to ultimate project
beneficiaries.
B. Credit Operations
6.02      Institutional Arrancements.  Government would be the borrower of the
Bank Loan. MEF would enter into subsidiary loan agreements satisfactory to
the Bank with the two FIs, AB and DB, which would, in turn, extend subloans to
final beneficiaries. These arrangements are considered to be the most
suitable for financing the niumerous small- and medium-size individual farmers,
farmers, associations and newly established private enterprises characteristic
of the rural sector. The FIs with their large network of branches would
provide creditworthy private farmers and entrepreneurs with ready access to
credit on a competitive basis. MEF would administer the line of credit under
the project through the regular staff in its Bank unit.
6.03      Each of the two FIs would sign a Project Agreement with the Bank and
a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with MEF, satisfactory to the Bank. This
agreement would inter alia specify that the FIs would:
(a)  undertake lending operations in accordance with agreed guidelines
and for the purposes detailed in the Project and Loan Agreements,
and assign qualified staff to these operations;
(b)  submit subproject appraisal reports to the Bank for loans of over
US$l million equivalent;
(c)  allocate from its own resources sufficient funds to cover its share
in subloan financing, in accordance with the financing plan of the
project (Table 5.2);
(d)  ensure that funds provided under project-financed subloans are used
by sub-borrowers for the purposes intended and that appropriate
procurement procedures are followed (Table 5.3);
(e)  supervise investments as appropriate and provide the Bank wit?
periodic reports on the status of sub-projects and sub-loans
including credit recovery performance; and
(f)  provide MEF and the Bank with such information as they may
reasonably request.
Ratification of the Project Agreements with AB and DB and execution of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements between MEF and the corresponding FIs would be a
condition of effectLveness (para 8.02(a) and (b)).
6.04      AB and DB each have appointed a small group of senior staff which is
responsible for revising and improving existing operational guidelines
lncluding formats for loan applications, legal documents, appraisal,
supervision and disbursement procedures, etc. The work of these groups is
being supported by a senior expatriate advisor recruited by the Bank under a
Japanese Trust fund agreement. The senior expatriate will be responsible for



35 -
supervising the preparation of the guidelines and their application. He will
also set up a system of control of the quality of the uubloanu to ensure that
subprojects financed are financially and economically viable. A manual of
agricultural credit guidelines, acceptable to the Bank, would be issued by AB
and adopted by AB and DB as a condition of effectiveness (para 8.02(c)).
6.05      MEF Oneratina Procedures.   The principal functions performed by MEF
with regard to the Project would be as follows:
(a) maintain the Loan and Special Accounts and the consolidated Project
Accounts;
(b) consolidate reimbursement applications from the FIe, submit
applications to the World Bank, onlend and channel the Loan funds to
the FIs, submit statements of expenditures on request to Bank
supervision missions;
(c) maintain the loan account for each FI (one in domestic currency and
the other in US dollars) and collect principal and interest payable
by FIs on their respective shares of the Loan; and
(d) ensure compliance with audit requirements, as stipulated in Loan
Agreement (para 8.01 (c)).
6.06      Strategic Plans of FIs and Admission of Other Banks as Fla.  AD and
DB would be the designated FIs under the project. They would complete, by
December 31, 1992, credible three-year strategic plans based in part on the
international auditors' observations and recommendations satisfactory to the
World Bank, covering inter alia:  strategic objectives, performance targets,
provisioning and capitalization, management structure, staff recruitment and
training programs, information technology development, risk management, and
development of branch network. They would submit to the Bank by September 30
of each year a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the strategic
plans and update them by November 30 of each year, including the bank's
observations and recommendations. If in the c-..roe of project implementation
other banks become eligible to participate as FIs under the project under the
MEF and NBR eligibility criteria, the Bank would consider allowing such
participation.
6.07      Eligibilitv of Beneficiaries and Items Financed.  The line of credit
would finance private sector farmers and rural or agriculturally related
businesses, trading as private companies, farmer associations or individuals.
It would not finance public sector activities, or businesses in which the
majority shareholding is public. Types of activities financed would include
(i) agroprocessing, (ii) marketing and distribution, agricultural services,
and (iii) agriculture and livestock production and other private economic
activities which contribute to the overall development of rural areas in
Romania, provided that the activity is not included in the ineligible
subsectore in which investment is not considered to be economically viable
(para 5.08). Finance would be available for both investment and incremental
working capital, the only items not eligible for financing, in addition to



- 36 -
those belonging to ineligible subsectore would be land purchase or lease, and
housing construction or improvement.
6.08      Because of the rapidly changing agribusinass environment in Romania
and the relative inexperience of many of the potential borrowers, it will be
very important that FIs conduct thorough subproject appraisals. Assessment of
whether projections for projects submitted (including key technical
parameters) are reliable will be a vital part of this process requiring active
checking. The key issue will be to realistically budget the likely sub-
project, even if the evaluation method itself is relatively unsophisticated.
In this regard, particular attention would need to be paid to the projections
of the market, especially for small new processing businesses. Subborrowers
and subprojects would have to meet the following conditions:
(a) They would be required to have financial and economic viability
with both expected financial and economic rates of return of at
least 15% in real terms. For investments over US$250,000,
subproject financial and economic flows would be projected and
calculations of the ERR and FRR made. Investment benchmarks which
would serve to evaluate economic and financial viability of smaller
investments would be established by AB and DB. These benchmarks
would set cutoff levels designed to exclude investments for which
either the ERR or FRR was below 15%. They would be derived from
appropriate financial and economic models and would vary by type of
subproject. For example, for tractor loans, the horsepower per ha
cultivated could be used; for investment in a bull, the benchmark
would probably focus on the number of breeding females to be
covered; while for small processing units, e.g. a flour mill,
projected market size would be the key issue. In assessing
financial viability for loans which cover only part of an entity,
e.g. to replace a machine in an existing processing plant, then the
financ4al viability of the business itself as well as the specific
investment would also need to be confirmed. To facilitate economic
analysis, the FIs would develop specific conversion factors for
major inputs and outputs in order to adjust from financial to
economic prices. These would need to be adjusted frequently
(initially on a quarterly basis) and together with the investment
benchmarks would be made available to the Bank for review on
request.
(b) For joint stock companies the projected current ratio would be at
least 2/1 and the debt service coverage ratio at least 1.3 over the
life of the investment, calculated on the basis of the entity's
total debts (including the subloan). Such enterprises would be
required to have their accounts for each fiscal year audited by
independent auditors acceptable to MEF and the Bank.
(c)  Bank funds could represent up to 68% of total investment cost.
Participating banks and subborrowers would be required to finance no
less than 32% of investment cost. Participating banks would
determine the financing percentage and beneficiary contribution
depending on the risk associated with individual investments.



- 37 -
Subloans would be backed by adequate security, in accor, once with
the investment lending guidelines, and sound banktng practices.
(d) The total of all uubloans to a single subborrower would be limited
to a maximum of US$5.0 million, to avoid the allocation of more than
5% of the total loan to any one subborrower. No limitation would be
imposed on the size of the investing entity or the size of the
investment.
(e) Comply with all laws and regulations of Romania related to
environmental protection.
6.09      Terms and conditions of Financina.  The Bank loan would be made t-
Government which would bear the foreign exchange risk. MEF would onlend the
proceeds of the loan to participating banks, either in domestic currency or in
US dollars, according to the demand for the respective currencies from
ultimate project beneficiaries. onlending in foreign exchange would only be
made available to borrowers trading internationally and being paid in foreign
exchange. The lei onlending rate to Fla would be variable, and equal to NBR's
refinancing or rediscount rate which in the medium term is intended to be set
at a level which reflects expected inflation. This rate would be reviewed by
NBR, MEF and the Bank every six months. The onlending interest rate that
would be charged by FIs on subloans in domestic currency would be the variable
rate equivalent to the rate payable by Flo to MEF plus an appropriate spread
which would be determined by each Fl and set at a level which would adequately
cover Fls' administrative costs and lending risks.
6.10      The rate of interest charged by MEF on loan proceeds onlent to FIs
in US dollars would be established as a variable rate linked to the six-months
London Interbank Rate (LIBOR) and set at a level which would take into account
the cross-currency risk on Bank funds, and the cost of similar funds in the
market. FIs would provide subloans denominated in US dollars to ultimate
beneficiaries at variable interest rates which would reflect the cost of funds
paid by FIs to MEF and Flo' spread. Ultimate project beneficiaries would bear
the US dollar exchange risk. The Government would bear the cross-currency
risk.
6.11      Repayment schedules of funds onlent by MEF to FIs would be within
the amortization schedule of the Bank loan. Repayment schedules of project
financed subloans made by Flo to ultimate beneficiaries would differ from the
amortization schedule of the Bank loan. Any amounts of principal repaid by
subborrowers to FIs and that are not immediately needed for repayment of the
Bank loan to NEF would be kept by Flo in a rollover account which would be
utilized by Flo to finance additional investments aimed at objectives pursued
under the proposed project. Retroactive financing would be applicable on
account of payments made for expenditures made before May 1, 1992 on the terms
and conditions set forth and referred to in the Loan Agreement.
6.12      Credit risks would be borne by Flo and the foreign exchange risk by
Government and the beneficiaries (paras 6.09 and 6.10). MEF would maintain on
behalf of the Government two currency risk accounts, one in domestic currency
and the other in US dollars. Interest collected from Flo on their respective



- 38 -
shares of the Bank loan would be held by MEF in these accounts and wit idrawn
by MEF for the payment, on behalf of Government, of interest and any foreign
exchange differences on the Bank loan.
6.13      All onlending interest rates would be reviewed semiannually by MEF,
NBR and the Bank, to ensure that they are maintained at a level which is
consistent with the agreements between the Government and the Bank, and that
they provide adequate spreads for FIs.
6.14      Subloan Processina and Administration.  FIe would be responsible for
identification of prospective subborrowers and to determine the types of
investments to be financed, following the eligibility criteria for investments
and sub-loan beneficiaries mentioned in paras 5.08 and 6.08 above. Subloan
applications would be prepared by beneficiaries with assistance from Flo, and
would be appraised and processed by Flo in accordance with the agreed
investment lending guidelines. FIs would disburse against approved
expenditures incurred by subborrowers, in accordance with the terms and
conditions of subloan agreements between FIs and project beneficiaries.
6.15      Subloans would have a term of up to twelve years, inclusive of grace
periods up to three years. Grace and amortization periods of subloans would
be based on the type of investment financed and the projected cash flow and be
commensurate with the repayment capacity of subborrowers.
6.16      Together with their applications for refinancing, FIs would submit
to MEF an information sheet for subloans containing data on branch location,
subprojert location, subsector, loan size, loan maturity, onlending rate and
grace period, amount of contribution by subborrower to subproject cost, main
items financed, type of investment (new investment, expansion or reinvestment/
refurbishment) and expected economic and financial rates of return.
6.17      The first six subloans of each FI would be subject to prior review
and approval by the Bank; all subloans over US$200,000 would also be subject
to prior review and approval by the Bank. If the review were proven to be
satisfactory to the Bank, the ceiling would be increased by mutual agreement
between the Borrower and the Bank. After that subloans below US$1.0 million
would be sanctioned without prior Bank approval, provided that the aggregate
of such subloans would not exceed US$70 million. It is estimated that this
would involve about 70% of project costs. Furthermore, the Bank would review
samples of subloans (particularly for larger investments) on an ex Post basis
during supervision missions. The cutoff date for commitments would be
September 30, 1995.
6.18      Assurances were obtained at negotiations with regard to eligibility
of beneficiaries and investments, interest rates, terms and conditions of
financing, and subloan processing and administration (paras 6.08-6.17;
8.01(b)).
C. Renortino and Evaluation
6.19      The FIs would be responsible for monitoring implementation, and
evaluating the impact of the project.



- 39 -
6.20      Reportin.  Each of the Flo would be responsible for maintaining
adequate records to monitor the implementation of the project. FIs would
keep detailed records showing the status of each subproject and the
corresponding subloan, with sufficient detailed information to indicate the
purposes of the investments financed, the types of goods and services
involved, the category of subloan beneficiaries, the location of the
respective FI branches where subloan accounts are maintained and serviced,
loan size, loan maturity, onlending rate and grace period, amount of
contribution by subborrower to subproject cost, expected economic and
financial rates of return and the status of loan collections and arrears. Flo
would provide to the Bank, at the end of each semester, summary progress
reports on subprojects and subloans within 30 days of the end of the period
under review. Progress reports would also include a brief summary on the
physical implementation of investments and on problems encountered during
implementation. FIs would also make available to the Bank data on onlending
rates for Project funds and on interest rates charged on loans outside the
project. To allow assessment of the ladditionality' of the project, NBR would
monitor and report to the Bank the levels within the banking system of
disbursements of loans to the private sector and the outstanding balances,
disaggregated by economic sectors.
6.21      Project Completion Report.  Promptly after completion of the
project, but no later than six months after the Closing Date, provide the Bank
with data for the preparation of Part III of the Completion Report to be
prepared by the Bank.
D. Accounts and Audit
6.22      MEF's project accounts, the Special Account, statements of
expenditure, and the financial statements of Flo would be audited for each
fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. These audits
would be of international standards from the beginning of the project, and
also be in accordance with the requirements of MEF and the Ministry of
Finance. Following on from the audit, as of December 31, 1991, FIs should aim
at achieving full long form audits with the auditor's opinion by the year
ended December 31, 1993 at the latest. Copies of the audited accounts
relating to the Project and the Bank loan, and the audited financial
statements of FIs would be forwarded to the Bank within six months of the end
of the fiscal year. The auditors, reports would be of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, and should contain, inter alia,
separate opinions on the special account and the statements of expenditure.
In case of enterprise beneficiaries such reports acceptable to the Flo would
be prepared by external auditors and be submitted to the FIs from time to time
as reasonably requested.
6.23      Assurances were obtained at negotiations with regard to compliance
with reporting, accounting and auditing requirements (paras 6.20-6.221
8.01(c)).



- 40 -
E. Bank Su2ervision
6.24      Intensive, semiannual Bank supervision would be required, focusing
particularly on (i) Fl capacity for project implementation; (ii) review of
subsectors eligible for financing and of interest rates; (iii) performance of
Fle, adequacy of agreed lending procedures and compliance, loan recovery and
treatment of non-performing loanes (iv) appropriateness of FIs' economic
analysis and the specific conversion factors used; and (v) reviewing progrese
in implementation of parallel technical assistance activities and their effect
on project implementation.
F. Environment
6.25      Flu will specify in subloan agreements that subborrowers using
project funds should comply with all laws and regulations of Romania ralated
to environmental protection and would be required to supervise compliance.
Appraisal reportz for agroprocessing subloans would contain a section on
environmental analysis and impact (para 8.01(d)).
VII. PROJECT BENEFITS. RISKS, AND ENVIRONMENTAL INPACT
A. Benefits
7.01      The only major constraints to a rapid and successful expansion of
economically profitable agricultural production are (i) shor.age of capital in
the hands of the new operators of land; and (ii) lack of availability of key
inputs (protein meals, pesticides, fuel and fertilizer), which either need to
be imported or else diverted from the export market to the domestic market.
Romania has good quality well developed land already laid out for agriculture;
the climate is generally favorable; and the opportunity cost of labor in rural
areas is low - perhaps one tenth of that in the major more developed temperate
agricultural exporting countries (USA, Canada, Australia, Western Europe).
Because of the massive exodus from the land since the 1950s, and the generally
aging rural population, market forces are likely to cause the land holding
structure to change rapidly and to move towards unit sizes appropriate to the
technology to be used.
7.02      Romania is a low cost producer of most of its m.jor agricultural
products and consequently agriculture shows a good economic return on
investment. To broadly quantify this, the economics of production of several
mainstream agricultural products, representing a significantli part of
sectoral activity have been reviewed. Under conditions of access to necessary
.1/  Oilseeds, cereals and potatoes together account for about 80% of the
annually cropped area (excluding fodder crops for livestock), while in
value terms, pigmeat accounts for about 30% of total livestock output.



- 41 -
inputs,I/ Benefit:Cost (B:C) ratios for maize, wheat, sunflower and potatoes
are 1.7, 1.4, 1.8 and 2.3 respectively. To indicate economic rates of return
from agriculture, compared with leaving land unused, two simple farm
models,>/ one including cereals and oilseeds alone, and another including
potatoes, have been developed. These show ERRs of 62% and 82% respectively.
Economic returns to livestock investment are estimated on the basis of a 20-
sow model, the size likely to give full employment to one worker under
Romanian conditions. For this, the estimated ERR is 30% for new units but
101% for the expansion of production within existing buildings where there is
spare capacity. Economic returns from well managed more intensive or
sophisticated production would likely be higher than those for the mainstream
activities outlined above. Because agricultural prices are not yet fully
reformed in Romania, and changes have been announced for some commodities but
not others, a 'financial analysis' of returns from different types of
production using actual prices at a specific point in time (as is normal for
such analysis) would not be meaningful now. Accordingly, detailed financial
models have not been prepared, although the economic models have been used to
indicate likely financial returns under liberalized price conditions. Based
on these, financial rates of return would be attractive. The two crop models
would show FRRs of 28% and 44% respectively after allowing for rents of 20%
gross output (US$90/ha and US$125/ha). The FRR for the livestock model is 29%
for an operator constructing his own buildings, and 63% on the basis of
buildings rented at 10% of conctruction cost.
7.03      This project would only support investments which on average were
likely to show expected economic and financial rates of return in excess of
15% (para 6.08(a)). These include most types of agricultural production and a
range of agroindustries and services. Types of agricultural production
investment included in ineligible subsectors, and unlikely to show good
economic rates of return, have been expressly excluded from the project.
Because of the lack of investment in private processing and marketing to date
and the poor level of productivity in the state sector, well run private firms
in Romania are generally able to operate profitably. Examples of such
profitable private firms in the flour milling and bakery subsectors have been
reviewed during Bank sector work. Careful financial and economic appraisal of
proposed subprojects by the Flo should ensure financial viability of
subprojects undertaken. Furthermore, the ongoing liberalization of prices
which will generally improve the financial profitability of agriculture and
create more opportunities in agricultural marketing and services would lead to
a greater proportion of those projects which are economically viable being
financially viable also.
Vf  Under the present situation of restricted fertilizer, agrochemical and
protein meal availability, the B:C ratios of these activities would
generally be less, although they are still economically viable (see
Annex 3.
V    See Annex 3.  Models are for unit sizes of production which make
efficient use of machinery investment.



- 42 -
7.04      Because the use of cre:lit under the project will be determine] by
demand from farmers and rural businesses within a wide range of investments
which have been predetermined as likely to show sound economic rates of
return, it is not possible to make precise estimates of the likely overall
project impact. Nevertheless, it is clear that the main benefits from the
project would be (i) the direction of about US$165 million of financial
resources including US$100 million foreign exchange towards economically sound
private sector investments in agriculture and rural SMEs which would give rise
to increased production, employment and value added; and (ii) support for
viable rural institutions to serve the private sector. Incremental
agricultural production from the project, which is likely to peak at 0.1% to
0.3% of total agricultural production by 1995, depending on investment mix
would be readily absorbed on the domestic market. The project would
contribute significantly to establishing a sustainable and effective system of
medium and long term credit to emergent private sector farmers and rural
businesses. Enhanced competition and efficiency in the rural banking system
and broader access to credit by the rural private sector through the project
would help stimulate a supply response and, by supporting new business
entrants, contribute to creating a competitive economic environment. This
would be particularly important in the development of competitive agricultural
input supply, services and marketing businesses. The project would support
the Government's economic reform program by creating additional employment and
new sources of income in rural areas. In that some 65% of workers on the
newly formed farmers association, which are likely to be major project
borrowers, are female, the project should also have a positive impact on
women.  Finally, the project is expected to have a substantial positive
overall effect on agricultural and agricultural marketing efficiency which
would both raise farmers incomes and make the country more competitive in
international markets. This aspect would result in a favorable impact on the
balance of payments.
B. Risks
7.05      The main overall risk is a slowdown in the progress of the
macroeconomic reform process especially in the area of price and trade
liberalizations and other free market conditions such as the relationship
between inflation and interest rates which could adversely affect the entire
agriculture sector and the demand for credit. This risk will be mitigated in
the context of the intense country dialogue as well as the preparation and
implementation of SALs and other loans that are central to the reform effort.
There is also a minor risk that government policy on encouraging private
sector development might become stalled. To combat the possibility of a
hiatus in the development of the private sector and the consequent use of
project funds for other sectors, agreements were reached at negotiations to
ensure that proceeds of subloans repaid under the project would be recycled
for the same broad purposes (para 6.11).
7.06      The main project risk is that subloans will not be fully or promptly
repaid. This could occur primarily because there is little experience with
lending to private farmers and small businesses in a free market environment,
entailing higher than usual financial risk for borrowers as well as financial
intermediaries. To address this, the project provides for application by the



- 43 -
FIl of sound lending criteria. Assistance in the reviaion of the lending
operations guidelines and associated training currently being provided by the
Bank will help implement this. The EC-PHARE program is also providing
training to FIm. A second but minor risk is that because businesses may be
reluctant to borrow for goods which appear expensive on a historical basis,
the drawdown of project funds could be slower than anticipated and the project
period would need to be extended. This risk would be mitigated once the
effects of macroeconomic reform are seen to be working and borrowers
understand the rationale of the new price relationships. If reforms were
fully in place and markets liberalized, aggregate demand for credit in the
rural sector would be very large compared with the amount available through
the project.
C. 2nvironmental Impact
7.07      Agriculture and the small-scale rural sector are not major
contributors to environmental pollution in Romania. However, some activities
in agroindustry in the treatment of agrochemical in primary production are in
violation of environmental laws and regulations. Romania has regulations
governing the safety, health and environmental standards to be maintained by
enterprises with regard to their operations and investments. Procedures for
environmental screening of individual loans granted under the project in
compliance with both Romanian requirements and those of the Bank are being
incorporated in investment lending guidelines to ensure that no undue harm
would result to the natural environment. These procedures, to be implemented
by financial intermediaries in consultation with the concerned authorities,
will include criteria to assure that project activities support proper use of
inputs in farming and other project undertakings, provide for adequate
disposal of waste products and safeguard the natural resource base. Subloan
applications would include an environmental impact statement, and staff of FIs
are being trained in assessing environmental impact under EC-PHARE technical
assistance. An assurance was obtained that subprojects would be undertaken in
accordance with appropriate environmental standards satisfactory to the Bank
(para 6.25).
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Assurances
8.01      During negotiations assurances were obtained on the following:
(a)  adoption by December 31, 1992 of strategic plans for institutional
strengthening of FIs, based on the findings and recommendations of
independent external audits and satisfactory to MEF and the Bank,
including a time-bound schedule for their implementation (para
6.06);
(b)  at least 80% of the loan proceeds would be used to finance
investments in marketing and agro-processing activities, while no
more than 20% would finance all investment in primary production,



- 44 -
except those included in ineligible subsectors (para 5.08); the
eligibility of investments to be financed (including those in
ineligible subsectors) would be reviewed by the Bank semiannually
(para 5.08); on-lending interest rate levels including six-monthly
review by NBR, MEF and the Bank (para 6.09), terms and conditions of
financing (para 6.09), recycling by FI of subloan repayments
(para 6.11), and subloan processing and administration (para 6.14);
(c) compliance with reporting, accounting and auditing requirements
(para 6.23);
(d) preparation of subprojects in full compliance with environmental
standards acceptable to the Bank (para 6.26); and
(e) ceilings for free-limit subloans would be for US$200,000 each up to
US$1 million each and the aggregate of such subloans would not
exceed US$70 million. The cutoff date for subloan commitments would
be September 30, 1995 (para 6.17).
B. Conditions
8.02      Conditions for effectiveness of the proposed loan would be:
(a) ratification of the Project Agreements between the Bank and AB and
DB (para 6.03);
(b)  execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements between MEF and the Fla
(AB or DB) which is also in compliance with para 8.02(a) above
(para 6.03); and
(c) adoption by AB and DB of agricultural credit operational guidelines
(para 6.04).
C. Recommendation
8.03      Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project
would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$100.0 million for 17 years, including
five years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate. The Borrower
would be the Government of Romania.



- 45 -                               ANNEX I
Page 1
ROMANIA
PRIVATE FARMER AND ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
FINANCIAL INTERMEDIARIES (FIsl
A. Aaricultural Bank (AB)
1.        Introduction.  Banca Agricola was originally established in 1948.
Its name was subsequently changed to Bank Pentru Agricultura si Industrie
Alimentara (Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry - BAFI). On December 1,
1990 the bank was transformed into a joint stock company, fully owned by the
State, and its name reverted to Banca Agricola (Agricultural Bank). At that
time, Government agreed to increase its subscribed capital to lei 6 billion,
and the paid-up capital was increased from 2.3 billion to 3.3 billion. At
end-December 1991 its paid-up capital amounted to lei 6 billion which,
together with reserves of about lei 3.3 billion, gave the bank a tangible net
worth, before provisions, of about lei 9.3 billion.
2.        Organization.  Currently, AS has 193 branches and 300 rural offices;
its head office is located in Bucharest; 41 main branches (succursal) (one in
each district - judet), are responsible for 103 sub-branches (filial) and 49
agencies. In addition, AB maintains 300 rural offices which have permanent
office facilities but are open only once or twice a week at fixed times and
are manned by mobile staff from the branch offices. The rural offices mainly
serve small farmers and the village population in general, receive and review
loan applications, handle and sign loan agreements and documentation for
opening of accounts, and carry out other similar activities. The head office
is organized in nine departments, each headed by an executive director, and a
legal division. Its top management comprises the president, two vice-
presidents, three advisers and the department heads. It is worth noting that
the number of branch offices (excluding the rural offices) increased from 98
in 1989 to 118 in 1990, and to the present number of 193 at the end of 1991.
AB plans to establish, in 1992, 30 sub-branches and agencies, and additional
rural offices.
3.        Staffina.  At the end of December 1991, AB had a total staff of
about 6,300, comprising about 330 (5.2%) managers, 550 (8.7%) medium-level
officers, 2,300 (36.5%) loan officers, 2,000 (31.85%) accounting staff, and
1,100 (17.5%) clerical and support staff. About 30% of total staff have
university education. The head office in Bucharest has a staff of about 300;
among the branches, the largest in terms of staff numbers are Bucharest (220),
Constanta (204), Timisoara (170), Craiova (186), Galati (133), Arad (164) and
Iasi (131). The number of staff has virtually doubled from 3,200 in 1989 to
the present number of 6,300. In the course of 1991 AB increased its staff by
over 2,300 and a further increase by about 1,000 is projected for 1992.
4.        Overall Scope of Business Activity.  Although AB is a universal bank
and is authorized to carry out all banking activities, until recently it has



- 46 -                                ANNEX 1
Page 2
specialized in lending to agricultural producers and to the food processing
industry. Its major customers were state farms, state-organized agricultural
cooperatives and state-owned processing plantsl unti; 1990, AS's activities
were restricted to banking operations in local currency. In April 1990 AB
started to carry out transactions in foreign exchange which, in the past, had
been the preserve of the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade. Also, since 19O0,
AB has given increasing emplasis to private individuals, private enterprises
and the newly-emerging farmers' associations which have taken over farming
operations from the agricultural cooperatives. By December 1991, AS had about
36,000 deposit accounta and over 90,000 loan accounts with clients from the
private sector (para 9). The objective of AB is to provide full banking
services to enterprises, businessmen and private individuals throughout
Romania. This will involve not only wholesale and retail lending but also the
full gamut of deposit--taking activities and foreign exchange operations.
However, in the foreseeable future AB's activities will remain heavily
concentrated in the agricultural sector of the economy and in those segments
of the service sector dependent upon or complementary to agriculture. Given
AB's extensive network of branches it intends to place strong emphasis on
expending deposit mobilization from the farming community and the rural
population.
S.        Financial Position.  Provisional financial statements (prepared at
end January 1992) for the year ending December 31, 1991 show total assets of
lei 329.1 billion (US$1.6 billion), comprising a loan portfolio of lei 306.2
billion (93%) and other assets of lei 22.9 billion. At end-1990, total assets
amounted to lei 173 billion. Gross income, before provisions and taxation,
was lei 3.7 billion (December 31, 1990 - lei 2.9 billion). After processing
of additional loans under the Global Compensation Scheme (see para 7) and
backdating these loans to December 1991, total assets, as of end-1991, are
likely to increase by lei 30 billion, to about lei 360 billion. These
additional transactions would not affect the income for the year. Refinancing
facilities from the National Bank (NBR) of lei 135.8 billion and loans and
deposits from the State Savings Bank (CEC) of lei 97 billion financed over 76%
of AB's outstanding loan portfolio, the balance being financed from customers'
current account deposits and AB's equity of lei 9.3 billion, which was
equivalent to 2.8% of total assets on December 31, 1991. Following the
increases in interest rates during 1991 (para 11), interest collected
increased threefold, from lei 7.4 billion in 1990 to lei 21.8 billion in 1991;
similarly also salaries and administrative expenditures increased from lei 463
million to lei 1,362 million. In 1990, the cist of borrowed funds was
equivalent to about 60% of total income (interest, commissions and foreign
exchange differences); however, in 1991 the cost of funds increased to 78% of
income. As a result of inflation and the estimated very small balance of
retained earnings, the value of AB's equity has been seriously eroded. Gross
return to equity (before provisions and taxation) dropped from 91% in 1990 to
40% in 1991, with inflation running at an annual rate of around 300%.
6.        Lgdina Operations and Loan Portfolio.  The bulk of AB's loan
portfolio, as at December 31, 1991, still consisted of loans to state farms
and state enterprises in food processing, storage, distribution and marketing.
However, available data clearly indicate the growing importance of the private



-47-                                  hANNEX I
Page 3
sector in AB's credit operations, and although the share of the private sector
is still small, the numbers on lending operations, loan accounts and clients
reached in 1991 are impressive and are expected to increase significantly in
the coming years.
7.        As mentioned in para 5 above and according to provisional financial
statements, the total outstanding port olio amounted to lei 306.2 billion,
comprising short-term credits (up to one year) of lei 219.8 billion (72% of
portfolio), and medium- and long-term loans (over one year) of lei 86.4
billion (28%). The total balance includes lei 46.7 billion (equivalent to 95%
of lei 49.2 billion) of bad and doubtful loans, which were identified in July
1991 and for which government assumed responsibility under terms of Government
Decree (HC) 447/91. Furthermore, the balance also includes loans amounting to
lei 13.1 billion made under the General Compensation Scheme (Law 80 of
December 23, 1991) which finance and are intended to reduce inter-enterprise
arrears; these loans are also guaranteed by government. Although very large
amounts of loans to state enterprises had been written off in the past and the
amount of lei 46.7 billion, mentioned above, was transferred to government's
account in 1991, it appears that AB's portfolio still includes bad and
doubtful loans which will not be recoverable. The operational and financial
audit, now being undertaken by a firm of international auditors, will include
a portfolio review and assessment of its recoverability. AB's loan reports
for December 31, 1991 show low arrears in loan repayments - about 3.8% of
short-term loans and 1% of medium- and long-term loans; these indicators,
however, are not sufficient for making a preliminary assessment as to the
quality of the portfolio, particularly in light of the highly negative
interest rates on loans.
8.        As a result o. _he ceilings on credit expansion imposed by NBR and
in effect until September 30, 1991, AB's net loan portfolio increased by lei
32.8 billion only, between January 1 and September 30, 1991. However, during
the last quarter of 1991, the net outstanding loan balance increased by over
lei 100 billion, from lei 202.7 billion as of October 1, 1991 to lei 306.2
billion at year-end.
9.        Lendina to the Private Sector.  AB noted in its annual report for
1990 that "the most dynamic sector has been the private, where the loans have
increased from lei 0.2 billion in 1989 to lei 1.6 billion in 1990.0 During
1991 this trend has continued at a faster pace, resulting in a total
outstanding balance at end-December 1991 of lei 17.7 billion (^4% in short-
term and 61% in medium-term loans). The balance of medium-term loans, as of
January 1, 1991, was about lei 1.5 billion, and increased durlng a period of
severe credit rationing and restrictions to lei 5.5 billion (in 50,600 loan
accounts) by end-September 1991. In the last quarter of 1991 the amount of
loans made more than doubled, resulting in a balance of medium-term loane of
lei 10.8 billion at end-year with an additional 20,000 loan accounts. Out of
the above balance of lei 10.8 billion, lei 5.7 billion (about 54%) went to the
agricultural sector and was lent to individual private farmers (51,700
borrowers) to finance the following activities:



- 48 -                                ANNEX I
Page 4
(a) Purchase of livestock          Lei 3,015 million (31,700 borrowers)
(b) Orchards, greenhouses,etc.    Lei   288 million ( 2,900 borrowers)
(c) Ag. Machinery and Equipment   Lei 1,935 million (10,600 borrowers)
(d) Farm buildings                 Lei   277 million ( 3,500 borrowers)
(e) Other purposes                 Lei   177 million ( 3,000 borrowers)
The outstanding balance of short-term credits to the private sector, as at
December 31, 1991, was lei 6.9 billion; lei 1.1 billion of this amount was
owed by private individual farmers (9860 borrowers). In addition to the
above, AB started, in June 1991, to provide short-term production credits to
the newly formed farmers' associations (Law 36/91), and their outstanding
balance of loans amounted to lei 0.5 billion by end-December, 1991. In 1991,
no medium-term loans were granted to these associations. It is also worth
noting that the end-year balance of current account deposits by the private
sector amounted to lei 10.3 billion in about 36,000 accounts (lei 4.6 billion
- 27,000 accounts, as of September 30, 1991). These figures include about
11,000 accounts of individual private farmers with a total balance of lei 445
million.
10.       Loan Processing Procedures.  At the end of9 1991, AD published three
pamphlets describing loan evaluation and processing procedures for the
different categories of borrowers served by AB. Following review of the
existing procedures by the Bank, it was agreed that AB would consolidate the
existing guidelines and prepare a lending operations manual, improve and
strengthen the present procedures, include revised formats for loan
applications, and provide more detailed instructions on loan appraisal and
risk analysis. AB would establish a small task force for preparation of the
manual and follow a detailed outline suggested by the Bank.
11.       Interest Rates.   As from January 6, 1992, NBR raised its
refinancing rate from 18% to 28%. Similarly, the State S&vincgs Dank (CEC)
raised the rates payable by AB to 27% for long-term deposits, 28% for short-
term (one year) deposits and 22% for demand deposits. AB's lending rates were
increased as from January 6, 1992 and now range between 28-31%. As mentioned
before, AB has to rely heavily on NBR refinancing for its lending activities;
at end-1991, AB's share in NBR refinancing credit equalled 50% of NBR credits
to che banking system.
12.       In 1990, NBR's refinancing rate was 3% p.a. for the whole year.  In
1991, the refinancing rate was raised four times; initially to 7.75% for the
first quarter of 1991; in the period from April 1 to July 31, 1991 NBR's rate
was 9.5% for short-term and 9% for long-term financing. For the month of
August, the rates were raised to 14.5% for short-term and 12.5% for long-term
financing. From September 1, 1991 to January 5, 1992 the rates were increased
to 18% and 15% respectively, and unified into a single rate of 28% as from
January 1992. AB's spread ranged between 2-3% above the refinancing rates of
NBR. The legal limit on the spread between the cost of funds and the lending
rate has been abolished, permitting banks to determine their lending rates and
allowing more competition among banks. AB charges penal interest on overdue
instalments of loans, which is 3% above the stipulated lending rate. Interest
on loans is debited monthly in the loan accounts but is not being compounded,



- 49                                  ANNEX I
Page 5
thus nominal and effective rates are equal. AB's deposit interest rates
generally follow the rates paid by CEC which currently are 18% on short-term
deposits and 23-25% on time deposits.
13.       Audit of AB's Accounts for 1991, including an operational audit and
a review of its loan portfolio, by a well-known firm of international
auditors, will commence in February and is expected to be completed not later
than end-June 1992. This audit will assist in assessing the volume of the
non-recoverable loan portfolio, the injection required to achieve an
acceptable capital/risk asset ratio, and identify organizational and
operational weaknesses that need to be rectified. The Banking Sector
Modernization Project, currently under preparation and proposed for Bank
financing, will address and attempt to resolve the issues that will be
identified by the auditors, and assist AB and other banks in automation,
training of staff and the creation of a computerized National Payments System.
B. Romanian Bank for Develovment
14.       Introduction.  The Romanian Bank for Development (DB) was originally
founded in 1948 with the name Investment Bank, as the successor to the
National Society for Industrial Credit, to specialize in medium and long term
credit for industrial development and short term advances for working capital
to industry and construction. On December 1, 1990 the bank was transformed
into a joint stock company, fully owned by the State, and its name was changed
to the Romanian Bank for Development. During 1991 the bank's paid-up capital
was increased from lei 2.6 billion to lei 7 billion, which together with
reserves of lei 2.4 billion and net profit after tax, gave the bank a tangible
net worth, before provisions, of about lei 10 billion.
15.       Oraanizatjon.  For many years DB had only 41 branches, one in each
district (judet), and 3 sub-branches. However in 1990 and 1991 the bank
embarked on an expansion program, increasing its network to 142 offices by
12/31/91, comprising 41 main branches (sucursal), 35 sub-branches (filial) and
66 agencies. Of the new offices opened in 1991, 33 were located in rural
areas to meet the demand for agricultural credit. The head office of DB is
organized in ten divisions, each headed by an Executive Director, plus the
legal and control departments. The top management group, known as the
Managing Committee, comprises the Managing Director, two Vice Presidents and
four Senior Advisors. During 1992 and 1993 DB intends to consolidate its head
office organization and branch network, opening at most 60 new sub-branches
and agencies (i.e. a total number of 200 offices).
16.       Staffing.  At the end of December 1991, DB had a total staff of
2,936. Of this number around 46% had a university education, predominantly in
economics, and the remaining 54% a high school diploma. Around 57% of the
staff are women and 43% men. The head office in Bucharest has a staff of
about 300; among the branches the largest in terms of staff members are
Bucharest (360). Constanta (117) and Brasov (88). The other district main
branches have between 30 and 50 staff each. The number of staff has increased
by over 1,000 during 1991 and the first quarter of 1992 to the present number
of 3,112 (March 27, 1992). Despite the expansion of the branch network, DB



- 50 -ANNEX I
Page 6
intends to keep its total staff numbers within 3,500 during 1992 and 1993, by
dint of increasing automation and rationalization of clerical work.
17.       Overall Scope of Business Activity.  Although DB is a universal
bank, and is authorized to carry out all banking activities, until recently it
specialized in medium term lending to finance construction and infrastructure
projects, and until 1990 its activities were restricted to banking operations
in local currency. In April 1990 DB started to carry out transactions in
foreign exchange, which had previously been the preserve of the Romanian Bank
for Foreign Trade. Also since 1990, DB has given increasing emphasis to
private individuals (car loans) and to private companies, large and small.
The objective of DB is to provide full banking services to a varied clientele
of enterprises, businessmen and private individuals throughout Romania. This
will involve not only wholesale and retail lending, but also the full range of
deposit-taking activities and foreign exchange business. The bank is
focussing increasingly on short term lending for working capital, to lessen
its dependence on medium and long term loans, thereby reducing the inherent
mismatch in its balance sheet.
18.       Financial Position.  The provisional financial statements of DB for
the year ending December 31, 1991, prepared by their auditors Coopers and
Lybrand, show total assets of lei 245.2 billion (US$1.2 billion), comprising a
loan portfolio of lei 219 billion (89%) and other assets of lei 26.2 billion
(11%). These figures include loans of lei 77 billion granted to customers
under the Global Compensation Scheme (Law 80) and backdated to December 31,
1991. Gross profit for 1991, before provisions and taxation, was lei 3.7
billion, and the estimated net profit was lei 585 million. However the latter
figure is subject to adjustment depending on (i) the level of general and
specific loan loss provisions and (ii) the tax treatment of such provisions.
Refinancing facilities from the National Bank of Romania (NBR) of lei 76.3
billion and loans and deposits from the State Savings Bank (CEC) of lei 36
billion financed 51% of DB's loan portfolio, the balance being financed by
customers' deposits (lei 103.7 billion) and DB's equity of lei 10 billion (4%
of total assets),. It is noteworthy that DB's customer deposit base rose from
around lei 30 billion at the end of 1990 to over lei 100 billion at the end of
1991, more or less accompanying inflation. This performance was in line with
the other major commercial banks (e.g. AB and RBFT), but in stark contrast to
the poor showing C4 the State Savings Bank (CEC) whose deposits remained
virtually unchanged in nominal terms during 1991.
19.       Lending Operations and Loan Portfolio.  The bulk of DB's loan
portfolio as at December, 1991 still consisted of medium and long term loans
to finance commercial buildings and infrastructure development. Its largest
loans to date have been to the Bucharest Metro (lei 1.4 billion) and the
Constanta port (lei 2.4 billion). However available data indicates an
increasing diversification, with loan asset growth concentrated in short term
facilities for working capital. Although loans to Regie Autonome and state
owned commercial companies still account for most of the portfolio, loans to
individuals and private companies are increasing, as the following breakdown
as at November 30, 1991 indicates (lei billion):



- 51 -                                ANNEX I
Page 7
Short    Medium-
Type of Customer                      Term    Lono-Term   Total
Regie Autonome                                6         26         32
State owned commercial companies             41         46        87
Privately owned commercial companies          3          3          6
Private joint ventures                        1          -          1
Small private companies                     1.5        2.5         4
Individuals (car loans/mortgages)           0.5        2.5         3
Other loans (various)                         3          3          6
Total                                        56         83       139
20.       The total loan portfolio of lei 218.9 billion as at December 31,
1991 includes lei 20.7 billion (equivalent to 95% of lei 21.8 billion) of bad
and doubtful loans, which were identified in July 1991, and for which the
government assumed responsibility under Government Decision (HG) 447/91. The
balance also includes loans amounting to lei 77.1 billion made under the
General Compensation Scheme (Law 80 of December 23, 1991) which financed the
repayment of inter-enterprise arrears; these loans are also guaranteed by the
government, which has undertaken to assume responsibility for all such loans
remaining unpaid after six months. Although substantial amounts of bad loans
have been written off in the past, and an amount of lei 21.8 billion was
transferred to the government's account under HG 447/91, it appears that DB's
portfolio still includes bad and doubtful loans which will not be recoverable.
The operational and financial audit, now being undertaken by Coopers and
Lybrand, includes a portfolio review and assessment of recoverability, which
will enable the bank to estimate the additional provisioning required.
21.       Loan Processing Procedures.  In 1991 DB instituted detailed credit
assessment and loan processing procedures. Borrowers are now required to
submit detailed written loan requests specifying the purpose of the facility,
maturity, collateral offered and enclosing financial statements. Initial
analysis is undertaken by local credit staff in DB's offices and sent up
through the chain of command to the district branch, and if necessary to the
head office, for approval. A comprehensive system of discretionary lending
limits has been established, and credit committees have been set up in the
district branches and the head office. While DB's Staff clearly have a steep
learning curve to climb in sharpening their credit assessment skills, a World
Bank banking consultant who reviewed DB's credit procedures in January 1992
was favorably impressed with the progress achieved to date.
22.       Interest Rates.  As from January 6, 1992, NBR raised its refinancing
rate from 18% to 28% p.a. Similarly, the State Savings Bank (CEC) raised the
rates payable by DB to 27% for long-term deposits, 28% for short-term (one
year) deposits and 22% for demand deposits. DB's lending rates were increased
as from January 6, 1992 and now range between 28 and 34% p.a.. During 1991,
DB's spread ranged between 2 and 3% p.a. above the refinancing rates of NBR.
The legal limit on the spread between the cost of funds and the lending rate
has been abolished, permitting banks to determine their lending rates and
allowing more competition among banks. DB charges penal interest on overdue



- 52 -                               ANNEX I
Page 8
installments of loans, which is 3% p.a. 'above the stlpulated lending rate.
Interest on loans is debited monthly in the loan accounts but is not being
compounded, thus nominal and effective rates are equal. DB's deposit interest
rates generally follow the rates paid by CEC to lts depositore which are
currently 18% p.a. on short-term deposiLts and 23-25% p.a. on time deposits.
23.       Audit of DB's Accounts for 1991.  An operational audit of DB by a
well-known firm of international auditors commenced in February 1992, and is
expected to-be completed not later than May 31, 1992. The task comprises a
financial audit, a loan portfolio review and a diagnostic study of the bank's
organization and administration.  This audit will assist in assessing the
volume of the non-recoverable loan portfolio, the capital injection required
to achieve an acceptable capital/risk asset ratio, and will identify
organizational and operational weaknesses that need to be rectified. The
technical assisstance components associated with the Financial and Enterprise
Sector Adjustment Loan (FESAL), will address and attempt to resolve the issues
that will be identified by the auditors, and will assist DB and other banks in
automation, training of staff and the creation of a computerized National
Payments System, either using World Bank loan funds or grants from donors such
as EC Phare.



- 53 -                             AMNEX 2
Page 1
ROMANIA
PRIVATE FARMER AND ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES BY OTHER AGENCIES
1.        A number of institutional development activities were clearly
identified during project preparation but will be financed by other agencies,
mainly EC-PHARE. These include strengthening of:
(a) the banking system's capability to provide credit efficiently to
rural borrowers;
(b) policy and strategy formulation within MAFI;
(c) technical assistance services to rural undertakings;
(d) an Agricultural Information System - education, research, extension;
(e) market information for agricultural products; and
(f) cadastral services.
2.        Institutional support would be made available to three groups of
institutions: the Banking System, MAFI and the agricultural sector, and the
Ministry of Trade and Tourism (MOT).   Progress in its implementation will be
closely monitored by the Bank given its close linkage with the credit
activities to be undertaken and financed by the Bank.
3.        Financial Intermediaries.  An intensive program of technical
assistance to strengthen the financial structure and the appraisal and credit
recovery performance of financial intermediaries, including those likely to
participate under the project, is to be implemented mainly by EC-PHARE.
Financial auditing, including classification of assets and advice on bad debt
provisions and capital adequacy is being provided. This technical assistance
activity will also finance staff and management training programs for the
banks; the establishment of a management information system, including the
provision of computers; the preparation of agricultural lending guidelines;
and the introduction of medium and long-term planning methodologies in the
banking system. This, together with technical assistance being provided by
the Bank to AB on the development of a Project Lending Manual, is expected to
strengthen considerably banks likely to participate under the project and
ensure that Flo would be capable of handling a large number of viable
subproject investments and of carefully planning portfolio activities.



54                                  ANNEX 2
Page 2
4.        Aaricultural Technical Assistance is to be provided in the following
areas, by various agencies:
(a) Because of its past role which was oriented towards central
planning, MAFI lacks an aaricultural nolicy makina structure to
advise the Government on sectoral government issues and hence it
lacks the capacitv to formulate a medium term strategy to plan and
implement agricultural policy decisions. During the next few years,
the role of the Ministry of Agriculture should change substantially
from that of an agency which controls and manages agricultural
production directly to an agency which provides the correct policy
environment and support for private agricultural development. EC-
PHARE is supporting the setting up of an Advisory Service on
Agricultural Policy (ASAP) to assist in solving the problem. This
would be a high level policy unit of 6-10 professionals which would
report directly to the minister. Staffing would be a mix of highly
qualified Romanian personnel supported by 2-3 expatriate advisors
and consultants as required. Detailed TORs for the technical
assistance requirements for the proposed service (125 man months
over a 3-year period) have already been prepared. The first
expatriate advisor of the service started work in ASAP in March
1992.
(b)  The Cadastral Department within the Ministry of Agriculture would be
strengthened substantially with the aim of issuing full title at the
rate of 2 million hectares per year, so that the complete titling
process resulting from land reform would be completed by the end of
1996. This is being supported by Dutch and French bilateral
technical assistance.
(c) The majority of private individual farmers and farmer associations
deriving from the land privatization law have now been given use of
the land previously operated by the former CAPS - about 8 million
hectares. Though privatization is already indicating signs of
increased supply response and marketing of agricultural products,
farmers still need assistance as to how best organize their
production, marketing and service activities. To gather more
information on this, a survey involving about 1,250 households and
210 producer associations has been undertaken by the World Bank in
cooperation with MAFI. The survey has indicated that the major
needs for technical assistance are in the areas of farm management,
repair and maintenance of machinery, product processing and
marketing of agricultural produce. The Bank is assisting in
developing the framework and terms of reference for a medium-term
technical assistance program to help farmers in these areas. It is
envisaged that the program would establish and operate a network of
rural enterprise support units (RESUs) coordinated by a Center for
Rural Enterprise (CRE) in Bucharest. RESUs would provide guidance
and assistance in such areas as marketing, agro-processing, and
finance; undertake feasibility and marketing studies; provide
training and business advice; and serve as a channel of information



- 55 -                                ANNEX 2
Page 3
between farmers and the CRE in Bucharest. Although the program
would require an experienced team of expatriate advisors, a major
priority would be the development of a highly competent and
motivated staff of r'omanian technicians. These technicians would be
selected and provided with initial training during the preparation
phase; continuous on-the-job training would be provided throughout
the life of the program. It is expected that the RESUs would
eventually be taken over and operated by regional unions of farmer
organizations, or would be able to function as independent
consulting groups. The program is likely to require substantial
technical assistance and following detailed preparation currently
being undertaken by the Bank will be submitted to EC-PHARE for
financing.
(d) Because of the dramatic change in the patterns of production
(administrative edicts and technical instructions to collectives
having been replaced by economic incentives to 2.8 million newly
independent farming households), a reform of the management of the
agricultural information system including education. research and
extension is essential. Present advice to farmers focuses almost
exclusively on production recommendations, with insufficient regard
for economics, and it tends to be sectoral, rather than "whole farm"
based. Farmers need to develop their economic skills, while older
farmers would benefit from information on the best ways of leaving
farming altogether. Available human resources for education,
research and extension are considerable: about 1,700, 3,700 and
6,000 staff respectively, but considerable retraining is required.
Investments in the information system are justified but a
comprehensive framework to prioritize and phase those investments is
required. It is thus proposed to (i) undertake a study in two
parts: a set of indicators and a descriptive part; and (ii) prepare
for the reform of the agricultural information services through: (a)
the results of the study; (b) a seminar; and (c) the formulation of
a policy and a detailed action/investment plan for five years.
Suggested terms of reference for the study, its organization and
timetable have been prepared by the Bank and left with Government.
On the basis of these, it is intended that a 5-year action/
investment plan can be finalized by early 1993 with likely funding
from EC-PHARE.
5.        Market Information System.  Realizing that market transparency is at
the heart of a well functioning competitive market system, MOT has already
started a rudimentary price information scheme giving prices for key
agricultural commodities in selected provinces country-wide. This information
is presented in a financial and trade journal published weekly by the MOT.
Support would be given to this through project preparation currently being
undertaken by the Bank which is expected to lead to a EC-PHARE technical
assistance project which would improve the market informati,n system by: (i)
widening its geographic coverage, including pertinent foreign markets; (ii)
broadening its coverage to include most agricultural products, taking due note
of seasonality; (iii) increasing its usefulness through more frequent,



- 56-                                 ANNEX 2
Page 4
ultimately daily, reporting; (iv) broadening its audience by including price
information in proposed "agricultural hours" on both radio and television; and
(v) developing ways and means to make this service totally or partially
independent from the state budget. It would involve:
(a) TeChnical assistance for: (i) the development of an effective market
information system, to be obtained from institutions elsewhere that
provide similar services, and (ii) assistance with the design,
installation, initial operation and operator training of a data
gathering and transmission system based on a network of personal
computers.
(b) Study visits and training would be organized for the operational
staff of the service from both headquarters and field offices. This
aspect of the project would not be confined to price information
systems only, but would also be used to demonstrate the importance
of correct and timely information for the functioning of a market
economy.
(c) Equipment would be financed to facilitate the timely collection of
the maximum amount of information, its organization in a standard
form, its transmission to the central office in Bucharest and the
subsequent re-transmission of the aggregate price series and other
relevant market information nationwide. A Marketing Information
System would be established at the MOT to keep producers, middlemen
and consumers informed on domestic and international market prices
and to help promote agricultural commercial operations.



ANNEX 3
- 57 -                               Page 1
PRIVATE FARMER AND ENTEEtPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
THE ECONOMICS OF AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION IN ROMANIA
AND PROPOSALS FOR AN INITIAL LIST OF PRODUCTION
ACTIVITIES WITHIN INELIGIBLE SUBSECTORS
TO BE EXCLUDED FROM PROJECT INVESTMENT
Economics of Production of Malor Croos and Livestock
1.          The estimated economic cost of production of major Romanian
agricultural products on medium-scale farms are calculated in Tables 1-4. For
crops, these calculations are made on the basis of dry land production, but
assuming adequate levels of fertilizer. Yield projections take this into
account, and furthermore assume that crops are only grown in areas technically
suitable for them. This has not been the case historically, as the desire for
judet self sufficiency has resulted in crops being grown in unsuitable zones,
for example, maize in the upland areas.
2.          The exchanae rate used in these calculations is the official
exchange rate of Lei 200 per US dollar while the oooortunitv cost of capital
is taken to be 10%. Because of the very low wage rates in Romania coupled
with a high level of under-employment, the economic cost of labor in the
agricultural sector is estimated at only US$1.25 per day or about US$0.21 per
hour for unskilled labor (Table 1).
3.          Economic input prices for fertilizers (Table 2) are based on the
World Bank Commodities Division estimated costs adjusted for bagging, loading,
unloading, transporting and distribution. These costs, estimated on a per
nutrient basis, implicitly assume that fertilizers are used in 'straight'
form. Should they be applied as compounds, then the unit cost per kg of
nutrient would be about 15% higher.
4.          The economic cost of mechanization (Table 2, page 2) are based on
a standard 45 hp tractor plus basic equipment. From this an economic cost per
hour worked (US$5.34) can be estimated. To assess the costs of different
mechanical services, the economic cost for plowing is calculated and other
costs derived from it using the same relativities as indicated by the Romanian
Agromech price list. As might be expected Romanian mechanization costs are
relatively low. Firstly, because Romania is a low cost producer of
agricultural equipment, which although not very sophisticated is adequate for
basic tasks; and secondly the economic cost of labor is very low in Romania.
5.          The estimated cost of concentrate feeds (Table 2, page 3) which
are a major input into the livestock industry, are based on border prices of
the principle ingredients, cereals and protein meals. They are based on the
normalized assumption that Romania is a marginal exporter of maize but an
importer of protein meals. The estimated cost calculations are on the basis
of simplified feed mixes using maize as a proxy for most cereals. Because the
opportunity cost of maize which comprises about three-quarters of the



ANNEX 3
- 58 -                                Page 2
concentrate feed by volume is based on export parity, the economic costs of
concentrate feeds are relatively modest. These figures have been estimated
assuming that milling and mixing takes place at a local concentrate feed
factory.   The economic cost of concentrate feeds would be substantially
(10-15%) lower if a farmer's own production of cereals were mixed on-farm with
bought in balancers.
6.          The economic prices of a selection of crops are estimated in
Table 3. Those for wheat, maize and sugar are based on world prices using
World Bank projections. That of sunflower is based on USDA statistics of the
1990/91 average world price, while assumed import parity price for potatoes is
a mission estimate geared to low season domestic prices in the UK which is a
major importer of potatoes from Cyprus, Egypt, Holland, Italy etc.
7.          In these estimates the price of wheat is calculated at US$125 per
ton on an import parity basis. If agriculture becomes more successful in
Romania and wheat is exported again, then the equivalent export parity price
would be lower at about US$93 per ton. Figures for sunflower and sugarbeet
are likely to remain on an import parity basis under most development
scenarios, while for potatoes expanded production could lead to an exportable
surplus and a substantial reduction in the economic price.
8.          The economic cost of production of wheat given in Table 4(a)
indicates that at modeet yield levels of 3.5 tons/ha unirrigated wheat in
Romania can be produced at substantially below its import parity price (about
70% of that price) and also below potential export parity price. On an import
parity basis, the break-even yield for wheat is low at 2 tons/ha. This
compares to a national average yield 1985/89 of 2.9 tons/ha which was achieved
with fertilizer use of about 70% of the level indicated in the cost of
production estimate model. The Benefit:Cost (B:C) ratio for wheat from the
model is estimated at 1.4, while on the basis of the 1985/89 average yields
and fertilizer use, it would also be 1.4.
9.          The estimated economic cost of production of potatoes is about
US$48 per ton at a moderate yield of 20 tons per ha. At this cost, the
situation for potatoes (Table 4(b)) is even more favorable than for wheat.
Whilst potatoes are valued at import parity the economic cost of production
estimated through the model is about 43% of the border price i.e. the B:C
ratio is 2.3. During the 1985/89 period, average potato yields were reported
as 15.6 tons/ha with fertilizer use at about 65% of the level indicated in the
model. With this yield and this fertilizer use, but all other things being
equal, economic cost of production would be US$56 per ton, and the C:B ratio
2.0. Because seed is a major element of the cost of production for potatoes,
and its economic price is directly correlated with the economic price of
potatoes for consumption, there is a relationship between the economic price
of potatoes and their cost of production. Consequently, at an non traded
economic price of say US$70 pe_ ton the model gives an economic cost of
production of US$40 per ton, which would still result in a healthy B:C ratio
of 1.7.
10.         Table 4(c) on sunflower seed indicates that the Romanian cost of
production is approximately 55% of the import parity value of sunflower seed
even at a yield of only 1.6 tons/ha (the average yield for 1985/89) and the



ANNEX 3
-59 -                                 Page 3
BiC ratio is 1.8. On the basis of five year average yields and fertilizer
use, the B:C ratio was higher at 2.0 - a result of lower costs but the same
yield as shown in the base model. Yield could fall to as low as 0.9 tons per
ha with the same level of inputs before sunflower seed became uneconomic.
11.         The economic cost of production of unirrigated maize on suitable
soils with adequate fertilizer and other inputs is estimated at US$52 per ton
or 59% of its economic value of US$88 per ton giving a B:C ratio of 1.7.
Clearly Romania is a low-cost producer of maize which is one of its major
agricultural products. Variable weather conditions, production in unsuitable
areas and below optimum fertilizer inputs have meant that past maize yields
have averaged below the budgeted level in this economic cost estimate.
Nevertheless, on the basis of the 1985/89 average yield and fertilizer use
(3.1 tons/ha and 140 units of fertilizer/ha) the economic cost of production
of maize is only 75% of its economic value and the B:C ratio is 1.3.
12.         Because of the world surplus of suaar and the high yields which
can be obtained from cane in tropical climates, beet sugar is seldom
economically viable. Romania is no exception to this and the estimated
economic cost of production of sugarbeet is about US$28 per ton while its
economic value at the farmgate is only about US$18 per ton. This gives a B:C
ratio of only 0.6. Even with the same inputs, but a higher yield of 32 t/ha
the B:C ratio is only 0.8. Expansion of sugarbeet production is not therefore
economic under normal circumstances. Even taking account of the fact that
beet factories are operating below capacity and that their marginal operating
cost per ton would be substantially lower than the average cost used in the
economic farmgate cost table, it is unlikely that expansion of the area under
sugarbeet would be economically worthwhile.
13.         On the livestock production side the most important product is
-iameat. Pig production in Romania is economically a profitable activity,
even taking into account the costs associated with buildings and equipment.
This is shown in Table 4(f). The B:C ratio based on long run price
projections is 1.6 while using short run prices it is 1.3. The key to
profitability in intensive livestock production is the feed conversion ratio
(FCR). This in turn depends on adequate protein meals being available to
maintain the protein level in the concentrates fed to livestock. In the
model, it has been implicitly assumed that as a result of liberalizing prices
and trade, protein meals will be imported as necessary and so an FCR of 4.0
which is moderate by Western European standards has been used to reflect this.
In recent years, however, protein imports have been restricted and both feed
quality and FCRs have substantially been below optimum levels. On the basis
of feed containing only 7.5% protein meal on average, rather than 17.5% as
indicated in the model and an FCR of 6.0 overall, pig production just covers
its economic costs using short run prices (B:C ratio of 1.0) but still shows a
B:C ratio of 1.3 on the basis of long run price estimates.
SimDlified Economic Models
14.         To confirm the viability of crop and agricultural production in
Romania for the main products, three simple models have been prepared based on
the economic cost of production figures set out in Tables 1 to 4. Table 5 is
a simple cropping model based on cereals and oilseeds with an even balance



ANNEX 3
- 60 -                                Page 4
between spring and fall cultivation to make full use of the cultivation
capacity of one 45 hp tractor. This model is based on cultivating a block of
land with one tractor using hired labor and hiring specialist machinery for
combining and baling. Such a tractor could cultivate about 63 ha of land and
the economic rate of return from this, allowing no opportunity cost for the
land itself- is 62%. It is pertinent to note that the peak investment
requirement for the system is about US$26,000 or US$410 per ha of which about
40% is for non-specialized machinery and equipment and 60% for crop finance.
The total labor required for this model is about the equivalent of 2.4 jobs of
farm work plus one tractor driver, giving 3.4 jobs in all or an average on-
farm investment per job created of about US$7,570. The "financ'al return" to
a farmers association or entrepreneur operating the same model but (i) paying
financial wage rates and (ii) paying a "rent" of 20% of gross output for the
use of the land (equivalent to US$90/ha) would be 28%.
15.         Table 6 illustrates a similarly designed model to that of Table 5
except that it introduces an intensive crop, potatoes, into the system. This
consequently reduces the area of land which makes full use of one tractor to
55 ha. The internal rate of return on this model is higher at 82% while the
peak investment increases to US$28,000 and the investment per job to US$8,170.
The very high rate of return in this model results from potatoes being an
extremely profitable crop whilst they are priced at export parity. In the
long run, Romania is likely to be self-sufficient in potatoes. In that case,
the economic price would be the financial price modified by a general
conversion factor. Estimates of this are conjectural but even if, for
example, the economic price of potatoes were only US$70/ton, the ERR would
still be 61%. The "financial return" to a farmers association or entrepreneur
operating the same model but (i) paying financial wage rates and (ii) paying a
"rent" of 20% of gross output for the use of the land (equivalent to
US$125/ha) would be 44% or 27% with a potato price of US$70/ton.
16.         Table 7 models the performance of livestock through a 20 sow pig
unit producing about 33 tons of live pigs per year. This size unit is
sufficient to fully employ one man under Romanian conditions and would involve
a peak investment of around US$34,300 of which 54% is in buildings, 6% in
breeding livestock and the remaining 39% in working capital. The estimated
ERR of such a unit based on current world prices is about 30%, but on the
basis of WB projections for international beef prices, and the historical
relationship between Romanian export prices of pigmeat and world beef prices
of 63%, the ERR would be higher at 54%.
17.         In the case that a farmer has spare building capacity for pig
production, the economic rates of return are much higher. Omitting investment
in buildings from the economic flows in Table 7 would give an economic rate of
return for investment in pigs themselves of 101% calculated on an annual
cashflow basis. In this case peak investment would be US$15,000 of which 13%
would be in breeding livestock and 87% in working capital.
.1/    The economic rate of return is being used here to answer the question "is
it worth growing crops in Romania?" If the answer to that were "No",
incremental land in Romania would have virtually no opportunity cost - so
the zero approximation used here is valid.



ANNX 3
- 61 -                                Page 5
18.         The "financial return" to a farmers association or entrepreneur
operating the same pig model and facing the same prices but (i) paying
financial wage rates would be 29% on the basis of short run prices and 52% on
the basis of long run prices. If buildings were rented on the basis of 10%
of theie estimated capital cost, rather than built, returns would be 63% and
125% respectively.
Likely T3=es of Investments and Items to be Excluded from Financina
19.         From the analysis above, mainstream agricultural production in
Romania is economically viable under non irrigated conditions. More intensive
or sophisticated production such as fruits and vegetables for sale to major
Romanian cities would also be viable provided it is well planned and managed
and the markets for the output exist. It is clearly worthwhile trying to
expand production of most agricultural products in F=mania. Specific items to
be funded under the project will vary from farm to farm but are likely to
includes tractors and other agricultural machinery (which are generally in
short supply); working capital (feeds, fertilizers, sprays); and storage and
transport facilities. Intensive livestock, including pig and poultry
production (both eggs and broilers) are economically viable in Romania
provided there is a domestic cereal surplus. With intensive livestock the
best rates of return will be achieved by changing technology to raise the
overall quality of feed. This can only happen if adequate quantities of
protein meals are imported. Dairy production making use of underutilized
pasture and sheep meat and milk production are also likely to show good
economic rates of return. The input supply, marketing and services sub-
sectors are all very underdeveloped in Romania. From an economic standpoint
investment in moot of these areas would be worthwhile providing it is well
planned and executed.
20.         The main commodities whose production should not be expanded are
sugarbeet, inefficient forms of intensive livestock production and export
commodities for which markets are unclear, e.g. wine. Because of high nominal
interest rates, at present, long gestation period investments such as orchards
would generate severe short and medium term cash flow problems, even though in
real terms they would show acceptable financial and economic rates of return.
For this reason, they too should be excluded from financing at this stage.
21.         The intention of selecting ineligible subsectors is to exclude
subprojects in subsectors likely to be problematic. Inevitably, because of
definitional difficulties, it may have the unfortunate effect of excluding
finance for a few items which would have been worthwhile, particularly in the
livestock subsector, where the cut off size for unit investment is geared to
operations which, under Romanian conditions could be handled by a foreman and
a task group of about 6-10 full time staff i.e. new units which would not
imply a costly management pyramid. It is intended that the ineligible
subsectors would be reviewed semiannually to take account of changes in
circumstances.



ANNEX 3
- 62 -                                Page 6
Prooosed Ineliaible Subsectors
Genegal Exclusionst
No financina will be made available under the project for state owned,
or other oublic sector units or comganies which have a majority of
shares owned by the public sector.
No financing will be made available for agricultural production of items
for which there is no sound established technical basis for production
in Romania.
Soecific Exclusions:
Suaar Beet:  No financing for specialist sugar beet equipment or working
capital for sugar beet production.
Orchards:    No new investment in orchards will be financed, although
incremental working capital for existing plantings would be
eligible.
Vinevardas   No new investment in orchards will be financed, although
incremental working capLtal for existing plantings would be
eligible.
Tobacco:     No specialist equipment, facilities or working capital for
tobacco production will be financed.
Piaos        No new units involving the construction of buildings with a
capacitv of over 300 breedina sows. or 3.000 gia fattenina
spaceq would be financed.  Investments and incremental
working capital finance for smaller new units or restocking
of large units would be eligible either if units were to be
owned and operated by a single family or if availability of
concentrate feeds with adequate protein can be
demonstrated.
Poultrys     No new units involving the construction of buildings or
procurement of major new equipment for units with a
caoacitv of over 40.000 layers, or 100.000 broiler soaces
would be financed. Investments and incremental working
capital finance for smaller new units or restocking of
large units would be eligible either if units were to be
owned and operated by a single family or if availability of
concentrate feeds with adequate protein can be
demonstrated.
Cattle:      No np_w unit involving the construction of buildings or
procurement of major new equipment for units with a
capacity of over 300 dairy cows or 800 other cattle would
be financed. Investments and incremental working capital



ANNEX 3
- 63 -                                Page 7
for smaller new unite or restocking of larger units would
be eligible either if they were to be owned and operated by
a single family or if adequate availability bulk feeds from
the same ownership can be demonstrated.
22.         This list of ineligible subsectors excludes certain types of
agricultural production investment from financing under the project. Most
other agricultural production investments are likely to be economically viable
if well-managed under the present situation in Romania. Clearly activities
not falling within the ineligible subsectorc fulfill a necessary but not a
sufficient condition for investment under the project. Prior to undertaking a
detailed economic and financial analysis of a possible investment, a number of
technical and organizational factors would need to be addressed, such as?
'Does the proposed enterprise have markets? Can it procure raw materials
supplies? Is there an adequately trained labor force available? Is capacity
likely to be used to the full?' All these will need to be carefully appraised
by the Flo in addition to undertaking the appropriate economic and financial
analysis (ERR and IRR calculations for all loans of over $250,000, appropriate
comparison of project with 'benchmarks' for those smaller loans for which ERR
and IRR calculations are not practicable).
23.         Nevertheless, with the exception of maize, yield figures used in
these estimates are only moderately higher than the national average yields
actually achieved while the fertilizer use has been markedly lower as can be
seen below:



- 64 -
ANNEX 3
Page 8-
ROMANIA: PFESP APPRAISAL   Economics of AgriculturaL Production
Table . Basic Data
.... . ..... ....
A. Basic Economic Parameters
OFFICIAL EXCHANGE RATE (Lei/USS)                                                   200
ESTIMATED SHADOW EXCHANGE RATE ESERl (Lei/USS)                                    200
OPPORTUNITY COST OF CAPITAL (OCC)                                                 10.0X
B. Wages & Family Labor
------------------------                                     Financial         SCF 3/       Economic
Rate                         Cost
Let                          USS
Farm Labor (paid) per day 1/                                       500            0.5           1.25
Farm Labor - Rate per effective hour 2/                           83.3            0.5           0.21
Family Labor - Unpaid per hour                                    n.a.                          0.21
1/ Inctudes social costs and other insurance.
2/ Based on an effective six hour day.
3/  Low specific conversion factor estimated to allow for massive underemployment of unskilled labor.
Table 2. Details of Economic Price Estimates of Farm Inputs
Farmgate Prices of Fertilizers
------------------------------                                    Urea            TSP            MOP
(N)        (P205)            (K)
Basis for Estimates                                            Export         Import         Import
Parity        Parity         Parity
... ........ US#/Ton.
WB WorLd Price Estimate 1992 1/                                     185            150            111
Freight Adj to C & F Romania                                                      30             40
Bagging Cost                                                                       15             15
Value at Romania Border                                             185            195            166
Import Items: plus C&F Port to Farm Costs
Unloading & Port Cgs                                                                5              5
Transport (400km a USS.04/tonkm)                                                   16             16
Distributors Costs (Say 5X)                                                        11              9
Export Parity Items: less Factory to Border, plus fac-farm
Loading & Port charges                                              -5
Transport - Factory to Port                                        -10
Transport to Farm                                                   10
Distributors Costs (Say 5%)                                          9
Estimated 1992 Farm Price                                           189            227            196
==a           ==a            cc=
Concentration of Nutrient                                            46X            46X            602
Unit Cost per Kg of Nutrient                                       0.41           0.49           0.33
=33=          n= 3=3=
Projected Prices in 1992 Lonstant Currency Terms
1M95 1/                                        0.43           0.54           0.33
2000 1/                                        0.41           0.55           0.33
2005 1/                                        0.38           0.55           0.33
1/   World Bank Commodity Price Projections of Oct 24 1991



- 65 -
ANNEX 3
Page 9
ROMANIA: PFESP APPRAISAL - Economics of Agricultural Production
Table 2 (cont). Details of Economic Price Estimates of Farm Inputs
Economic Cost of Mechanization
Capital Cost
------------                                                                   Lei           US$
Unit Export Price of Tractor plus basic Equipment                                          10,000
Operating Parameters
......... ,....  .. .
Hours Worked per Year                                                          800
Total life Years                                                                10
TotaL Life in Hours Worked                                                   8,000
Fuel Use Litres per hour                                                      4.80
Annualized Operating Costs at Economic Prices
........-.......--...-..-----.-..----.--.----                                             USS/Yr
Amortization Cost at OCC=10X                                                                1,630
Repairs & Maintenance (100X over Tractors life)                                             1,000
Fuel Cost (a S0.20/litre)                                                                     768
Oil & Filters 10X Fuel Cost                                                                    77
Insurance/Risk of Write Off (2X new cost)                                                    200
Drivers Wages Lei 10,000 p.m. at Shadow Exch. rate 1/                                         600
Total Economic Annual Cost                                                                  4,275
Estimated Economic Cost of Ploughing
Economic Cost per Hour                                                                      S5.34
Work Rate ha/hr                                                                             0.30
Economic Cost per Hectare                                                                 S17.81
Summary of Costs of Mechanical Services
. ..... ....... ... . . . . . . . . . .
--Financial Prices--   Est Econ 2/
Dec 90        Nov 91        Prices
Lei           Lei           USS
Ploughing (ha)                                                   650         2,945          17.81
Disking & Harrowing - Combined (ha)                              235         1,065           6.44
Seeding (ha)                                                     210           951           5.75
Fertilizing (ha)                                                  75           340           2.06
Spraying (ha)                                                    110           498           3.01
Wheat Harvest (per ton)                                          570         2,582          15.62
Maize Harvest (per ton)                                          685         3,103          18.77
Straw BalIng (per ton)                                           160           725           4.38
1/ Drivers considered as skilled workers with SCF = 1.0.
2/ Details of estimated ploughing costs as above. Other mechanization economic cost estimates
taken as pro rata to ploughing costs in the same proportion as for financial charges in lei.



- 66 -
ANNEX 3
Page 10
ROMANIA: PFESP APPRAISAL - Economics of Agricultural Production
Table 2 (cont) Estimates of The Economic Cost of Concentrate Feeds.
.......................................................................................
Input                                               Maize     Soy meal    Sunflower    Fish Medt  Other Ingr.
Meal
Source of Estimate                                     Us            WB         WB 1/        UB 1/       Mission
Proj         Proj          Proj          Proj     estimate
Basis for Estimates                               Export        Import        Import       Import
Parity       Parity        Parity        Parity
Crude Protein Content                                 8.2%         44.0%         38.0%        64.0%
USS/ton      USS/ton       USS/ton      USS/ton       USS/ton
World Price Est. Standard Commodity 1992                            210           137          395
Freight or Quality Adj to f.o.b. Romania                            10            10           10
Value at Romanian B3rder 1/                                         220           147          405
Adjust for Port to Feedmill Costs
Transport (300km @ USSO.C4/tonkm)                                   12            12           12
Unloading & Handling (say 5%)                                       11             7           20
Value at Feednill 2/                                   94           243           166          437           300
Cost of Different Feed Mixes 3/
......................
Material Composition                             Pig Feed       Poultry        Dairy
Maize                                                77.5%         70.0%         77.5%
Soya                                                 10.0%         17.5%
Sunflower                                            10.0%                      20.0%
Fishmeal                                                           10.0%
Other                                                 2.5%          2.5%          2.5%
TOTAL                                               100.0%        100.0%        100.0%
Av Crude Protein X                                   14.6%         19.8%         14.0%
Economic Costs                                    US$/ton       USS/ton      USS/ton
Ingredients                                         121.2         159.5        113.5
Economic Cost of Milling & Mixing                    15.0          15.0          15.0
Transport to Farm 50km @ USS0.6/tonkm                 3.0           3.0           3.0
Estimated Cost of Concentrates                      139.2         177.5         131.5
1/  Sunflower 65% of soya meal; fishmeal 188% soya meal (aver.ge relationship 1980/81 to 1990/91).
2/  For m0ze: farmgate economic price as in table 3. plus transport to feednill (US$6)
3/ eased on simpliffed food formulae.



- 67 -
ANNEX 3
Page 11
ROMANIA: PFESP APPRAISAL - Economics of Agricultural Production
Table 3. Estimates of The Economic Output Prices of Main Crops CUSS/Ton).
Crop                                                Wheat      Potatoes    Sunflower         Maize   Sugar Beet
Source of Estimate                                     WB       Mission    USDA Farm            WB            WB
Proj          Est         90/91          Proj         Proj
Basis for Estimates                               Import        Import        Imiport      Export        Import
Parity       Parity        Parity        Parity       Parity
................. Constant 1992 US Dollars.
World Price Est. Standard Commodity 1992 US#          143           100           238          108           265
Freight or Quality AdJ to f.o.b. Romania             (30)            0           40             0            16K
Value at Romanian Border 1/                           113           100           278          108            42
Adjust for Port to Urban Center Costs
Transport (300km 0 US$0.04/tonkm) 1/                  12            12            12            0             2
Unloading & Handling (say 5K)                          6             6            14           -6             2
Value at Urban Center Warehouse                       131           118           304          102            46
Less Farm to Urban Center (or Port) Costs
Sugar Processing Costs 2/                              0             0            0             0            20
Transport (150km 0 USSO.04/tonkm) 3/                   6             6            6            12             6
Farm to Mill Transport (Sugar beet)                    0             0            0             0             2
Less Exporters Costs - 2% fob Price                 n.a.          n.s.         n.a.             2          n.a.
Import or Export Parity Price at Farmgate             125           112          298            88            18
1/ For imported items. Sugar is on the basis of beet at a conversion factor of 16X.
2/ Estimated at 5125/ton of sugar produced or 120/ton on a beet basis.
3/ For maize, 300 km to border or port.



- 68 -
ANNEX 3
Page 12
ROCANIA: PFESP APPRAISAL - Economics of Agricultural Production
Table 4(a)  ECONOMIC COST OF PRODUCTION   Wheat
Unit
COSTS PER HECTARE 1/                            Unit            No          Cost           Us$
USS
Seeds 2/                                        Kg             250          0.19            47
Fertilizer 3/ - Nitrogen                        Kg             85           0.43            37
- Phosphate                      Kg              80          0.54            43
- Potasaium                      Kg              60          0.33            20
Other Ag Chemicals & stndries 4/                US$             30          1.00            30
Manure                                          Ton              2          2.00             4
Mechanization - Cultivation etc. 5/             Tr Hr           12          5.34            64
Mechanization - Harvest Grain 3/                Ton            3.5         15.62            55
Mechanization - Baling 3/                       Ton            2.5          4.38            11
Labor 6/                                        Hour            30          0.21             6
Economic Cost of Capital 7/                     USS            316           7.SX           24
Total Cost per Hectare                                                                     340
.wa
Less Blproduct
Straw                                     Ton           2.5             15            38
Net Cost Per Ha                                                                            303
3.3
Yield Tons per Hectare - Wheat t14X Moisture)                               3.50
ESTIMATED ECONOMIC COST PER TON (exal opportunity cost of land)                             86
..............................................................                             tas
Estimated Economic Farm Gate Value per Ton                                                 125
................. ..............................           _                                 *
Benefit:Cost Ratio                                                                         1.4
Economic Costs of Production for ODfferent Yields
.................................................
Yield  Cost/ton       Margin    B:C Ratio
t/ha      USS        UBS/ha
National tv Yteld/Av Fertiluzer                      2.9        89         103.4           1.4
Base Case                                            3.5        86         134.9           1.4
High Output/Som input                                4.5        71         243.1           1.8
1/  Non irrigated production by private farmers using satl equipment  nd mechanical harvest.
2/ Unit cost estimated at 1.5 times the normal economic price for grain.
3/ See Table 2. for unit costs.
4/  Missifn estimate based on rcaed Ronenian practice.
5/  Time requirement based on recommedd Romanian practice. for unit costs, se  Table 2.
6/  Time requirent based on recomd   Romanian practice, for unit costs, see Table 1.
7/  OCC 10, Costs of production Incurred an average of 9 months prior to sale.



- 69 -
MANNEX 3
Page 13
ROMANIA: PFESP APPRAISAL - Economics of Agricultural Production
Tabte 4(b)  ECONOMIC COST OF PROOUCTION - Potatoes
Unit
COSTS PER HECTARE 1/                           Unit            No          Cost           USS
USS
Seeds 2/                                       Kg            2500          0.17          420
Fertilizer 3/ - Nitrogen                       Kg             160          0.43           69
- Phosphate                      Kg            100          0.54            54
- Potassfun                      Kg            100          0.33            33
other Ag Chemicals & surdries 4/               USS             80          1.00            80
Manure                                         Ton             10          2.00            20
Mechanization - Cultivation etc. 5/            Tr Hr           20          5.34           107
Mechanization - Harvest & Haulage 6/           Tr Hr           15          5.34            80
Labor - General 7/                             Hour            50          0.21            10
Labor - Harvest & Store 8/                     Hour           200          0.21           42
Economic Cost of Capital 9/                    US#            915           5.0O           46
Total Cost per Hectare                                                                   96.
Yield Tons per Hectare - Potatoes                                            20
ESTIMATED ECONOMIC COST PER TON (excl opportunity cost of land)                            48
..
Estimated Economic Farm Gate Value per Ton                                                112
Benefit:Cost Ratio                                                                        2.3
Economic Costs of Production for Different Yields
Yield  Cost/ton       Margin    B:C Ratio
t/ha      USS        USS/ha
National Av Yield/Av Fertilizer                     15.6       56         1,747           2.0
Base Case                                          20.0        48         2,240           2.3
High Output/Same Input                             28.0        36         3,136           3.1
1/ Non irrigated production by private farmers using small equfpirnt and hand harvesting.
2/ Unit cost estimated at 1.5 times the normal economic price for potatoes.
3/ See Table 2. for unit costs.
4/ Mission estimate based on recommended Romanian practice.
5/  Time requirement based on recomnanded Romanien practice, for unit costs, see .able 2.
6/ Variable at 0.75 Tractor hours per ton.
7/ Time requirement based on recommnded Romanien practice, for unit costs, see Table 1.
8/ Variable at 10 hours per ton yield.
9/ OCC 1OX, Costs of prodcuction incurred an average of 6 months prior to sale.



- 70 -
ANTEX  3
Page 14
ROMANIA: PFESP APPRAISAL - Economics of Agricultural Production
Table 4(c)  ECONOMIC COST OF PRODUCTION   Sunflower Seed
Unit
COSTS PER HECTARE 1/                          Unit            No          Cost          USS
...............                                                          US#
Seeds 2/                                      Kg               6          0.45            3
Fertilizer 3/ - Nitrogen                      Kg              60          0.43           26
- Phosphate                     Kg             40           0.54           22
- Potassium                     Kg             80           0.33           26
Other Ag Chemicals & sundries 4/               USS            40          1.00           40
Manure                                         Ton            10          2.00           20
Mechanization   Cultivation etc. 5/            Tr Hr          12          5.34           64
Mechanization - Harvest Grain 6/               Ton           1.6         25.00           40
Labor 7/                                       Hour           42          0.21            9
Economic Cost of Capital 8/                   USS            249           5.0X           12
Total Cost per Hectare                                                                  262
===
Yield Tons per Hectare - Sunflower Seed                                    1.6
3=3
ESTIMATED ECONOMIC COST PER TON CexcL opportunity cost of land)                         164
...,..........................................................                          =.=
Estimated Economic Farm Gate Value per Ton                                              298
.......   ..................................                                           zz=
Benefit:Cost Ratio                                                                      1.8
===
Economic Costs of Production for Different Yields
.................................................
Yield  Cost/ton       Margin    B:C Ratio
t/ha      US#        US#/ha
National Av Yield/Av Fertilizer                     1.6      150         476.8          2.0
Base Case                                           1.6      164         476.8          1.8
High Output/Fame Input                              2.0      136         596.0          2.2
1/  Non irrigated production by private farmers using small equipment and mechanical harvest.
2/ Unit cost estimated at 1.5 times the normal economic price for ollseed.
3/ See Table 2. for unit costs.
4/ Mission estimate based on recommended Romanfan practice.
5/ Time requirement based on recommended Romanian p actice, for unit costs, see Table 2.
6/ Mission estimate of rate based on relative domestic costs of wheat and sunflower harvest.
7/ Time requirement based on recommended Romanian practice, for unit costs, see Table 1.
8/ OCC 10X, Costs of production incurred an average of 6 months prior to sale.



ANNEX 3
Page 15
ROMANIA: PfESP APPRAISAL   Economics of Agricultural Production
Table 4(dM  ECONOMIC COST OF PRODUCTION   Naize
Unit
COSTS PER HECTARE 1/                            Unit            No          Cost           US$
. .................                                                          US$
Seeds 2/                                        Kg              25          0.30             8
Fertilizer 3/ - Nltrogen                        Kg             66           0.43            28
- Phosphate                      Kg              80          0.54            43
- Potassfum                      Kg              40          0.33            13
Other Ag Chemicals & sundrles 4/                USS             30          1.00            30
Manure                                          Ton              4          2.00             8
Mechanization   Cultivation etc. 5/             Tr Hr           12          5.34            64
Mechanization - Harvest Grain 6/                Tr Hr         2.25          5.34            12
Labor - General 7/                              Hour           30           0.21             6
Labor - Harvest 8/                              Hour           81           0.21            17
Economic Cost of Capital 91                     USS           230            5.0X           11
Total Cost per Hectare                                                                     241
Less Biproduct
Stover                                    Ton             2            2.5             5
Net Cost Per Ha                                                                            236
u.a
Yield Tons per Hectare - Maize (14X Moisture)                                4.5
o.3
ESTIMATED ECONOMIC COST PER TON (excl opportunity cost of land)                             52
.............._......................._.......................
Estimated Economic Farm Gate Value per Ton                                                   8
..   ....................................... 
Benefit:Cost Ratio                                                                         1.7
.... .... .  . _ ..
Economic Costs of Production for Different Yields
. ........................ ....  .......
Yield  Cost/ton       Margin    B:C Ratio
t/ha      Us$        USS/ha
National Av YieLd/Av Fertilizer                      3.1        66          68.2           1.3
Base Case                                            4.5        52         160.0           1.7
High Output/Same Irput                               5.5        44         241.2           2.0
1/ Non irrigated production by privte farwrs using smll  quipment and hand harvest.
2/ Mission estimate.
3/ See Table 2. for uint costs.
4/ Mission estimate based on recamended Romanian practice.
5/ Time requirement based on recomended Roannlen practice, for unit coats, see Table 2.
6/ Variable at 0.5 Tractor hours per ton for hauling grain fram field to store.
7/ Time requirement based on recanded Rmvnfan practiee, for unit costs, see Table 1.
8/ Variable at 18 hours per ton yield.
9/ OCC 10X, Costs of production Incurred an average of 6 months prior to  ale.



- 72 -
ANNM  3
Page 16
ROMANIA: PFESP APPRAISAL - Economies of Agriocultural Production
Table 4(e) ECONOMIC COST OF PRODUCTION - Sugar Beot
Unit
#COSTS PER HECTARE 1/                           Unit           No          Cost          US#
USS
Seeds 2/                                      Kg              15          7.00          105
Fertfilzor 3/ - Nitrogen                      Kg             166          0.43           71
- Phosphate                     Ko             80           0.54           43
- Potasslus                     Kg             80           0.33           26
Other Ag Chemicals & sundries 4/              US$            150          1.00          150
Manure                                         Ton            20          2.00           40
Mechanization - Cultivation etc. 5/            Tr Hr          12          5.34           64
Mechanization - Harvest 6/                    Ton             15          5.34           80
Labor - General 7/                            Hour           250          0.21           52
Labor  Harvest 8/                             Hour           200          0.21           42
Economic Cost of Capital 9/                   Us$            674           5.0X          34
Total Cost per Hectare                                                                  708
.5
Less Biproduct
Beet tops                                Ton             5          1.00            5
Net Cost Per Ha                                                                         703
Yield Tons per Hectare   tugar Beet                                         25
an
ESTIMATED ECONOMIC COST PER TON Cexcl opportunity cost of land)                          28
. . . . . . . . ...................................................... 
Estimated Economic Farm Gate Value per Ton                                               18
..........................................
Benefit:Cost Ratio                                                                      0.6
.................. 
Economic Costs of Production for Different Yields
.................................................
Yield  Cost/ton       Margin    B:C Ratio
tWho      US#        USS/ha
National Av Yield/Av Fertilizer                    21.7       29         390.6          0.6
Base Case                                          25.0       28         450.0          CA6
High Output/Same Input                             32.0       23         576.0          0.8
1/ Von irrigated productfon by private farmers using samll equipment and hand harvest.
2/ Mission estimate.
3/ See Toble 2. for unit costs.
4/  Mission estimate based on recosmended Rommnian practice.
5/  Time requirement based on receemmaned Romanfan practice, for unit costs, see Table 2.
6/ Veriable at 0.6 Tractor hours per ton for hauling beet from feld to rodside.
7/ Tlme requirement bsed en recomm nd d Romnlon practice, for unit costs, soe Table 1.
8/ Veriable at 8 hours per ton yield.
9/ OCC 102X Costs of production incurred an average of 6 months prior to sale.



- 73 -
ANMEX 3
Page 17
ROMANIA: PFESP APPRAISAL - Economics of Agricultural Production
Table 4(f) ECONOMIC COST OF PRODUCTION - Live Pigs
Unit
COSTS PER TON 1/                              Unit             No          Cost          USS
...............                                                             US$
Concentrate Feed - Total 2/                    Ton           4.00        139.20          557
Veterinary & Nedicines 3/                     USS              20          1.00           20
Power Costs - Variable 3/                     USS              30          1.00           30
Misc. Variable Costs 3/                        USS             10          1.00            10
Labor 4/                                      Hour             60          0.21           13
Op. Cost of Capital invested in Livestock 5/  USS              36          1.00           36
Amortization of Buildings 6/                  USS              76          1.00           76
Total Cost per Ton                                                                       741
*=c
Less Biproduct
- Manure 7/                               Ton              11             2           22
ESTIMATED ECONOMIC COST PER TON                                                          719
............................=                                                              ..
Estimated Economic Farm Gate Value per Ton 8/                                          1,169
..........................................                      ...............................=33==
Estimated Economic Farm Gate Value per Ton (short run) 8/                                920
,,,, ....--...----....-..--.....-.......--....---......-..-..-......-....----- . . . . . . . . . . . . . . an3
Benefit:Cost Ratio                                                Long Run                1.6
..................                                                                       *s=
Short Run              1.3
.=.
Economic Costs of Production for Different Yields
r.................................................
Cost
Con Factor    /Ton     B:C Ratio    B:C Ratio
feed:lwg       USS        L. Run       S. Run
With Low quality Feed & Poor Conversion              6.0      918           1.3           1.0
Base Case                                            4.0      719           1.6           1.3
Good Performance, same Feed                          3.5      652           1.8           1.4
1/ Production by private farmers or associations on mediun sized units.
2/ Overall conversion rate 4.0. Feed cost based on good quality meal of average protein 14.5X.
3/ Based on Romanfan estimates.
4/ Based on one man per 20 sows and progeny.
5/ Based on average investment in sow and progeny at 10X OCC. Total average weight of pigs on
farm at any time fs 305 kg per ton per year produced.
6/ Based on buildings with 15 year life and 10X OCC costing USS 950 per sow place. Output per
sow per year, 15.5 pigs a 106 kg * 1.643 tons.
7/ Based on 3 times the volum of concentrate feed used, less the weight of pigs sold.
8/ Based on the sane relativity to MB beef pri;e projections for export meat as in Pigs I PCR.
(i.e. 63X) adJusted for average yield X of exportable carcases (70.8X). Slaughter and
transport costs at this yfeld level are covered by bi-product recovery. Note short run
economic price is well below this - approximately 70.82 of current unit export price of
about USS 1300/ton, or USS920/ton.



-  74 -
NMNEX 3
Page 18
ROMANIA: PFESP APPRAISAL - Economics of Agricultural Production
Table 5. Model - 63 he Slock of Coreats and Ollseeds (makes full use of one tractor)
Key Parameters
Total 1/   Labor On Farm    Var 2/
Yield/ha Sales/ha  Cost/ha      /he   Mech/he Costs/he    Na in    Total
tons      USS      Us#       Hrs      Mrs      US$    Model  Tractor
Nrs Used
Wheat                  3.5       475      316        30     12.0      252      33.0      396
Potatoes              20.0    2,240       915       250     35.0      728       0.0        0
Sunflower               1.6      477      249        42     12.0      185      10.0      120
Maize                  4.5       401      230       111     14.3      153      20.0      285
801
Investment
..........
Fixed Capital                             USS      US$
Tractor & Non Specialized Equipment             10,000
Peak Working Capital
Years Operating Costs of Tractor       2,645
VarIable Costs wheat                   8,326
Variable Costs potatoes                    0
Variable Costs suntlower               1,852
VarIable Costs maize                   3,069   15,892
Peak Investment                                 25,892
.............. ...
Economic & FInancial Anslysis
Economic Flow   based on 10 year tractor life and sales logged an average of 6 months
behind operatIng costs for spring planted crops and nine months behind for wheat.
Yr O     Yr I     Yr 2      Yr 3     Yr 4     Yr 5   Yr 6-9    Yr 10
US$      US$ #    U$ #      Us;      US$      US,       UIS      Us%
Sales                                  28,463   28,463   28,463   28,463   28,463   28,463   28,463
tnvestment                    10,000
Operating Costs               10,292   15,892   15,892   15,892   15,892   15,892   15,892    5,600
Total Costs                   20,292   15,892   15,892   15,892   15,892   15,892   15,892    5,600
Economic Flow                (20,292)  12,571   12,571   12,571   12,571   12,571   12,571   22,863
Economic Rate of Return                    62Z
Financial Flows based on Economic Dollar PrIees adlusted for a rent of 20X of the gross value of
production and including the full ffnancial cost of labor Cineluding value of farmers own labor)
Economic Flow                (20,292)  12,571   12,571   12,571   12,571   12,571   12,571   22,863
"Financial Flow Adjustment"
- Deduct Rent -       201             5,693    5,693    5,693    5,693    5,693    5,693    5,693
* Adjust labor cost            433      762       762      762      762       762      762      762
"Financial Flow"             (20,725)   6,116    6,116    6,116    6,116    6,116    6,116   16,408
"Financial Rate of Retumu                  281
w.as.u.uu=Uzz                             - .
1/ From table 4. but excluding the economie cost of capftal.
2/ Defined here as all costs from table 4. except those for the farm's own non specialist mcehinery
and tractor which are budgeted on a whole farm basis and economic cost of capital.



- 75-'                                             ANNEX 3
Page 19
ROMANIA: PFESP APPRAISAL   Economics of Agricultural Production
Table 6.  Model - 55 ha Block of Cereals, Oilseeds and Potatoes (makes full use of one tractor)
Key Parameters
*-------------                         Total 1/   Labor  On Farm    Var 2/
Yield/ha Sates/ha  Cost/ha       /ha   Mech/ha Costs/ha    Ha in    Total
tons      USS       USS       Hrs      Hrs       USS    Model  Tractor
Hrs Used
Wheat                   3.5       475       316        30     12.0       252     30.0       360
Potatoes               20.0    2.240        915      250      35.0       728      5.0       175
Sunflower               1.6       477       249       42      12.0       185     10.0       120
Maize                   4.5       401       230       111     14.3       153      10.0      143
798
Investment
Fixed Capital                              US$       USS
Tractor & Non Specialized Equipment              10.000
Peak Working Capital
Years Operating Costs of Tractor        2,645
Variable Costs wheat                    7,569
Variable Costs potatoes                 3,639
Variable Costs sunflower                 1,852
Variable Costs maize                     1,535   17.240
Peak Investment                                   27,240
Economic & Financial Analysis
.............................
Economic Flow - based on 10 year tractor Life and sales lagged an average of 6 months
behind operating costs for spring planted crops and nine months behind for wheat.
Yr O     Yr I      Yr 2      Yr 3     Yr 4      Yr 5   Yr 6-9    Yr 10
USS      USS       USS       USS      USS       US$       USS      USS
Sales                                   34,228   34,228   34,228   '4,228   34,228   34,228   34,228
Investment                     10,000
Operating Costs                10,777   17,240   17,240   17,240   17,240   17,240   17,240    6,463
Total Costs                    20m777   17,240   17.240   17.240   17,240   17,240   17,240    6,463
Economic Flow                 (20,777)  16,988   16,988   16,988   16,988   16,988   16,988   27,765
Economic Rate of Return                      82X
Financial Flows based on Economic Dollar Prices adjuswted for a rent of 20X of the gross value of
production Lnd including the full financial cost of labor (including valu2 of farmers own labor)
Economic Flow                 (20,777)  16,988   16,988   16,988   16,988   16,988   16.988   27.765
"Financial Flow Adjustment"
- Deduct Rent -        20X             6,846    6,846    6,846    6,846    6,846    6,846    6,846
- Adjust tabor cost             434      m         773       m         m        m         m73       773
"Financial Flow"              (21,210)   9,369    9,369    9,369    9,369    9,369    9,369   20,146
"Financial Rate of Return"                   44
1/ From table 4. but excluding the economic cost of capital.
2/ Defined here as all costs from table 4. except those for the farm's own non specialist machinery
and tractor which are budgeted on a whole farm basis and economic cost of capital.



- 76 -
ANEX 3
Page 20
ROMANIA: PFESP APPRAISAL - Economics of Agricultural Production
Table 7.  Nodel   20 sow pig Unit Based on Present World Prices
Key Parameters
........... .............
No of Saws in Herd                                                                    20
Pigs Born Per Sow per year                                                          17.5
Pigs Sold Per Sow per year                                                          15.5
Average Weight at Sale (kgs)                                                         106
Sates Per Sow (Tons Liveweight)                                                    1.643
Economic Price Per Ton - Live Pig (USS)                                              920
Gross Feed Conversion                                                                4.0
Feed Use per Sow (tons)                                                            6.57
Economic Price of Feed CUSS/ton)                                                   139.2
Other Economic Variable Costs Per Sow CUSS)                                       119.28
Building Costs per Sow (USS)                                                         950
Economic Cost per in Pig Gilt (USS)                                                 97.5
Investment
Fixed Capital                                            USS      US$ #     X
Livestock Building                                   19,000              55.4X
Breeding Stock                                        1,950                5.7X
20,950              61.12
Peak Working Capital
One Years Other Costs                                 2,386                7.0%
602 one years feed costs                              10,978              32.02
13,364              38.92
Peak Investmene                                                34,314              100.02
...............~~~~.                                               . ..
Economic & Financial Anslysis
Economic Flow - based on 15 year building life. Pigs take 8 months to slaughter
so sales are lagged an average of five months behind costs once system is
operating. Breeding GIlts assumed to be purchased on average mid year 0.
Yr o      Yr I    Tr 2     Yr 3  Yr 4-14   Yr 15
Sales                                                 15.116   30.231   30.231   30,231   16.481
Fixed Investment                             20,950
Operating Costs                               3,102   14,477   20,682   20,682   20,682   3,102
Total Costs                                  24.053   14,477   20,682   2C. 682   20.682   3,102
Economic Flow                               (24,053)     638    9,549    9,549    9,549   13,379
Economic Rate of Return                 302
Financiat Flous based on Economie Dollar Prices adjusted to include full financial
cost of labor (inc:uding value of farmers own labor)
Economic Flow                               t24,053)     638    9,549    9,549    9,549   13,379
- Adjust labor cost                            43      290      414      414       414       62
*Financial Flow"                            (24,096)     348    9,135    9,135    9,135   13,316
"Financlal Rate of Returnu              29X
3333333U3U33333UUUU3UU                 m



- 77 -
ANNEX 4
ROMANIA
PRIVATE FARMER AND ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(US$ million)
Bank Fiscal Year                During
and Ouarter._                 Ouarter           Cumulative
1993
3rd Quarter                    10.0                10.0
4th Quarter                     5.0                 15.0
1994
1st Quarter                     7.0                22.0
2nd Quarter                     8.0                30.0
3rd Quarter                     8.0                38.0
4th Quarter                     9.0                47.0
1995
lst Quarter                    10.0                57.0
2nd Quarter                    10.0                67.0
3rd Quarter                     8.0                75.0
4th Quarter                     7.0                82.0
A996
.st Quarter                    2.0                 84.0
2nd Quarter                     2.0                86.0
3rd Quarter                     2.0                88.0
4th Quarter                     2.0                90.0
1997
2nt Quarter                     2.0                92.0
2nd Quarter                     2.0                94.0
3rd Quarter                     2.0                96.0
4th Quarter                     2.0                98.0
-1998
lot Quarter                     1.0                98.0
2nd Quarter                     1.0               100.0



- 78 -                              ANNEX 5
Page 1
ROMANIA
PRIVATE FARMER AND ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
REFORM OF THE AGRICULTURAL INFORMATION SYSTEM
Introduction
1.          Romanian agricultural education, research and extension have made
major contributions to the impressive agricultural growth of 4.5% per annum
between 1950 and 1980. Considerable human resources have been developed,
particularly in research and higher education. However, after a dramatic
change in the patterns of production and land ownership, economic incentives
to 2.8 million newly independent farming households replace administrative
directives and technical instructions. There is now an acute lack-of-fit
between the needs of those farmers on the one hand, with what research,
education and extension have to offer, on the other. A reform of the
agricultural information system, including education, researcn and extension
is essential to respond better to the needs of different, emerging categories
of farmers.
2.          To prepare and implement a reform of the agricultural information
system, including research, advisory services and education, a three step
approach is proposed: (i) a study to analyze strong and weak aspects of the
present system; (ii) a national round table conference, to seek broad
agreement and commitment to: (iii) a policy brief and action/investment plan
for five years. A high level Romanian Task Force (TF), supported by three
working groups and assisted by technical assistance would be responsible for
the study, the preparation of the conference and the write-uP of the policy
brief and action plan.
Background
3.          About 6 million people in 2.8 million farming households are
suddenly dependent on their own skills in farming 8.2 million ha of land that
they still do not formally own. Farming households tend to be small and
relatively aged. Three out of four households have multiple sources of
income, thus "farmer" is an ambiguous term. About half of the farmers have
elected, for the time being, to cultivate at least part of their land in
association with others. The other half have opted to cultivate the land
individually. A major reason for associating is to get better access to
inputs and advisory services. Many farmers have indicated their needs for
technical advice and improved skills to add value to production and increase
their incomes. About 65% of the people involved in primary production,
processing and marketing activities are female.
4.          Romanian farmers are well educated (up to 45 years old, the rural
population is fully literate, with 20% having some formal training in
agriculture). Access to television and radio is reported to be total, but



- 79-                                 ANNEX 5
Page 2
only 10% of rural household has access to telephone. There is an independent,
rural monthly and a Ministerial specialized agricultural weekly. Farmers are
not yet organized in functional forms of interest groups and are therefore not
yet capable to collectively formulate their information needs.
Demand for Agricultural Information
5.          Demand for information in Romanian agriculture is large and
increasingly diversified. Farmers' information needs are varied and need to
be better known. As far as those needs can be identified, they would include
(in addition to routine market information, production recommendations and
farm management advice): optimal sizing of enterpris2s; natural resources
management; risk management; land ownership; integration of crops and
livestock; rural entrepreneurship; economic skills; consumer preferences and
quality requirements; estate planning; quitting farming.
6.          There are five other major users of agricultural information, 4.n
addition to farmers: (i) researchers; (ii) policymakers; (iii) agro-business;
(iv) educators; and (v) agricultural extension. Their needs for information
would include: cost/benefit analyses; priority setting; diagnostic
techniques; on-farm research methods; micro-level monitoring; skillgap
analysis; program planning; objective setting; training of trainers; editorial
skills.
Suonlv of Aaricultural Information
7.          The supply of information has largely been public, sectoral,
production oriented, with relatively little attention on economics, farm
management and natural resource management. Above all, it has been directed
at intermediaries, and not at farmees directly, lacking accountability.
8.          The output of printed techni .1 materials has been impressive,
largely formulated by researchers, to be used by managers of state
cooperatives. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry (MAFI) publishes
a 12 page agricultural weekly. Ten staff produce 20,000 copies with a
subscription of 3,000, primarily from urban subscribers.
9.          National and local radio programs with an agricultur-l content are
emitted daily. Television programs for farmers are both national and local.
National TV emits two agricultural programs a week. Marketing information is
not supplied by television. Program contents tend to focus on the harshness
of present rural life, with little practical advice being offered. Studios,
reportage trailers and technical staff are pooled, while equipment for field
interviewing is lacking, including transport.
Resources for Generatino and Transferring Aaricu'tural Information
10.         In research there are about 3,700 researchers (about half female)
in 36 central Institutes and 98 stations. Stations havo large areas of land
that are being used for seed production and demonstratinn purposes. Of the



- 80 -                                ANNEX D
Page 3
researchers, 90% are engaged in adaptive and 10% in basic research. Half of
all researchers are crops oriented, a third in livestock and the remainder in
other fields.
11.         For higher agricultural education, there are presently 8,000
students (50% female) with a staff of 1,700 (35% female) in five Institutes.
Last years' cohort of 1,600 finalists have not found jobs easily, with the
exception of veterinarians who have largely been absorbed by the private
sector. In addition, there are a total of 146 vocational schools (2 or 3
years) and agricultural lycea (4 years) witn a staff of 8,500 (65% female) and
110,000 students (60% female).
12.         Extension employs about 9,000 staff (30% female), mostly from ex-
cooperatives, in the Agricultural Centers (AC). However, legislation
concerning future objectives, funding, organization and staffing of the ACs
has been prepared, but not yet approved by Parliament. Extension staff have
lost their means of transport with the dissolving of the cooperatives and
sometimes even their lodging. Morale, therefore, is generally low.
Need for a New, Comprehensive Policy
13.         There is a move away from centrally imposed, prescriptive policies
for agriculture. However, not to have any policy may result in a free for
all. In the present vacuum, de facto policies are emerging, set by vocal
interest groups. MAFI should take the lead in the formulation of an
agricultural information policy, that would not be prescriptive, but sets
clear conditions. Such a policy should recognize: (i) the need for a more
diversified, public and private system of information to se:ve a more
diversified clientele; (ii) the need to be more user-oriented and
decentralized, making education, research and extension responsive to the
needs of a more dynamic clientele; and (iii) the need for monitoring to adjust
the policy to unavoidable changes in patterns of production in the coming
years.
Action Needed in Three Steps
1.    Establishment of a High Level Task Force (TF) (see attachment with
detailed terms of reference for the Task Force and the Working
Groups). The high level Task Force would have three major tasks:
(a)   describe the present situation of the Romanian Agricultural
Information System (including research, advisory services
and education);
(b)   analyze the system, highlighting strong and weak points; and
(c)   formulate a draft policv for a reformed agricultural
information system and prepare an action Rlan for research,
extension and education for five years.



- 81 -                                ANNEX 5
Page 4
2.    Oraanization of a National Round Table Conference to seek
agreement and commitment from about 60 participants in including
MAFI, Ministry of Environment, Agricultural Banks, Agricultural
Chambers, input suppliers, the media, the Academy of Agricultural
Sciences and private farmers.
3.    Finalization of an aaricultural information policy and preparation
of an investment program for five years and submit them t3 the
Government for approval and subsequent submission of selected
elements of the investment program to the international donor
community for financing.
Need for Technical Assistance and Study Tour
14.         The conference and policy and action plan will be prepared,
implemented and presented by a Romanian 5ask Force of experts, assisted by
three working groups for research, extension and education, respectively.
Internationally recruited experts will be attached to the task force and
working groupn for a total of 12 staff months. The members of the Task Force
will go on a three week study tour on European rescarch, education and
extension policies.
Obiectives of the National Round Table Conference
15.         The Task Force should prepare documents for the participants of
the Conference, including farmers, input suppliers, marketing people, media
bosses and ministry staff. The Conference is meant to inform the relevant
parties, to seek their agreement and ownership of the final product. The
final product would be a Policy brief for agricultural information management
and an action and investment plan for five years.
costs and Phasing
16.         The costs of the study, conference and preparation of the final
documents, including required technical assistance and a study tour, is
astimated at about $350,000. The study should be available towards summer
1992 for the conference to be held in the fall of 1992 and the investment and
action plans to be ready by early 1993.



- 82 -
ANNEX 6
ROMANIA
PRIVATE FARMER AND ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
1. Participating Banks' Financial Statements.
2. EC-PHARE 1992-1995 Preliminary Budget.
3. PFESP Rediscount Flow Projections and Estimate of Project Cost.
4. Report on Quality Control of Tractors and Agricultural Machinery (NITAM).
5. Government Proposal, prepared with Bank assistance and Japanese Trust
Fund financing, for a three-year EC-PHARE financed Farmer and Agricultural
Entrepreneur Technical Assistance Program.
6. Government Proposal, prepared with Bank assistance and Japanese Trust
Fund financing, for a two-year EC-PHARE financed Agricultural Marketing
Information System.
7. Distribution and Pricing Study -- Bank sector work covering wheat and
bread, oilseeds, pig meat, milk, and fruit and vegetables.



s                          ~~~~~UKRAINE                        .
ROMANIA
PRIVATE FARMER AND
a  A,>             ~ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
% t'$~~TUl MAitE3<,6<<  .t%:,<b,Rwi6sn
7,                             *             X                                                                               A       '      "       ngr"
i 7                                                            U0,q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ii.~ ,&  -nd R,ne Crwol( Work
0;'T:                                                                          e.p'TUT,nO  ~    Mjo  i.1oy
-'  y   -                       e   TO   onEi ..X"i-ol
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ AMHEItc                                      si>                             Dst, ci Pocodri5nsI
A*,- S, ,$ mRAD i     r        ~        ~       ~        r       ^       ,        -       -      W - 8 -
eW  .  x St, 1  /Ef<<- '  Z   f                                                                                                                             Mi,RCOi 1992~~~~~~~~~~~~~cG'ws.  \'  cdc~ 
ALA  ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ U _KRAINE 
tA~ ~ ~ ~ ~~t 
DOL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ AAAAI
a~~~~~io  io~~~~~~~~~~~ 3orhoi asssf,oa
IN,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   ,i;ooo,Oih
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LwousOTeWStn
G    A   R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T~GcssT Acmcin s
an  &Sd.A.RCN1 0



