Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16739
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ROMANIA
PRIVATE FARMER AND ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
LOAN 3486-RO
June 17, 1997
Agriculture and Regional Development Division
Central and Southern Europe Departments
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =    Turkish Lira (TI.)
1989 US$1    =    TL   2,027.0
1990 US$1    =    TL   2,930.1
1991 US$1    =    TL   5,079.9
1992 US$I   =    TL   8,564.4
1993 US$I   =    TL  14,472.5
1994 US$1         TL  38,726.0
1995 US$1    =    TL  59,650.0
1996 US$]    =    TL  94,756.0
April 1997 US$1         TL 126,950.0
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CU (R)      Capacity Utilization (Rate)
EU      European Union
ETC       Export Trading Company
FE      Foreign Exchange
FERIS      Foreign Exchange Risk lnsurance Scheme
FSAL       Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GNP       Gross National Product
GOTI      Government of Turkey
HB      Halk Bank
IGEME       Export Promotion Center
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
FRR       Financial Rate of Return
PCI(s)     Participating Credit Institution(s)
SMI II     Second Small- and Medium-Scale Industry Project
SPO      State Planning Office
SYKB       Sinai Yatirim ve Kredi Bankasi (Industrial Investment and
Credit Bank)
TCZB       Turkiye Cumhurivet Ziraat Bankasi (Agricultural Bank of the
Republic of Turkey)
TSKB       Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi (Development Bank of
T urkey)
TURKEY FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
Vice President                Johannes F. Linn
Director                    : Kenneth G. Lay
Division Chief/Manager        Michele de Nevers
Staff Member                : Franco Lucca



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ROMANIA
PRIVATE FARMER AND ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 3486-RO)
Contents
Page No.
Preface
Evaluation Summary                                                         i-iv
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment
A.    Statement/Evaluation of Objectives                               I
B.    Achievement of Objectives                                        2
C.    Implementation and Major Factors Affecting the Project           5
D.    Project Sustainability                                           6
E.    Bank Performance                                                 7
F.    Borrower Performance                                             8
G.    Assessment of Outcome                                           9
H.    Future Operations                                               9
I.    Key Lessons Learned                                              9
Part II. Statistical Tables
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
TABLE 4: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
TABLE 5A: PROJECT COSTS
TABLE 5B: PROJECT FINANCING
TABLE 6: EcONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
TABLE 7: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
TABLE 8: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
TABLE 9: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Appendixes
A. Mission Aide-memoire
B. Borrower Contribution to the ICR
C. Agricultural Bank Contribution to ICR
D. Romanian Bank for Development Contribution to ICR
E. MapIBRDNo.28710
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



11
I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ROMANIA
PRIVATE FARMER AND ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
(Loan 3486-RO)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Private Farmer and
Enterprise Support Project, Romania, for which Loan 3486-RO in the amount of US$100
million equivalent was approved on June 5, 1992 and made effective on November 5,
1992.
The loan will close on December 31, 1997. About 99% of loan proceeds have
been disbursed.
The ICR was prepared by Franco Lucca, Task Manager, Agriculture and Regional
Development Operations Division in the Central and Southern Europe Departments of the
Europe and Central Asia Region. It was reviewed by Michele de Nevers, Division Chief,
and George Zaidan, Project Adviser. The Borrower, the Government of Romania,
provided written comments that are included as appendixes to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's last supervision/completion
mission of October 1996 and followed up during the March 1997 ICR mission. It is
based on material in the project file and discussions with relevant officials of MOF, AB
and RDB. The Borrower's agencies and NBR contributed to the preparation of the ICR
by (i) discussing major points included in the report; (ii) providing information on the
credit line component; (iii) coordinating collection of necessary data; and (iv) providing
their sections of the report.



I I
I
I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ROMANIA
PRIVATE FARMER AND ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 3486-RO)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
i.    After the end of the communist regime in 1989, the Bank strategy of assistance has
been based on supporting the Country's program of macroeconomic and structural
reforms to increase the efficiency of the economy and make it more market oriented and
competitive in external markets. In the agricultural sector the Bank's first operation was
the Private Farmer and Enterprise Support Project (Loan- 3486-RO), approved in June
1992. It was parallel to a Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) in support of the
Government's Medium-Term Adjustment Program.
Project Objectives and Component
ii.    Objectives: The objective of the project was to support private sector
development in rural areas and through this, raise agricultural output, increase efficiency
of production; generate employment and improve standards of living. The project aimed
at achieving this through financing credit through a US$100 million loan to private farmers
and other private businesses for: (i) on-farm investment and working capital in order to
increase production; and (ii) the establishment and expansion of private rural small and
medium enterprises (SMEs) in order to improve input supply and marketing services and
increase business activity.
iii.   Component: To achieve this objective, the project was to provide credit (proceeds
of US$ 100 million from a Bank Loan plus internally generated funds) for much needed
investment and incremental working capital in viable private rural enterprises within
subsectors for which the broad economic viability had been predetermined.
Implementation Experience and Results
iv.   Achievement of Objectives: The main objectives of the project have been achieved
in that private sector development has been supported, production in the sector has
increased, efficiency has been enhanced and some employment created. The US$100
million World Bank loan supported total, wholly private, investment of US$166 million,
disregarding the use of reflows. Overall, about 53% of project investment and 58% of



- 11 -
World Bank funds were used for combine harvesters, 7% for other agricultural
investments, largely machinery, and about 40% for agroindustrial and service projects
(mainly for processing of major agricultural commodities -- cereals, oilseeds, meat and
milk). Sub-loan collection results were good. As of June 1997, overall collection was
above 90% for both principal and interest. Collections of principal amounted to some
US$33 million, or about one-third of the IBRD funds lent. In agriculture, the main
production impact of the project has been the reduction of grain losses resulting from the
import of more efficient combine harvesters. The import and use of over 400 new
harvesters is estimated to have reduced grain losses at harvesting time by about 150,000
tons per year, worth about US$25 million at economic prices. Overall, the estimated
average financial rates of return for combine sub-loans are estimated at 35%-45% and
returns to the most efficient operators at more than 50%. The economic rate of return to
the economy from the investment in combines is higher than their financial rates of return
and is estimated at about 60%.
v.    Financial and economic returns on other agricultural and agroindustrial
investments are typically lower than those for combines but are also generally very
satisfactory. Agroindustrial investment has largely been for medium-scale imported
equipment for new high(er) tech businesses or upgrading of former state businesses which
have been privatized through Management and Employee Buyouts (MEBOs). Most are
owner-managed businesses with quite high sales to capital ratios (unlike the investment in
agricultural equipment). Analysis of sub-sector models for common investments (flour
milling, baking, milk processing - yogurt, ice-cream etc., and meat processing - smoked
products sausages) indicates that value-added at the unit level is typically 20-50% of sales
and that at full development annual sales range from 1-3 times investment cost. In
agroindustry, therefore, the project has had both a significant production impact and also
contributed to efficiency (output per employee is much higher in the newly established
project businesses than the national average, which is still dominated by undercapitalized
and inefficient state units). The project has had a small positive direct impact on
employment. The introduction of the 400 large-scale combines has created about 800
seasonal jobs and perhaps 200 in the service and support sector year-round. Conversely,
some limited employment reduction may have occurred among drivers and mechanics
working with old harvesting equipment. In line with its objective, the project has
contributed to raising the standard of living of its participants. Direct investors have
benefited as the financial returns from their investments are sound and the cash flows after
financing positive. Employees of new project businesses have also benefited: wages in
project businesses are generally higher than the average, working conditions pleasanter
and, because generally modem equipment is being used, considerable training has been
given.
vi.   Major Factors Affecting the Project. The project success was affected by a
number of factors influencing project implementation. Despite pervasive government
control on some prices, market forces responded positively in cases where liberalization
had occurred under the new regime. The following factors subject to government control
had some negative impact on project implementation: (i) the government's persistent



- iii -
policy to provide through the National Bank of Romania (NBR) agricultural short-term
credit at subsidized interest mainly through AB eroded AB's financial standing; (ii) the
lack of initiative by government and the banking system to promote conditions for banking
competition, which would have accelerated project lending; (iii) the almost total absence
of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) in project implementation. MOA was not
instrumental in devising policy measures and providing advice that might have increased
project impact on the sector.
vii.   As it was, the influence of these factors on the project itself was minor; strong
market demand was the overwhelming determining factor in the project's successful
implementation.
Project Sustainability and Future Operation
viii.  Sustainability. The project is likely to be sustainable. The sub-borrowers, the FIs
and Government are expected to be able to sustain project activities and indeed build upon
them. For the sub-borrowers, investments have been profitable and generally associated
with improved management; consequently these businesses are likely to continue in
operation at least at the post project level, and in many case, grow. As a result, they are
likely to be able to react successfully to increased competition from other new businesses
which may erode margins and require project participants to increase their own
productivity. Recent devaluations of the lei may have imposed considerable stress on a
small proportion of borrowers. The FIs under the project have set interest rates and fees
at levels which make project lending profitable to them. This, together with the long
maturity of project funds means that this type of lending can facilitate to use of project
resources for another 7-10 years. Government is likely to experience a significant positive
effect on net revenues. In addition, the incremental economic activity generated by the
project (estimated at some US$80 million of value added annually) would give rise to
significant extra taxation revenues.
ix.   Future operation. The Bank is financing an ASAL with the main objective of
improving macroeconomic conditions, with special regard to reduction of subsidies, price
liberalization and reduction of tariffs, which are affecting negatively agricultural trade.
Further, to assist the transition to a more competitive market for small farmers, the Bank
has in the pipeline a rural finance project.
Bank and Borrower Performance
x.    Bankperformance. Bank performance was satisfactory in all phases of the project
cycle. Through identification and preparation the Bank actively supported and
coordinated a number of initiatives that facilitated project implementation. Project design
was innovative in that it was, together with a similar project in Poland, the first credit line
attempted in Eastern European countries after 1989, while the economies were struggling
to change from plan to market. It allowed emerging market forces in a liberalizing
command economy to guide investments and allocate resources with encouraging results,
despite the remaining substantial macro economic distortions.



- iv -
command economy to guide investments and allocate resources with encouraging results,
despite the remaining substantial macro economic distortions.
xi.    Borrower performance. The FIs have both performed well under the project,
having adapted quickly to making medium and long-term investment loans to private
borrowers. However, they remained rather rigid in their approach; they required loans to
be heavily collateralized and did not significantly delegate lending decisions from head
office. The perceived need to tightly control all loans under the project from the center
resulted in delays in project implementation. This also resulted from the bureaucratic
approach of the Treasury, which, driven by the Court of Accounts, considered funds lent
under the project to be 'public funds' and therefore applied time-consuming procedures in
monitoring their detailed usage. Failure to rapidly recycle reflows of funds has exposed
FIs to increased FE risk and reduced total sector lending.
xii.   Assessment of Project outcome. Overall, the project is assessed as highly
satisfactory. It has achieved its objectives; taken less time to implement than initially
planned and shown high economic and financial benefits, despite taking place in a less
than satisfactory macro-economic and institutional environment.
Key Lessons Learned
xiii.  The main lessons from the project were: (a) The project shows that,
notwithstanding existing distortions in the economy, a credit project, when carefully
managed and focused to support private initiative, can be successful. (b) The project also
supports the view that credit lines should not be strictly directed to specific subsectors or
to export. The success of the investments financed by the project and the pay back
performance of sub-borrowers, who are successfully amortizing their loans, sometimes
over shorter periods than initially provided for by banks, are strong indications that a
sector wide demand-driven credit project can work.
xiv.  Another important lesson learned during the implementation of PFESP is that the
choice of the apex institution can greatly affect the outcome of the project. Appointing
the Treasury within MOF as the apex institution for PFESP proved disadvantageous as it
introduced a public sector spending control culture into what should have been a purely
commercial operation and as a result it generated considerable delays in the processing of
loan applications.



PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ROMANIA
PRIVATE FARMER AND ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
LOAN 3486-RO
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
1.1   The objective of the project was to support private sector development in rural areas and
through this, raise agricultural output, increase efficiency of production, generate employment and
improve standards of living. The project aimed at achieving this through financing credit through
a $100 m loan to private farmers and other private businesses for (i) on farm working capital and
investment in order to increase production; and (ii) the establishment and expansion of private
rural SMEs in order to improve input supply and marketing services and increase business
activity.
1.2   These objectives were, and remain, important. The need to develop the private sector,
particularly within agriculture, was clearly recognised by the Government and the participating
financial institutions at the time of project formulation and appraisal and this remains an important
objective still. Because of (i) low investment during the final years of the Communist regime, (ii)
inappropriate sizing of businesses for private development and (iii) a relative shortage of private
financial resources, particularly access to foreign exchange, there was a vital need for substantial
financial resources to be made quickly available to the private sector. The provision of necessary
resources as credit, particularly for foreign exchange was the most appropriate means of doing
this, thereby stimulating the substantial private initiative and investment required to transform
Romanian agriculture into a market-driven sector.
1.3   At the time of appraisal, the financial institutions selected to implement the project were
not fully in compliance with the requirements of OD 8.30, setting the standards of eligibility for
Participating Financial Intermediaries. Nevertheless, it was believed that the establishment of a
medium-term sound portfolio through Bank credit and using Bank appraisal methodologies would
financially strengthen them and contribute to their institution building, although this was not an
explicit project objective. The project had close policy links to two other Bank operations: a
FESAL, which was aimed at establishing a functional financial system capable of supporting the
expansion of a market driven economic system; and a SAL, which had a number of
macroeconomic liberalization and stabilization conditionalities aimed at creating the right business
environment in the economy to support and sustain growth and profitability.
1.4   Because of the weakness in the financial sector and lack of alternative on-lending
institutions, particularly at the project's outset, the design which kept the project simple, involving
only two financial institutions (FIs), was appropriate. The comparatively few restrictions on what
type of investment qualified for project support (as long as the investments were either in rural
areas or associated with agricultural production) meant that investment decisions under the
project were determined by the market, and not the result of second guessing of investment
requirements either by the World Bank or the participating financial institutions. The modest
restriction on types of investment imposed by the negative list was worthwhile in that it did not
significantly curtail demand, yet it did ensure that investments were not made in the most highly



-2 -
distorted subsectors or areas with major risks. However the initial allocation of 20% for
agriculture and 80% for agroindustry was inappropriate. The project was not overly demanding
on the implementing FIs, although the use of Treasury as an APEX was clearly not ideal.
1.5   Given the tremendous need for private investment and the rapid changes, the setting of
simple objectives geared to private sector development, helped to keep the project focused. The
fact that other Bank instruments with a strong policy focus (SAL & FESAL) were being
implemented in parallel meant that excluding the solution of macroeconomic and financial sector
problems from the direct objectives of this project was appropriate.
B. Achievement of Objectives
2.1    As pointed out in the previous section, this project had the relatively limited but highly
focused objective of stimulating private sector development through the provision of sound credit
for investment in agricultural and other rural sector enterprises.
2.2   Looking back over the three and a half year period since the project started, there is clear
evidence of an evolving and modernizing private agricultural and agri-business sector. Despite
the continuing extensive presence of the state in the economy, the private sector is growing and
actively competing with state enterprises. To support this expansion there is a strong demand by
the private sector for foreign exchange for investment. In the present phase of transition to a
market economy credit has proved to be an effective way to provide foreign exchange for the
support of private initiative, particularly for medium sized businesses. Small farmers still only
have limited access to financial resources, as, lacking collateral, they are not creditworthy and
cannot borrow from banks.
2.3   This main objective of the project has been achieved in that private sector development
has been supported; production in the sector has increased, efficiency has been enhanced and
employment created. The $100 million World Bank loan supported total, wholly private,
investment of US$166 million disregarding the use of reflows. The types, numbers and amounts
of sub-project investment financed by the project and the numbers and amounts of loans are
summarized below.



- 3 -
Summary of PFESP Investment (US$'000)
-No of Loans--  -Own Funds--  ----Fl Funds--  ---WB Funds--  --Total Project-- Av Cost
Amount    % Amount   %  Amount   %   Amount   %   Amount    %   / Project
Combine Harvesters         364   63%  14,880 42%   15,906  53%   57,810  58%    88,596  53%      243
OtherAgriculture            73   13%   2,119  6%   1,938  6%    7,228  7%    11,285   7%         155
Total Agricultural Production  437   76%  16,999 47%   17,844  59%   65,038  65%   99,881  60%   229
Meat& Milk Processing       40    7%   6,462  18%   5,376  18%   14,664  15%   26,502  16%       663
Cereals andOilseeds Processing    65   11%   4,630  13%   4,417  15%   11,336  11%   20,383  12%  314
Alcohol Beer& soft Drinks   14    2%   4,966  14%     881   3%    3,287  3%    9,134   6%        652
Transport services & Others  22    4%   2,750  8%   1,746  6%    5,675  6%    10,171   6%        462
Total Agri-business        141   24%  18,808  53%   12,420  41%   34,962  35%   66,190  40%      469
Total Sub-projects         578  100%  35,807 100%  30,264 100%  100,000 100%   166,071  100%     287
2.4     Overall, about 53% of the project investment and 58% of World Bank funds were used
for combine harvesters, 7% for other agricultural investments, largely machinery and about 40%
for agroindustrial and service projects (mainly for processing of major agricultural commodities -
cereals, oilseeds meat and milk). Sub-loan collection results to date are good. Overall collection
is above 90% for both principal and interest. Already (June 1997), collections of principal
amount to some US$33 million or about one-third of the IBRD funds lent.
2.5    In agriculture, the main production impact of the project has been the reduction of grain
losses resulting from the import of more efficient combine harvesters. The import and use of
over 400 new harvesters is estimated to reduce grain losses at harvesting time by about 150,000
tons per year, worth about US$25 million at economic prices. Detailed analysis has been
undertaken on the impact of combines, based on interviews with some 10 operators in different
parts of the country. Overall, the estimated average financial rates of return for combine sub-
loans are estimated at 35%-45% and returns to the most efficient operators at more than 50%.
The economic rate of return to the economy from the investment in combines is higher than their
financial rates of return and is estimated at about 60%. Financial and economic returns on other
agricultural and agroindustrial investments are typically lower than those for combines but are
also generally very satisfactory. At appraisal, no specific estimate was made of the project's
likely economic rate of return because at that time it was unclear what types of demand-led
investments would be made -- sub projects were simply required to have ex-ante ERRs in real
terms in excess of 15%, and to be within sub sectors not declared ineligible. The SAR economic
analysis concentrated on demonstrating that most mainstream agriculture showed highly positive
Benefit:Cost (B:C) ratios and that there was a very high economic return to be had from
cultivating land rather than allowing it to go out of production. The overall weighted average
ERR of the project is now estimated at 41-49%. (53% of project investment in combines
yielding 60% and 47% in other investments yielding an average of 20-30%).
2.6    The Loan has promoted efficiency within the agricultural sector by providing improved
agricultural machinery to small and medium sized private agricultural operators and has



- 4 -
increased their competitiveness with state enterprises. Project beneficiaries are generally
charging fees for plowing and harvesting services to private farner associations and individual
farmers which are lower than those charged by competing state enterprises. Some are providing
contract mechanization services to state enterprises, thereby displacing state investment and
fostering privatization of state farms.
2.7   Ago- industrial investment has largely been for medium scale imported equipment for
new high(er) tech businesses or upgrading of former state businesses which have been privatized
through Management and Employee Buy Outs (MEBOs). Typical total sub-project costs have
been in the US$100,000-US$300,000 range, although one or two significantly larger investments
have resulted in the arithmetic average of these investments being higher, at US$469,000. Most
are owner managed businesses with quite high sales to capital ratios (unlike the investment in
agricultural equipment). Analysis of sub sector models for common investments (flour milling,
baking, milk processing - yogurt, ice cream etc., and meat processing - smoked products
sausages) supported by detailed discussions with some 25-30 sub-borrowers during project
supervision indicates that value-added at the unit level is typically 30-50% of sales and that at
full development annual sales are anything from 1-3 times investment cost. An estimate of the
incremental gross value added at full development from the agro- industrial investment of US$66
million (US$40 million ex World Bank, largely as foreign exchange) is US$45 million per year
This is in line with a typical financial rate of return on total investment of 35% - 40%. In agro
industry, therefore, the project has had both a significant production impact and also contributed
to efficiency (output per employee is much higher in the newly established project businesses
than the national average, which is still dominated by undercapitalized and inefficient state
units).
2.8   The project has had a positive direct impact on employment. The introduction of the 400
large-scale combines has created about 800 seasonal jobs and perhaps 200 in the service and
support sector year round. Conversely some limited employment reduction may have occurred
among drivers and mechanics working with old harvesting equipment. With the project, some
old machines which would otherwise have been kept going would have been scrapped.
However, given the overall shortage of harvesting and other agricultural equipment, this impact
from accelerated obsolescence is unlikely to have been great, at maximum, perhaps one thousand
job equivalents. The possible slight reduction in direct agricultural employment has been more
than offset by jobs created in new agro processing firms financed by the project. Investment per
new agro industry job under the project is about $15,000; given the total investment in agro
processing of about US$67 million, about 4,000 new permanent jobs would have been created.
In addition, the 'local labor element' (mainly construction and equipment assembly/installation)
of project investment is estimated to have amounted to some 5,000 person years. Indirectly,
increased competition from project financed firms has probably contributed to inefficient state
units' attempting to increase labor efficiency, thereby causing job losses in the state sector.
2.9   In line with its objective, the project has contributed to raising the standard of living of its
participants. Direct investors have clearly benefited as the financial returns from their
Capital Investment multiplied by an assumed average value added:sales ratio of 35% multiplied by a sales:capital invested
ratio o 2.



- 5 -
investments are sound and the cash flows after financing positive. Employees of new project
businesses have also benefited: wages in project businesses are generally higher than the average,
working conditions pleasanter and, because generally modem equipment is being used,
considerable training has been given.
2.10  The project had no specific objectives in the areas of macro economic policy, sector
policy or physical development, although by virtue of the fact that it contributed positively to
investment, value added employment, competition and private sector development its impact in
these areas has been helpful.
2.11  Although not specifically a project objective, there has been significant institutional
development resulting from the Loan within the financial sector. Firstly, the preparation of a
manual of agricultural credit for Fl loan officers and the provision of training facilities through
the project has improved the process of project appraisal and, indirectly, the quality of FIs'
portfolios. Secondly, the existence of a substantial World Bank loan to the two participating FIs,
in parallel with the Bank's requirement for international audits, substantially enhanced their
credibility with respect to other foreign banks. As a result, substantial long term financial
resources, exceeding the amounts provided under the project have since been made available to
AB and RDB from both other multilateral financial institutions and commercial banks.
C. Implementation and Major Factors Affecting the Project
3.1   The project was appraised in March 1992, negotiated in April and presented to the Board
and signed in June 1992. It became effective in November and started disbursing in the spring of
1993, shortly before the seeding season. The project was administered through the Ministry of
Finance (MOF) acting as an Apex. The Agricultural Bank (AB) and the Romanian Development
Bank (RDB) were the financial intermediaries (FIs). The project started disbursing in earnest
immediately after inception initially, because of the high demand for agricultural equipment,
especially for imported harvesters, tractors and connected implements. This technologically
advanced western machinery which could be put to use immediately on receipt, resulted in
substantial benefits - higher yields because of better and more timely cultivation from tractors
and savings in terms of decreased losses of cereals at harvesting time from the combines.
3.2   At the time of the Mid-Term review, a little less then two years after effectiveness, about
$ 42 m. had been disbursed and 70% of all resources had been contracted for. By mid-October
1996, the time of the preparation of the ICR, all of the loan proceeds had been committed by FIs
and 97% advanced to sub-borrowers (disbursements from the World Bank amounted to 94%).
The loan agreement was amended in January 1994 to increase the percentage of the foreign
exchange (FE) which could be financed under the loan from 80% to 100% as the FIs lacked the
foreign currency to finance their share of FE. After the Mid-Term review, an additional
amendment eliminated the 80-20% split in the allocation of loan proceeds in favor of
agroindustry because at that time, the main demand for funds had turned out to be for agricultural
machinery and it was believed that funds should be allocated on a "First come first served"
basis.



- 6 -
3.3   The project success was affected by a number of factors influencing positively project
implementation. The main factors were:
Factors not generally influenced by the Government
Despite pervasive government control on some prices, market forces responded positively
to the liberalization which had occurred under the new regime. Private businesses were
generally in real need of FE and tried hard to secure it to acquire the foreign equipment
needed to recapitalize the largely depleted agricultural machinery park and food
processing equipment. The lack of capital investment in state farms and state enterprises
encouraged private operators to borrow under the loan to acquire agricultural machinery
to provide contracting services to state enterprises. This type of activity, generated by
market conditions, had the effect of displacing state investment and fostering
privatization of state farms and enterprises.
Factors generally subject to Government control
A number of factors subject to government control had limited negative impact on project
implementation. They are worth mentioning only because they belong to the category of
government actions which should be avoided in future. They are:
(i)   the government's persistent policy to provide through the National Bank of
Romania (NBR) agricultural short termn credit at subsidized interest mainly
through AB. This was a source of concern to the Bank throughout the life of the
project. It jeopardized AB's portfolio quality by lowering sub-borrowers sense of
obligation to repay credit; and by substantially increasing AB's loan portfolio,
without adding to its equity or long term liabilities, it eroded its financial
standing;
(ii)  the lack of initiative by government and the banking system to promote conditions
for banking competition, which would have accelerated project lending. Despite
provisions within the project for additional banks to take part, Government
decided to exclude Bank Ion Tiriac from the project even though it was eligible
and interested in participating;
(iii)  the almost total absence of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) in project
implementation. Despite being informed on a loan by loan basis MOA was never
instrumental in devising policy measures and providing advice that might have
increased project impact on the sector.
3.4   As it was, the influence of these factors on the project itself was minor; strong market
demand was the overwhelming factor which influenced the project's successful implementation.
D. Project Sustainability
4.1   The project is likely to be sustainable. The sub-borrowers, the FIs and Government are
expected to able to sustain project activities and indeed build upon them.



-7-
For the sub-borowers, investments have been profitable and generally associated
with improved management; consequently these businesses are likely to continue
in operation at least at the post project level, and in many case, grow. As a result,
they are likely to be able to react successfully to increased competition from other
new businesses which may erode margins and require project participants to
increase their own productivity.
The EIM under the project have set interest rates and fees at levels which make
project lending profitable to them. This, together with the long maturity of project
funds means that this type of lending, will be sustainable using project resources
for another 7-10 years. Beyond that, other long tern borrowing from
development or commercial institutions, increased capitalization or the issuance
of bonds would allow the levels of medium/long term investment lending initiated
under the project to be sustained and expanded.
Government is likely to experience a significant positive effect on net revenues.
Government is passing project funds to the FIs with matched maturity and
commitment fees reimbursed, at an interest rate in US$ of LIBOR + 2%. In the
long run, and ignoring cross currency risk, this would be expected to give
Government a direct profit of about 1,75% over its cost of pooled borrowing from
the World Bank.2 While in the early years of the loan, the cost of pooled
borrowing has been higher than a LIBOR based rate would have been, it is
reasonable to assume that over the life of the loan the cost of funds to the
Government will be substantially below its on-lending rate, leaving Government
with a direct revenue gain from the project. In addition, the incremental economic
activity generated by the project (estimated at some US$ 80 million of value
added annually) would give rise to significant extra taxation revenues.
E. Bank Performance
5.1   Bank performance was satisfactory in all phases of the project cycle. Through
identification and preparation the Bank actively supported and coordinated a number of
initiatives to increase the likelihood of a successful project. Some sub-project design and
preparation was supported directly by the Bank using resources made available under a PHRD
grant. The Bank also worked closely with the MOA and a Romanian consulting group in
assessing investment needs of potential private sub-borrowers, including farmers associations
and individual farmers. Under the Bank's sponsorship and guidance a review of the
agroindustrial sub-sector was undertaken by a German consulting group financed by EC-Phare.
The review shed light on subsectors most in need for restructuring such as vegetable oil
production, meat processing and bakeries. The Bank also participated in surveying, on a random
sample approach, farmers' associations, their structures and needs together with the Dutch
Technical Assistance and in establishing Romanian consulting groups to assist farmers to apply
for loans under the project. The latter initiative was undertaken following preliminary studies
2 On averagc, the World Bank's own cost of borrowing is about 0.25% below LIBOR and it lends to Governments at its cost
of borrowing plus 0.5%, i.e. 0.25% over LIBOR.



-8 -
financed under an Italian government grant. Most of these initiatives facilitated project
implementation.
5.2   Project design was innovative in that, together with Poland's credit line, these were the
first credit lines attempted in Eastern European countries after 1989, while the economies were
struggling to change from plan to market. It was attempted after exhaustive reviews by regional
management and despite government's lack of understanding of banking procedures in market
economies. It was partly based on the Bank's experience in credit projects in other more liberal
countries of Eastern Europe, especially in Hungary. The project as designed allowed emerging
market forces in a liberalizing command economy to guide investments and allocate resources
with encouraging results, despite the remaining substantial macro economic distortions.
5.3    The appraisal process was relatively smooth and rapid, with the project being negotiated
six weeks after the appraisal mission. The time period from negotiations to board approval was
a normal three weeks and no unusual hold ups occurred at this time. Following loan
effectiveness, the Bank mounted 9 supervision missions between November 1992 and September
1996, roughly at six months intervals. A total of 210 staff weeks were spent on supervision.
This included a three month stay at AB of a very experienced consultant to assist preparing an
Agricultural Credit Manual, which proved extremely useful in assuring successful lending. The
average input therefore was 22 staff weeks per year of which about 5 weeks per year were in the
field. Most supervision missions were staffed by a financial analyst and an institution building
banking specialist or an agricultural economist. The supervision missions were able to regularly
reassess the project's impact on agriculture and agro industry and played an important role in
smoothing out inter agency disputes; ensuring a reasonable flow of funds despite differences of
opinion between the APEX and the FIs. Agriculture and National Resources Department (AGR)
financial advisors and the Financial Sector Development Department (FDR) assisted through
project implementation to report and advise on the performance of the Banking System and
assure proper auditing.
F. Borrower Performance
6.1    The FIs have both performed well under the project, having adapted quickly to making
medium and long term investment loans to private borrowers. However, they remained rather
rigid in their approach; they required loans to be heavily collateralized and did not significantly
delegate lending decisions from head office. This meant that handling costs per loan were
relatively high, and given the substantial demand from larger borrowers, only a small part of the
total loan went to projects valued at less than US$50,000 (about 3% of project funds). Especially
important in assuring that funds were lent and could be used for medium and long term
investments was the innovative lending in 'dollar equivalent lei'. This essentially passed the FE
risk3of the loans on to the borrowers but meant that borrowers were able to meet agreed loan
repayment schedules out of sub-project cash flow. Had the lending been in lei at lei interest
rates, this would not have been possible and refinancing would have been required in most cases.
3 Because the majority of the lending was for combines whose income was in terms of internationally tradable commodities
(wheat, maize and sunflower) and domestic prices are at least loosely linked to world prices for such commodities, clients
had a strong built in FE risk hedge.



9-
6.2   The perceived need to tightly centrally control all loans under the project also resulted
from the bureaucratic approach of Treasury, which, driven by the Court of Accounts, considered
funds lent under the project to be 'public funds' and therefore applied time-consuming
procedures in monitoring their detailed usage. This may have been partly due to an overly literal
interpretation of the loan agreement which had the borrower (GOR) and therefore its APEX
being responsible for project implementation. The main result of this was that certain projects
got held up. In times of rapidly changing exchange rates, this caused a number of clients
significant financial hardship. It was however mitigated to a large extent by the willingness of
the FIs to advance their own resources for approved projects and to receive reimbursement from
Treasury later. Although important in assuring more effective implementation by sub-borrowers,
this in itself created implementation difficulties for the FIs. Treasury's policy of reimbursing
FIs, which lent clients dollar equivalents for lei investments, at the exchange rate of the
reimbursement date rather than the one which applied when the sub-loan was made has resulted
in the FIs being able to draw down less foreign exchange equivalent under the loan than they had
advanced to clients. This has caused some problems between Treasury and the FIs.
G. Assessment of Outcome
7.1    Overall, the project is assessed as highly satisfactory. It has achieved its objectives; taken
less time to implement than initially planned and shown excellent economic and financial
benefits, despite taking place in a less than satisfactory macro-economic and institutional
environment.
H. Future Operations
8.1   The first round of fund use under the project is virtually complete. Future operations
revolve around the two FIs continuing to collect the sub-loans and making new sub-loans using
rolled over funds for similar purposes. For the FIs to ensure the project does not unnecessarily
expose them to currency risk, they need to continue to lend in dollar equivalent terms, ensuring
that most of their US$100 million liabilities under the project are onlent to specific borrowers (as
dollar equivalent loans), not just represented by general lei assets.
8.2   As competition becomes stronger, profitability for new businesses in agro industry m'ay
decline and it will be important that the FIs continually improve their capacity to identify and
appraise sound sub-projects. Furthermore as competition increases within the banking sector, the
FIs will need to provide improved banking services to the sector and increase credit availability
to the rural community. This will involve more flexible lending arrangements and the
development of systems to effectively service smaller sub-borrowers.
8.3   The FIs will only be able to continue successfully implementing the project for the next
ten years or so (as required by the period of the World Bank loan) if they are financially secure.
RDB is now in a sound financial position and no explicit steps need to be taken to ensure the
continuance of this. In AB's case, however, its whole financial structure will need to be radically
overhauled and bad loans resulting from direct state intervention in agriculture removed from its
portfolio to ensure that it can continue to successfully implement this project.



-10-
I. Key Lessons Learned
9.1   The generally successful project outcome underlines a number of positive experiences on
which to draw in future and lessons learned when financing development in former command
economies.
9.2   Perhaps most important is that the project shows that, notwithstanding existing
distortions in the economy, a credit project, when carefully managed and focused to support
private initiative, can be successful. The private sector, because of its natural competitive
strength is extremely agile in operating and finding profitable niches, which the state is not able
to exploit even when there is heavy state control. Examples of this which were supported under
the project include (i) private machinery contractors which have been able to service state farms
profitably and at lower fees then the state's own subsidized agricultural machinery stations; and
(ii) agro-processing units which even in subsidized sectors such as bread or milk products are
able to produce higher quality usubsidized products in a profitable way. Despite low purchasing
power, the demand for quality products has allowed the private sector, whose quality control and
product presentation is normally much better than that of state units, to capture a substantial
market share without receiving subsidies.
9.3   The project also supports the view that credit lines should not be strictly directed to
specific subsectors or to export. Market demand as indicated through PFESP is the right
determinant of investment opportunities. The success of the projects financed and the pay back
performance of sub-borrowers, who are successfully amortizing their loans, sometimes over
shorter periods than initially provided for bv banks, are clear indications that a sector wide
demand driven credit project can work.
9.4   Another important lesson learned during the implementation of PFESP is that the choice
of the apex institution can greatly affect the outcome of the project. Appointing the Treasury
within MOF as the apex institution for PFESP proved disadvantageous as it introduced a public
sector spending control culture into what should have been a purely commercial operation and as
a result it generated considerable delays in subloan processing and disbursement. These added to
the costs and risks of project sub-borrowers and considerably frustrated the FIs' management.



PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Tables:
1:     Summary of Assessments
2:     Related Bank Loans/Credits
3:     Project Timetable
4:     Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
5A:   Project Costs
5B:   Project Financing
6:     Economic Costs and Benefits
7:     Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
8:     Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
9:     Bank Resources: Missions
10:    Status of Legal Covenants



I



Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of bjtives           Subs antial       Pamial         Ne,Uibl          Not applicable
Macro Policies                      5                 ]              [1
Sector Policies                      ]              5                [                [
Financial Objectives                 3               5                5                5
Institutional Development           0                                5 l               O
Physical Objectives                 5l                               [                (E
Poverty Reduction                   [a              E l                               (E
Gender Issues                       E               E                                 [El
Other Social Objectives             5               5                5         
Environmental Objectives            E               E                 0                x
Public Sector Management            5               a                                 [ El
Private Sector Development          x               5                 0                0
Other (specify)                       ]             5                5                   I
(Continued)
pfesp\icrtabs



B. PXject Susainabiliy                Likly                     Unlikely
(1)                        (/)                        (/)
C. B                                 satisfactorv              Satisf&Gtgn                 Deficient
(1)                      (/)                        (/)
Identification                        .                         J                        [
Preparation Assistance                                                                   I]
Appraisal                                                    [5a
Supervision                           :                       x                          [
D. Borrower Perfonance               satisfato                 Satisfa                     Defici
(/)                      (v')                       (V)
Preparation                                                                              ri
inplementation                        :                       [3                         Cl
Covenant Compliance                  E]]
Operation (if applicable)            [J                       i:
High&                                                igl
E. Assessment of Outcome             s af            SafianbI        Unsatisfactory     unsatifacto
(/)     (/)              (/)               ( EJ



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title       Purpose                Year of Approval        Status
Preceding operations
Livestock Development  Support genetic improvement     1985          ICR issued
Project               of livestock
Following operations
Agricultural Sectoral    Support to Romania's          1997            Board
Adjustment Loan.      Medium-Term Sectoral                            June 1997
Adjustment Program through
selective sectoral policies,
urgent structural reforms, and
institutional reforms and
institution building measures
in the agricultural sector.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle            Date Planned          Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)        9/91                  9/91
Preparation                                       10/91                 10/91
Appraisal                                         01/92                 01/92
Negotiations                                      05/92                 05/92
Board Presentation                                06/92                 06/92
Signing                                           06/92                06/92
Effectiveness                                     10/92                 11/92
Project Completion                                03/97                 03/97
Loan Closing                                      12/97



Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97    FY98
Appraisal estimate        15,000  32,000  79,700  90,000   92,600  100,000
Actual                     8,000   16,600  62,300  85,000   95,100  100,000
Actual as % of estimate     53      52      78       95      103      100
Date of final disbursement
Table 5A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate         Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                (US$ million)
Item                             Local  Foreign   Total       Local  Foreign   Total
costs   costs                costs   costs
1. On-farm investment               16.5   16.5      33.0        34.1    65.8     99.9
2. Agricultural processing          22.2   35.5      57.7        28.0    31.3    59.3
3. Marketing/distribution services  26.0   48.0      74.0         2.0     4.9       6.9
Total                               64.7  100.0    164.7         64.2   101.9    166.1
Table 5B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate         Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                (US$ million)
Item                             Local  Foreign   Total       Local  Foreign   Total
costs   costs                costs    costs
1. IBRD                           -      100.0   100.0          -      100.0   100.0
2. Financial intermediaries      20.0      -      20.0         29.3     1.0     30.3
3. Sub-boffowers                 44.7      -      44.7         34.9     0.9     35.8
Total                            64.7   100.0   164.7          64.2    101.9   166.1



Table 6: Economic Costs and Benefits
Specific estimates of the project ERR were not made at appraisal; models were used to
demonstrate economic viability of agricultural and agroindustrial investment and FIs required
ex-ante FRRs to be in excess of 15%. In the event, the main benefit of the project was in
providing more efficient harvesting of major crops (53% of investment was in combines).
Ex-post analysis indicates the economic rate of return from combines purchased in 1993 was
52%, based on an average area harvested per combine of 1,400 ha and losses saved of 9% for
wheat, maize and sunflower and 4% for maize. A more conventional analysis based on costs
and income streams to combine operators, and then converting these from "financial" to
"economic" prices gives an ERR  of 65%.  Details of both sets of calculations are on the
project file and those for the first alternative summarized below.
Economic Returns from Operating a Large Imported Combine Harvester bought In May 1993
(Based on Costs and Incomes at Border Prices Compared with Continuing with Existing Practices russooo 1996 prices])
Net Economic Impact                1993            1994            1995             1996              1997-2002
Jan- Jul-Dec   Jan- Jul-Dec  Jan-Jun Jul-Dec  Jan-Jun Jul-Dec  Jan-Jun Jul-Dec
Jun            Jun
Grain Losses Saved                      -   52.2        -   53.4         -   51.7         -   63.6         -   44.9
Without Project Operating Costs        3.9   31.5    3.5   28.7        3.1   31.4       3.5   31.4       3.2   31.4
Saved
Old Combine Replacement Avoided V       -       -   20.0        -    20.0        -    20.0       -         -       -
Gross Incremental Benefits            3 9    83.7   23.5   82.2    231    83.2    23.5   950            950    95.0
Additional Costs
Capital Investment j                192.9       -       -       -        -       -        -      -         -
Operating Costs                       5.5    6.8    5.3   13.0         3.9   12.8       3.9   12.6       3.9   12.6
Total Costs                          198.4    6.8    5.3   13.0        3      18        3     12        3.9 1126
Net Economic Benefit               (         ZiR    18 2    62        19 2    70.      19 6 2A  ,4       f  .A67
Annualised Economic Rate of Retum            IrA
V 3 machines costing US$20,000 each purchased in years to maintain the quality of the WOP combine park. 2, 3 and 4
Sensitivity
Losses Saved 14% and 9%; not 9% and 4%       87%         Losses saved 5% and 2%; not 9% and 4%          32%
Prices Up 20% 1996 and Beyond                54%         Prices Down 20%  1996 and Beyond               50%
Prices Down 50% 1996 and Beyond               45%
Without Project Costs 20% higher             58%         Without Project Costs 20% Lower                46%
Without Project Costs 50% Lower               37%
No Reinvestment WOP                           42%
Combine Life 5 years, not 10.                 48%



Table 7: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Basically, there was compliance with the applicable Bank Operational Manual Statements.
Table 8: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                  Revised                      Actual
Stage of project cycle  Weeks      US$        Weeks        US$             Weeks       USS
Through Appraisal           40.0    120,000                                     38.0        106,400
Appraisal-Board             36.6    102,450                                     34.9         97,720
Board-Effectiveness         35.5      99,000                                    33.8         94,640
Supervision                145.0    288,600                                   205.4        375,120
Total               257.1    502,050                                   231.3        873,880
Table 9: Bank Resources: Missions
Perfonance Ratn        Types of
Stage of project cycle    Month/  No. of Days in  Specialization'    Implem.    Developm.  Problems3
Year  Persons  Field                      status     objectives
Through appraisal       04/92    3       20      F, E, N
Appraisal-Board         06/92     1              F
Supervision I           01/93    3        10     F, M, N          I            I
Supervision II          06/93    3        12     A, E. N         2             1           M
Supervision III          10/93    3       12     F, N            2             1           M
Supervision IV          03/94    2        12     F, F             I            I
Supervision V           07/94    3       9       F, F            2             1           M
Supervision VI           10/94    4       14     F, E             I            I           M
Supervision VII         05/95    2        10     A, E             I            I
Supervision VIII         10/96    2       12     F, A, E          I            I           M
Completion              03/97    2        7      F, R
I - Key to Specialized staff skills:  2 - Key to Performance Ratings:  3 - Key to Types of Problems:
AE = Agricultural Economist       I = Minor problems                F = Financial
E = Economist                      2 = Moderate problems            T - Technical
F = Financial Analyst              3 = Major problens               M = Managerial.
N = Marketing Specialist



Legal Covenant Report: Latest status of Covenant Compliance                                                                                                OD 13.05 - ANNEX D5
ECA - Europe & Central Asia Regional 0                                                                                                                                  Page:  I
ECI - ECA: Country Department I                                                                                                                    Run Date: 06/13/97 at 15.46.13
ECIAR - Agriculture & Regional Devip Opr
Form 590 Date: 11/15/1996
Project ID: RO-PE-8M       - PRIVATE FARMER & ENT.SUPPORT
Original     Revised
Covenant              Wuif ill    Fulfill
Clas(s)   Status      Date         Date     Description of Covenant                                Co_nts
Agreement: LOAN Lton Number: IBRD -34860
Tet tReferenec: 3.01(A)
05                   12/31/1992               Borrower to have AB and DB carry out a medium-term
strategic plan.
rext Reference: 3.01(d)
10                                            Borrower to ensure that onlending shall not be
made. (a) to non-eligible subsectors; (b) for
incremental working capital over US$10 N in the
aggregate; and (c) no aggregate amount of lending
or single subloan lending to any subborrower shall
exceed US$5 M.
Text Reference: 3.01(e)
09                                            rree limit subloans under $200,000. Above such
ceiling to be approved by Bank.
Text Reference: 3.03(a)(b)(c)
09           C       09/30/1994  10/31/1994  Mid-term review, involving an analysis of past          Mid-term review undertaken in October 1994 with
performance and an estimate of future plan of         the participation of all agencies involved in
action; comments by Bank; implement future plan of project implementation and representatives of
action.                                               subborrowers. Mid-term review report issued and
discussed with GOR.
Text Reference: 4.O1(a) (i) (ii) (ii)
01                   12/31/1993               Borrower to: maintain in accordance with GAAP
records of expenditures; keep records for one
yearafter Bank has received the audit reports;
enable Bank representative to examine records.
C    - Cclied with
CD   - Cqxiance after Delay
NC   - Not C7lied with
SOON - Coliance  xpected in Reasonably Short Time
CP   - Comlied with Partially
NYD  - Not Yet Due
00
M -
ptp



Legal Covenant Report: Latest status of Covenant Compliance                                                                                                     OD 13.05 - ANNEX D5
ECA - Europe & Central Asia Regional 0                                                                                                                                        Page:  2
ECI - ECA: Country Department I                                                                                                                          Run Date: 06/13/97 at 15.46.13
EClAR - Agriculture & Regional Devip Opr
Form 590 Dkte: 11/15/1996
Project ID: RO-PE8772    - PRIVATE FARMER & ENT-SUPPORT
original      Revised
Covenant              Fulfill      Fulfill
Clasm(s)   Status      Data         Date      Description of Covenant                                 Comments
Text Reference: 4.01 (i) (ii)
01                    06/30/1993                Borrower to have records of expenditures and
accounts including the special account (Sched. 4)
audited and made available to the Bank within six
months of end of Borrower's FY, audit report
including external auditor's opinions.
Text Reference: 6.01
05            C       09/13/1992                Preparation of credit guidelines; execution,            Credit guidelines have been revised and improved.
authorization and ratification of subsidiary loan   They are available at HQ in English and in
agreements, authorization and ratification of           Romanian.
project agreements.
Agreement: PROJI Loan Number: IBRD -34860
Text Reference: 2.01(c) (i)
05            C       12/15/1992  11/30/1995  AB and DB to adopt by 12/15/92 a plan of action           Last update done 11/30/95.
for institution building and follow-up on it.
Text Reference: 2.0l(c)(ii)
05           C        09/30/1900  10/31/1995  Prepare by 9/30 of each year a report on the              Latest report submitted to Bank end-October 1995.
progress of such plan of action.
Text Reference: 2.01(c)(iii)
05            C       11/30/1900  11/30/1995  Update by 11/30 of each year the plan of action.    Last update done 11/30/95.
Text Reference: 3.01(a)
01            CP                                AB and DB to maintain accounting procedures and         AB accounting system revised.  French accounting
records in accordance with GAAP.                        procedures being applied.  RDB accounting system
reviewed by auditors, in compliance with GAAP.
C    - Cplied with
CD - Coplianc  after Delay
MC   - Not Cc pled with
SOCO  - Copllance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
CP   - Co pli.d with Partially
NMD  - Not rat Due
m I.
OQ >
0
t  O.



lepl Covenant Report: Latest status of Covenant Compliance                                                                                                 OD 13.05 - ANNEX D5
ECA - Europe & Central Asia Regional 0                                                                                                                                  Page:  3
ECI - ECA: Country Department I                                                                                                                     Run Date: 06/13/97 at 1546.13
ECIAR - Agrkulure & Regional Devlp Opr
Form 590 Date: 11/15/1996
Project ID: RO-PE417M - PRIVATE FARMER & ENT-SUPPORT
Original     RAviued
Covenant              lulfill     lulfill
Claae(.)   status      Data        Dat-      Description of Covenant                               Conentr
Text Reference: 3.01(b)
01           C                                AB and DB to have their accounts, including            Audits prepared by KPMG (AB) and Coopers and
project accounts, audited by external auditors,       Lybrand (DB).  1995 audit reports made available
and make audit reports available to the Bank          to Bank, with some delay, 10/96 in the case of AB.
before 6/30 of each following FY.
Text Reference: Annex to Sclaedzde
10                                             Limited ICB for more than US$1 M. International
pricing for contracts between US$200,000 and
US$lMDomestic pricing for contracts between
US$25,000 and US$200,000.
Text Reference: Schedidepara 6
02           CP                               Debt service coverage ratio 1.3:1; current ratio    Being complied with as corporate financial
2:.1.                                                 standing has improved ini general.
C    - Co lied with
CD   - Compliance after Delay
NC   - Not Coplied with
SOON - Copliance Expected in Reaaonably Short Time
CP   - Cqwlied with Partially
NYD  - Not Yet Due
M6
oe0



Lepl Covenant Report: latest status of Covenant Compliance                                                                             OD 13.05 - ANNEX D5
Full Text of General Covenant Clmsification                                                                                      Run Date: 06/13/97 at 15.46.13
Covenant Class
1 Accounts/audit
2 Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries
3 Flow and utilization of Project funds
4 Counterpart funding
S Management aspects of the Project or of its executing agency
6 Bnvironmental covenants
7 Involuntary resettlement
8 Indigenous people
9 Monitoring, review and reporting
10 Implementation
11 Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12  Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
13 Other
o



APPENDIX A
ROMANIA                              Page 1 of 6
PRIVATE FARMER AND ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 3486 - RO)
ICR Mission February 10 - 22, 1997
AIDE-MEMOIRE
1.    Under TORs dated February 1997, an ICR mission comprising Messrs. Lucca EC1/2AR
(mission leader) and Paul Harrison (consultant) reviewed the implementation and achievements of
the project and discussed the draft ICR documents prepared by the Borrower and the two Fls in
response to the guidance provided during the previous supervision mission (October 1996). The
mission held discussions with the foreign relations staff of the Ministry of Finance (representing the
Borrower) and the management and staff of the Agricultural Bank (AB) and the Romanian
Development Bank (RDB) [the implementing FIs]. It also met with sub-borrowers - both individuals
and the management of private companies in various localities throughout the country. The mission
wishes to thank the Romanian authorities and the staff and management of Fls for their assistance
and cooperation.
2.    This Aide Memoire records the views of the Borrower, the implementing agencies and the
World Bank on Project implementation and operation, including the operational plan. The mission's
findings regarding the Bank's views are subject to confirmation by World Bank Management.
Defree of Achievement of Project Objectives
3.    The objective of the project was to support private sector development in rural areas and
through this, raise agricultural output, increase efficiency of production, generate employment and
improve standards of living, mainly through financing credit through a US$100 million loan to
private farmers and other private businesses. All of the parties to the project agreed that the
project had been satisfactorily implemented and its objectives are being achieved. Some detail
on the project's likely outcome and impact are given in paragraphs 13 to 19 below.
Prospects for the Projects Sustainability.
4.    The project is sustainable at all levels. The sub-borrowers, the FMs and Government are all
able to sustain project activities and indeed build upon them.
5.    For the sub-borrowers, investments have been profitable and generally associated with
improved management and further investment. Consequently, these businesses are likely to
continue in operation at least at the post project level, and in many cases, grow. The rapid
inflation and devaluation in early 1997 has probably had an adverse impact on those borrowers
providing products or services for the domestic market in that price rises would probably not have
compensated for devaluation. Because of good performance to date and their generally sound



-2
financial situation, the FIs believe that most borrowers are likely to be able to cope with the
increase in their debt service cost relative to sales.
6.     The FI under the project have set interest rates and fees at levels which have made project
lending profitable, given the good level of collection achieved. Thus they will be able to continue
this type of lending, for another 7-10 years using project funds. Beyond that, other long term
finance would be required to ensure that the levels of medium/long term investment lending
initiated under the project can at least be sustained. The main risk to project sustainability at the
Fl level is that AB may become unsound due to bad loans unconnected with the project and so
have its overall activities curtailed and therefore not roll over collected funds effectively.
7.     The project should have a significant positive effect on GQR net revenues.  However,
MOF did point out that because the GOR borrowed in pooled currency, at the pooled currency rate,
but on-lends dollars to the FIs at LIBOR plus a 2% spread it is exposed to both cross currency risk
and interest rate risk.  Indeed, in the first years of the project, the interest rate margin was
substantially below that conceived at Appraisal, and, for a period, it was negative. Clearly for this
type of operation where funds are passed on to FIs used to dealing in LIBOR based dollar interest
rates, a single currency borrowing option, based on LIBOR would have been preferable. GOR
would have been assured a profitable interest rate spread' on its onlending, with its only risk being
the credit risk of the FIs. In the long run, however the onlending arrangements are likely to give
Government a direct revenue gain from the project. In addition, the incremental economic activity
generated by the project (estimated at some US$ 80 million of value added annually) would give
rise to significant extra taxation revenues.
Borrower and Bank Performance
8.     The FIs have both performed well under the project; their cautious approach meant that
they concentrated on larger heavily collateralized loans, with only about 3% of project funds
going to projects of less than $50,000. The innovative approach of lending in 'dollar equivalent
lei' was important in that it allowed cash flows from projects to be sufficient to meet debt service
in the early years and also, it passed the FE risk2 of the loans to the borrowers. The one area in
which the FIs have not performed well has been in ensuring that recycled funds are relent under
similar terms and conditions, as required in the Project Agreement. This may have been the result
of pressure from NBR, but at the Project level, the net result of this has been (i) that the FIs have
been unnecessarily exposed to foreign exchange risk, and (ii) the amount of long term investment
credit in the sector is below what it would have been, had full recycling taken place.
9.     Agricultural Bank (AB) approved, net of cancellations, 488 sub-projects, (three quarters for
agriculture and one quarter for agroindustry), with total investment of US$121 million. Of this, an
estimated US$24 million was the client's equity, US$22 million from AB resources and US$75
Had the loan been a single currency dollar loan, on-lent to Fls at the same terms (LIBOR + 2%), GOR would have had an
assured income of about 1.75% on the outstanding portfolio and no cross currency risk.
2      Because the majority of the lending was for combines whose income was in terms of internationally tradable commodities
(wheat, maize and sunflower) and domestic prices are at least loosely linked to world prices for such commodities, clients
had a strong built in FE risk hedge.



- 3 -
million from the IBRD loan. AB's collection results are good at 94% for both principal and interest.
The US$33 million of principal already collected is about 45 % of the IBRD funds lent.
10.   Romanian Bank for Development. (RDB) has approved 90 sub-projects, requiring financing
from the Bank Loan of the full US$25 million, RDB financing of US$8 million and a further US$12
million of client resources. About three quarters of RDB's lending was for agroindustry. RDB's
collection performance which had initially been poor, improved during 1996 and cumulative
collection of both interest and principal amounted to 84% at the end of December 1996. The fact
that lending is adequately collateralized makes it unlikely that there will be significant losses
resulting from these slightly below desirable collection rates.
11.   The Apex arrangements for the loan were not satisfactory.  Treasury, which was the
Project Apex was, driven by the Court of Accounts to treat funds lent under the project as 'public
funds'. It therefore zealously monitored their detailed usage. This may have been partly due to
an overly literal interpretation of the loan agreement which had the borrower (GOR) and therefore
its APEX being responsible for project implementation. The main result of this was that certain
projects got held up, and sound commercial arrangements were sometimes jeopardized. This
major implementation problem was mitigated to some extent by the willingness of the FIs to
advance their own resources for approved projects and to receive reimbursement from Treasury
later. Although important in assisting more effective implementation by sub-borrowers, this in
itself created implementation difficulties for the FIs. Treasury's policy of reimbursing FIs, which
lent clients dollar equivalents for lei investments, at the exchange rate of the reimbursement date
rather than the one which applied when the sub-loan was made resulted in the FIs being able to
draw down less foreign exchange equivalent under the loan than they had advanced to clients. This
resulted in problems between Treasury and the FIs and considerable delays in submitting
reimbursement requests to the World Bank.
12.   World Bank Performance. was satisfactory in all phases of the project cycle. Through
identification and preparation the Bank actively supported and coordinated a number of initiatives
to increase the likelihood of a successful project. The appraisal process was relatively smooth and
rapid, with the project being negotiated six weeks after the appraisal mission. The time period
from negotiations to board approval was a normal three weeks and no unusual hold ups occurred.
Following loan effectiveness, the bank mounted 9 supervision missions between November 1992
and September 1996, roughly at six months intervals. A total of 210 staff weeks were spent on
supervision. This included a three month stay at AB of a very experienced consultant to assist
preparing an Agricultural Credit Manual, which proved extremely useful in assuring successful
lending.  The supervision missions were able to regularly reassess the project's impact on
agriculture and agroindustry and played an important role in smoothing out inter agency disputes;
ensuring a reasonable flow of funds despite differences of opinion between the APEX and the FIs.
Agriculture and National Resources Department (AGR) financial advisors and the Financial Sector
Development Department (FDR) assisted through project implementation to report and advise on
the performance of the Banking System and assure proper auditing.



-4-
Project Outcome
13.    Sub-Loan Approvals.  Total use of project funds is summarized below.  Both the level of
subloans and overall investment were in line with the aim of the project, although the split between
agriculture and agroindustry was weighted further towards agriculture than originally envisaged.
Summary of PFESP Investment
(US$i000)
No of Loans   --Own Funds-  --Fl Funds--  -WB Funds--  Total Project   Av Cost
Amount    %  Amount  %  Amount   %  Amount   %   Amount    % US$/Proj
Combine Harvesters         364   63%  14,880 42%   15,906  53%   57,810  58%   88,596  53%         243
OtherAgriculture            73   13%   2,119  6%    1,938   6%    7,228  7%    11,285   7%         155
Total Agricultural Production  437   76%  16,999 47%   17,844  59%   65,038 65%   99,881  60%      229
Meat & Milk Processing      40    7%   6,462  18%   5,376  18%   14,664  15%   26,502  16%         663
Cereals and Oilseeds        65   11%   4,630  13%   4,417  15%   11,336  11%   20,383  12%         314
Processing
Alcohol Beer & soft Drinks   14    2%   4,966  14%     881   3%    3,287  3%    9,134   6%         652
Transport services & Others  22    4%   2,750  8%    1,746   6%    5,675  6%    10,171   6%        462
Total Agri-business         141   24%  18,808 53%   12,420  41%   34,962  35%   66,190  40%        469
Total Sub-projects         578  100%  35,807 100%  30,264 100%  100,00 100%  166,071  100%         287
14.    Overall, about 53%  of the project investment and 58%  of World Bank funds were used for
combine harvesters, 7% for other agricultural investments, largely machinery and about 40% for
agroindustrial and service projects (flour mills, bakeries, oilseed processing facilities, meat
processing plants, milk processing plant, breweries, packing materials manufacture, distribution
etc.).
15.    In agriculture, the main production impact of the project has been the reduction of grain
losses valued at about US$25 million per year from the import of more efficient combine harvesters.
Economic rates of return for combines are estimated to average about 60%, and Financial returns
35%45%. Financial and economic returns on other agricultural investments are likely to have been
a little lower but have also generally been sufficient for debt service.
16.    The Loan has promoted efficiency within the agricultural sector by providing improved
agricultural machinery to small and medium sized private agricultural operators and has increased
their competitiveness with state enterprises. These operators, which are all private businesses
provide mechanization services to other private units (large and small) and to state farms as well as
using equipment on their own land. For contract work, the mechanization fees charged by project
beneficiaries have generally been lower than those charged by competing state enterprises.
17.    Agroindustrial investment has largely been for medium  scale imported equipment for new
high(er) tech businesses or upgrading of former state businesses which have been privatized through
Management and Employee Buy Outs (MEBOs). Most are owner managed businesses with quite
high sales to capital ratios. Analysis of sub sector models for common investments (flour milling,
baking, milk processing - yogurt, ice cream etc., and meat processing - smoked products sausages)



- 5 -
supported by detailed discussions with some 25-30 sub-borrowers during the various project
supervision missions indicates that value-added at the unit level is typically 20-50% of sales and that
at full development annual sales are anything from 1-3 times investment cost. An estimate of the
incremental gross value added at full development from the agroindustrial investment is US$45
million per year. This is in line with a typical financial rate of return on this type of investment of
30-40%.  In agroindustry, the project has had both a significant production impact and also
contributed to efficiency (output per employee is much higher in the newly established project
businesses than the average).
18.   The project has had a positive direct impact on employment, probably creating about 4,000
new permanent jobs. In addition, the 'local labor element' of project investment is estimated to
have amounted to some 5,000 person years.
19.   The project has contributed to raising the standard of living of its participants.  Direct
investors have clearly benefited as the financial returns from their investments are sound and the
cash flows after financing positive. Employees of new project businesses have also benefited: wages
in project businesses are generally higher than the average, working conditions pleasanter and,
because generally modern equipment is being used, considerable training has been given.
Plan for Future Project Operations
20.   This is set out as Appendix I. Future operations revolve around the two FIs continuing to
collect the existing sub-loans and to relend, using rolled over funds, for similar purposes, as set
out in the Project Agreement. For the FIs to ensure the project does not unnecessarily expose
them to currency risk, they need to continue to lend in dollar equivalent terms, ensuring that their
liabilities to GOR under the project are matched by assets comprising dollar equivalent loans.
Key Lessons Learned
21.   The project has clearly demonstrated that a credit project, when properly managed and
focused to support private initiative, can be successful despite big distortions in the economy. The
private sector, has been able to operate successfully even in competition with subsidized state
enterprises. Private machinery contractors have been able to service state farms profitably and at
lower fees then the state's own subsidized agricultural machinery stations; agro-processing units in
subsidized sectors such as bread or milk products are able to produce higher quality products
profitably. Despite low purchasing power, the demand for quality products has allowed the
private sector, whose quality control and product presentation is normally much better than that of
state units, to capture a substantial market share without receiving subsidies. The success of the
projects financed and the pay back performance of sub-borrowers, who are successfully
amortizing their loans, sometimes over shorter periods than initially provided for by banks, are
clear indications that a sector wide demand driven credit project can work.



-6-
22.   The main negative lesson learned during the implementation of PFESP is that the decision
to use the Treasury within MOF as the apex institution was a mistake. It dragged a public sector
spending control culture into what should have been a purely commercial operation and as a result
it generated considerable delays in subloan processing and disbursement. These added to the costs
and risks of project sub-borrowers and considerably frustrated the FIs' management.
m:\rom\pfesp\icram2.doc
March 14, 1997 4:04 PM



APPENDIX A
ROMANIA                   -        Attachment
PRIVATE FARMER AND ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 3486 - RO)
Plan for Project Operation After Closing (December 31. 1997)
A. Pro-ject Objectives
1.    The objective of the project was to support private sector development in rural areas and
through this, raise agricultural output, increase efficiency of production, generate employment
and improve standards of living, mainly through financing credit through a US$ 100 million loan
to private farmers and other private businesses. This continues to be the project's objective.
B. Achievements to Date
2.    Under the implementation phase of the project, the US$100 million has been drawn down
from the World Bank and on-lent, successfully to private sector borrowers by the two FIs. For
the purposes envisaged at Appraisal. Initial collections of both principal and interest have been
good, with some 90% of funds being collected on time.
C. Implementation Plan
3.    The continued implementation of the project is based upon the two FIs continuing to
collect the outstanding sub-loans and making new sub-loans using rolled over funds for similar
purposes. Key elements of this are set out below.
Implementing Agencies
4.    The project will continue to be implemented mainly by the Agricultural Bank (AB) and
the Romanian Development Bank (RDB). The initial funds from the World Bank for the project
have already been fully drawn down and the special accounts used for these -purposes will be
exhausted by June 30, 1997. Therefore, the sole source of financing for relending under the
project will be the collections from existing loans. These funds are already included within the
Balance Sheets of the two FIs but the amount available will diminish as the repayments of the
World Bank loan commence and principle is collected from the FIs by Treasury. Treasury's role
in the project, therefore, can be expected to be minor in the future. It simply is required (i) to
make timely payments to the World Bank, and (ii) collect the necessary back-to-back
contributions from the FIs.
Tpae of Lending
5.   In line with the project agreement, the type of lending during the project's operational
phase should be similar to that in the implementation phase. In this regard, the same negative list
would apply. Apart from this, the loan should remain demand-driven and no further restrictions



-2-
be placed upon the types of projects which can be financed, save for normal cemmercial
restrictions which would be governed by the policies of the FIs themselves.
Interest Rate
6.    The interest rate charged by Treasury to the FIs would remain at LIBOR plus 2%; the rate
of which FIs lend to individual clients would be determined by the market, FIs being free to set
interest rates at levels which they find commercially appropriate. Because virtually all the initial
drawn down of funds by the FIs from Treasury was for dollar-equivalent loans, the FIs will need
to continue lending on this basis if they are not to expose themselves to unnecessary foreign
exchange risk.
Sub-Loan Maturity
7.    The maturity of new sub-loans under the project will need to take into account the
commitment of the FIs to repay principal to Treasury in parallel to Treasury's repayment of the
World Bank. Subject to this proviso, sub-loan maturity would be up to 12 years, although in
practice, three to seven years would be expected to cover the majority of sub-loans.
Sub-Loan Appraisal
8.    Sub-loans would continue to be appraised according to the guidelines agreed under the
project initially, that is, individual investments would be required to have financial and economic
viability with ex ante financial and economic rates of return of at least 15% in real terms. For
joint stock companies, the projected current ratio would be at least 2:1 and the debt service
coverage ratio at least 1.3 over the life of the investment, calculated on the basis of the entity's
total debts (including the sub-loan). The total of all sub-loans to a single sub-borrower would
continue to be limited to a maximum outstanding amount of US$5 million and all sub-borrowers
would be required to continue to comply with all laws and regulations of Romania related-to
environmental protection.
Monitoring
9.    The FIs would continue to monitor the project through their central units which deal with
internationally-financed loans. Within the monitoring, they would maintain and update the
statistics presently kept which, inter alia, provide data on the names and addresses of
sub-borrowers, the size of sub-project investment, the size of sub-project loan, numbers of jobs
created, the physical and financial performance of the project business, and the timeliness of
collection of both principal and interest.
10.  In addition, and in line with the Project Agreement, both FIs would keep accounts of the
use of project funds, showing the total amount drawn down under the loan, the outstanding
balance in primary loans, the outstanding balance in secondary loans, and the balance in cash, or
other assets (both in lei and hard currency).



-3-
Continued Strengthening of FIs
11.   Institutional development remain one of the Fl's main objectives, in particular the
strengthening of their financial position. Both FIs would strive to become more efficient and
competitive. In the case of RDB, the institutional development may include privatization, while
for AB, its whole financial structure needs to be radically overhauled and bad loans resulting
from direct state intervention in agriculture removed from its portfolio to assure that it can
continue to successfully implement this project. The FIs would continue to be audited by
recognised independent financial auditors.
m:\rom\pfesp\opplan2.doc
March 20, 1997 4:22 PM






APPENDIX B
Page 1 of 4
ROMANIA
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
SECRETARY OF STATE'S OFFICE
Bucharest,
February 22, 1997
Mr. Franco Lucca
Senior Financial Economist
Agricultural and Environment Operations Division
Country Department I
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
THE WORLD BANK
Dear Sir,
Re: Draft Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for Private Farmers
and Enterprise Support Project (no. 3486-RO/1992)
We are sending you herewith the following documents, subject to our
Secretary of State's approval:
- Draft Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for Private Farmers
and Enterprise Support Project (no. 3486-RO/1992) - Part C related to the
Ministry of Finance's activity in relation with the above IBRD Project;
- Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for Private Farmers and
Enterprise Support Project (no. 3486-RO11992) - drafted by Romanian
Development Bank (RDB) , letter no. 169/13.01.1997 and the attachments hereto;
- Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for Private Farmers and
Enterprise Support Project (no. 3486-RO/1992) - drafted by Agricultural Bank
(AB) , letter no. 702/11.02.1997 and the attachments hereto.
Sincerely yours.
Valentina Ispas
2 0,e7'll I
DEPUTY GENERAL IilRECTOR



-2-
ROMANIA
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL                 TREASURY GENERAL
RELATIONS GENERAL                      DIRECTORATE
DIRECTORATE
February 13, 1997
DRAFT
of Implementation Completion Report (Part C)
related to Romanian Private Farmers and Exterprise Support Project (3486-
RO/1992)
Romanian Private Farmers and Exterprise Support Project was design to
be financed out of the proceeds of an IBRD Loan, amounting 100 million USD.
The Loan was to make available in foreign exchange  for the import of
agricultural machinery and agro-processing plants and equipments. The Project
was presented to the IBRD Board on June 11, 1992 and signed on June 15, 1992.
It became effective on November 5, 1992. The Loan Agreement concerning this
Project was ratified through Law no. 89/22 July 1992.
1. Romanian Private Farmers and Exterprise Support Project design
Because of the wekness of the financial sector at that time and lack of
alternative financial institutions, the Ministry of Finance (International
Financial Relations General Directorate and Treasury General Directorate) was
designed as the APEX organization and the Agricultural Bank (AB) and
Romanian Development Bank (RDB) as the Financial Intermediaries (Fis).
The implementation design of that Project represent a huge effort for
both general directorate whitin the Ministry of Finance. In both general
directorate were created teams comprising 2 or 3 persons for implementing this
Project. As a result of the above mentioned, the work of the respective team
inside the International Financial General Directorate was carried out alike the
work inside of a foreign trade company (because of the supervision of the
procurement papers) and the work of Treasury General Directorate team was
very much alike with the work inside a bank (because of the tremendous
number of disbursements related to the sub-projects).
Despide of the necessary efforts for implementing this Projects the
experience gained during this process was very much appreciated in terms of the
skills and knowledges of the teams members. Taking into account that this was
the first credit line granted to Romania after 1990 these skills and knowledges
constitute a cornerstone for implementation of the future IFI's Projects.
2. Progress of the Project
Project was designed to be completed within five years time (respectively
as of June 30, 1997 in accordance with the provisions of Annex 2 of the Loan
Agreement) and disbursed within five years and a half (respectively as of as of



December 31, 1997 in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.03 of the
Loan Agreement).
In spite of the above mentioned both Fis submitted to the Ministry of
Finance subprojects for the whole amount of their allocation out ot the proceeds
of the Loan before the completion date.
As of December 31, 1996 the total amount disbursed out of the proceeds of
the Loan was 95.4 milllion USD, out of which AB disbursement was 74.4 million
USD (of which 649,105 USD balance of the Special Account) and RDB
disbursement was 20.9 million USD (of which 24,923 USD balance of the Special
Account). As result of the above and the disbursement pace it seems that the
closing of the Loan could be a date prior to December 31, 1997.
Out of the total IBRD loans for investment Projects, Loan concerning the
above mentioned Project was disbursed the most rapidly.
The table below shows the sub-projects approved by the Ministry of
Finance by Fis and categories of sub-projects:
CA TEGORIES       OF      SUB-      Total         AB          RBD
PROJECTS
Meat processing                           27           15           12
Harvesters, tractors, trucks             407          381           26
Milling/Bakery/Pastry                     56           31           25
Rehabilitation of tehnology                 4           4            0
Farm imporvements                           8           8            0
Packing and printing materials              6           5            1
Chocolate, wafers, ice cream               7            5            2
Installations for oil production           4            3            1
Diary/ Milk processing                    13            5            8
Soft drinks                                2            2            0
Alcholic drinks and winery                 12           3            9
Irrigations                                 6           5            1
Other                                     40           35            5
TOTAL                                    592          502           90
As regards AB, out of the total value of the Loan, 77.1 % aimed
agricultural sector, 21.9% aimed agro-industry and 1% aimed wood processing
equipment.
As regards RDB, out of the total value of the Loan, 24.6 % aimed
agricultural sector, 69.4 % aimed agro-industry and 6.0% aimed other
categories.
3. Relations between the Ministrv of Finance and FIs
Generally speaking Ministry of Finance cooperated well with FIs as
regards the above mentioned Project.
AB was more activ in promoting sub-projects to be financed out ofAhe
proceeds of the Loan. That is why AB completed the largest part of their
components of the Loan two years sooner. As regards RDB the start of their



- 4 -
component was slower, but during the last year the pace of submitting the sub-
projects to the Ministry of Finance increased.
4. Financial impact of Project
4.1. Cost of operation
In accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement between
Romania and IBRD, signed on June 15, 1992 the total amounts to be paid by the
Borrower (Romania, represented by the MNinistry of Finance) to IBRD are:
- Interest at a rate for each interest period equal to the cost of qualified
borrowings determined in respect of the preceding semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%), in accordance with Section 2.05 of the above mentioned
Loan - which ranged between 7,18% to 6,73% per semester, starting with the
first date of interest payment (August 16, 1993). The total amount of interest paid
up to now is 10.19 million USD;
- Commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time, in accordance with the Section 2.04 of the above mentioned Loan (which
represent 0,25% per annum). The total amount of Commitment charw"e paid up to
now is 0.6 million USD;
- Half yearly reimbursements starting with February 15, 1998.
4.2. Adeauacv of margins
Subsidiary Loan Agreements (SLA) with FIs signed on October, 1992
provided that the interest related to the above mentioned Loan will be paid by
Fis to the Ministry of Finance for the subloans denominated in USD will be
calculated and paid semiannually in accruals, on the principal amounts of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding, at an interest rate equal to 6 months LIBOR
for USD, as it appears on Reuter's screens, at 11 a.m. London time, in the last
banking day of the semester prior to the interest period, plus a margin of 2%.
Because of the rate of 6 months LIBOR for USD for the period 1993 -
1995 which ranged between 3,46% - 4,30% the interest amount received from
the FIs could not cover Borrower's interest obligations to IBRD.
5. Lessons learned
The problems faced during the implementation of the Projects (especially
those related to the rate of the interest to be paid by the Fis) have been
considered lessons to be applied to credit lines following to Private Farmers and
Enterprise Support Projects.
As we mentioned before the lessons  experience gained during the
implementation process was highly appreciated.
During the whole life cycle of the Project the Ministry of Finance and Fis
benefit from the support of the IBRD team (regarding Loan administration as
well as Disbursement and Procurement).
Deputy General Director                 General Director
Valentina Ispas                       Aron Racea



APPENDIX C
Page 1
BANCA AGRICOLA S.A.-ROMANIA
-Implementation Comrletion Report -
Loan Agreement No.3486/RO -between
Romania and the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development signed
on 15-th of June 1992
Name of the proiect . Private Farmers and Enterprise Support Project
A. PREFACE
1.1 The Loan Agreement for this Project in amount of USD 100 Million was
signed on 15-th of June 1992, out of which USD 75 Million were granted to
Banca Agricola S.A.
1.2 The scope of this project mainly consisted of the development of private
sector in agriculture and food industry by purchase of equipment, milk factories,
meat processing plants and slaughterhouses, mills, bakeries, irrigation systems
etc. with high productivity and technical performances.
B. ACHIEVEMENTS OF OBJECTIVES
2.1 From March 1993 to January 1995 a number of 488 investment
sub-projects were approved within this amount (Annex 1).
By reviewing the structure of these projects it was noticed that from the total
value 19.6 % represented the clients' own equity,18.1% represented Banca
Agricola 's own funds and 62.3 % represented the IBRD loan.
2.2 Out of the total of 488 subprojects approved according to the Annex no 2
a number of 408 sub-projects (77.1%) with a total value of the IBRD loan of USD
58 Mill(77.1 %) were approved for the agricultural sector, 79 sub-projects (16.2 %)
with a total value of IBRD loan of USD 16,5 Mill (21.9%) were approved for the
agro-industry sector and 1 subproject (0.2%) with a total value of IBRD loan of USD
0.6Mill.(1 %) was approved for the purchase of wood processing equipment.
The request for the hard currency loans comes from the agricultural sector
where mechanization was mainly developed by purchasing over 400 highly
performing combines and agricultural equipment.
There was also purchased a large number of dairy cows of high breed and
milk production .
The main share in the agroindustry sector was the purchase of mills and
bakeries (35 sub-projects), slaughterhouses and meat processing plants (14
projects) and milk processing plants (7 projects).



APPENDIX C
Page 2
2.3 According to the value of the approved IBRD loan (Annex 3) it is obvious
that most of the sub-projects were over USD 200,000 which represents 59.9 % of
the total value of IBRD approved loan and as sub-project number 115 representing
23.6% out of the total approved sub-projects.
A number of 182 sub-projects with a value of IBRD loan of USD 9.7 Million
had been approved for the individual farmers.
2.4 The principal and interest related to the granted loans have been already
repaid by now 93% within the approved sub-loans and out of the total value of the
IBRD loan on lended to Banca Agricola about USD 28 Million (37.3%) were
repaid .
23 projects were approved to be financed from IBRD repayments with a
credit value of about USD 5 Million followed by a significant increase in the number
of approved projects of this kind in 1997.
2.5 Referring to the Special Account we would like to stress that on January
31,1997 the level of disbursed amounts by the World Bank are in amount of USD
73.9 Million against USD 75 Million commited for 488 approved sub-projects.
This is due to the unfavourable difference in the exchange rate ROUUSD
used at the payment date for the purchase of the local equipment and the one
used to credit the Special Account by IBRD.
In this respect, Banca Agricola SA will send for approval to the Ministry of
Finance projects in amount of USD 1.1 mil.
2.6 The implementation of the subprojects has had a double efficiency, an
economic-financial efficiency and a social one.
The economic-financial efficiency means using the high level productivity
combines, reducing the cereals losses, decreasing the harvesting period and
therefore, the possibility to work larger surfaces.Under these circumstances, the
intemal rate of return has been represented about 40% instead of minimum 15%,
required at the approval date.
The internal rate of return for food industry projects is a little bit lower than for
combines projects, however is higher than the rate required in order to cover the
debt service.
The positive social impact represents it new jobs in agriculture and food
industry sector and an increase in the life level of the beneficiaries of this credit line
and of the workers from this area.
In the same time, the implementation of these subprojects has had a positive
impact regarding with the training of the employees by introducing new and modern
technology and the know-how transfer.
c.Key lessons learned
3.1 Monitoring this credit line through Banca Agricola SA has been a very
good experience because that means a deeper analyses of the subprojects in
accordance with World Bank and cost-profit methodologies.



APPENDIX C
Page 3
As a result of this learned lesson, Banca Agricola SA uses now these
methodologies in order to approve all kinds of credits.
3.2 Banca Agricola SA is now in the position to provide (if required) highly
experienced consultancy for:
-appraisal,
-disbursement,
-Special Account,
-procurement,
-Special Commitment
under World Bank procedures.
3.3 Banca Agricola SA learned how to manage conflicts and what the best
aiternative to solve them is.
The most obvious lesson that can be drawn from this experience is that in the
current economic circumstances a credit line to agriculture was the best approach
to support private initiative in the agricultural sector. The project was extremely
successfull. It reached the most productive part of the sector improving quality of
production and generating high financial and economic returns. Credit directly to
the agricultural sector had an immediat bottom up approach in increasing
competition and assisting reforme of the sector.
This loan encouraged foreign private lending and investment in agriculture in
the country. Institutionally, it was of great help to Banca Agricola in that it
introduced sound appraisal of projects financed, indirectly it improved auditing and
accounting procedures, and banking practices in general.
3.4 The World Bank loan had a comparative advantage in that its maturity
allowed subborrowers to have a reasonable time to amortize their investment.
3.5 The negative lesson of this project stands from the fact that Banca
Agricola should have been the Borrower.
The general conclusion is that this was a very good project  for the
agricultural sector and Banca Agricola. In view of the succes of this loan, the
World Bank should provide more ressources under credit facilities.






APPENDIX D
Page 1
4~BANCA ROMANA
MPENTRU DEZVOLTARE
CREDIT DEPARTMENT                           INTERNATIONAL
DEPARTMENT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
of the IBRD Loan - 3486 Ro
The Romanian Bank for Development and the Agricultural Bank are the
participating institutions implementing the Loan IBRD 3486 - Ro, which
started in 1992, November 5, and was allocated for the development and
support of the private sector in agriculture and food industry.
From the total amount of 100 mil. USD granted to Romania, the Romanian
Bank for Development was allocated an amount of 25 mil USD.
The opportunity of the project, its major objectives and the specific conditions
under which sub-loans could be made were stipulated in the Loan Agreement
signed by Romania and the World Bank, -as well as in the Subloan
Agreement, perfected between RBD and the Ministry of Finance.
I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
1.1 Identification and selection of sub-borrowers
In order to implement the project and to enter the particular market that the
project addressed to, RBD made a considerable effort, from the
organisational, financial and human resources point of view.
The beginning was difficult, because our bank had to enter a market over
which the Agricultural Bank had a monopoly, and also to deal with a higher
credit risk in the agricultural sector, where natural factors have an important
role.
To implement-the project RBD took the following measures:
- created a team within the Credit Department at Head Office level,
which dealt with identification of the projects, analysis and -
administration of the loans.
- created a new department to evaluate the feasibility studies;



APPENDIX D
Page 2
- insured the training of the personnel involved in the project, from
Head Office and from the branches, with the support of specialists
from VOCA Office;
- advertised the new product offered by the bank, through publicity in
the media and also through meetings with the clients, where the
methodology and the advantages of these type of loan were
presented.
The selection of the sub-borrowers was made according to the existing
Romanian legislation, the conditions set up in the Loan Agreement and the
provisions of the credit norms of our bank. RBD participation in the process of
privatisation of many state owned companies was also a possibility to find
new clients for the IBRD line of credit.
The evaluation of the projects was made by a specialised team in Credit
Department of RBD, based on the feasibility studies prepared by the team of
advisers of IBRD and other Romanian consulting firms, in accordance with
the standards regarding the environment, health and security stipulated by
the Romanian legislation and the procedures set by IBRD.
We assessed the technical feasibility and economic viability of the projects
and whether they are eligible according to the procedures set by IBRD.
The first projects that we identified and financed were food industry activitiesr
such as: milling-bakery (SC Agria - Calarasi ), milk and meat processing (SC
Maier and SC King Bihor), breeding ( SC Erbasu - Bucharest).
1.2 Procurement and initial draw-down
Acquisition of goods and services financed from credit was made according to-
the procurement procedures established by IBRD, namely the presentation of
3 commercial offers or international limited bid, which created competition
between suppliers and led to more competitive acquisitions.
Applying the specific procurement procedures indicated by IBRD, especially
international limited bid, SC Unirea lasi acquired equipment for pressing and
refining vegetable oil from DESMET with a reduction of the initial offer of
about 1 mil. USD.
Sub-borrowers bought equipment and machinery by comparing 3 offers, as
follows:
- high productivity agricultural machinery (combines, tractors, seeders,
plows) from producers like Case, Class, New Holland, Massey
Ferguson, John Deer;
- equipment for slaughter and meat processing, with capacities
between 1000 - 3000 kg/day, which allow obtaining products at
international standards of quality, from producers like: Alpina,
Debotec, Laska, Demave;



APPENDIX D
Page 3
- equipment for milk processing, with capacities between 1000-10000
litters, from producers like Cluhen, Parametros, Cremac, Tetra Laval,
Alfa Leval, W. Nielson Thor, Van Der Ploeg International, B. V.
Leeuwarden, Food Trade Consult;
- flour mills, with capacities between 24-36 to/24 hours and 150 to/24
hours, from producers as: Islaz, Golpheto, Happle;
- equipment for bakeries, with capacities between 150-5000 kg/day,
from producers as: Eamach, Yves Charpantier, Unicomp, Happle,
Etap, Tecnopast;
-new technologies for breweries, with capacities between 1300-2600
litters/day, acquired from Jager;
- equipment for packaging food products, from producers as Qadro,
BASF, KDO.
1.3 Sub Loan Administration and Supervision
Having particular conditions for granting and utilisation, the IBRD line of credit
required several organisational measures for the sub-loans supervision and
administration.
At Head Office level two working teams were set up, having particular duties:
- a team within the Credit Department, dealing with credit analysis and
monitoring all sub-loans;
- a team within the International Division, dealing with monitoring the
disbursements from the IBDR line of credit;
At the branches level, we took measures for training the personnel involved in
the project implementation, mainly regarding the documentation necessary for
disbursements.
As for the bank capacity to monitor each of the projects financed under the
IBRD line of credit, we have to mention that it was influenced to a high degree
by the delay in the implementation of an on-line information system. Yet we
succeeded to make progresses and created at the Head Office of the bank a
data base on the sub-loans portfolio, the draw-downs and the
reimbursements.
1.4 Relations between the bank and Ministry of Finance
The IBRD line of credit was granted to Romania, so that the final approval of
the projects has to be given in each case by the Ministry of Finance, in
particular by the Treasury Department and the International Department.
The relationship between our bank and the Ministry of Finance was generally
good, although in time we had some disagreements with the Treasury
representatives, with direct impact on the effectiveness of draw-downs and
project implementation.
With regards to this, the delays in approvals of several projects caused
considerable set-backs in starting up the investments, reflected in additional



APPENDIX D
Page 4
costs and a decrease in the efficiency of the businesses. As examples we can
mention companies as Bell Ami - Alba, Panipan Vip - Teleorman, Generis -
Bucharest, lzocon Brasov.
There were other cases when the investments could not be financed from the
IBRD line of credit because the type of activity of the clients was not accepted
by the Ministry of Finance, although it was in accordance with the provisions
of the Loan Agreement and the applicant companies had very good financial
results. As examples, we can mention  Masini-Import-Export Bucharest, for
acquisition of a transportation fleet for agricultural products, and Lacto-Star
Calarasi, for investing in a new factory for milk processing and producing ice
cream.
Generally, supervision and approval of the necessary documents done by the
Treasury in order to disburse money from the line of credit took a long time,
causing delays in acquiring the machinery and equipment and difficulties in
utilisation of funds.
This dysfunction in the relationship with the Ministry of Finance also affected
the image of RBD on the market, as far as the its clients or foreign partners,
in some cases, were concerned.
1.5 Repayment performance of sub-borrowers
There were 91 projects financed from the IBRD line of credit, from which, by
the end of 1996, 72 projects were started up, consisting of 51 new production
capacities and 21 investments for the development of agricultural machinery
fleet, by acquisition of new combines and other equipment.
On each sub-sector, the performance of sub-borrowers was as follows:
Combine harvesters and other agricultural equipment
There were imported more efficient combine harvesters of grain and industrial
plants, with better technical performances than those produced in the country
(productivity of 35 hectares/day, or 800-1000 hectares/year, low fewer
consumption, of 2 litters/to of final product, very low percentage of losses, of
1%, new and better technology for harvesting the corn). These aspects
allowed the farmers to achieve better results: higher income, low grain losses,
harvesting the crop in optimum time, lower expenditures with fuels and spare
parts.
Also, there were acquired high power tractors (190 HP), with higher
productivity (0.6 hectares/hour at plowing), resulting in a reduction of the
expenditures for mechanisation services of about 20%.
The investments made in this sector are profitable, and contributed to
modernisation of plowing and harvesting technologies and to the increase of
the agricultural output. This also resulted an improvement of the farmers
skills.



APPENDIX D
Page 5
Milk processing
In this industry investments concerned new imported technologies for milk
processing, milk or other sub-products packaging.
All the projects financed in this sector are operating with good financial
results.
Some representative companies for this sector are: Parametru, Sterochem,
Branimpex, Lactis.
Obtaining and processing of vegetable oil
In this industry the largest investment was Unirea lasi, in new technology for
seeds pressing and brut oil processing. After this investment the company
became the most modern in the industry. The high quality of the oil obtained
will allow the company to export margarine and refined oil.
Other activities
There were financed projects for: packaging food industry products, fertilisers,
transportation. At present, all these projects operate at full capacity, with good
financial results.
With regards to the reimbursements, from the total of 72 projects that have
started up, problems appeared at few clients. The main causes are:
- delays in receiving the equipment from import;
- instability of the Romanian economy
- the evolution of the exchange rate;
- disagreements between owners of the companies;
- unfavourable weather conditions;
In order to solve these problems, in each case the bank discussed with the
client, establishing the causes and also the necessary measures to improve
their activity, rescheduling the loans in some cases.
1.6 Details regarding the nature and type of the investments
From the total amount of 25 mil USD, there were financed a number of 91
projects.
Generally, there were financed small and medium size private companies, the
average being of 250,000 USD for each company.
On each type of activity, the use of the funs was made as follows:
* 24,6 % (6,2 mil USD) for agricultural equipment (combines, tractors,
seeders, plows, Dutzi equipment, Reekie potato system machinery). There
were acquired efficient combines harvesters for grains and industrial
plants (high capacity, low losses-maximum 1%, low fuel consumption)



APPENDIX D
Page 6
from: Case, Class, New Holland, Massey Ferguson, John Deer. There
were also acquired high power tractors (190 HP) from : Case, Massey
Ferguson, Fiat.
Other agricultural equipment acquired was Dutzi equipment, seeders and
plows, which insure a very high quality harvesting, at the optimum time.
*  16,4 % (4,25 mil USD) for slaughter and meet processing technologies,
with large capacities (1000-3000 kilo/day), low specific consumption, from
producers as: Alpina, Debotec, Laska, Demave.
* 15,7% (3,9 mil USD) for new technologies for pressing and refinement of
vegetable oil. Equipment was delivered by the Belgium company Desmst
and had as results an increase in the efficiency of producing the vegetable
oil with 1,5%, an increase the efficiency of the refinement process with
1,4%, a reduction of expenditures with utilities, improvement of the oil
quality and reduction of operating expenditures.
*  14,6 % (3,6 mil USD) for milk processing technologies, from the following
producers: Clauhen, Parametros, Scremac, Tetra Laval, W. Nielson Thor,
Van der Ploeg International, B.V. Leeuwarden, Food Trade Consult,
improving the quality and extending the range of milk products, packaged
according to international standards.
* 11,8 % (2,9 mil USD) for acquiring flour milling equipment imported from:
Golfeto-Italy, Alapala-Turkey, or from the domestic market, from Islaz.
Capacities are between 24-35 to/24 hours and an efficiency between 65-
70 %. The flour obtained insured a better quality of bread and bakery
products.
* 5,3% (1,3 mil USD) for brewery machinery.
* 4,1 % (1,0 mil USD) for technologies for bakery, pastry and pasta
products.
* 6,2 % (1,45 mil USD) for technologies in other sectors, as fertilisers and
packaging of various food products.
1.7 Financial performances of the sub-borrowers
In the appendixes we present the financial results and future performances
for several of the most important projects.
1.8 Financial impact of project on RBD
Implementation of the IBDR line of credit allowed our bank to apply new
methodologies for analysis and approval of long and medium term loans, in
the private sector.



APPENDIX D
Page 7
Among the sub-borrowers, best results were obtained by the following
companies: Michael Paullini, Comagris, Arteli, Dacia Ulmu, Faurei, Ceres
Smirna, Agroind Mureseni, Spicul de Aur, Agrotehnica.
Flour-milling and baking
In the flour milling industry, investments were made for new technology,
acquired from the domestic market or imported from: Italy, Germany and
Turkey, whose technological performances insure a high return on processing
(70%) and a high quality flour, which created the basis for extension the
range of pastry and bakery products.
During 1994 and 1995 the capacities set up in the milling-bakery industry
achieved very good results, as they had the necessary row materials in the
country, but in 1996, due to a lack of row materials they operated below their
initial parameters. Ander such conditions, the companies had to apply for
additional loans, with the market interest rate, in order to buy large quantities
of wheat.
Despite of these, up to now, the milling companies did not suffer losses, due
to the high return obtained in processing (70%) and the good quality of the
flour.
Among the companies in this sector, with good -performances, we mention
Bim Impex, Agrobanat, Panmarcom, Fornax, Comtours, Kaper, Panipan Vip.
Yet there are a couple of companies with unsatisfactory performances, the
main causes being disagreements that appeared between owners, in the
case of Pegas and Vlad & Vlad, or long delays in the start up of the
investment, as in the case of Mihai Prod.
Meat processing
In 95 % of the cases, investments in slaughter and meat processing sectors
were made for high technologies imported from well known producers.
Although from technological point of view, the projects financed are
considered to be important achievements for the meat processing industry,
from economic point of view these investments were less profitable in the
case of new companies, starting from the beginning with large capacities (4-6
to/day).
Besides the lack of the row material, other causes were the low level of
purchasing power, reduction of the market and unqualified management.
Some examples of companies with problems are: Cotuto and Floriroza, which
at present do not operate at their full capacity, having problems with a lack of
row material and working capital.



APPENDIX D
Page 8
As these sub-loans were new banking product, which addressed to a new
economic sector, private companies, setting up the documentation by the
clients was very difficult to achieve, so it took a larger volume of work for the
banks employees to do it and also a longer period of time for the analysis and
approval the projects.
Implementation of the project contributed to the development of RBD
customer basis and, based on that, to the extension of its network.
The interest rate and level of commissions were charged according to the
provisions of the Sub-Loan Agreement signed by the Ministry of Finance. Up
to the date of the present report RBD paid commissions in amount of 203.1
thousands USD and interest in amount of 2,270.2 thousands USD.
The results achieved by the bank, materialised in full collection of the
commissions and a collection rate fbr the interest of 85 %, prove that the line
of credit was well managed and can generate revenues in the future.
CsONCLUSIONS
The IBRD line of credit is addressing to an economic sector in which Romania
had large tradition, and we consider it a success, although its implementation
took place under conditions of high economic instability, characterised by
strong distortions.
The full utilisation of the line of credit was completed one year earlier than it
was initially planned, demonstrating that it was well managed and achieved its
objectives.
During the implementation period, an effective and important role had the
half-year missions of the World Bank, advising us in problems concerning the
credit activity, loan disbursements and loans recovery, mediating in many
cases the relations between the banks and the Ministry of Finance and by
this, speeding up the whole process.
Being selected by the World Bank as an eligible institution according to the
Loan Agreement provisions, the Romanian Bank for Development
strengthened its position on the domestic market as well as on the
international markets.
CREDIT DEPARTMENT                   INTERNATIONAL DEPARTMENT
DIRECT,R                                               DIRECTOR
Agaf  udosie                                     Laurentiu  itrache



IBRD 28710
22-                                   244                                 _  26-      /                              8
\ U K                                                                                                                  R  A I N E --- h t nw \~ t Q\RO M A  NII A
xYt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
ELEVATIONS ABOVE 500 METERS
A8-
SELECTED CMTES
HUNGARY                                                                                                          OOSN                                      COUNTY (JUDETi CENTERS
A                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NATIONAL CAPITAL
-EXPRESSWAY
-MAJOR ROADS
,~~T K,',h,n,,  OTH-ER PORTS
IndimyothrinFrmo8onshownon  A S  RIVERS
is ~ ~    T moRoneml. on doepon  i  .                      ')rrba)8/                                 \   /T    on                                       S           ogC
T. Udp.,f ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.COUNTY (JUDET) BOUNDARIES
od-  S A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
KILOETES
EA " GALATI 
such~~~~- \ondn*          U2                                                                                                                                         K 24  A I N GE     0  S T on
_j          UKRAINE
J~~~~
T 0~p. S.o.d.                                                                                                                               ILAiro.CNSAT
Mop D..,go 1)04 of TB. W0dd Book~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                 ~~E
TB. booodor.~~~~~~, colon. d.ooo,inocoo,  .  oIofol  AI.ooodc,o ~ ~     ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~    -7
ood o.,yo,Bor io(onooEoo oo,oo  f                                                  .~~~~
hi. oop A. not imply, on B. poor of               -. ~~~              '\                                                             MonLOMIT
moB Boooda.in..~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~L                                                                                                                                 LA    
22~~~~~N                                                                  l                         
rh,, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p -, p-d-d by th.                                                                  CON~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M'19









IMAGING
Report No.:          16739
Type:      ICR



