                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 36514

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                   (CPL-37340 SCL-3734A TF-25149)

                                                   ON A

                                                   LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 200 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                        RUSSIAN FEDERATION

                                                  FOR A

                                Financial Institutions Development Project




                                               June 26, 2006




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective April, 2006)

                        Currency Unit = Russian Ruble
                                RUR 1 = US$ 0.03636
                                US$ 1 = 27.5 Russian Ruble (RUR)

                               FISCAL YEAR
                         January 1     December 31

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ARCO      Agency for Restructuring of Credit Organizations
BRU      Bank Review Unit
CAP      Corrective Action Plan
CBR      Central Bank of Russia
CCCI     Consumer Credit Cooperatives and Institutions
CIS      Confederation of Independent States
CPL      Currency Pool Loan
DIA      Deposit Insurance Agency
DO       Development Objective
EBRD     European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ECA      Europe and Central Asia
ESP      Enterprise Support Project
EU       European Union
FIDP     Financial Institutions Development Project
FERFID   Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring and Financial Institutions Development
FSU      Former Soviet Union
GKO      Short term bonds issued by the Government of Russia
GOR      Government of the Russian Federation
IAS      International Accounting Standards
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
IFI      International Financial Institution
LIBOR    London Inter-Bank Offered Rate
MOF      Ministry of the Finance
MOEDT    Ministry of Economic Development and Trade
NCB      National Competitive Bidding
PB       Participating Bank
PIU      Project Implementation Unit
PHRD     The Japan Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
PSR      Project Supervision Report
PSD      Private Sector Development
QAG      Quality Assurance Group
SAR      Staff Appraisal Report
SCL      Single Currency Loan
SLA      Subsidiary Loan Agreement
TA       Technical Assistance

TF         Task Force
TTL        Task Team Leader
USAID      United States Agency for International Development



                       Vice President:       Shigeo Katsu
                    Country Director:        Kristalina Georgieva
                      Sector Director:       Fernando Montes-Negret
     Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Ljudmilla Poznanskaya

                                  RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                          Financial Institutions Development Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    4
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   4
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         5
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                          13
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            20
6. Sustainability                                                                22
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 23
8. Lessons Learned                                                               25
9. Partner Comments                                                              26
10. Additional Information                                                       26
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             28
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             29
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             31
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             31
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                33
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            34
Annex 8. Borrower's comments on the bank ICR and Borrower's Implementation
Completion Report, 2006 - received June 27, 2006

Project ID: P008828                                                  Project Name: Financial Institutions
Team Leader: Ljudmilla V. Poznanskaya                                TL Unit: ECSPF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 29, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Financial Institutions                                   L/C/TF Number: CPL-37340; SCL-3734A;
                                                                                                     TF-25149
   Country/Department: RUSSIAN FEDERATION                                                 Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Banking (98%); Central government administration (1%); Law and justice (1%)
                  Theme: State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (P); Regulation and competition policy
                            (P); Legal institutions for a market economy (P); Standards and financial reporting (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 05/03/1993                                     Effective: 09/20/1994                07/28/1995
     Appraisal: 12/06/1993                                         MTR: 06/01/1997                  11/01/1997
      Approval: 05/19/1994                                      Closing: 12/31/1998                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Ministry of Finance, Central Bank, Ministry of Economic Development and Trade
                      Other Partners:      Commercial Banks, Agency For Restructuring Of Credit Organizations (ARCO),
                                           EBRD, Other Donors

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Wilfried Thalwitz
Country Director:               Kristalina Georgieva                           Russell Cheetham
Sector Director:                Fernando Montes-Negret                         Michael Gould
Team Leader at ICR:             Ljudmilla V. Poznanskaya                       Jacques Tourreille
ICR Primary Author:             Vinod Goel


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
   Project Objectives and Goals

The ultimate objectives of the Project, as identified in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) were to:
·     increase the quantity and improve the quality of banking services;
·     promote banking stability; and
·     contribute to a more efficient mobilization of financial resources and allocation of bank credit (including
any bank lending financed by the World Bank or other international sources).

The immediate goal was to strengthen a core group of banks which will:
·     set higher banking standards and create a dynamic for enhancing the quality of banking activities in
Russia;
·     create the basis for a private clearing system operating at the level of the Federation; and
·     qualify as on-lenders of World Bank and other international lines of credit.

Background
Following the collapse of the Former Soviet Union (FSU) in late 1991, the Russian Government launched a
broad program of economic reform to replace the remnants of the command economic structure with a
market-oriented economy based on private ownership. At the inception of preparations for this Project, the
overall macroeconomic situation was not favorable and government economic policies were implemented
largely on an ad hoc basis. Still, despite the political turmoil and macroeconomic instability, the Government
had maintained progress on structural reforms. By the end of 1993, when the Project appraisal mission took
place, a considerable progress was already made: most prices were liberalized, the exchange rate and interest
rates were largely market determined, private property rights were expanded, trading monopolies eliminated,
and a large number of state enterprises were privatized.

One of the great transformations was taking place in the financial sector, where about 2,000 new commercial
banks had emerged. This transformation was ahead of the enterprise sector and was a unique feature of Russian
reforms entailing both considerable opportunities as well as risks. The new banks were the principal channel to
transfer resources from savers to investors and were considered the only external control over managers of
privatized enterprises. As noted in the SAR, the central role of the banks in the transformation process also
entailed considerable risks: poor lending decisions and inadequate monitoring of borrowers could expose the
banks to substantial losses and lead to systemic financial instability.

In 1992-1993, the Government and the Bank prepared a joint review of the Russian banking system, which set
the mid-term agenda for the financial system reforms. The Financial Institutions Development project (FIDP)
was designed to support this agenda and was also part of a broader-based political support to Russia's transition
agreed by the G-7 at its July 1993 Tokyo summit. During that meeting, a comprehensive Privatization and
Restructuring Program (PRP) was agreed to support post-privatization in Russia. The PRP was to include loan
and grant resources from International Financial Institutions, bilateral sources and export credit agencies. The
Bank was to contribute loan finance and technical assistance through a complementary package of operations
consisting of FIDP and Enterprise Support project (ESP)*. A US$36.0 million Japanese Grant (PHRD) was also
made available to defray the cost of the start-up phase of both of these Projects and initiate the process of bank
accreditation.

Assessment

The Project objectives were fully consistent with the CAS in force at the time. The Bank had taken the lead in
developing a framework for channeling assistance to privatized enterprises, and the FIDP (and the ESP) were
key elements of this approach. The Project was fully consistent with the Bank's lending strategy under the
Intermediate Case Program described in the CAS, and it supported the Government's objective to expand the
role of the private sector.

In the circumstances prevailing at the time, the objectives were realistic in terms of the Government reform plan
and the long-term horizon of financial sector reform, which suggested initiating the institution-building
components of reform as early as possible.




                                                       - 2 -

   However, in light of the speed of reforms in Russia, it became obvious latter that the objectives were too
   ambitious from the beginning. The Project was dependent on the pace of economic reform and macroeconomic
   growth, and, as stated in the SAR, was subject to unusually high risks. It was difficult to predict what the
   outcome of the political and economic situation could be, and Russia was considered likely to endure many
   abrupt changes and crises in its transition to a market economy. Still, it was decided to go ahead with the
   Project, which was considered as an important instrument for donor intervention and support to economic
   reforms in Russia.

   The Project was demanding for the Borrower. Given the size of Russia which spans 11 time-zones, its
   fragmented banking sector and regionally dispersed industrial base, identifying a promising core of banks was a
   challenging task. Implementation arrangements also required the Ministry of Finance (MOF) to enter into
   Subsidiary Loan Agreements (SLAs) with participating banks (PBs). This placed a legal and administrative
   burden on authorities who were poorly equipped to assume public-private interface functions with commercial
   banks. Further, as explained later in the report, at the time of Project preparation, nobody could have
   anticipated the 1998 financial crisis, which had a deep adverse impact on the Russian banking system and the
   Project as well.
   _____________________
   * The FIDP was closely linked to the ESP, a US$200 million Bank Loan. While FIDP was designed to create a framework
   for bank accreditation, institutional strengthening, and supervision of participating commercial banks, ESP's goal was to
   work with core banks accredited under FIDP and to provide them access to long term funds for on lending to domestic
   creditworthy enterprises.

3.2 Revised Objective:

   The Project overall Development Objectives (DOs) were quite general, to allow flexibility in response to
   changing constraints and opportunities, and remained unchanged throughout the Project life.

   However, while DOs remained unchanged, the Project was restructured and adjusted several times as explained
   below.

3.3 Original Components:
   As mentioned earlier, the Project components were designed to support the objectives of the Project by
   improving private Russian commercial banks so they could function in an efficient and sustainable manner and
   become institutions for on-lending to private Russian firms undergoing restructuring.
   The Project originally had four components:

    Component                                                                    Loan Amounts (US$ million)
   A. Commercial banking                                                                    194.4
     A.1. Institutional strengthening                                                        55.0
     A. 2. System modernization                                                             139.4
   B. Bank supervision                                                                        2.1
   C. Accounting and auditing                                                                 2.0
   D. Project implementation                                                                  1.5
   Total                                                                                    200.0

   Component A (Commercial banking) was intended at:
   1. Strengthening institutional capacity of a core group of Russian banks by: (a) developing "functional
   development programs" for each specially selected bank, and (b) twinning arrangement with European banks.
   (i)   The idea behind selecting a core group of about 20 private commercial banks was to enhance their
   capacity in bank operations and system modernization, and improve their knowledge on credit and risk
   assessment, loan portfolio management, treasury management, budgeting and internal control. These 20 banks
   were expected then to transfer this knowledge to other Russian banks, thereby improving banking services,
   skills and capacity throughout the country. The PBs entered into SLAs with the MOF and committed them to



                                                             - 3 -

   establish and maintain compliance with Project Accreditation Criteria and reporting requirements, as set forth
   in the Loan Agreement. Under the SLAs, the MOF on-lent FIDP funds to PBs for their activities.
   (ii)  The twinning arrangement was supposed to foster institutional development, by `pairing up' PBs with
   willing Western banks and thereby providing specialized knowledge and advice tailored to the needs of each
   bank.
   2. Modernizing systems for PBs with financing for technology experts, automation hardware and software, and
   systems installation and training; and thereby supporting the PBs transformation into efficient profit-oriented
   institutions.
   3. Financially strengthening PBs, by ensuring that all PBs adhere to established banking standards and required
   annual audits. Initially it was funded through grants, but later by the banks themselves.

   Component B (Bank supervision) was designed to strengthen banking supervision and regulation at the
   Central Bank of Russia (CBR), including development of on-site inspection manuals and training of inspectors,
   reform of bank accounting practices, development of bank legislation and CBR regulations. The technical
   assistance provided by this component was developed in close cooperation with the IMF and the Banque de
   France.

   Component C (Accounting and Auditing) was focused on providing support for the on-going accounting
   reform in Russia with a vision to bring accounting and auditing in Russia more in line with international
   practice.

   Component D (Project implementation) was to support establishing a Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
   responsible for managing the Project. According to the original Project financing structure, expenditures under
   this component, apart from refunding of the Project preparation advance of US$1.5 million, were to be financed
   by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) and other co-financers.

   On August 28, 1995, the MOF and the CBR signed an Agreement to establish an FIDP Task Force (TF), the
   managing and coordinating body for the FIDP. The TF was supported by a Bank Review Unit (BRU) and the
   PIU. The BRU was responsible for day-to-day monitoring and analysis of the operations of PBs. It became
   operational by end 1996 and thus the accreditation of the "first wave" 20 banks was done before the BRU was in
   place. The key BRU staff consisted of experienced foreign bankers and bank supervisors. The Bank had the
   status of "observer" in the Task Force (TF) and participated in its decision-making by maintaining a continuous
   dialogue with the BRU and provided "no-objections" to decisions at the TF formal meetings. Originally the
   operation of the PIU was organized under a contract with the international consulting firm, and the PIU was
   responsible for monitoring and advising PBs in procurement procedures, collecting monthly bank returns and
   financial reports, monitoring and accounting of loan disbursements and grant funds, preparing progress reports,
   and managing cost-sharing arrangements.

   Assessment
   The project components were directly related to the objectives of the Project. The original Project design
   envisaged a combination of support to institutional development of selected banks and support to reform of the
   regulatory infrastructure for banking system and was reasonably sound. The FIDP and ESP were two of the first
   Russia projects developed by the Bank which had limited operational experience in the country and thus few
   lessons of experience to draw from. However, the Project by its design was in control only of a part of the
   factors that were critical for achievement of the Project's Objectives. The 1998 financial crisis, which triggered
   a run on bank deposits and brought the Project to a halt, revealed the extent to which the Project depended on
   macroeconomic stability and sound banking reform. In addition, the implementation of components was biased,
   with only two components of the Project - the Commercial Banks and the Project Implementation - being active,
   while Components B and C were not implemented. However, despite the non-disbursement of funds for
   Components B and C, the Project significantly contributed to the on-going policy dialogue on the banking
   supervision matters and accounting reform.
3.4 Revised Components:




                                                        - 4 -

The Project was restructured and adjusted several times. In January 1997, the undisbursed portion of Loan
37340-RU was converted into a US$187.6 million Single Currency Loan (SCL) 3734A­RU, and US$1.5
million was re-allocated from Component A.1. to Component D.

                                                     CPL #37340-RU               SCL #3734A - RU
 Component                                        Amounts (US$ million)       Amounts (US$ million)
A. Commercial banking                                       10.0                       182.9
  A.1. Institutional strengthening                           2.7                       50.8
  A. 2. System modernization                                 7.3                       132.1
B. Bank supervision                                           0                         2.1
C. Accounting and auditing                                    0                         2.0
D. Project implementation                                    1.4                        1.6
SCL Currency Adjustment                                      1.0                        -1.0
Total                                                       12.4                       187.6

In July 3, 1998, the Project closing date was extended by two years and certain administrative arrangements
were restructured. In June 2000, mainly as a result of the financial crisis in August 1998, the Project was
restructured and the Bank Loan was partially cancelled by US$59.5 million. Also, the Project closing date was
extended until December 31, 2002. In March 2003, the Loan amount was reduced by US$46.1 million; the
Project was restructured and extended until December 31, 2004. In December 2003, the Loan amount was
further reduced by other US$8.5 million. In December 2004, the Project was extended for one more year and
US$1.0 million was cancelled.

The details of project restructurings and amendments are explained below.

Loan amendment of July 1998 (approved by the Board)

Although the FIDP had achieved several positive results, it was obvious after the progress review of end-1997,
that FIDP needed adjustments to improve implementation efficiency and optimize its overall contribution to the
financial sector development. The overall disbursement schedule of the Project was about two years behind the
original schedule, and by June 1998, only US$64.7 million (32 percent) of the loan funds were disbursed. This
was attributable mostly to unforeseen problems in establishing SLAs between the MOF and the PBs. In
addition, the Component A had been extended to nearly forty banks and required more time for the completion.

At the end of 1997, the MOF decided to integrate the PIU and the BRU under the Non-Commercial Foundation
for Enterprise Restructuring and Financial Institutions Development (FERFID). Operation of the PIU and the
BRU within a single structure was expected to provide for efficient interaction of these two groups responsible
for project implementation and accomplishment of its goals. Given the close interrelation between FIDP and
ESP, it was also decided that these two projects could share the same implementation structure and ESP's
operating cost would be included under FIDP's operating costs.

As a result, some project administrative arrangements were restructured and funds re-allocated between the
Loan components. The funding for commercial banks component was reduced by US$7.9 million, the funds for
the bank supervision component were reduced to zero, and funds for Component D were increased to finance
the technical assistance and consultants as well as operating costs. Although still classified as project
implementation, a major part of component D was targeted for direct assistance to MOF and CBR for
supporting financial sector reforms Also, the closing date of the Project was extended by two years to December
31, 2000.

The revised components are summarized below:
      Component                                                          Amounts * (US$ million)
A. Commercial banks                                                                185.0



                                                     - 5 -

  A.1. Institutional strengthening                                                 34.0
  A. 2. System modernization                                                       151.0
B. Bank supervision                                                                  0
C. Accounting and auditing                                                          2.0
D. Project implementation**                                                        12.0
  D.1. Technical assistance and consulting                                          7.0
  D.2. Operating costs                                                              5.0
SCL Currency Adjustment                                                             1.0
Total                                                                              200.0
*) Amounts include both CPL and SCL
**) Please see explanation above

Project restructuring of June 2000 (approved by the Board)

Following the financial crisis in August 1998, the Russian authorities faced new challenges and priorities in
restructuring the Russian banking system, resuming payments clearance and restoring market confidence. They
therefore engaged in a much intensified dialogue with the Bank, the IMF and other donors on banking sector
issues, including dialogue specific to the FIDP Loan. It was recognized that the FIDP Development Objectives
could not be achieved unless legal, institutional and regulatory framework for banking activity in Russia was
substantially improved. Accordingly, it was agreed that the FIDP Loan would be restructured to address these
refocused priorities and put more emphasis on developing the enabling infrastructure rather than individual
banks. The bank "accreditation" concept was discontinued, and a stronger emphasis was put on the bank's
developing sound institutional development programs. As a result, the FIDP funds were redirected to support:
(i) the CBR in streamlining the processes of bank bankruptcy and liquidation, upgrading bank accounting, and
strengthening supervision; (ii) activities of the Agency for the Restructuring of Credit Organizations (ARCO) -
the bank restructuring agency established in January 1999; and (iii) preparation and implementation of
restructuring programs for a small group of PBs and for selected state banks.

In June 2000, the Bank Board approved the FIDP restructuring concept, and the Loan Amendment become
effective on July 3, 2000. The amount of the Loan was reduced by US$59.5 million and the closing date was
extended by two years, until December 31, 2002. Also, at the time of this Project restructuring, specific
objectives were established to measure the progress of each component of the restructured FIDP.

The Project components were restructured as follows:
 Component                                                                 Amounts (US$ million)
A. Commercial banks                                                                 84.9
B. Assistance to the CBR and ARCO                                                   37.5
  B.1. The CBR                                                                      10.0
  B.2. The ARCO                                                                     27.5
C. Accounting and auditing                                                           2.0
D. Project implementation                                                           12.0
  D.1. Technical assistance and consulting                                           7.0
  D.2. Operating costs                                                               5.0
Unallocated reserve                                                                  3.1
SCL Currency Adjustment                                                              1.0
Total                                                                               140.5
*) Please see explanation under Component D below

Component A (Commercial Banks) was re-targeted to provide assistance for banks restructuring. The original
concept of `accrediting' banks for being in compliance with certain project participation criteria was replaced by
a new approach of certifying that a bank has committed to and satisfactorily implementing an action plan of



                                                     - 6 -

gradually moving towards compliance with best international banking practices.

Component B (Assistance to the CBR and ARCO) was aimed at:
1. Improving key functions of the CBR, including (i) development and enforcement of effective banking
legislation, (ii) implementation of bankruptcy prevention plans in particular banks, (iii) development of policies
and regulations in the areas of bank licensing, regulation, supervision, accounting and reporting, (iv) the
administration and/or liquidation of problem and/or failed banks.
2. Developing the institutional capacity of the ARCO, including provision of consulting and technical services,
equipment and staff training.

Component C (Accounting and auditing) US$2.0 million remained allocated for the development of
accounting and auditing practices.

Component D (Project implementation) was aimed at funding the consulting, technical assistance and
operating expenses of FERFID including the BRU. Although classified as project implementation, major part of
this component was targeted for direct assistance to MOF and CBR for supporting financial sector reforms.

In addition, US$3.1 million of the restructured Loan remained Unallocated.

Project restructuring of March 2003

At the end of 2002, the Government requested another extension of the Project. The Government emphasized
importance of continued Bank support for implementing the GOR/CBR Strategy for the development of the
Russian banking sector in 2003-2004, and using the existing FIDP and ESP infrastructure for this purpose.
Although the Project rating was unsatisfactory, an extension was granted given the importance of the sector and
the scope of proposed measures to address unsatisfactory aspects of FIDP.

In March 2003, Loan Amendments were made to reduce the Loan amount by US$46.1 million. Three
components: ARCO and two non-performing components (CBR and Accounting and auditing) were closed, and
the Commercial Banks component was reduced substantially. Also, the BRU was downsized to reduce costs and
improve efficiency. After these amendments, about US$18.0 million remained available for future use. At this
time, the Project was extended until December 31, 2004

As a result, the Project had only 2 active components (Components A and D):

 Component                                                               Amounts (US$ million)
A. Commercial banks                                                                73.3
B. Assistance to the CBR and ARCO                                                   1.7
D. Project Implementation*                                                         18.4
  D.1. Technical assistance and consulting                                         13.4
  D.2. Operating costs                                                              5.0
SCL Currency adjustment                                                             1.0
Total                                                                              94.4
*) Please see explanation under Component D below

Component A (Commercial banks) was aimed at: (i) assisting the institution building in medium size banks,
(ii) preparing the new project by assisting potential candidate banks with TA/training, IAS accounting, etc.; and
(iii) assisting the privatization of the state-owned banks.

Component D (Project implementation) was re-targeted for: (i) assisting the MOF and the CBR in the
implementation of the banking sector strategy, analytical studies and providing some support to ARCO in its
new role; (ii) administering FIDP and ESP, and (iii) preparing the new project. Although classified as project



                                                       - 7 -

   implementation, major part of this component was targeted for direct assistance to MOF, CBR and Ministry of
   Economic Development and trade (MOEDT) for supporting financial sector reforms.

   Project amendment of December 2003

   During 2003, the Component D, aimed at providing assistance to the Russian authorities, made a good
   progress. However, under the Component A, no expenses were made since the proposal of a potential new
   project (to focus on regional banks and SME development) was put on hold and ESP was closed in December
   31, 2003. Therefore, in December 2003, the Commercial Bank component was cancelled thereby further
   reducing the Loan amount by US$8.5 million. After the amendment, US$9.0 million remained available to
   future use.

    Component                                                              Amounts (US$ million)
   A. Commercial banks                                                              64.8
   B. Assistance to the CBR and ARCO                                                1.7
   D. Project Implementation*                                                       18.4
     D.1. Technical assistance and consulting                                       13.4
     D.2. Operating costs                                                           5.0
   SCL Currency adjustment                                                          1.0
   Total                                                                            85.9
   *) Please see explanation under March 2003 restructuring earlier

   Project amendment of December 2004

   At the end of 2004 - although the Bank team proposed closing the Project - the Government made a strong case
   for continuing to receive Bank assistance in the implementation of their banking sector strategy. Therefore, in
   December 2004, the Project was extended for one more year until December 2005 (this was the final extension).
   Also, at MOF request, the co-financing share was increased to 50 percent and US$1.0 million was cancelled
   under the only active Component D. After this cancellation, US$4.2 million was available for disbursement
   before the final closing date. After final Project closure on December 31, 2006 and by the end of four months
   grace period, US$0.4 remained undisbursed and was cancelled as of May 4, 2006.

    Component                                                              Amounts (US$ million)
   A. Commercial banks                                                              64.8
   B. Assistance to the CBR and ARCO                                                1.7
   D. Project implementation *                                                      17.0
     D.1. Technical assistance and consulting                                       12.2
     D.2. Operating costs                                                           4.8
   SCL Currency adjustment                                                          1.0
   Total                                                                            84.5
   *) Please see explanation under March 2003 restructuring earlier


3.5 Quality at Entry:
   The Project was not subject to a quality-at-entry review by Bank's Quality Assurance Group (QAG) since the
   QAE assessment system was not yet put in place at the time of Project Appraisal. However, based on the
   available information, the following observations can be made.

   The Project was consistent with the CAS objectives and Government development priorities and complied with
   applicable Bank safeguard policies. The SAR documented the Project and its background in sufficient detail.
   Key project stakeholders participated in appraisal and loan negotiations. The proposed implementation



                                                         - 8 -

   arrangements were considered adequate at that time.
   However, in retrospect, it is possible to identify several design flaws, which were already part of the initial
   project design concept. These include:
   1. Underestimation of several risks, such as (i) macroeconomic instability combined with the lack of necessary
   institutional infrastructure; (ii) substantial omissions in the course of privatization; (iii) weak governance of
   Russian banks, and (iv) concentration of bank loan portfolios on related parties;
   2. The Project was complex (especially considering prevailing environment and weak institutional capabilities
   prevailing in Russia) and its components were interdependent. Failure to implement any one aspect of the
   Project was destined to severely impair the successful implementation of the Project as a whole;
   3. The Project miscalculated the speed at which market-based banking practices could be built in Russia and did
   not pay sufficient attention to dismantling the traditions and structures of Soviet banking practices;
   4. The twinning contracts were too ambitious and attempted to deliver a whole array of services to the banks.
   Problems arose due to bureaucratic procedures, lack of absorptive capacity of the benefiting banks, lack of
   focus/quality in delivery of services and lack of trust between the `twinned' parties;
   5. Overestimation of the Government's political commitment and MOF's and the CBR's ability and willingness
   to conduct efficient banking supervision.

   Assessment
   While the Project was fully in line with Government's developmental priorities, it had to be restructured and
   extended several times. At the time of Project preparation, nobody could have anticipated the 1998 financial
   crisis and magnitude of the ruble devaluation, but in retrospect, the Project may have been premature in view of
   the structural weaknesses of the banking system and weak institutions. Based on this, for the purpose of the
   ICR, quality at entry is rated Unsatisfactory. However, the rating is noted to be marginal.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

   The pre-1998 crisis Project (1995 - 1998)

   Most of the FIDP banks failed as a result of the 1998 financial crisis and thus the FIDP goal of "strengthening a
   core group of banks, which would set higher banking standards and create a dynamic for enhancing the quality
   of banking activities in Russia" was not achieved**. Also, Components B and C of the Project were never
   implemented. The Project's achievement of DOs was rated Unsatisfactory following the 1998 crisis.

   The reasons for the failure of pre-crisis Project lay both outside and within the Project environment. The
   twinning and IT programs initiated by the Project were useful in modernizing the procedures and
   organizational structures and training the mid-level managers in participating banks, but they did not help to
   improve the banks' unsound policies and practices. The FIDP banks got engaged in imprudent transactions and
   their financial structures were risky and unsound. The banks' weaknesses were due to many factors, such as:
   bad management, excessive engagement in GKO trading, and undue off-balance sheet risks. Also, many FIDP
   participating banks were parts of large financial-industrial groups, which created an incentive for them to
   conduct imprudent credit policies, since the banks were viewed by their controllers mostly as treasury units and
   financing vehicles for their industrial businesses, rather than as self-standing profit-making entities.

   The FIDP participating banks were subject to extended international audits and supervision by the BRU,
   including on-site examinations by BRU staff, and the weaknesses were reported to the Task Force and to all
   Project stakeholders. However, for political and/or other reasons adequate measures to promote higher standards
   of behavior among FIDP participating banks were not taken by Russian Authorities.

   Thus, among external factors that led to the failure of FIDP prior to crisis were (i) unsound macroeconomic
   policy, (ii) weaknesses in privatization strategy (loan-for-shares schemes) that led to excessive links between
   major commercial banks and major potential borrower companies, and (iii) the limited ability of CBR to
   strengthen bank supervision, inspection, and legal enforcement mechanisms required for sound banking.



                                                          - 9 -

   The major factors within the FIDP that contributed to the Project's failure prior to 1998 crisis were (i)
   unrealistic concept of bank "accreditation", which led to a perception that accredited banks were already quite
   sound, (ii) inadequate attention to transparency and soundness of participating banks' ownership structures and
   quality of corporate governance, and (iii) failure to impose sanctions on delinquent participating banks by the
   Project stakeholders.

   The Restructured Project of 2000

   At the time of the Project restructuring in June 2000, specific indicators to measure the impact of the Project
   were established. These were; (i) increased intermediation through the banking system; and (ii) increased
   confidence in the Russian banking system, consolidation of the banking system, development of best practices
   in the banking system, creation of a competitive environment supported by transparency and strengthened
   supervision.

   The restructured Project since 2000 was more successful in terms of achievement of DOs than the pre-crisis
   Project. As described in Section 4.2 below, some of the specific output objectives in the areas of improvement of
   bank supervision, reform of legal environment, setting infrastructure for restructuring of problem banks, etc.,
   were at least partially achieved.

   The design of the restructured Project took into account some lessons from the implementation of the pre-crisis
   Project. It was reflected both in stronger emphasis on developing the regulatory infrastructure rather than
   developing individual banks, and in discontinuation of the concept of bank "accreditation". However, the
   overall impact of the Project on the quality of the Russian banking system was limited, partly due to sometimes
   unnecessary implementation delays, and more importantly - due to the fact that many significant factors were
   not in control by the Project. Thus, the outcome of the restructured Project was also rated Unsatisfactory,
   although the momentum for banking reform and Project's contribution to the reform became more favorable
   towards the end of 2002.

   Reduced Scope Project (since March 2003 amendments)

   As a result of March 2003 amendments, the Project was substantially reduced in scope and size. Although the
   team several times proposed closing the project, the Government was reluctant to do so as wanted to continue
   receiving Bank assistance in the implementation of their banking sector strategy. As a result of restructuring,
   intensive Bank supervision and close monitoring of the Project, the implementation of project activities become
   satisfactory during 2003-2005. Still, since the DOs were not formally changed, there was disconnect between
   the outset DOs and delivery of good results against objectives redefined during the long project life, and the
   overall DO rating remained Unsatisfactory.

   Over 2003­2004 FIDP concentrated its activities for assistance in the implementation of the banking sector
   strategy. In this area, the technical assistance was provided to the MOF, the CBR, the MOEDT and the ARCO.
   In 2005, also the Deposit Insurance Agency (DIA) was included. The technical assistance was provided in the
   following areas: (i) improving the legal framework for banking sector; (ii) creating favourable environment for
   financial intermediation; (iii) improving banking regulation and supervision; (iv) increasing competition,
   improving transparency of credit institutions' activities, and strengthening market discipline; (v) improving the
   quality of corporate governance; (vi) developing banking infrastructure; (vii) improving access to finance, in
   particular for SME sector; (viii) building regulatory and institutional framework for the DIA; and (ix)
   supporting the Government reform agenda in other segments of financial market.
   _______________________
   ** Details of implementation of Commercial Banks component before the 1998 crisis are provided in Section 10.

4.2 Outputs by components:




                                                        - 10 -

The Pre-crisis Project

The Pre-crisis Project achieved a number of positive outcomes: it introduced the IAS audits to many large
banks, formed a cadre of well-trained bank managers, helped banks to upgrade the information technology
systems and improved their access to foreign private financing. Still, as there were also significant
shortcomings in implementation, the overall progress was uneven and many positive achievements had only a
limited effect. The project in general was not able to reach the goal of increasing the stability of the banking
sector.

The outputs of the Project were rated as follows:

Component A (Commercial Banks) is rated Unsatisfactory
SAR output objectives: (i) strengthening operations of selected banks via "twinning" arrangements with foreign
banks; (ii) systems modernization in selected banks; (iii) enhancing financial soundness of selected banks.

(i) Some 21 banks signed twinning contracts. The twinning arrangements helped to improve banks' procedures
and train bank personnel but several good externalities may not be captured by the project. However, banks
operations at large were not affected, since consultants were often kept off the banks' actual financial
management, and hence their advice was limited by organizational/technical issues and hardly affected the
client banks' business strategies and policies at large. The foreign consultancy delivered under the twinning
sub-component of FIDP thus helped to create grounds and potential for development of a more sound banking
industry in future, but the component's objective as stated in SAR was not achieved.

(ii) The IT component was implemented in 25 banks. The performance of banks on IT varied tremendously:
some banks with clear business strategies fully exploited the opportunity of FIDP financing, while others never
determined their business strategies and materialized their plans for large IT investments. These factors resulted
in the under-utilization of total allocations. Still, the objective, as stated in SAR, was partially achieved, as
certain investments were made, and they contributed to the development of technical infrastructure for banking
in Russia even after the crisis.

(iii) The objective of enhancing financial soundness of participating banks was not achieved, due to lack of the
Project control over some of the important factors that defined banks' unsound practices, combined with the
failure to introduce sanctions on banks not complying with the Project requirements.

Component B (Banking Supervision) is rated Unsatisfactory
SAR output objective was strengthening of bank supervision at the CBR via provision of: (i) legal advisory
services to assist in reform of legislation, (ii) training of on-site inspectors and technical assistance in
preparation of on-site inspections manual, (iii) technical assistance in development of off-site surveillance,
including design of an early warning system.
This component was not implemented, and thus the objective stated in SAR was not achieved.

Component C (Accounting and auditing) is rated Unsatisfactory
SAR output objective was to support the MOF in general accounting reform and development of the auditing
profession; and the CBR in reform of bank accounting.
This component was not implemented, and thus the objective stated in SAR was not achieved.

Component D (Project implementation) is rated Satisfactory
The SAR did not specify any particular objectives for this component, except that the PIU was expected to
perform its standard functions, and the BRU was "to advise and assist the Task Force on monitoring the
performance of participating banks". The PIU performed its functions fully satisfactory throughout the entire
Project duration. The BRU became fully operational by 1997. As the BRU's understanding of the banks was
growing, it did identify and report to the Task Force many of the participating banks' weaknesses that fully
disclosed after the crisis. Apart from performing its direct responsibilities, the BRU played an important role in




                                                      - 11 -

maintaining the dialogue with the CBR supervision department. This BRU's role was particularly useful given
the lack of progress in implementing the CBR component of the Project. It should be noted that while the PIU
functioned very well under difficult circumstances, actual project implementation itself did experience problems
as explained earlier.

The Restructured Project of 2000

As mentioned earlier, at the time of the Project restructuring in June 2000, specific objectives (output
indicators) were established to measure the progress of each component of restructured FIDP. Achievement of
these output objectives by components is discussed below.

Component A (Commercial Banks) is rated Unsatisfactory
The output indicators were: (i) CBR's implementation of restructuring actions in 5-10 banks, including
financial and operational restructuring, implementation of international accounting standards, enhanced risk
management practices, and support to the implementation of tightened Central Bank supervisory practices; (ii)
Completion of financial and strategic reviews of Sberbank and technical support to implementation of
restructuring process; Vneshtorgbank and Vneshekonombank to implement similar process.

In the aftermath of the 1998 financial crisis, the Project financed due diligence reviews of 18 participating
commercial banks carried out by the external auditors under the BRU guidance and quality control. The
endorsement of due diligence summary report by the FIDP Task Force resulted in de-accreditation and removal
of 14 banks from the Project. Also, these reviews helped the Government to delineate restructuring scenarios
for the Russian banking system, and formed basis for the CBR to withdraw licenses of 6 failed banks. The
banks, which survived the crisis and were continuously interested in project participation, were required to
implement comprehensive Corrective Action Programs (CAPs). Subsequently, the CBR endorsed the
development and implementation of CAPs as a mandatory precondition for all Project candidates.

(i) The objective of implementation of restructuring programs in selected banks was achieved partially, as only
three banks implemented their CAPs since the restructuring of the Project. Delays in implementing CAPs were
partly due to difficulties in establishing and "polishing" the new procedures under the Project and partly due to
more fundamental reasons related to the banks' lack of experience in formulating acceptable programs and time
needed to achieve understanding with candidate banks on the key institutional development issues.

(ii) A financial review of Sberbank, financed under FIDP, was conducted in 1999. The review helped the
Russian Authorities, the Sberbank management and IFIs to better understand the financial position of the
Sberbank, and thus facilitated efforts to formulate a strategy for Sberbank's future development. However, the
Bank, Sberbank and the MOF failed to agree on the Terms of Reference for the FIDP-funded strategic review of
Sberbank, and there was no follow up technical support to Sberbank restructuring after the financial review was
completed. Discussions with two other major state banks ­ Vnesheconombank and Vneshtorgbank ­ were also
ongoing, but no particular terms for these banks' receiving assistance under FIDP were ever agreed. Although
the Project provided a useful forum on which to build policy dialogue with the state banks, the output objective
was not achieved.

Component B1 (Improvement of Key Functions at the CBR) is rated Moderately Satisfactory
The output indicators were: (i) Continued improvement in the legislative framework and streamlining of
procedures for bank bankruptcy and liquidation; (ii) Implementation of international accounting standards
(IAS) for restructuring banks, through pilot projects with selected banks, with a view to system-wide
implementation.; (iii) Strengthening CBR supervisory framework: Implementation of revised standards in such
areas as bank licensing, asset classification and provisioning, consolidation of accounts and consolidated
supervision, market risk and disclosure; strengthened enforcement by CBR through improved accounting and
reporting; enhanced off-site and on-site supervision.

(i) The legislative framework was improved with the help of consultants who participated both at the working



                                                     - 12 -

and policy levels in preparing a federal law "On Restructuring of Credit Organizations" and amending the laws
"On the Central Bank of the Russian Federation", "On insolvency of credit organizations" and "On banks and
banking activity". In addition, the advice and guidance was provided to CBR on international practices in areas
of charter capital, capital adequacy assessment, identification of "false bankruptcy", regulation of bank holding
companies and banking groups, and the liability of bank regulators. These legislative improvements had
positive implications on bank bankruptcy/liquidation process, either directly or indirectly. However, although a
there was substantial progress in the area of bank bankruptcy legislation, the bank bankruptcy and liquidation
procedures remained generally unsound, foremost due to weak judicial system and enforcement - factors that
were not under the control of the Project. Consequently, the Project's output objective was achieved only
partially.

(ii) The Project contributed to other donor's efforts to increase awareness of the importance of IAS accounting
and disclosure requirements for banks, although the Project's output objective was achieved mostly outside its
framework.

(iii) The Project framework made a positive contribution to the strengthening of the banking supervision
function within the CBR, both directly and indirectly. These efforts were financed under the Japanese Grant and
under Component D of the Loan. Apart from on-going dialogue with the CBR on the assessment of financial
condition of banks based on IAS data, the BRU carried out a number of specific assignments at the request of
the CBR, including: (a) The post-crisis assessment of financial condition of the 18 largest banks; (b) The
assessment of the bank supervision function of the CBR in 2000; (c) The on-going dialogue with the CBR
Supervision Department on supervision methodology issues; (d) Support to the CBR in development of
stress-testing methodology (to assess banking system stability) and preparation of the corresponding reporting
requirements for banks.

In the immediate aftermath of the 1998 crisis, the CBR insisted on introducing an expanded "CBR component"
into the restructured Loan. But, by the time the Loan Amendment was signed in June 2000, the momentum for
CBR using FIDP money was already diminished, and therefore disbursements under the CBR component were
very small (US$0.1 million out of the US$10 million allocated). However, the CBR received additional
assistance under FIDP using the Japanese Grant financing (US$0.3 million) and under Component D of the
Project, which explains how some of the objectives were achieved partially or in full, despite only marginal
disbursements.

Component B2 (Developing the Institutional Capacity of the ARCO) is rated Satisfactory
The output indicators were: (i) Development of the Agency's functions, policies, procedures, practices, and
organizational structures and management financial, operational and management review and key follow-up
actions; (ii) Design and implementation of best practice restructuring or liquidation of troubled banks; (iii)
Efficient, transparent operational structure with sound financial management and accountability.

All three output objectives were fully achieved, although ARCO used only US$1.5 million out of the US$27.5
million allocated under the FIDP Loan. An Operational and Organizational Review of ARCO, financed under
FIDP, served as a basis for the subsequent follow-up assistance. Since ARCO's creation in 1999, the Agency
had 15 banks under its administration. By the end of 2002, ARCO - supported by FIDP-funded technical
assistance- had restructured, sold or liquidated 12 banks out of its portfolio. The Project also had a major impact
on ARCO, including institutional building aspects, management's knowledge-base and technical expertise.

Component C (Accounting and Auditing) is rated Unsatisfactory
Output objective was: Initiation of accounting reforms fully consistent with international standards.

The Ministry of Finance did not use this component of the FIDP Loan, as it was able to receive some grant
assistance under a TACIS program. Thus, the objective was not achieved.

Component D (Project Implementation) is rated Satisfactory




                                                     - 13 -

This component played a central role in the restructured Project, as many of the results achieved under other
Project components were in fact financed under Component D. The BRU itself was providing advice to the CBR
in the area of banking supervision, as well as advice in institutional building matters to participating and
candidate banks under the Commercial banks component. A number of technical assistance contracts for legal
assistance to the MOF in the area of drafting amendments to banking legislation were also financed under this
component.

As evidenced above, the restructured FIDP achieved four out of its nine specific objectives. In retrospection,
some of the Project objectives were optimistic, and also the Loan amounts required were overestimated in 2000
restructuring. This is reflected by the fact, that even under those components where objectives were achieved,
the disbursements were much lower than expected (only US$5.3 million was disbursed during this period).
However, these lower disbursements should not underestimate the Project's contribution to the positive
developments in the banking sector.

Reduced Scope Project (since March 2003 amendments)

Component A (Commercial Banks) is rated Unsatisfactory since no disbursements was made as it was canceled
in December 2003.

Component D (Project Implementation / Assistance to the Russian Authorities on Financial Sector Issues) is
rated Satisfactory.

This component made good progress with the MOF, CBR, DIA and MOEDT who actively engaged in using
technical expertise provided by the Project. During 2003-2004 the pace of component implementation gained
speed which led to substantial increase of the amounts disbursed under FIDP. As explained above, the majority
of funds of this component were spent on providing direct assistance to MOF, CBR and MOEDT on supporting
banking sector reforms.

At the end of 2004, the MOF made a strong case for continuing to receive Bank assistance in the
implementation of GOR's banking sector strategy. Thus, the project was extended until December 31, 2005 and
continued to make good progress. In particular, during 2003-2005, US$8.1 million was disbursed for carrying
out many important activities, including:
(i) Further improving the banking sector legislation with the help of consultants who drafted 23 legal acts
and/or amendments to legislation within the framework of the Strategy for the Development of the Banking
sector of the Russian Federation;
(ii) Assisting in building the regulatory and institutional framework for the Deposit Insurance System. The
Deposit Insurance Agency was established on ARCO's institutional and human resources, thereby fully
ensuring the sustainability of the project's input. In addition, the project assisted in developing the legal
framework for corporate liquidation of credit organizations, which has been included into DIA mandate after
enactment of relevant legislation in 2004. The BRU was also involved in developing the regulatory framework
for DIA, and providing comments to CBR regulations and procedures in this area. In addition, the legal advice
was provided to the CBR on deposit insurance matters and technical assistance to DIA on developing the
methodology for assessing the Deposit Insurance Fund sufficiency to meet its obligations.
(iii) Further strengthening the bank supervision function. In 2004, the project funded the work of an Advisor to
the Legal Department of CBR. The main objective of this assistance was to bring the banking regulation more
in line with the best international practices.
(iv) Improving access to finance for SME sector. The Project provided assistance for creating a modern secured
financing system involving movable property, improving regulatory framework and institutional capacity
building for consumer credit cooperatives and institutions (CCCIs), developing the comprehensive legal
framework for regulating microfinance institutions, and preparing the concept for developing infrastructure for
microfinance sector in Russia.
(v) Providing technical assistance in implementation of Government policy on financial markets. This included
identification of proper role of financial markets, development of methodology of forecasting possible crisis




                                                     - 14 -

   situations, preparing proposals on financial markets integration as well as on training of financial market
   regulators.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

   Not applicable

4.4 Financial rate of return:

   Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:

   The Project's institutional development impact is assessed as Modest. Participation of all Project beneficiaries in
   preparation and implementation of the program assisted in capacity building. In particular, the Project
   contributed the following positive institutional developments:
   1. Dissemination of sound banking practices: participating banks become exposed to international banking
   standards. They received training in prevention of issuance of credits to affiliated parties, diversification of risk
   concentration notably on large borrowers, sectoral credit portfolio diversification and increased transparency in
   financial reporting;
   2. The staff trained under FIDP was able to use their newly acquired skills in other credit institutions, thereby
   contributing to know-how transfer and dissemination of sound banking practices;
   3. Development of a high quality bank monitoring unit: The BRU played a central role in the selection and
   monitoring of the PBs, and greatly increased its skills through its involvement in the project;
   4. The institutional capacity of the ARCO was well developed thus making it possible to establish the Deposit
   Insurance Agency on ARCO's institutional and human resources;
   5. The CBR's Legal and Banking Supervision departments were strengthened significantly.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

   The predominant factor affecting Project implementation and outcome was the 1998 financial crisis. As
   described earlier, the crisis severely disrupted the banking sector and brought the Project to a halt. It should be
   noted that at the time of Project preparation, nobody could have anticipated the 1998 financial crisis and
   magnitude of the ruble devaluation which had a very detrimental affect on the Russian economy.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

   Factors subject to Government control which affected the Project can be divided into two categories:

   1. Macroeconomic policy and commitment to sector policy reform: The scope of damage prompted by the
   financial crisis was exacerbated by GOR's poor macroeconomic policy and lack of political will to pursue
   banking sector reform. Macroeconomic policy encouraged banks to invest massively in Government bonds
   instead of engaging in prudent corporate lending; deficiencies in GOR's privatization strategy fostered links
   between large banks and corporations thereby encouraging bank lending to affiliated parties and facilitating
   asset stripping. In addition, weak enforcement of property and creditor rights, an inadequate legal framework
   for resolving failed banks and a generally unfavorable business climate all reduced the potential impact of the
   project.

   2. Government commitment to the Project: The MOF was poorly equipped to deal with the Project. Its slow and
   bureaucratic processes for signing SLAs significantly slowed the pace of Project implementation, especially
   after the 1998 crisis. Weak project administration capacity on the part of the MOF was compounded by weak


                                                        - 15 -

   political commitment to the Project.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

   The implementing capacity put in place for the Project was of good quality. The implementing agency
   performed its technical functions in a prompt and professional manner. Internal arrangements for Project
   management, monitoring and evaluation were adequate. The PIU/BRU demonstrated strong commitment to the
   Project, maintained the required project management controls, retained qualified staff and ensured quality
   management throughout the Project life. When the 1998 crisis brought the Project to a halt, the PIU/BRU,
   acting on behalf of the Task Force, took action to migrate viable sub-loans to reliable financial intermediaries,
   cancel new doubtful sub-loan commitments and protect project funds ­ a series of interventions which
   prevented loan loss and ensured high sub-borrower repayment performance. Also, combining the overall project
   implementation structure of FIDP and ESP proved efficient. The delays in Project implementation and the
   Project's failure to achieve satisfactory Outcome was not due to the PIU/BRU inaction or incompetence, but due
   to factors that were outside the implementing agency control.

5.4 Costs and financing:

   The total Project cost, as originally stated in SAR, was US$389.4 million, to be financed by the World Bank
   Loan of US$200.0 million, US$99.0 million from EBRD (net of US$1.0 million upfront fee) and US$90.4
   million from other co-financers.

   During about twelve years of Project life it was restructured several times and significant amounts of Loan were
   cancelled as explained earlier. From the World Bank loan US$84.5 million was disbursed, of which 5.6 percent
   went for the project management. Regarding the other co-financers, US$42.5 million was disbursed from the
   EBRD loan, US$8.1 million form Japanese grant, US$9.2 million from the EU grant and the Russian
   Federation co-financed the Project by US$3.7 million. Thus, the total disbursements amounted to US$148
   million, of which 74 percent went for the Commercial banking component, 1.4 percent for the Bank supervision
   component, 17.6 percent for providing technical assistance and consulting under Component D, and 4.1 percent
   for the project management.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

   The Project did not achieve its Development Objectives. Still, it contributed to the banking sector reform in
   Russia. It is important to evaluate the Project in the overall context of the Russian portfolio, in particular the
   reluctance of the GOR to close down the Bank projects, especially in the key areas of reform. Despite delivering
   good results against redefined objectives, these long-life projects often end up with Unsatisfactory rating
   because of disconnect between the design at the outset and actual delivery in the end.

   The Project helped to transfer knowledge of market economy principles and prudent lending practices to
   participating banks and promoted better accounting and disclosure practices in the banking community. Some
   participating banks were also able to attract additional sources of finance without a Government guarantee,
   which attests to their "graduation" from the program.

   Although the overall Loan disbursements were low, the Project significantly contributed to the Government's
   strategy for the development of the banking sector. As a result, banking sector development has been supported
   by appropriate legislative changes, the bankruptcy and debt resolution framework has been strengthened,
   banking supervision has been improved, and international financial accounting standards have been introduced.
   Although more needs to be done, especially in regard to effective supervision, these achievements can be
   considered irreversible.

   In addition, the Project supported building of regulatory and institutional framework for the Deposit Insurance



                                                        - 16 -

   System. Since the Deposit Insurance Agency (DIA) was set up largely building on ARCO's institutional and
   human resources, the sustainability of the Project's input has been ensured. In addition, the Project assisted in
   developing the legal framework for corporate liquidation of credit organizations, which has been included into
   DIA mandate after enactment of relevant legislation in 2004.

   These results have been gradually achieved in recent years as a result of growing commitment by the Russian
   Authorities to banking sector reforms. Therefore, although the overall Project impact has been unsatisfactorily
   modest, the Borrower ownership of the results that have been achieved is in place, and sustainability of the
   results achieved under the Project is Likely.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

   Results achieved under the Project translated into the legislation and regulatory acts of the Russian Federation,
   as well as into skills and culture of Russian bankers, accountants, bank supervisors. Also, the new proposed
   operation, which drew on FIDP's and ESP's lessons of experience, was based on a comprehensive approach
   designed to ensure higher levels of sustainability. It was expected to focus on improving the business and
   lending environment; developing regional banks and providing medium and long-term funding for SMEs.
   However, in June 2004, the Government revised its overall borrowing strategy and further development

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

   The Appraisal of the Project was carried out with intensive staff inputs and good working liaisons with both the
   Government and co-financing donor agencies including EBRD, EU, USAID and other donors. The Bank
   provided adequate support to the Russian Authorities in identifying project activities and the Bank team had the
   appropriate mix of banking and operational skills. The Project complied with all applicable Bank safeguard
   policies; the components were clearly formulated and sub-loan requirements laid out in appropriate detail.

   FIDP was one of the first Bank operations in Russia, and thus did not benefit from lessons of experience. In
   addition, it was developed at a time when Donors were eager to provide strong political support to Russia
   during its difficult transition to a market economy. The large size of the Project attests to the desire of the
   Donor community to provide rapid and large scale support.

   In retrospect, however, the Project paid little attention to the links between the feasibility of achievement of the
   Project's DO and progress on a broader Government reform agenda and absorption capability. In addition, the
   Government's lack of political commitment to address the structural problems in the banking sector, especially
   the public sector banks (e.g., Sberbank and others) had a major adverse impact on the project outcomes. All
   these broader factors, external to the Project, indirectly affected its implementation and achievement of DO. The
   Project may have benefited from a more thorough and realistic assessment of demand for funds and
   pre-selection of PBs. It may also have benefited by starting from a more modest scale with a smaller loan
   amount.

   Given the Project shortcomings outlined above, Lending is rated Unsatisfactory. At the same time, the rating is
   noted to be marginal. However, it should be noted that, while in retrospect these are all valid reasons, it is not
   clear if the project team could have done anything different under the prevailing circumstances in Russia at that
   time.

7.2 Supervision:

   Supervision was carried out regularly and PSRs prepared on a timely basis, the Bank FIDP team conducted
   more than 25 Project Supervision missions since 1994 (see Annex 4). The quality and level of details provided



                                                         - 17 -

   in the PSRs were uneven but adequate overall until 2002. Implementation problems were identified in a timely
   manner and addressed pro-actively. The Bank demonstrated flexibility and responsiveness during project
   implementation as evidenced by actions took and adjustments introduced during restructuring. The quantity and
   quality of Bank staff and consultants, their time in the field, timing of supervision missions, and the support of
   Bank management to staff at critical points were adequate. Also, the Russia Country Office provided adequate
   support to the task team. However, mission staffing could have been stronger during the initial years: the Bank
   was in an increasingly weak position to assess technical aspects of project implementation. This was also noted
   in the 2003 QAG review where the quality of FIDP supervision was assessed Marginal. At the end of 2002,
   necessary steps were taken by the Bank management and the Project supervision was strengthened. The new
   Project team included highly experienced personnel and the Project was supervised more actively with timely
   action taken to address issues and problems, including initiating closing of non-performing components. The
   improved implementation and supervision of the Project during 2003-2005 period resulted in significant
   achievements as explained earlier.

   Based on the above, overall Bank performance in supervision is rated moderately Satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

   In view of 7.1 and 7.2 above, overall Bank performance is rated moderately Satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

   The GOR and MOF demonstrated good commitment during preparation stage and provided adequate technical
   institutional and administrative attention to the Project. Notwithstanding the slow start of the Project, the
   performance of the Borrower during project preparation is rated Satisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

   The Government acted generally satisfactorily on technical matters related to the Project implementation. Most
   Government actions required were taken reasonably promptly. However, there were a few noticeable exceptions,
   where it took the Government excessive time to take actions or the actions were not taken at all. For example, in
   2002 the Government did not counter-sign two Grant Agreements ("new" PHRD Grant and DFID Grant) in
   support of FIDP that were signed by the Bank in October 2001. These grants were subsequently cancelled and
   the Loan funds had to be used to finance relevant activities.

   From an operational standpoint, the MOF's slow and bureaucratic processes in signing SLAs with participating
   banks severely impacted the pace of Project implementation. Weak Project administrative capacity was also
   coupled with low political commitment to the Project. However, in the latter years (2003 onwards) the MOF's
   performance become more supportive and effective, and also the MOEDTs involvement starting 2004,
   enhanced the project implementation. During this latter period the Government provided sustained financial
   and policy support to the Project.

   Based on the above, the implementation performance of the Borrower for the Project is rated moderately
   Satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

   The implementing agency (PIU/BRU) performed its functions in a prompt and professional manner during
   implementation. The implementing agency demonstrated strong commitment to the Project, maintained the
   required project management controls, retained qualified staff and ensured quality management throughout the
   project life. The delays in Project implementation and the Project's failure to achieve satisfactory Outcome was
   not due to the PIU/BRU inaction or incompetence, but due to factors that were outside the implementing agency



                                                        - 18 -

   control. Based on the above, the performance of the PIU/BRU is rated Satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:


   The overall Borrower performance is rated moderately Satisfactory

8. Lessons Learned


   There were several significant lessons learnt from the FIDP:

   1. A conducive and stable policy environment: FIDP's ability to fulfill its DOs was greatly impacted by external
   macroeconomic risks. If these risks were better identified, the Project would either be postponed until the
   necessary macro/political conditions were in place, or the criteria for measuring the Project's success would
   have been adjusted to take into account the fact that the Project's success to a significant extent depended on
   factors beyond its control.

   2. Commitment of the Borrower and other beneficiaries: Frequent changes in Government personnel led to
   constant delays in project implementation which was affected by lengthy bureaucratic processes. Also, the
   Project was extended several times which underscores (i) the importance of strong government commitment and
   (ii) inadvisability of multiple extensions and extended implementation periods in unclear environments. Also, a
   number of banks used FIDP as a source of a relatively cheap long-term funding of their automation programs or
   exclusively out of intention to promote their names among foreign counterparts. In general, the concept of
   accreditation of banks "at entry point", i.e. before they actually started work on their institutional development
   programs, turned out to be wrong, since many banks started to misuse their accreditation status without acting
   for the purposes of the Project.

   3. A comprehensive approach to increase sustainability: The complementarities of the FIDP and ESP provided
   positive synergies. FIDP provided a robust mechanism for qualifying banks and the technical assistance led to
   improved banking practices which were reflected in loan appraisal and decision techniques/practices in the
   participating banks. Technical assistance provided to participating banks proved very useful as indicated by the
   quality of their portfolio performance. Given the increasing dominance of state-owned banks in the banking
   system, it will be critical to continue providing technical support to promising privately owned regional banks
   while addressing the overall non-level playing field issue at the level of the Central Bank in order to achieve
   healthy and sustainable growth of the banking sector.

   4. Design Features: One of the major features of the Project was the use of twining arrangements with European
   banks for capacity building in the Russian banks. This has worked quite well in some other countries which
   may have inspired the team to duplicate this experience in this Project. However, the circumstances on the
   ground in Russia were quite different including weak government commitment for reforms, shaky banking
   system with poor governance, as well as a lack of adequate monitoring and follow up capacity. These factors
   should have been recognized in the Project design.

   5. Flexibility and responsiveness to changing circumstances in fast changing environments: Project
   performance depends to a large degree on the flexibility of Project design and responsiveness of Project
   stakeholders. FIDP demonstrated that swift Project team intervention following the crisis allowed safeguarding
   the Project from substantial financial losses. Also, prompt action since 2003, including active monitoring and
   canceling of non-performing components, contributed to the enhancement of the Project implementation during
   2003-2005.

   6. Importance of Focusing on Bank Governance. The project success is also influenced to a large extent by the
   quality of governance in the banking sector, which was quite weak in Russia. Good governance is critical to any
   meaningful and sustainable reform of the banking sector. Unless the governance issues are tackled head on, all
   other efforts can only have only a marginal impact at best.



                                                         - 19 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
See Annex 8 for Borrower's comments

(b) Cofinanciers:
NA

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
NA

10. Additional Information


   10.1 Implementation of Commercial Banks Component before the 1998 financial crisis

   The Commercial Banks component was actively implemented in 1995-1998. During this period, the Task Force
   accredited 40 banks of which 13 banks were accredited in 1995, 19 banks in 1996, 7 banks in 1997, and one
   bank in 1998. The accredited banks represented large spectrum of the Russian banking system - from large
   Moscow based banks to relatively small regional banks; located in eleven regions from Vladivostok to
   Kaliningrad, and accounting for about 50 percent of total banking sector assets (excluding Sberbank).

   After the accreditation and agreement of a loan allocation by the Task Force, banks were subject to signing a
   subsidiary loan agreement (SLA). Before the 1998 financial crisis, 29 banks were given access to FIDP project
   funds. Of those, 21 banks had started their institutional strengthening programs and 25 had access to
   information technology component. Total disbursement on the institutional strengthening program was US$
   31.7 million, of which US$ 12.4 million was financed by the FIDP Loan. Total disbursement on the information
   technology component was US$ 77.6 million, of which US$53.4 million was disbursed from the FIDP Loan.

   Institutional strengthening process via twinning arrangements was challenging, depending upon the
   commitment level from the both sides. Many participating banks had problems with combining progress on
   institutional development with their day to day work. Many twinners were often kept off the banks' actual
   financial management and thus were unable to prevent banks from getting into serious situations. At the same
   time, visits to western banks were often the catalyst for new ideas and more effective team work. The impact of
   twinning programs on participating banks was mixed. One bank which completed the institutional
   strengthening program and had equity participation from the EBRD failed to survive the crisis and was
   liquidated. At the same time, programs of two other banks proved successful, and they continued
   implementation of institutional strengthening even after 1998 crisis, financing them out of own funds. In 2000,
   the foreign partner of one of those banks performed the debt-equity swap and became the shareholder.

   The information technology (IT) component was mostly used for increasing the standard of equipment (servers,
   workstations), improving communications, and supporting plastic card services. To improve control, many
   banks were centralizing their systems, and the FIDP financing of powerful servers, storage systems, database
   software, and communications equipment was useful. All this equipment had to be imported, so the availability
   of dollar financing was critical. The performance of banks implementing IT component varied tremendously:
   some with clear business plans and vigorous IT management fully exploited the opportunity of FIDP financing,
   while other never determined their business strategies and materialized their plans for large IT investments.

   The pre-crisis Project was not able to reach the goal of increasing the stability of the banking sector and many
   positive achievements had only a limited effect. The major drawbacks can be related to an attempt to start only
   with one, the commercial banks component and to the delay in implementing others aimed at improving the
   regulatory infrastructure. The institutional strengthening and IT programs did not help to improve the bank's
   weaknesses due to factors such as: bad management, concentration on related parties, excessive engagement in
   GKO trading and undue off-balance sheet risk. Although these weaknesses were reported by BRU staff, no



                                                       - 20 -

adequate measures were taken by Russian Authorities.

At the same time, the pre-crisis Project also had a number of positive outcomes. The project served as a catalyst
for a wide-spread introduction of IAS audits and helped to increase transparency in the banking sector. Also,
the Project helped to form a cadre of well-trained middle management in many participating banks, who
continue to contribute to the development of the banking sector to-date. Although the IT component was
implemented in a number of failed banks, its contribution to the overall increase of the quality of service in the
banking sector should not be underestimated. Another important contribution of the project was an on-going
dialogue with the CBR on the bank supervision matters. This dialogue served as the basis for continuation of
the work in supporting the strengthening of bank supervision methodologies and practices within the CBR.

In the aftermath of the 1998 financial crisis, the Project financed due diligence reviews of 18 participating
commercial banks carried out by the external auditors under the BRU guidance and quality control. The
endorsement of due diligence summary report by the FIDP Task Force resulted in de-accreditation and removal
of 14 banks from the Project. These reviews also helped the Government to delineate restructuring scenarios for
the Russian banking system, and formed basis for the CBR to withdraw licenses of 6 failed banks.




                                                     - 21 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                    1
               Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
Increased confidence in the Russian banking Significant progress is achieved but system       Not achieved
system, consolidation of the banking system, is still vulnerable (summer 2004 crisis);
development of best practices in the banking consolidation is only beginning to develop;
system, creation of a competitive environment state banks' dominance continues.
supported by transparency and strengthened
supervision.




Output Indicators:
                                                                                    1
               Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate


Component A (Commercial Banks)


CBR's implementation of restructuring           Some 3 commercial banks implemented           Partially achieved
actions in 5­10 banks, including financial and Corrective Action Plans developed under
operational restructuring, implementation of    BRU monitoring. The component was
international accounting standards, enhanced    cancelled in December 2003.
risk management practices, and support to
the implementation of tightened Central Bank
supervisory practices.


Completion of financial and strategic reviews Financial review of Sberbank was conducted      Not achieved
of Sberbank and technical support to carry      under FIDP in 1999 with no follow-up.
implementation of restructuring process.        Restructuring of two other state banks is
Vneshtorgbank and Vneshekonombank to            under way, although outside the FIDP
implement similar restructuring process         framework. The component was cancelled in
                                                December 2003.


Component B1 (Improvement of Key
Functions at the CBR)


Continued improvement in the legislative        The bank bankruptcy legislation has been      Partially achieved
framework and streamlining of procedures for improved with assistance from FIDP-funded
bank bankruptcy and liquidation.                legal expert. The bankruptcy and liquidation
                                                procedures remain far from sound, however,
                                                due to weak judicial system and enforcement.


Implementation of international accounting      The Central Bank with assistance from EU      Partially achieved
standards for restructuring banks, through      TACIS conducted a program for IAS
pilot projects with selected banks, with a view implementation in a group of pilot commercial
to system-wide implementation.                  banks, with a view to system-wide
                                                implementation by end-2007. The FIDP also
                                                contributed to the process.



Strengthening CBR supervisory framework:        The CBR banking supervision remains           Partially achieved
(i) implementation of revised standards in      limited. Certain progress has been made
bank licensing, asset classification and        since 2000 with a contribution of FIDP, but
provisioning, consolidation of accounts and     the supervision reform still has a long way to
consolidated supervision, market risk and       go. Disbursements were marginal and this
disclosure;                                     component was closed in March 2003.
(ii) strengthened enforcement by CBR
through improved accounting and reporting;
(iii) enhanced off-site and on-site supervision.




                                                                   - 22 -

Component B2 (Developing the Institutional
Capacity of the ARCO)


Development of the agency's functions,         Contribution was significant, but ARCO's    Achieved
policies, procedures, practices, and           mandate was winding down. The component
organizational structures and management ­     was cancelled in March 2003.
financial, operational and management review
and key follow-up actions.



Design and implementation of best practice     Contribution was significant, but ARCO's    Achieved
restructuring or liquidation of troubled banks.mandate was winding down. The component
                                               was cancelled in March 2003.


Efficient, transparent operational structure   Contribution was significant, but ARCO's    Achieved
with sound financial management and            mandate was winding down. The component
accountability.                                was cancelled in March 2003.


Component C (Accounting and Auditing)


Initiation of accounting reforms fully         The component did not go forward. The MOF   Not achieved
consistent with international standards.       used other funds provided on a grant basis.
                                               The component was cancelled in March
                                               2003.

1 End of project

    Comment: While "outcome/output" analysis has become a standard part of the Bank's project
    monitoring methodology, no clear quantifiable indicators where identified at the time of the Project SAR.
    The above output indicators were introduced only during Project restructuring in 2000 (please see
    section 4 of the Report) and they are hardly quantifiable. Some of the components were later cancelled
    during 2003 restructuring.




                                                                - 23 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


                                     Appraisal  Actual/Latest Percentage  Bank Loan    Others
                                     Estimate    Estimate    of Appraisal
              Component             US$ million US$ million               US$ million US$ million
  Part A. Commercial banks           368.4       109.3        29.7          65.8        43.5
    A. Institutional Strengthening   120.0        31.7        26.4          12.4        19.3
     B. Systems Modernization and
   Automation                          248.4        77.6         31.2       53.4        24.2
   Part B. Bank supervision and
   regulation                           4.5          1.9         43.6        1.6         0.3
   Part C. Accounting and Auditing      8.0          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
   Part D. Project Implementation       8.5         32.3                    17.0        15.3
    D.1. Technical assistance and
  Consulting                                        26.3                    12.7        13.6
    D.2. Operating costs                8.5          6.0         70.8        4.3         1.7
   EBRD ­Front End Commission &
   Unallocated                                       4.4                                 4.4

   Total Baseline Cost                 389.4       147.9         38.0       84.5        63.4
    Physical Contingencies
    Price Contingencies
   Total Project Costs                 389.4       147.9         38.0       84.5        63.4


   Total Financing Required
                                       389.4       147.9         38.0       84.5        63.4



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB           NCB                 2       N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                                Other
1. Works                           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00
                                   (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                           164.40         4.00           38.00         12.00       218.40
                                  (113.60)        (2.00)        (24.00)       (0.00)       (139.60)
3. Services                        0.00           0.00          165.50         0.00        165.50
Consultancies, Training            (0.00)         (0.00)        (57.40)       (0.00)       (57.40)
4. Office, Mics. Equipment         0.00           0.00           0.00          2.50          2.50
                                   (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Study Tours, etc.               0.00           0.00           3.00          0.00          3.00
                                   (0.00)         (0.00)         (3.00)       (0.00)        (3.00)
   Total                           164.40         4.00          206.50         14.50       389.40
                                  (113.60)        (2.00)        (84.40)       (0.00)       (200.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method



                                               - 24 -

        Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   2. Goods                                 7.20               0.00             46.20             24.20            77.60
                                           (7.20)             (0.00)           (46.20)            (0.00)           (53.40)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00             26.70             33.20            59.90
   Consultancies, Training                 (0.00)             (0.00)           (26.70)            (0.00)           (26.70)
   4. Office, Mics. Equipment               0.00               0.00              4.30             1.70              6.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (4.30)            (0.00)           (4.30)
   5. Study Tours, etc.                     0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                7.20               0.00             77.20             59.10            143.50
                                           (7.20)             (0.00)           (77.20)            (0.00)           (84.40)
       * The completion of figures by procurement method since the beginning of the Project is currently under
       preparation
     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Part A. Commercial banks       195.40        0.00       173.00       65.80         0.00      43.50       33.7      0.0      25.1
A.1.Institutional              36.00         0.00        84.00       12.40         0.00      19.30       34.4      0.0      23.0
strengthening
A. 2. System modernization     159.40        0.00        88.60       53.40         0.00      24.20       33.5      0.0      27.3
and Automation
Part B. Bank supervision        0.60         0.50         3.40        1.60         0.30       0.00       266.7     60.0      0.0
and regulation
Part C. Accounting and          4.00         2.00         2.00        0.00         0.00       0.00        0.0      0.0       0.0
Auditing
Part D. Project                 0.00         0.50         8.00       17.00         3.30      11.90        0.0     660.0    148.8
Implementation
D.1. Technical assistance                                            12.20         3.30      10.30
and Consulting
  D.2. Operating costs                                                4.80         0.00       1.70
EBRD ­Front End                                                                               4.40
Commission & Unallocated
Total Project Cost             200.00        3.00       186.40       84.50         3.70      59.80       42.3     123.3     32.1




                                                           - 25 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

 Not applicable




                                      - 26 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              05/24/1993              14     Team Leader, 5 FS specialists, 2      S               S
                                             PSD specialist, 1FMS,
                                             1Operations, 5 banking
                                             consultants

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              12/06/1993                6    Team Leader, 1 Legal, 4 FS            S               S
                                             specialists
              03/14/1994                8    Team Leader, FS specialist,           S               S
                                             1FMS, Manager F&PS, 1
                                             Operations officer, 1
                                             Procurement, 1 Legal,1
                                             Disbursment

 Supervision
              03/24/1995                     Team Leader, 1 FS                     S               S
                                             specialist, 1 banking
                                             consultant
              06/14/1995                4    Team Leader, FS Specialist; 1         U              HS
                                             Operations, Consultant (2);
              03/29/1996                7    Team Leader, Principal Fin.           U               S
                                             Policy Specialist; 1 Operations,
                                             Consultant (4)
              12/22/1996                2    Task Manager, Deputy Task             S               S
                                             Manager
              02/28/1997                3    Team Leader, Consultant (2)           S               S
              11/14/1997                3    Team Leader, Senior Advisor,          S               S
                                             Banking consultant
              02/20/1998                4    Team Leader; Sector Leader, Fin.      S               S
                                             Specialist; Proc. Specialist
              10/13/1998                2    Team Leader, Lead FS Specialist       U               U
              03/26/1999                2    Mission Leader; Fin. Specialist       U               U
              12/15/1999                3    Team Leader; Fin. Specialist (2)      U               U
              04/07/2000                4    Team Leadert, Lead FS                 U               U
                                             specialist, 1 Operations, 1
                                             consultant
              05/26/2000                2    Department Director; Analyst          U               U
              11/04/2000                8    Sector Leader; Program Team           S               S
                                             Leader; Lead Fin. Specialist;
                                             Operations Analyst; Research
                                             Analyst; Consultant (3)
              03/05/2001                3    Team Leader; Proc. Specialist;        S               S
                                             Operations Analyst
              12/15/2001                4    Program Team Leader; Senior           U               S
                                             Fin. Economist; Fin. Specialist;




                                              - 27 -

               09/20/2002                         2   Team Leader; RM Coordinator               U              U
               02/10/2003                         3   Team Leader, Sector Manager,              U              U
                                                      Senior PSD Specialist
               10/27/2003                         3   Team Leader, Sector Manager,              S              U
                                                      Senior PSD Specialist
               05/20/2004                         4   Team Leader, Lead FS specialist,          S              U
                                                      Operations Officer (2)
               10/05/2004                         4   Team Leader, Lead FS specialist,          S              U
                                                      Operations Analyst, Consultant
               04/25/2005                         2   Team Leader, Consultant                   S              U
               10/05/2005                         2   Team Leader, Consultant                   S              U

 ICR
               06/30/2006                         3    Team Leader, 2 Consultants               S              U



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                           Actual/Latest Estimate
                                            No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                                     1.131 (735)
  Supervision                                                             2.141 (1.620)
  ICR                                                                            28 (28)
  Total                                                                   3.300 (2.383)

   *) Identification/Preparation inputs are included under Appraisal/Negotiations line item, which gives total
   inputs for overall Lending stage.
   **) Total inputs = BB + Bank administered TFs;
         In brackets ­ BB inputs without TFs




                                                       - 28 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S      U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S      U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S      U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S      U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S      U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S      U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S      U       HU
  *) The ICR template in SAP does not allow for Moderately Satisfactory (MS) rating which applies to Bank's
  Overall performance and during Supervision, and to the the Borrower's Overall performance including
  Government implementation performance




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


 1. Project Staff Appraisal Report of April 6, 1994

 2. Loan Agreement of June 22, 1994

 3. Loan amendments (various)

 4. Board documents on July 1998 and June 2000 Loan amendments

 5. QAG report of 2003

 6. FIDP ISRs 1-21, 1994-2005

 7. Sources and uses of project funds

 8. Borrower's Implementation Completion Report, 2006 - received June 27, 2006 (see Annex 8)

 9. Comments by the Borrower on the draft Bank ICR - received June 27, 2006 (see Annex 8)

 10. Project Status Note of October 2002

 11. Russia: Country Assistance Strategy. July 1992, May 1995, May 1997, December 1999, 2002

 12. CAS Progress Report, February 1996, December 2000, January 2001, January 2005

 13. Concept Note on the proposed Regional Bank and Small and Medium Enterprise Development Project
 (RBSMP), 2003




                                                    - 31 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Implementation Completion Report and comments on the
Bank ICR


1. Borrower's comments on the Bank ICR - Translation of the Letter from the RF Ministry of Finance
received on June 27, 2006




                         MINISTRY OF FINANCE OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION




June 27, 2006

                                                                                                       World Bank
                                                                                       Acting Country Director and
                                                                                            Resident Representative
                                                                                                          in Russia
                                                                                               Mr. A. Darusenkov




Re:      Financial Institutions Development Project (Loan #3734-RU)
         Implementation Completion Report


Dear Mr. Darusenkov,

         Thank you for the Implementation Completion Report for the Financial Institutions Development Project
sent to the Ministry of Finance of Russia on May 25, 2006 (# 2006-00330/ECCU1).

         Upon review of the Report it should be noted that it adequately describes the status of the Project, it is
well-balanced, and contains a number of important findings and conclusions. In particular, Minfin of Russia
supports the Bank's argument outlined in the Report to the effect that the "low level of spending should not in any
way underrate the impact of the Project on the positive dynamics in the banking sector". Besides, we are pleased to
note the Bank's positive assessment of the Project's outcome relative to the assistance provided to Minfin of
Russia, CBR, and other federal executive authorities and institutions in implementing the Banking Sector
Development Strategy. In this respect, Minfin of Russia believes that the Bank's overall evaluation of the Project's
performance as unsatisfactory does not seem fully justified.

         Minfin agrees that, "in the course of project implementation, the Bank demonstrated a flexible approach
and an ability to react instantly to emerging issues, which is substantiated by the measures taken and adjustments
made in the course of Project restructuring". We believe that the Bank's flexible approach and instant
reaction--particularly observed at the final stage of the project in 2002-2005--will be duly reflected in a more
balanced approach to the overall assessment of the Project's outcome.

         Having commended the sound substance of the document, we cannot but note that the Russian version of
the Report is in need of substantial revision. The reason is the improper and often misleading use of terminology,
as well as many stylistic flaws*.

         Please find attached the Borrower's Implementation Completion Report. We hope the Bank finds it useful



                                                       - 32 -

in revising the Report, particularly, the Russian version.

Attachment 29 pages.

D.V. Pankin
Director
Department of International Financial Relations
Government Debt and Government Financial Assets

___________
* In particular, the interpretation of abbreviations; Para (ii) on page 8; Para (iii) on page 21; last paragraph on
page 6; component titles on page 7; and other examples.

********************************************************************************************
***********************
2. Project Completion Report prepared by the Borrower




                                           FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
                                           DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




            THE BORROWER'S INPUT INTO IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT




Information contained in this report is based on available data from the participating banks, Ministry of
Finance, Central Bank of the Russian Federation, and other parties to the project. All observations,
comments and conclusions are based on and limited to these data.




TABLE OF CONTENTS


   IMPLEMENTATION OF THE FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (FIDP): A
   SUMMARY

   GENERAL INFORMATION ON THE FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

   MAJOR DIFFICULTIES ENCOUNTERED IN THE COURSE OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION,
   AND ACTIONS TO ADDRESS THEM



                                                        - 33 -

PROJECT MANAGEMENT

FIDP CONTRIBUTION TO THE BANKING SECTOR REFORM IN RUSSIA

     Improvement of Banking Legislation

     Enhancement of the Efficiency of Bank Restructuring by the ARCO; Improvement of Bank Bankruptcy
     and Liquidation Procedures

     Assistance in Developing Regulatory and Institutional Framework for the Deposit Insurance System

     Strengthening Bank Supervision

     Facilitating Access to Financial Resources, Especially for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (SME)

     Other Activities Promoting Government Policy Implementation in Financial Markets

     Reviewing Banks' Financial Status and Developing Recommendations to Improve Corporate Governance,
     Risk Management and Internal Control Systems

Annex 1

List of Amendments to Loan Agreement No. 3734-RU (and/or MOF's and IBRD's Letters of Amendment)
throughout the FIDP Implementation Period




                                                  - 34 -

IMPLEMENTATION OF THE FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (FIDP): A
SUMMARY

It is reasonable to assess FIDP implementation since its restructuring in 2000, when the project funds were mainly
allocated to support Russia's banking sector reform activities. These activities were reflected in the Banking Sector
Development Strategy adopted by the Joint Statement of the Government of the Russian Federation and the Central
Bank of the Russian Federation in December 2001 (hereinafter, "the Strategy"). Pursuant to the Strategy, the main
objectives of further banking sector development were as follows: to improve banking sector sustainability, to
improve fund raising and transformation into loans and investment, to strengthen creditor and depositor confidence
in banks, enhance the protection of creditors' rights, and to prevent the use of credit institutions in illegal
commercial practice.

The FIDP has made a sizeable contribution into the Strategy both in terms of its development and the
implementation of a number of priority activities, including:

·         Improvement of banking legislation;
·         Enhancement of the efficiency of bank restructuring by the ARCO while maximizing transparency and
openness;
·         Improvement of banks' bankruptcy and liquidation procedures;
·         Strengthening banking supervision;
·         Improvement of corporate governance, as well as risk management and internal control systems in the
participating banks; and
·         Creating conditions for the transfer of the participating banks' financial reporting to the international
accounting standards, and maximizing the openness and transparency of the participating banks' transactions in
accordance with the best international practice.

The Strategy facilitated the implementation of priority activities designed to improve the banking system and
strengthen of the Russian banking sector. Following its completion in April 2005, Russia adopted the Banking
Sector Development Strategy until 2008 whose implementation was also supported by the Project.

The MOF shares the Bank's positive assessment of the Project outcomes as regards assisting the MOF, the Bank of
Russia, and other ministries and agencies in implementing the Banking Sector Development Strategy.


More detailed information on Project activities can be found in the respective sections of this report.




                                                         - 35 -

GENERAL INFORMATION ON THE FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

The Financial Institutions Development Project (FIDP) is an international project implemented in the Russian
financial sector under the guidance of the Ministry of Finance of the Russian Federation (MOF) together with the
Central Bank of the Russian Federation (Bank of Russia or CBR). The loan of USD200 million to finance the FIDP
was approved by the World Bank (IBRD) in May 1994, and the Loan Agreement became effective in July 1995.
The Project Closing Date was initially scheduled for December 31, 1998. The Project was co-financed from the
loan of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD), as well as EU and Japanese grants.

It was initially determined that the main objectives of the FIDP include the improvement of the quality of banking
services, banks' sustainability and fund raising and credit mobilization systems. The Project was also to serve as a
catalyst for the development of banking standards and general progress of Russian banks towards international
banking standards. Therefore, the development of commercial banks was the Project's principal component at the
initial stage, which included the following sub-components of (i) institutional development (twinning), and (ii)
modernization of banks' IT systems.

Within the scope of this component, the MOF entered into subloan agreements with a number of banks selected
using the "accreditation" criteria. The results of the selection process were approved by the Bank of Russia and the
MOF and no-objected by the World Bank. On the whole, 40 banks were "accredited" under the Project, and 29 of
them got access to the Project funds. Institutional development programs were implemented in 21 banks while
funds for IT development projects were allocated to 25 banks.

However, following the August 1998 crisis, the MOF decided to suspend funding under that component. Pursuant
to Government Directive # 1642-r of November 20, 1998, a decision was made to reallocate the bulk of the Project
funds in support of banking sector restructuring. In 1999-2000, the Russian side and the World Bank conducted
Project restructuring negotiations to redistribute a large part of the Project resources in favor of banking sector
restructuring and banking regulation strengthening. As a result, the Project was restructured in July 2000.

Following the adoption of the Joint Statement on the Banking Sector Development Strategy in the Russian
Federation which was issued on December 30, 2001 (hereinafter, "the Strategy"), the bulk of the Project funds was
reallocated to support of the implementation of the Strategy.

To ensure continuous assistance in implementing the Strategy the Project Closing Date was extended several times,
the last extension taking place in December 2004 when the Closing Date was scheduled for December 31, 2005.

The list and summary descriptions of the Amendments to Loan Agreement # 3734A-RU, as well as Letters of
Amendment are given in Annex 1.


MAJOR DIFFICULTIES ENCOUNTERED IN THE COURSE OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, AND
ACTIONS TO ADDRESS THEM

Major difficulties were related to Project implementation in 1995-1998. They resulted from the underestimation of
macroeconomic, credit and weak banking regulation risks at the Project development stage. Also, there were no
adequate measures to protect the interests of the MOF as a creditor.

Following the restructuring of the Project in 2000, the principal difficulty was the lack of a unified banking sector
reform program, and therefore, the funds were disbursed only under a single sub-component (support of the
ARCO's activities aimed at banking sector restructuring). After the adoption of the Banking Sector Development
Strategy in December 2001, decisions by the Task Force to use the Project funds in support of the Strategy and the
strengthening the World Bank team significantly improved the efficiency of Project implementation, as a result of
which the Project's Implementation Progress Rating was upgraded to satisfactory.




                                                          - 36 -

PROJECT MANAGEMENT

The FIDP was implemented under the guidance of the MOF and the Bank of Russia. The functions of the Project
management committee were vested in the Task Force set up pursuant to the Agreement between the MOF and the
CBR, dated February 28, 1995. At various stages of Project implementation, the Task Force also included
representatives from other federal agencies and organizations that received technical assistance under the FIDP.
The Noncommercial Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring and Financial Institutions Development (FER) was
responsible for day-to-day management of the FIDP based on the Agency Agreement with the MOF. The Bank
Review Unit (BRU), which performed the functions of the Project Implementation Unit (hereinafter, "the PIU") in
1998-2005, was operating within the FER.

The Task Force meetings were held as necessary to discuss the following major issues relating to Project
implementation:

q        Review of FIDP activities and identification of measures required to facilitate Project implementation;
q        Coordination of FIDP activities with the MOF and the Bank of Russia, with a view to improving the
Russian banking system;
q        Project implementation arrangements, including the development of work plans and budgets, as well as
procedures for the accreditation and approval of new banks; and
q        Allocation of Project funds between the components.

The FER managed the Project on a daily basis and monitored the work of the PIU. The FER organized and
supervised the procurement of goods and services in compliance with the IBRD procedures, monitored expenditure
of all Project participants, and financed eligible expenditure under the FIDP. The FER also provided necessary
materials and methodological assistance to the participating banks on all aspects of FIDP implementation. The
FER coordinated and prepared materials for Task Force meetings. The FER notified the participating banks of the
deadlines and amount of interest and commitment charges to be paid, as well as of any other payments due under
the agreements between the MOF and participating banks. The FER also monitored the execution of such payments
by the participating banks.

The PIU was operating within the FER under the general management and control of the Task Force. After the
Project restructuring, the PIU's major task was to coordinate technical assistance provided to public authorities in
support of the Strategy.

FIDP CONTRIBUTION TO THE BANKING SECTOR REFORM IN RUSSIA

As stated above, immediately after the 1998 financial crisis the Russian authorities, in close cooperation with the
World Bank, made a decision to redirect the principal activities under the Project towards the support of a
large-scale reform of the banking sector. These activities were initiated in October-November 1998 based on the
Task Force decisions and in compliance with the aforementioned Government Directive, despite the fact that FIDP
restructuring was completed only in July 2000 when the respective Loan Amendment was signed.

Technical assistance in implementing the banking sector reform under FIDP covered the following main areas:
         Improvement of banking legislation;
         Enhancement of the efficiency of bank restructuring by the ARCO while maximizing transparency and
openness;
         Improvement of banks' bankruptcy and liquidation procedures;
         Strengthening banking supervision;
         Improvement of corporate governance, as well as risk management and internal control systems of the
participating banks;
         Facilitating access to financial resources, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises;



                                                         - 37 -

          Establishing the regulatory and institutional framework for the Deposit Insurance Agency (hereinafter,
"the DIA"); and
          Support of the Government's efforts to reform other segments of the financial market.

Improvement of Banking Legislation

Assistance in drafting the Federal Law on Credit Organization Restructuring, including subsequent amendments
thereto, and amendments to the Laws on the Central Bank of the Russian Federation (the Bank of Russia); on
Insolvency (Bankruptcy) of Credit Organizations; and on Banks and Banking. Implementation period: October
1998 ­ second quarter 2001.

The consultants working under the contract basis provided assistance to the Bank of Russia, the MOF and the State
Duma in preparing the legal framework for credit organization restructuring. The legal framework paved the way
for the establishment of the ARCO, which was made responsible for the restructuring and liquidation of credit
organizations transferred to the Agency (also, see the section on assistance to the ARCO in enhancing the
efficiency of the restructuring of banks managed by the Agency).

In addition, at the request by the State Duma, the legal consultant working under the FIDP prepared information
required to justify the amendments to the Laws on the Central Bank of the Russian Federation (the Bank of
Russia)"; on Insolvency (Bankruptcy) of Credit Organizations"; and on Banks and Banking. Specifically, a
clarification of internationally accepted practice in the following areas was offered:

o         Reduction of the authorized capital to the actual level;
o         Capital adequacy indicators;
o         Application of capital adequacy indicators to identify insolvent credit organizations;
o         Application of professional aptitude and business reputation criteria to banks' management;
o         Criteria to be used in decision-making on the approval of issues;
o         Identification of the cases of "false bankruptcy";
o         Bank holding companies and banking groups;
o         Delicensing and liquidation of credit organizations;
o         Liability of bank regulators; and
o         Liability of credit organizations' directors and management.

Development of legislation regulating activities of corporate liquidators. Implementation period: second ­ fourth
quarters 2002.

Within the framework of the contract, a draft law was prepared to determine the operational procedures for
corporate liquidators. The draft law introduced the concept of a corporate liquidator of credit organizations and
suggested that these functions be performed by the ARCO. That proved to be a major contribution to the
improvement of the liquidation procedure of credit organizations. The law was passed in 2004, when the ARCO
had practically completed the performance of its functions; therefore, the functions of the corporate liquidator were
delegated to the DIA which was the ARCO's successor in that area. It should be noted that the FIDP has made a
significant contribution to the institutional development of the ARCO, including the functions of liquidation of
credit organizations (also, see the section on assistance to the ARCO in enhancing the efficiency of the
restructuring of banks managed by the Agency).

Drafting proposals to update the Banking Sector Development Strategy. Implementation period: fourth quarter
2002.

Within the framework of the contract, the MOF was assisted in assessing the progress of the Strategy
implementation in 2002 with the purpose of preparing additional proposals for a further improvement of the
Strategy, particularly in the area of banking legislation improvement in compliance with the best international
practice. Specifically, the Consultants proposed amendments to the legislation in the following priority spheres:



                                                          - 38 -

o         Improvement of the banking sector liquidity which was necessary for transforming short-term resources
into long-term investment;
o         Mitigation of banking sector risks;
o         Creating conditions for risk distribution or transfer within and outside the banking sector;
o         Mitigation of risks for banks' clients, and making bank products and services more attractive for the
clients;
o         Strengthening confidence in the banking sector; and
o         Promoting higher banking standards by encouraging competition.

The consultants' proposals were used in the updated version of the draft Strategy submitted for consideration by the
Government in February, 2003.

Improving the principal provisions of draft laws developed pursuant to the Banking Sector Development Strategy.
Implementation period: first -- second quarter2003.

In view of the work performed by consultants within the scope of the contract to assess the implementation of the
Strategy (see above), the individual consultant working under that contract proposed changes to the principal
provisions of legal acts and/or amendments thereto in 11 areas. The consultant's proposals were taken into account
in the preparation of draft laws provided for in the plan of priority measures to implement the updated the Strategy.
The consultant's proposals were also used by the MOF to identify areas of additional technical assistance in the
improvement of the legal framework. These areas formed the basis for the terms of reference for a "larger" contract
related to the improvement of legislation (see below).

Legislation drafting within the framework of the Banking Sector Development Strategy. Implementation period:
fourth quarter 2003 ­ late 2005.

Initially the consultants were supposed to submit proposals for 17 packages of laws and/or amendments to the
effective legislation. Based on satisfactory performance of the Consultants, the MOF requested them to prepare
another 6 legal acts. At the same time, during the discussion of the new version of the Banking Sector
Development Strategy until 2008, the Government requested the MOF to draft 15 more legal acts. Drafting of these
laws was also entrusted to the consultants. Thus, towards the end of 2005 the consultants have helped the MOF in
the development of 36 legal acts (in the process of contract implementation the MOF suspended the work on 2 legal
acts). The consultants drafted amendments to the Civil Code of the Russian Federation, the Code of Administrative
Offence of the Russian Federation, the Code of Arbitration Procedure of the Russian Federation, the Federal Law
on Pledge", the draft Federal Law on Consumer Credit, and the Federal Laws on Insolvency (Bankruptcy); on
Execution Process; on Banks and Banking; on the Central Bank of the Russian Federation (the Bank of Russia); on
Limited Liability Companies; on Joint Stock Companies; on Nongovernmental Pension Funds; on Licensing
Specific Activities; on State and Municipal Unitary Enterprises; and on Anti-money Laundering and Combating
the Financing of Terrorism"; the Federal Law on Protection of Competition in Financial Services Market; banks'
charters of banks with state participation; the concept of the CBR's refinancing system, etc.

The above-mentioned work made it possible to propose the following improvements to the legal framework of
banking regulation:

Corporate governance
o         Setting up business reputation criteria for the founders (participants) of credit organizations and associate
persons;
o         Specifying requirements to officials of credit organizations and members of the Boards of Directors
(Supervisory Boards) of credit organizations, enabling the CBR to set up the criteria of their business reputation;
o         Tightening requirements to the actual owners of credit organizations;
o         Introduction of a requirement to strengthen the role and responsibilities of the Board of Directors
(Supervisory Board) of the credit organization and definition of the issues of the Board exclusive competence,
introduction of the numerical and quantitative requirements to the Board Members into the credit organizations'



                                                          - 39 -

Charters, including the introduction of the "independent directors" concept;
o         Specifying disclosure requirements to banks' public financial statements (in particular, regarding their
contents, procedure and timing for publication/presentation);
o         Settling rules for the ultimate beneficiary identification; and
o         Strengthening controlling functions of their Supervisory Boards (Boards of Directors) over banks'
business policies;
Protection of creditors' rights
o         Enhancing efficiency of the institution of pledge;
o         Introduction of the bona fide presumption of the parties to the credit transactions; and
o         Establishing complete list of persons, including credit history bureaus, authorized for obtaining banking
secrecy data;
Competitive environment
o         Leveling the playing field for both resident and nonresident credit institutions, taking into account
currency regulation liberalization;
o         Leveling the playing field for competition among credit organizations on financial markets; and
o         Creating equal conditions for Russian and foreign banks' entering Russia's banking services market;
Legal and regulatory framework of supervisory activities of the Bank of Russia
o         Strengthening the legal and regulatory framework for the supervisory activity of the Bank of Russia;
o         Formalizing basic supervision provisions on a consolidated basis;
o         Improving banking supervision of risks arising from the interaction between credit organizations and
related parties;
o         A more accurate formulation of the provisions of the consolidated supervision on the basis of the
recommendations of the Basel Committee and the best world practice, including the legislative codification of the
authority of the Bank of Russia to exercise control over the activities of bank holdings, bringing the legislative
standards related to the activities of bank groups, bank holdings and the disclosure by them of information on their
activities to the concerned users in accordance with internationally recognized approaches;
o         Protection of the interests of the consumers of services and full regard to the issue of concentration of
services in the process of mergers, acquisitions and transformations of credit organizations;
o         Raising responsibility of affiliated persons;
o         Improving bank management and supervision, including authorization of the CBR to enforce its
supervisory powers based on risk recognition and assessment; and
o         Consistent application of a special bankruptcy procedure to credit organizations;
Operating activities of the banks
o         A clear definition of the bank deposit contract for precious metals and the contract for an account
denominated in metals;
o         Expansion of the list of securities with which the Bank of Russia can engage in short-term operations,
reversing the deal afterwards, and of the securities, the list of which is approved by the Board of Directors of the
Bank of Russia;
o         Development of standards for the nonaccepted write-off of means from the bank account;
o         clarification of the requirement that credit organizations should use cash registers;
o         Identification of reasons for refusal to conclude or for cancellation of the bank account (deposit) contract
on the initiative of the credit organization; and
o         Expansion of the list of liquid assets accepted as collateral to the refinancing credits of the Bank of Russia;
and
o         Change of the settlement procedure for letters of credit;
Institutional development
o         Granting credit organizations a right to manage the assets of nongovernmental pension funds;
o         Maximum simplification of the opening procedure and cancellation of charges levied for the opening of
the branches of credit organizations.;
Anti-money laundering
o         Lifting the restrictions on inspection reviews of credit organizations as related to compliance with
legislation on anti-money laundering and combating the financing of terrorism (AML/FT); and




                                                          - 40 -

o        Giving more authority to the supervisory agencies in establishing internal control requirements in
connection with AML/FT.


Enhancement of the Efficiency of Bank Restructuring by the ARCO; Improvement of Bank Bankruptcy and
Liquidation Procedures

In addition to the aforementioned efforts to improve banking sector legislation, the implementation of the ARCO
component started in 1998 by the provision of assistance in the Agency's institutional development based on the
international best practice in the area of problem or insolvent bank restructuring. The Project also provided
assistance to the ARCO in drafting amicable settlement agreements with creditors.

The FIDP's program of assistance to the ARCO was based on the assessment of the financial, operational and
management activities of the Agency resulting in the identification of the ARCO's needs in terms of institutional
development.

In-depth analysis of the ARCO's financial, operational and management activities. Implementation period: first
quarter 2000 ­ third quarter 2003.

The terms of reference for this contract were developed with the participation of the PIU staff and no-objected by
the World Bank with a view to identifying the need for technical assistance and setting of appropriate priorities.
The terms of reference also envisaged the financial audit of the first two years of the Agency's operation, as well as
drafting letters to the ARCO's management on the issues of risk management and internal controls.

Based on the conclusions resulting from the analysis of the ARCO's operational and management activities of the
ARCO, the following potential areas for consultancy services were identified:
o        Legal consulting on a permanent basis (performing the functions of the ARCO's permanent legal adviser);
o        Technical assistance in the implementation of liquidation procedures; and
o        Multiphase terms of reference with an open-ended procurement item designed to create the portfolio,
restructure, rehabilitate and privatize banks, and procure related services.

As part of the Project, follow-up funding was also provided to conduct international audit of the Agency's
IAS-based financial statements for 2002.

Legal consulting on a permanent basis (performing the functions of the ARCO's permanent legal adviser).
Implementation period: second quarter 2001 ­ fourth quarter 2002.

This contract included the provision of consulting services to the ARCO on key legal issues related to its activities
and a legal review of laws and regulations of the Russian Federation, as well as all ARCO's earlier documents,
with a view to identifying problems that might be encountered by the Agency and recommending amendments to
laws/regulations and the ARCO's earlier in-house documents. The following activities were performed under the
contract:
o        Consulting the ARCO on the most sophisticated legal issues related to the execution of amicable
settlement agreements;
o        Proposing changes to the current legislation of the Russian Federation (inter alia, pursuant to the
Resolution of the Constitutional Court of the Russian Federation # 10-P, dated July 3, 2001, relating to the review
of "constitutionality" of the specific provisions of the Federal Laws on Restructuring of Credit Organizations, and
on Insolvency (Bankruptcy) of Credit Organizations;
o        Investigation and contestation (including contestation in foreign courts) of questionable transactions
executed by the banks under restructuring before they were transferred to the ARCO;
o        Benchmark studies of the efforts of agencies involved in restructuring the banking sector based on the
experience of five foreign countries;
o        Preparation of information on credit relations and pledge of securities under the German Law;



                                                         - 41 -

o         Preparation of information on issue procedures, format, terms and validity of powers of attorney under the
Cyprus Law;
o         Review of foreign legislation addressing the responsibilities of corporate receivers;
o         Preparation of an opinion on the capacity (within a transaction) to pledge global depository receipts, as
well as (in the case of the positive opinion) drafting a pledge agreement;
o         Examination of certain issues related to compliance with the Constitution of the Russian Federation of
specific provisions of Federal Law # 144-FZ on Restructuring of Credit Organizations, dated July 8, 1999; and
o         Review of international practice in addressing legal issues relating to bank restructuring. The results of
the activities were used by the ARCO in its day-to-day work, including the preparation of cases to hearings in
court.

Assistance in preparing the investment portfolio, restructuring, rehabilitation and privatization of banks, as well as
in procurement of related services. Implementation period: fourth quarter 2001 ­ third quarter 2002.

The above technical assistance involved the development of mid-term strategic plans for the privatization of banks
supervised by the Agency, which basically required a careful examination of their potential strategic and financial
investors, valuation of the assets of banks supervised by the ARCO, and provision of recommendations to the
Agency. The consultants assisted the ARCO in the presale preparation of the banks and in the development of a
complete set of bidding documents to sell the banks. The main goal was to maximize the potential return on
investment in restructuring, and ensure a successful operation and further development of the sold restructured
banks. The consultants reviewed the current status of two regional banks with a view to further identification of
follow-up actions to implement the entire work program with a view to the successful sale of both credit
organizations; they also analyzed methodologies for selecting the winning bidder in the process of investment
bidding for shareholdings of banks supervised by the ARCO.

Assistance in administering credit organization liquidation procedures. Implementation period: second quarter
2001 ­ second quarter 2002.

As part of this contract procedures for liquidation of credit organizations were developed. In addition, assistance
was provided in safeguarding the interests of the Agency in courts of arbitration, as well as consulting services
were made available on law enforcement issues. Under the contract, training and consulting services were provided
to the ARCO on matters relating to the application of liquidation procedures to banks whose rehabilitation is
deemed impossible. The consultants provided their recommendations on the following aspects of bank liquidation:
o         Writing off of nonmarketable assets;
o         Meeting creditors' demands;
o         Asset search procedures, including tracing of assets and assessment of subsidiary liability of the Board and
other persons;
o         Budget planning for asset sales; and
o         Reporting formats for administrative receivers, and other issues.
In the course of administering liquidation procedures in one of the regional banks, a program of transfer of deposits
of citizens to another bank was executed. The above bank fully paid off its retail clients. The demands of secured
creditors were met by 40%.

The above steps performed as part of the ARCO's institutional development program made a sizeable contribution
into the institutional establishment of the Deposit Insurance Agency (see below).


Assistance in Developing Regulatory and Institutional Framework for the Deposit Insurance System


As mentioned above, the Project made a significant contribution to the ARCO's institutional development. The use
of the ARCO's institutional resources and staff in the development of the Deposit Insurance System ensured
consistency and continuity of assistance in that area. In addition, as mentioned above, the FIDP provided support in
developing the legal framework for regulating the responsibilities of corporate receivers of credit organizations.



                                                         - 42 -

These terms of reference were transferred to the Deposit Insurance Agency (DIA) pursuant to the relevant
legislation passed in 2004.

The PIU staff were also involved in the elaboration of key regulations and guidelines on deposit insurance. In
particular, comments were provided on the draft Instruction of the Bank of Russia on Assessing Banks'
Compliance with Qualification Criteria for Admission to the Deposit Insurance System.

In addition, the consultant of the CBR's Legal Department financed under the FIDP provided assistance to the
Bank of Russia on certain deposit insurance issues. Specifically, the consultant developed recommendations to
address legal issues brought about by the effectiveness of the Instruction of the Bank of Russia on Assessing Banks'
Compliance with Qualification Criteria for Admission to the Deposit Insurance System, and proposed amendments
to the current legislation.

As part of the FIDP, assistance was also provided to DIA in the following area:

Development of guidelines for evaluation of adequacy of the deposit insurance fund to pay compensations for
short-term (1 year) and medium-term (2-3 years) deposits. Implementation period: second­ third quarter of 2005

Technical assistance under this contract was provided in the following areas:
o         Review international experience in the development and application of models and techniques for
assessment of sufficiency/deficit of deposit insurance fund reserves and elaborate potential approaches applicable in
Russia;
o         Development of a pricing/funding assessment methodology for assessing the adequacy of insurance
premiums and fund reserves in the Russian context;
o         Development of a matrix for data collection, collection and analysis of the collected data on insured
deposits for each of the banks participating in the Deposit Insurance System or the Bank of Russia;
o         Quantitative analysis, including the analysis of estimated risks and distribution of potential losses of the
System, based on integrated operational scenarios and risk options; and
o         Description of the methodology outlining the procedures for operating simulation tools, assumptions used,
restrictions and estimated rates based on risk assessment.

Strengthening Bank Supervision

The PIU provided continuous assistance to the Bank of Russia in improving the banking supervision methodology.
In his letter of 25 April 2000 # 15-6-1/717, the Director of the CBR's Bank Regulation and Supervision
Department highly appreciated the job done and suggested to consider continuation of provision of the technical
assistance in this area.

The PIU prepared and submitted to the Central Bank of Russia two consolidated reports of risk assessment for large
Russian commercial banks. The PIU also submitted its recommendations for improvement of the methodology of
liquidity risk assessment and for using cash and equity flow reports for supervision purposes.

In 2000, the PIU participated in preparation and implementation of assessment of activities of the supervision
departments of the Central Bank of the Russian Federation, and offered proposed solutions for their reorganization.
The key objective of the consultants in performing under this contract consisted in providing optimized structure of
the supervision departments and procedures of the Bank of Russia, in eliminating overlapping and duplication of
steps undertaken, as well as in improving the current decision-making process. Examination and evaluation
procedures were performed to assess the organization structure and licensing process, as well as the systems of
remote supervision, on-site inspection, sanitation, currency control. The Bank of Russia highly appreciated the
efforts undertaken and agreed with the proposed approaches to addressing the organization structure of the
supervision departments, contained in the consultants' report.

The PIU also provided the following reports and/or reference materials:



                                                         - 43 -

o        On practical application of the criteria of "professional fitness for service and business reputation" to be
met by owners and managers of banks in practical work of regulatory authorities in the United States and Great
Britain;

o        On practical application of capital adequacy requirements by banking regulatory authorities in the United
States and Great Britain;

o        Review of international legislation and practices in definition of independence of Central Banks,
including regulatory documents describing the key statutes and milestones in the process of establishment of the
European Central Bank and the European system of central banks, the organization structure, responsibilities,
operation and strategy of their development.

o        Reports on methodology of bank supervision based on risk assessment, tools of supervision and
evaluation, also known as RATE and Arrow, developed and used by the supervisory authority of Great Britain. The
above report contains a description of the methodology, main tools, history of their development and practice of
their application in Great Britain, legal framework for bank supervision procedures focusing on the aspects, which
need to be borne in mind if the above methodology is considered for implementation in Russian bank supervision
procedures, highlighting the likely implications of its use for the Russian banks. The report also contains
recommendations to the Bank of Russia on the proposed application of the RATE methodology in administering
bank supervision procedures in respect of credit organizations in the Russian Federation.

o        Documents describing practices of bank supervision in Great Britain, basic principles of the organization
of the process of supervision decision-making and international experience of supervisors of credit organizations
doing their job, including recommendations on the activities of supervisors of the Bank of Russia. The above
proposals provide a definition of the role, scope of responsibility, key functions and terms of reference of
supervisors, as well as a description of the organization structure of a "supervision group". The above proposals
also offer certain modifications that need to be introduced into the methodology of bank supervision in the process
of implementation of the system into the Russian practical supervision procedures.

o        On top of that the PIU provided some comments and/or proposals to be considered in drafting regulations
and/or other regulatory documents of the Bank of Russia, including techniques for calculating bank equities;
Methodology of assessment of financial stability of credit organizations on the basis of ratio analysis. The above
proposals were taken into consideration by professionals of the central bank in drafting the document "On
assessment of compliance of banks with qualification criteria for the admission into the Deposit Insurance System"
(see also section on Deposit Insurance System).

Legal aspects of international practice of banking regulation. A system provided to the Legal Department of the
Bank of Russia. Implementation period: second­ third quarter 2004

Under this contract, a WB consultant performed a number of studies and analyses for the benefit of the Legal
Department of the Bank of Russia on certain aspects of international practices of banking regulation relevant for
some areas of implementation of the Strategy. The said consultant also provided recommendations on adaptation
and implementation of the international best practice in the system of banking regulation in Russia. The consultant
also provided the following information and analytical materials:
o        Critical survey of the existing administrative and judicial tools available for enforcement of the regulatory
documents of the Bank of Russia in the domain of banking regulation; identification of problem areas in the
existing mechanisms preventing the Bank of Russia from exercising its enforcement authority; comparative
analysis of the available international enforcement practices and administrative and judicial mechanisms of
banking regulation; recommendations on reforming the Russian system of banking regulation based on
international best practice and with a view to consolidation of the tools enabling the Bank of Russia to exercise its
enforcement authority;
o        Analysis and recommendations on practical aspects, related to enforcement of legislation on insurance of



                                                         - 44 -

deposits, including regulations of the Bank of Russia on evaluation of banks for their compliance with qualification
criteria for admission into the Deposit Insurance System, as well as proposed amendments to the legislation;
o         Critical review of procedural problem areas in the current Russian procedures for declaring banks
bankrupt and recommendations for their elimination, including the analysis of a proposed more complete
integration of administrative procedures into the bank liquidation mechanism;
o         Review of the international best practice in the area of disclosure of the structure of bank ownership,
including disclosure of elements of hidden/indirect ownership; recommendations on improving the regulations of
the Bank of Russia and/or on amendments to the legislation regarding disclosure of the ownership structure;
o         Recommendations of legal nature on proposed development of a market of mortgage-backed securities in
the Russian Federation, as well as other financial derivatives issued by banks.


Facilitating Access to Financial Resources, Especially for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (SME)


Developing a state-of-the-art financing system in the Russian Federation using movable property as a pledge.
Implementation period: third quarter 2004 ­ fourth quarter 2005.

The ultimate goal of the establishment of a state-of-the-art system of financing based on movable property security
consists in increasing the volumes of lending provided to real sectors of the economy using movable property to
secure the borrowed funds, as well as optimization of the costs and conditions of lending.

Pursuant to the contract, recommendations were provided on establishing a modern legal system with more
favorable terms and conditions for lenders using movable property to secure loan funds, and proposals on
developing a state-of-the-art system of registration of claims charged on movable property for potential use by the
authorities of the Russian Federation. In particular, the following activities were completed:
o         Review and description of all the applicable legal acts on pledge-based financing;
o         Assessment of implications of the new law on pledge-based financing for all other relevant legal acts of
the Russian Federation;
o         Drafting a modern law on pledge-based financing based using movable property as a pledge;
o         Drafting a set of proposed amendments to all the relevant legal acts of the Russian Federation with a view
to ensuring compliance of the new legislation system with the current legal system of the Russian Federation;
o         Drafting comments on each aspect of the new law on pledge-based financing, as well as amendments to
the relevant legal acts;
o         Drafting proposals on logistic support of the registration system; and
o         Drafting proposals on operational structure of the registration system.

In addition, certain activities were undertaken in developing an information system of a registration institution (in
compliance with the national standard GOST-34.601-90).

Improvement of legal framework and institutional development of consumer credit cooperatives of citizens
(CCCC). Implementation period: fourth quarter 2003 ­ fourth quarter 2004.

Concept of legislative and regulatory documents regulating performance of CCCCs.
o         Drafting proposals on the definition of the responsibilities of the CCCC regulator;
o         Development of the first draft procedure for CCCC registration and register maintenance;
o         Assistance in drafting terms of reference for the development of a comprehensive regulatory framework
and operational policies of CCCCs.
Amendments to the current regulatory framework of Government regulation of CCCCs .
o         Drafting of additional proposals and recommendations on improving the system of state registration of
CCCCs and maintenance of a register with due regard to the current public administration reform in the Russian
Federation, including development of uniform standard document templates applicable across the whole of the
territory of the Russian Federation for state registration of CCCCs, as well as preparation of the policy guidelines




                                                          - 45 -

on filling out the above standard forms.
o         Drafting of regulatory documents to increase the responsibility of CCCCs and to improve the available
tools for calling CCCCs to account in cases of noncompliance with the legislation on credit cooperatives, and to
integrate the above provisions into the current rules of law of the Russian administrative and other legislation.
Systems of regulation of CCCCs
o         Drafting of legislation and regulatory documents for regulation of CCCCs with due regard to their nature
as nonbank financial institutions;
o         Drafting of proposals on participation of CCCC associations in the process of regulation, including
potential establishment of self-regulating organizations within the framework of the current legislation;
o         Drafting of proposals for the establishment of a system of monitoring of financial sustainability of CCCCs
with due regard to the nature of the current phase in the development of credit cooperatives, as well as in
compliance with the system of financial regulations PEARLS;
o         Definition of the legal status, objectives, responsibilities and authority of a Federal regulator of CCCCs.
Corporate governance, in-house policies and procedures of CCCCs
o         Drafting of proposals and recommendations on organization of in-house business management of CCCCs;
o         Drafting of standard documents, including Articles of Association, in-house regulations containing
procedures for conduct of general meetings of partners or shareholders of CCCCs and their terms of reference, as
well as establishing responsibilities and accountability of governing bodies of CCCCs and ensuring performance
thereunder;
o         Drafting of in-house policies and procedures for establishment and spending of CCCC funds, including
through contributions into stabilization funds, lending to CCCC partners, implementation of programs of savings;
o         Drafting of recommendations for implementation and running of management software;
o         Drafting of a standard set of documents required for the preparation to litigation and participation in court
proceedings.

Comprehensive improvement and legal regulation of credit cooperatives. Implementation period: fourth quarter of
2005

         Drafts regulations were developed to eliminate discrepancies in the current legislation on credit
cooperatives, including, in particular:
o         A draft regulatory document Introduction of Changes to Resolution of Gosstandart of the Russian
Federation # 454-st, dated November 6, 2001 "Adoption and enactment of the Russian National Classifier of
Economic Activities (OKVED)", which makes provision for introduction into the OKVED of the classification
attribute "nonprofit financial organizations" in order to establish procedures for registration of their performance
results.
o         A concept of the Federal Law on Introduction of Changes to Federal Law # 193-FZ, dated December 8,
1995 "On System of Agricultural Cooperatives", which contains:
-         Definition of an independent subject for the legal regulation purview of the said law and its relationship
with legislation regulating similar domains, for example, with the Civil Code of the Russian Federation, with
Federal laws "On consumer credit cooperatives of citizens", "On government support of small business in the
Russian Federation";
-         More accurate definitions of the concepts "agricultural commodity producer", "incremental share",
"indivisible fund", "indivisible contribution";
-         Confirmation of the rules of law regulating procedures for calling and conduct of meetings of associated
partners of cooperatives for electing their proxy representatives for participation in cooperative general meetings of
shareholders;
-         More precise performance procedures and terms of reference of the governing bodies of cooperatives
(regular and special meetings of members of cooperatives, supervisory boards and chairpersons of cooperatives);
-         Revised list of legal entities and physical persons entitled to membership in an agricultural retail credit
cooperative.
o         A draft version of the Federal law "On introduction of modifications into the Federal law of 8 December
1995 # 193-FZ " On System of Agricultural Cooperatives" was developed, which contains a full text of the law with
explanations and commentary.



                                                          - 46 -

o         A concept of the Federal law "On credit cooperative system" was drafted, which contains:
-         Definition of the concept of the "credit cooperative system";
-         Provisions fixing the rights and responsibilities of credit cooperatives;
-         Credit cooperative membership rules (conditions, rights and responsibilities, etc.) both for physical
persons and legal entities;
-         Retained authority for special modes of legal regulation of different forms of credit cooperatives;
-         Identification of tasks and responsibilities of a Federal agency entrusted with the authority of regulation of
the activities of credit cooperatives, based on proposals drafted in performing under contract FIDP/MOF/CQS/23
"Assistance to the Ministry of Finance of Russia in developing systems of regulation of consumer credit
cooperatives of citizens".
o         A draft version of the Federal law "On credit cooperative system", containing a full text of the law with
explanations and commentary, was developed.

Development of concept of establishment of micro-financing market infrastructure in the Russian Federation.
Implementation period: fourth quarter of 2005

         The above Concept of development of infrastructure for the market of micro-financing (hereinafter "the
Concept") was drafted to provide a basis for the elaboration of a uniform and meaningful Government policy in the
area of micro-financing. It was determined, that for the development of the market infrastructure for
micro-financing projects to get underway, there was a need to undertake the following activities:
o         Identification of the role of the government agencies in developing the micro-financing infrastructure,
including the formation, coordination, implementation of the State policy in this domain, sharing responsibilities
between the Federal, regional and municipal governments, and determination of the role of self-regulating
organizations in this area based on the international best practice;
o         Monitoring of the current legislation with a view to developing an integrated two-level (Federal -
regional) regulatory framework consistent with the objectives and tasks of the Government in establishing the
above micro-financing market infrastructure;
o         Creating favorable conditions for participation of the banking sector in the micro-financing market
development effort, coordination between banks and micro-financing organizations;
o         Drafting proposals to reduce the tax burden of small businesses resulting from received micro-loans;
o         Drafting proposals on developing regional infrastructure for micro-financing schemes, including
professional training, provision of consulting services, enhanced transparency of the micro-financing sector,
institutional development of micro-financing organizations;

Other Activities Promoting Government Policy Implementation in Financial Markets

In the period between 2004 ­ 2005 the Project provided technical assistance in implementation of the Government
policy on financial markets, including in the definition of the role of financial markets in social and economic
development of the country, in the preparation of the methodology of forecasting critical situations, in the
development of proposals to be considered in working on integration processes, as well as in organizing training
and education of financial market regulation professionals.


Development of proposals on definition of the role of financial markets in practical implementation of
medium-term programs of social and economic development of the Russian Federation. Implementation period:
fourth quarter 2004 ­ first quarter 2005.

Under the above contract assistance was provided to the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade in
developing financial markets for meeting the objectives of the Program of social and economic development of the
Russian Federation in the medium term. Proposals of the consultants served as the basis for the report submitted to
the meeting of the Government of the Russian Federation entitled "On performance results in social and economic
development of the Russian Federation for 2004 and proposed objectives of economic policies of the Government
for 2005" (in particular, in sections "Condition of financial markets", "Investment Activities", "Financial condition



                                                          - 47 -

of companies representing real sector of economy, payments and settlements").

Drafting of methodology of forecasting critical situations on financial markets of Russia, scenarios requiring
Government regulating intervention on financial markets in the event of emergence of critical situations, e.g. in
the banking system. Implementation period: third-fourth quarter of 2004

In performing under the contract assistance was provided to the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade in
the conduct of an all-around structural analysis of the current condition of the financial markets, as well as of the
factors, which generated similar crises in previous years, in order to develop forecasting techniques and/or identify
critical situations early in the process and prepare comprehensive measures to prevent and/or adequately respond as
required by different scenarios.

Assessment of current status and development of proposals on setting up a comprehensive system of education and
training of professionals in management and regulation of complex economic systems in respect of the financial
markets. Implementation period: fourth quarter of 2004

          Under the contract a methodology was provided for the assessment of estimated requirement of the
Government in professionals in the area of development and/or implementation of economic policies on financial
markets, and proposals aiming at improvement of the system of professional training in this domain. Potential
vectors of international cooperation in the area of training of the above professionals were outlined.

Assessment of the current integration processes on the Russian financial markets. Implementation period: third
quarter of 2004

          Under the contract assessment of the ongoing integration on the financial markets of the CIS countries
was performed; the key parameters for financial integration were identified, whose achievement may result in a
significant growth of investment capability of the participating countries; as well as proposals were prepared on
further development of financial integration processes, based on the international best practice, including an
assessment of the need for and requirement in developing new financial and economic alliances with the
participation of the Russian Federation.

Assessment of uses of financial products for diversification purposes and for minimization of systemic risks.
Implementation period: third-fourth quarter of 2004

          In performing under this contract assessment of uses of financial products for the purpose of
diversification and for minimization of systemic risks was undertaken, and a methodology was developed to enable
regular review of the systemic risks in the Russian economy, as well as recommendations were prepared for
proposed uses of the above financial products, which should facilitate diversification and minimization of such
risks.

Development of a concept of the draft law on establishing a system of guaranteed payment of life insurance claims.
Implementation period: second-third quarter of 2004

          Assistance was provided in improving and further developing the legal framework, regulating the
activities of insurance companies in the Russian Federation, and proposals were prepared for the development of a
concept of the draft Federal law "On the fund of guaranteed payment of life insurance claims".

Development of recommendations on the rationale of Government participation in infrastructure organizations of
financial markets. Implementation period: fourth quarter of 2004

          Infrastructure organizations of financial markets, established in the Russian Federation, were assessed,
including the infrastructure organizations with the Government's participatory interest, as well as recommendations
were provided on the rationale of Government participation in such organizations. In particular, the following
services were provided by the consultants in performing under the contract:


                                                          - 48 -

o         Collection and classification of information on the key elements of the infrastructure and on the principal
intermediaries operating on the financial markets of the Russian Federation;
o         Assessment of performance of infrastructure organizations of the financial markets with a participatory
interest of the Government and review of the current legislation regulating the above infrastructure organizations of
the financial markets with a participatory interest of the Government, based on international practical experience;
o         Development of recommendations on the rationale of the Government's participation in infrastructure
organizations of financial markets.

Improvement of efficiency of performance of development institutions with the Government's participatory interest
to enhance competitive advantages of the national economy. Implementation period: fourth quarter of 2004

         Recommendations were provided on improvement of efficiency of performance of development institutions
with Government's participatory interest to enhance competitive advantages of the national economy, based on
international experience and international best practice. The consultants performed the following activities:
o         Review of benchmarking experience in establishment and performance of development institutions with
the Government's participatory interest to enhance competitive advantages of the national economy.
o         Assessment of potential tailoring of the above experience to adapt it to the special environment of the
Russian Federation;
o         Structural analysis of the functions performed currently by the development institutions with the
Government's participatory interest in the Russian Federation.

Comparative analysis of instruments, conditions, costs and principal destinations for possible loans of
international financial institutions and funds borrowed from other sources, as well as the methodology of
assessment of benefits associated with nonfinancial lending practices of international financial institutions.
Implementation period: third quarter 2004 ­ December 2005

         Surveys and analytical documents were made available to facilitate the development of balanced and
viable policies of the Russian government in respect of international financial institutions. It required assessment of
the costs of borrowing associated with different instruments, international comparative analysis of spending
patterns, used for funds borrowed from international financial institutions by different countries comparable with
the Russian Federation, to identify typical problems, and a special methodology was provided for the assessment of
efficiency and performance output of the funds borrowed from international financial institutions. In particular, the
following services were provided by the consultants in performing under the contract:

o         Comparative analysis of the terms and conditions of external borrowing based on different instruments by
the Russian Federation since 1992, including quantitative assessment of the most important direct and indirect
costs associated with any specific instrument;
o         Comparative analysis of the terms and conditions of external borrowing by the Russian Federation and
other countries, including an international comparative assessment of practices of using similar borrowing
instruments;
o         Review and assessment of spending patterns used for funds borrowed from international financial
institutions by the Russian Federation and other countries with a description of issues arising in implementing
social, as well as non-for-profit infrastructure and commercial projects;
o         Provision of a methodology for assessment of efficiency and performance output resulting from borrowing
of funds by the Russian Federation from international financial institutions.

Provision of a methodology for recording and nonrepayable transfers (grants), received by the Russian
Federation. Implementation period: fourth quarter 2004 ­ December 2005

      In performing under this contract assessment of grant resources, made available to the Russian Federation,
was performed, as well as proposals and recommendations were provided in the following areas:

o         Analysis of spending patterns used for the current portfolio of nonrepayable transfers (grants), received by



                                                         - 49 -

the Russian Federation from international financial institutions, foreign states, legal entities or physical persons;
o         Assessment of the current regulatory framework regulating the process of acceptance, recording and
monitoring spending of nonrepayable transfers (grants), as well as its enforcement practices;
o         Assessment of potential spending liabilities that may eventually arise in conjunction with nonperformance
by the Russian Federation or impossibility to perform under the terms and conditions of the said nonrepayable
transfers (grants);
o         Provision of a methodology for recording of nonrepayable transfers (grants), including a technique for
projecting the size of reserve funds required for payment of service charges.

Developing recommendations on hedging currency and interest rate risks associated with the state external debt of
the Russian Federation. Implementation period: 4th quarter 2005

An overview and analysis of financial instruments that the Russian Federation could use to develop an optimal
policy of managing currency, interest rate, and market risks through risk hedging instruments were conducted.
The consultants examined Russia's capabilities to use market instruments and instruments offered by international
financial institutions (IFIs) and proposed instruments most suitable for Russia, and also estimated the impact of
exchange rate fluctuations on budgetary revenues, expenditures, and surplus with the aim of developing
recommendations to mitigate fiscal performance risks. As part of the contract, the consultants carried out the
following activities:

o         Analysis of Russia's capabilities to use financial instruments existing in the market for hedging of
currency and interest rate risks, including:
-         analysis of Russia's external debt profile from the standpoint of existing risks and analysis of the
correlation between external debt risks and risks related to revenues and expenditures of the general federal budget;

-         analysis of the impact of exchange rates between different currencies on the projected budgetary revenues
in the context of the changed amounts of collections for taxes tied to the dollar rate (mineral resources extraction
tax, export duties for crude and petroleum products);
-         presentation of a paper on existing hedging instruments both in the international and domestic financial
markets in the context of their suitability for Russia; review of possible approaches to risk management at the
stages of budget formulation and execution.

o         Overview and analysis of potential outcomes from using in Russia standard hedging instruments offered
by international financial institutions (IFIs). Study of international practices of incorporating the exchange rate
volatility factor in the budgeting process, including:
-         analysis of the IFI debt profile and identification of related risks;
-         a retrospective calculation of hedging implications for federal revenues based on the assumption that
currency and interest rate risks were hedged over the last 4-5 years along with a forecast for the coming years;
-         assessment of advantages and disadvantages of IFI-offered hedging instruments compared with other
instruments in terms of their relative cost and accessibility;
-         review of advanced international practices of incorporating exchange rate volatility in the processes of
preparing budgetary projections, budget planning and execution.

o         Developing recommendations on hedging currency and interest rate risks for Russia's external debt
portfolio, including:
-         an optimal hedging strategy proposed for each category of the external debt or for the government external
debt overall;
-         recommendations developed on incorporating the exchange rate volatility factor in the budgeting process;
-         constraints identified for implementation of the optimal hedging strategy created by the relevant Russian
laws and possible amendments suggested to such laws along with options how to eliminate gaps or conflicts of
laws;
-         amortization and debt service schedules for government external debt assessed in the context of using
hedging instruments, with potential gains estimated;



                                                           - 50 -

-         an analysis conducted of MOF internal policies and procedures for consistency with hedging strategy
objectives and changes suggested to the existing system.

Analysis of influence of monetary and credit policy on banking sector development. Implementation period: 4th
quarter 2005

Proposals were developed for the monetary and credit policy from the standpoint of its positive impact on
development of the banking sector and the economy in general. In addressing this objective, the consultants
considered the possibility and implications of moving to an inflation targeting policy, evaluated the impact of such
policy on the ruble rate, and also assessed development of the banking sector in the new environment. As part of
this contract, the consultants undertook the following pieces of work:

o         Defining conditions and prerequisites for moving to inflation targeting, including:
-         review of experiences of advanced and transition economies in pursuing inflation targeting policy;
-         analysis of impact of the inflation targeting policy on economic growth in economies of different types;
-         analysis of negative consequences observed in pursuing the inflation targeting policy and identification of
conditions leading to such negative consequences;
-         identification, in light of international experience, of the prerequisites for a successful move to the
inflation targeting policy.

o         Assessing implications of moving to inflation targeting for monetary and credit indicators and the ruble
exchange rate, including:
-         analysis of the monetary and credit policy pursued by the Russian Federation in an environment of
superinflated crude prices;
-         assessment, in light of international experience, of how prepared Russia's economy and its monetary and
credit regulatory institutions are to move to inflation targeting;
-         identification of key factors impacting on the ruble rate;
-         evaluation of implications of the move to inflation targeting for the ruble exchange rate and monetary and
credit parameters.

o         Evaluating the economic growth impact of changes in the effective ruble exchange rate, including:
-         analysis of possible calculation methods for the effective ruble exchange rate (in particular, based on
currencies of foreign trade partners or currencies of foreign trade settlements), identifying their respective
advantages and disadvantages;
-         assessment by econometric methods of the economic growth impact of changes in the real effective ruble
rate.

o         Evaluating the impact of moving to inflation targeting and effective exchange rate on banking sector
development, including:
-         description of changes in key economic indicators of Russia's banking sector;
-         evaluation of liquidity reallocation mechanisms existing in the banking sector and development of
recommendations on how to improve them;
-         description of channels through which exchange rate changes influence development of the banking
sector;
-         assessment (to the extent possible, in quantitative metrics) of the implications of moving to inflation
targeting on the development of Russia's banking sector.

Developing proposals to improve the system of government support for industrial exports. Implementation period:
4th quarter 2005

Proposals were developed to create a financing system helping to improve the international competitiveness of
Russian exporters of industrial products, expand the structure of Russian industrial exports, and increase the
influence of industrial exports on economic growth in the long term. To achieve this objective, the consultants:



                                                           - 51 -

o        reviewed international and domestic experiences in the functioning of government support systems for
industrial exports;
o        reviewed methodological approaches to evaluating the impact of government spending made in support of
industrial exports;
o        developed proposals to improve the government system for supporting exports in Russia so as to make it
more effective;
o        drafted implementing regulations to support introduction of effective mechanisms of government support
for industrial exports in Russia.


Exploring the possibility of opening up financial market to foreign financial instruments. Implementation period:
4th quarter 2005

The consultants examined the prospects and potential implications for the financial market of opening it up to
foreign financial instruments, including:

o        reviewed international experience in opening up financial markets, including emerging markets, to
international financial assets;
o        prepared a structured description of main foreign financial instruments traded in financial markets;
o        conducted an analysis and developed proposals to identify financial instruments (segments of financial
markets) for which it would be appropriate to open up the Russian financial market;
o        conducted a detailed analysis of economic implications of opening up the market to foreign financial
instruments for different segments and players of the Russian financial market;
o        performed a comparative analysis of advantages and disadvantages of the two options: Russian depositary
notes scheme for letting in foreign instruments and direct access to the Russian market for foreign financial assets;
o        conducted a review of foreign laws regulating financial market operations;
o        analyzed changes needed in the Russian financial market laws for the country to open up its markets to
foreign financial instruments and prepared a detailed action plan and specific recommendations on how to amend
relevant laws and regulations.

Reviewing Banks' Financial Status and Developing Recommendations to Improve Corporate Governance,
Risk Management and Internal Control Systems

These aspects were addressed over the entire project life. Following restructuring of the Project when it was
realigned to address creation of an enabling environment for reforms in the banking sector and its further
development, activities in this area included assessment of the financial status of the banking sector overall,
identification of system-wide risks, and designing risk mitigation actions.

Diagnostic study of 18 large commercial banks. Implementation period: 3rd quarter1998­2nd quarter 1999

This diagnostic was undertaken in response to the request from the CBR and was supported by the MOF. The
main purpose of the diagnostic was to assist in preparing activities to restructure the Russian banking system.

The study was conducted by banks' external auditors in accordance with the terms of reference developed by the
PIU staff in collaboration with independent consultants, CBR, and the World Bank.

A final report on the diagnostic study of the mentioned banks was used in defining restructuring scenarios for the
banking sector.

In the course of the diagnostic, additional disclosure requirements were formulated and tested, which were thence
used both under the FIDP, including the survey of Sberbank's financial status (see below), and in carrying out the
World Bank/IMF Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP).



                                                        - 52 -

Assessment of financial status of Sberbank. Implementation period: 3rd quarter 2000 ­ 4th quarter 2001

This contract involved the following activities:

o         survey of Sberbank operations, including services offered by the bank, lists of its banking products and
their market shares;
o         review of systems and procedures used in accounting;
o         assessment of financial status, including a detailed examination of the bank's loan portfolio;
o         analysis of operational performance;
o         analysis of risk management systems.

The findings from the survey were discussed at the high level between the officials of the CBR as Sberbank's
major shareholder, MOF, the World Bank, and the IMF.

Banking sector assessment. Implementation period: 2nd quarter ­ 4th quarter 2004

The main purpose of the contract was to evaluate a potential reform impact on the market of banking services
provided to households and the real sector of the economy and on economic growth in general. The terms of
reference developed for the contract was supported by the CBR.

Under the contract, the consultants reviewed the main trends in development of the Russian banking sector, its
dynamics and the attained level, including quantitative and qualitative parameters, assessed changes in banking
sector parameters following the introduction of IAS, and estimated the banking sector contribution (share) to (in)
the economic development in Russia. The outputs of the survey included:

o         measurement of quantitative indicators of the banking sector relative to the GDP;
o         comparison of quantitative and qualitative indicators of Russia's banking system with banking systems of
developed (such as USA, Great Britain, Japan, France, and Germany) and developing (such as Portugal, South
Korea, Brazil, Turkey, and Mexico) countries;
o         development of probable scenarios of banking sector development in Russia, including the impact of such
scenarios on the economy;
o         assessment of the influence of external factors on the Russian banking sector.

Ongoing monitoring of the banking sector, development of additional disclosure requirements for IAS reporting,
activities to improve corporate governance in banks. Implementation period: on a permanent basis

Monitoring of financial status, the quality of corporate governance, and risk management and internal control
systems of the participating banks was conducted by the PIU on a permanent basis.               Additional disclosure
requirements for banks were developed which were later used in conducting an assessment of Sberbank's financial
position and also under the Financial Sector Assessment Program for Russia (see below).

Based on its experience in monitoring banks' financial status, the PIU developed and submitted to the World Bank
statistical and analytical information on the Russian financial sector as an input for the book Building Trust ­
Developing the Russian Financial Sector, published in March 2002. This book ­ a product of activities pursued by
the World Bank in support of the Russian financial system ­ contained an assessment of developments in the
financial system and proposed recommendations for various areas of banking sector development.

In response to the request of the CBR and the World Bank/IMF, the PIU staff participated in a stress test of Russian
banks under the Financial Sector Assessment Program which was conducted between the 3rd quarter 2002 and the
1st quarter 2003.

Preparing proposals on the concept of development and management structure for the Eurasian Development



                                                         - 53 -

Bank. Implementation period: 4th quarter 2005

To prepare proposals for the concept of development and management arrangements for the Eurasian Development
Bank, the consultants:

o        reviewed management arrangements in leading international financial institutions;
o        reviewed best banking practices internationally concerning policies, procedures, and operational
regulations;
o        reviewed strategic activity areas in leading international financial institutions;
o        examined regulatory and legal frameworks of Bank member states so as to identify provisions that are
applicable to Bank's activities and prepared proposals to introduce amendments to the legal and regulatory
framework;
o        prepared proposals for a Bank Development Concept with consideration for its specifics as an
international financial institution and also for the level and priorities of economic development of Bank member
states;
o        prepared proposals on the Bank's development strategy in the area of information technologies and on its
systems design;
o        developed proposals concerning the Bank's organizational structure and its draft budget for 2006,
targeting July 2006 as the proposed time for launching Bank's operations;
o        designed a model of the Bank's signature style, including key elements and features of its logo;
o        estimated potential costs of implementing a development strategy for the long- and short term;
o        developed a marketing strategy as part of the Bank's development concept.




                                                           - 54 -

                                                             Annex 1


List of Amendments to Loan Agreement No. 3734-RU (and/or MOF's and IBRD's Letters of Amendment)
throughout the FIDP Implementation Period

               Signatories              Effectiveness date      Summary description of amendments
Yukon Huang,                           November 29, 1995   Deletion of Parts ·.1 and ·.5 from Schedule 4
World Bank Director for Europe and                         to Loan Agreement No. 3734-RU
Central Asia                                               Amendments and renumbering in Parts ·.2,
                                                           ·.3, ·.4, and D.1 (·)
·. Kazmin, Deputy Minister of Finance,
Russian Federation
Yukon Huang,                           January 27, 1997    Choice      of    currencies     for   ongoing
World Bank Director for Europe and                         multicurrency loans Nos. 3763-RU and
Central Asia                                               3734-RU

A. Vavilov, First Deputy Minister of
Finance, Russian Federation
Michael Carter, Country Director for September 22, 1998    Restructuring         of        implementation
Russia,   Resident   Representative in                     arrangements for the Financial Institutions
Moscow, World Bank                                         Development Project

·. Kudrin, First Deputy Minister of
Finance, Russian Federation
Michael Carter, Country Director for December 17, 1998     Reallocation of a portion of unallocated funds
Russia,   Resident   Representative in                     in Loan No. 3734·-RU
Moscow, World Bank

·. Kudrin, First Deputy Minister of
Finance, Russian Federation
Michael Carter, Country Director for July 3, 2000          Restructuring     of   activities   under    the
Russia,   Resident   Representative in                     Financial Institutions Development Project
Moscow, World Bank

S. Kolotukhin,
Deputy Minister of Finance, Russian
Federation
Julian Schweitzer,                     December 16, 2002   Extension of the Agreements between the
Country Director for Russia, Resident                      Russian Federation and the IBRD on
Representative in Moscow, World Bank                       financing     of  the  Financial    Institutions
                                                           Development Project (Loan No. 3734·-RU)
                                                           and the Enterprise Support Project (Loan No.
                                                           3763-RU) to March 31, 2003
Julian Schweitzer,                     March 21, 2003      Amendments       to  Loan     Agreement     No.
Country Director for Russia, Resident                      3734·-RU
Representative in Moscow, World Bank                       Cancellation    of   funds    in  the   amount



                                                - 55 -

                                                             US$46,122,914. 65
S. Kolotukhin,                                               Extension     of  the   Financial  Institutions
Deputy Minister of Finance, Russian                          Development Project to December 31, 2004
Federation
S. Kolotukhin,                           December 25, 2003   Letter No. 26-03-09/1633 to the World Bank
Deputy Minister of Finance, Russian                          requesting to reduce the total amount in Loan
Federation                                                   No. 3734·-RU extended to finance the FIDP
                                                             by US$8,494,294
S. ·. Storchak,                          December 23, 2004   Letter No. 04-02-09/3206 to the World Bank
Director, Department for International                       requesting to extend the Loan Closing Date
Financial Relations, Government Debt, and                    to December 31, 2005 and to cancel
Government Financial Assets, Ministry of                     US$1,000,000 in loan funds for the category
Finance, Russian Federation                                  Consulting Services under Part D of the
                                                             Project with a simultaneous increase of the
                                                             share of Russian counterpart financing to 50
                                                             % (VAT including)
Kristalina Georgieva,                    December 30, 2004   Amendments       to   Loan    Agreement    No.
Country Director for Russia, Resident                        3734·-RU:
Representative in Moscow, World Bank                         The percentage of expenditures for the
                                                             category Consulting Services under Part D of
S. ·. Storchak,                                              the   Project    reduced    from   100%     for
Director, Department for International                       expenditures incurred before December 2004
Financial Relations, Government Debt, and                    to 50% for expenditures incurred after that
Government Financial Assets, Ministry of                     date
Finance, Russian Federation
S. ·. Storchak,                          August 26, 2005    MOF      letter  of   August    26,  2005    No.
Director, Department for International                      04-02-09/4669 to the World Bank requesting a
Financial Relations, Government Debt, and                   partial reallocation of undisbursed project funds
Government Financial Assets, Ministry of                    in the amount US$450,000 from Category 6 of
Finance, Russian Federation                                 the   Loan     Agreement    (Part  D2:    Project
                                                            management expenditure) to Category 4 (Part
Kristalina Georgieva,                                       D1: technical assistance in implementation of
Country Director for Russia, Resident                       the Banking Sector Strategy). In its letter of
Representative in Moscow, World Bank                        September 19, 2005 No. ECCU-N-2005-00507
                                                            the World Bank gave a permission to reallocate
                                                            the funds and also presented the revised
                                                            Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement (FIDP).




                                                   - 56 -

- 57 -

