/  /LX         i /  )K / /   7<6/o  o
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12707 RU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
FINANCIAL INS'I:lTUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 6, 1994
MICROGRAPHI CS'
Report Nc.:         12'707 R11
Type: SAR
Agriculture, Industry and Finance Division
Country Department m
Europe and Central Asia Region
Tlhis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their oficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



RUSSITAA
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CUD.RENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Ruble (Rb)
EXCHANGE RATE: RUBLES PER US$
December 1991 =   170
December 1992 = 420
December 1993 = 1,190
March    1994 = 1,746
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMES
BAFS        Broadly-Adapted Financial Statements
BIS         Bank for International Settlements
CBR         Central Bank of Russia
CIF         Cost, Insurance, Freight
EBRD        European Bank for Reconstruction & Development
EC          European Commission
ERL         Enterprise Restructuring Loan
ERP         Enterprise Restructuring Project
EU          European Union
FIDP        Financial Institutions Development Project
FSU         Former Soviet Union
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
MoF         Ministry of Finance
IFI         International Financial Institution
ISB         International Standards Bank
NBF         Non-Bank Financed
PB          Participating Bank
PIU         Project Implementation Unit
PPF         Project Preparation Facility
TCP         Technical Cooperation Program
TF          Task Force
VLR         Variable Lending Rate
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RUSSLAN FEDERATION
FINANCIA, INSTIlTUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY  .................................... iii
I. INTRODUCTION  .              .............................................  I
U. FINANCLAL SECTOR FRAMEWORK   ................................  3
m. THE BANKING SECTOR .......                         .....................                           6
A. Background                    ...........................                                  6
B. Financial Infrastructure            ..........................                             6
1. Legal and Regulatory Foundations ...........................  6
2. A.ccounting and Auditing .................................  7
3. The Payments System  ...................................  8
C. The Central Bank of Russia and the Commercial Banks  ................. .                   8
1. The Central Bank  .....................................  8
2. The Commercial Banks ..................................  8
D. A Strategy for the Banking Sector .................                                        9
1. Phasing Out of Directed Credit .............................  9
2. Improving the Soundness of Banks ..........................   10
3. Building up Financial Infrastructure  .........................   10
IV. BANK'S GROUP ASSISTANCE AND STRATEGY  .......................   12
A. Lessons of Experience  .....................................   12
B. Bank Past Lending and Strategy in the Sector  .......................   14
V. THE PROJECT           ...................... ........................   17
A. Project Rationale ...........            ..............................   17
B. Project Objectives and Description  ............          ..       ................   17
1. Commercial Banking Component ...........................   17
2. Bank Supervision and Regulation ...........................   19
3. Accounting and Auditing ................................   20
C. Project Costs and Financing  ................                  ..................   20
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which took place in December 1993.
The report has been prepared by Jacques Toureille, Task Manager, assisted by Denise Vergot, with
contributions from I.1kramullah, P. Murgatroyd, G. Pohl, and J. Le Vourc'h (Bank), R. Barneus,
V. Brailitsa, D. Carlson, F. Kenefick, E. Manes, V. Mechtcheriakov, and S. TaUley (Consultants).
Peer Reviewers were G. Perlin and D. McNaughton (Bank), and B. Kurtz (USAID). The EBRD
team was led by Michael Davey, and the project manager for the EC is Seamnus Gillespie. The
Department Director and the Division Chief are Russell Cheetham and Michael Gould, respectively.
Secretarial support was provided by G. Alemu, L. Hancock, I. Kochhar, N. Rinko, and G. Sheriff.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS ......................  24
A. Project Implementation .      ....................................  24
B. On-Lending Terms and Arrangements ............................  26
C. Procurement ............................................ 27
D. Disbursement ............................................ 30
E. Project Accounting, Financial Reporting, - d Auditing ..................  31
F. Project Supervision  .    ......................................  32
G. Environmental Aspects .       ....................................  34
VII. PROJECT BENEFITS AND MAIN RISKS                             ..                       35
A. Project Bei ,fits ......................               .     . .........  35
B. Projects  .................... . ..                           ..........  35
VIH. AGREE NTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ..................  36
Annexes
Annex 5-1   Selection of Banks
Annex 5-2   Procedure for Accrediting Banks
Annex 5-3   Accreditation Criteria
Annex 5-4   Summary Review of Participating Banks
Annex 5-5   Consolidated Institutional Findings of Diagnostic Reviews
Annex 5-6   Mode of Delivery for Assistance
Annex 5-7   Terms of Reference - Institutional Strengthening Program
Annex 5-8   Design of the Technology Component
Annex 5-9   Sample Commercial Bank Automation Program
AnnexS-10   Proposed Pnrdential Standards for Participating Banks
Annex5-11   Legal Subcomponent
Annex5-12   Terms of Reference - Bank Supervisioal and Examination
Annex5-13   Terms of Reference - Accounting and Auditing
Annex5-14   Project Costs and Financing Plan
Annex 6-1   Project Implementation Arrangements
Annex 6-2   Terms and Conditions of the Technical Assistance Loan
Annex 6-3   Main Contracts - Procurement Methods and Schedule of Critical Procuicrnent Steps
Annex 6-4  IBRD Disbursements
Annex 6-5  Implementation Plan
Annex 6-6   Detailed Supervision Plan
Map
IBRD 25522 Russian Federation, Finarcial Institutions Development Project



- fii -
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
FINANCIAL INSDTIUIONS DEVELOPMENT LOAN
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       Russian Federation (Ministry of Finance)
Bene$rciares:   Participating Private Commercial Barks (PBs); Central Bank of Russia (CBR);
Ministry of Finance (MoF)
Amount:         US$200 million equivalent
Term:           17 years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate
On-Lending:    The proceeds of the loans from the Bank and the EBRD, which is cofinancing the
project, will be on-lent to participating commercial banks (PBs) in US doilars at an
interest rate equivalent to a base rate of the MoF's weighted average cost of these two
loans, gIn  2.5 percent rounded up to the nearest 0.5 percent interval  These
subsidiary loans will have a repayment period of up to eight years including up to
three years of grace for institutional strengthening programs and a repayment period
of up to twelve years including up to four years of grace for automation programs.
The Government will bear the cross currency and default risks.
Project         The ultimate objectives of the program are to increase the quantity and improve the
Objetives and  quality of banking services, promote banking stability, and contribute to a more
Description:    efficient mobilization of financial resources and allocation of bank credit (including
any bank lending financed by the Bank or other international sources). The immediate
goal is to strengthen a core group of banks which will: (i) set higher banking standards
and create a dynamic for improving the quality of banking activities in Russia; (ii)
provide the basis for a private clearing system operating at the federal level; and (iii)
qualify as on-lenders of Bank and other international lines of credit. The project will
consist of four components: (i) a commercial banking component, consisting of
institutional strengthening programs, and systems modernization and automation
programs for participating private commercial banks; (ii) a bank supervision
component, consisting primarily of the development of on-site supervisory capabilities
and legal assistance for the Central Bank of Russia; (iii) a bank accoummng component,
which will support the modernization of accounting and auditing standards and
practices; and (iv) a Project Implementation Unit (PIU1) component which will
contribute to the establishment and early stages of operation of the PIU.
Benefits:       The build-up of the financial infrastructure and improved operations in the banking
system will lead to a more efficient mobilization of financial resources, and to an
improved allocation of resources to viable activities in the productive sector. The



- iv -
project will also promote the modernization and standardization of banks' management
and information systems and will enhance the operations of the payments system. The
reformed and strengthened legislative, regulatory and supervisory framework, as well
as the institutiona! development of banks, will help improve the efliciency and
prudence of bank operations and thereby instill greater financial discipline in the
system. Improvements in accounting and auditing will significantly help improve
transparency and reliabdity of financial data. Assistance in the development of a
network of commercial banks operating according to common higher standards will
contribue to further institutional development, facilitate inter-enterprise payments, and
broaden financial markets. All of these improvements in the financial sector will
enhance the restructuring of the real economy, contribute to the resumption of growth
in the productive sectors, and provide a basis for IBRD and other IFI's lending. The
proposed Enterprise Restcturing Loan, designed to provide medium-term credit to
restructuring private enterprises, will be the first Bank operation to on-lend through
the commercial banks selected for participation in this project.
Risks:          Uncertainties in the macroeconomic situation and inexperienced management may
jeopardize the solvency of participating banks (PBs). The introduction of banking
standards for the PBs and improved bank supervision, as well as the strengthened
managerial, financial, anc( operational capacities of PBs developed mainly through
twinning arrangements with foreign banks should contribute to reducing this risk.
Another risk relates to the lack of familiarity of the Russian counterpart with Bank's
procedures, which may slow down project implementation.  Strong project
implementation arrangements, including the early establishment of 1,e PIU, as well
as training of counterpart staff, will address this risk.
Project Cost:
ot total
COMMERCIAL BANKING                    u        3.9       3.4       Z7        24
A. ional Stengthening              2.0      118.0    120.0    98.3        30.8
B. Systems Modernzation and        6.5      241.9    248.4    97.4        63.8
BANtK SUPERVISION AND                 PA         4.0       415                Li
REGUIATION
ACCOUNTING AND AUDING                            U         l      7S.0        Li
PROJECTIMPLMENAZTION                             u          I       4         U
TOTAL                                                      J.d &L            ml



v -
Financdng Plan:
FINANCING SOURCEO                 .LocAl   For4i    Total    Fet.t of,
(. a,' - -n equiva}e t
IBRD                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~3.0  197.0    200.0  S1.4A
EBRD                                1.~~~~~~~~~~             ~ ~~S 97.S  ".0  25.4|
NU                                               ..36.0            36.0        9.2
OTHER GRANT COFINANCING                                 937.4      37.4        9.6
GOVERIVAENTJCBR                                3.0         ..3.0               0.8
ARST[CIPATING B"X                               4.u                14.0         II
TOTAL                  ,
Disbursement:
l  SnURSE-:NTS                        FY95         FY96         F7           FY9 
(US Maslon quvaetj
Annual                                  61.3         81.3         42.4         15.0
Cumulative                              613         142.6        18S.0        200.0
Cormanclng:    An EBRD joint-loan in an amotnt of US$95.0 million will contribute to the financing
of tue commercial banking coL ponent. A European Union (EU) grant in an amount
of US$34.0 million equivalent will also finance this component. Contributions from
the Japanese Government (US$18.6 million) and a number of 'oilateral donors
(US$11.4 million) will complete the financing of this component. In addition, USAID
will contribute US$3.4 million to the financing of the bank supervision and regulation
component, and the EU will contribute US$2.0 million to the financing of the
accounting and auditing component. Finally, a number of bilateral donors will
contribute US$4.0 million to the cost of project implementation while the EBRD, the
World Bank, and the MoF will cover the balance.
Economic       Not applicable.
Rate
of Return:
Poverty        Not applicable.
Category:



RUSSIAN FEDERATION
FINANCIAL INSTITTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1   Following the collapse of the former Soviet Union (FSU) in late ;I9 1, the Russian Government
launched a broad program of economic reform to replace the remnants of the command economic
structure with a market-oriented economy based on private ownership. Considerable progress has been
made in the past two years: most prices have been liberalized, the exchange rate and interest rates are
now largely market determiined, private property rights have been expanded, trading monopolies have
been eliminated, and a large number of state enterprises have been privatized. While the reform process
seems irreversible, it will be sjbjected to occasional setbacks, such as the recent elections at which anti-
reformist feelings were expressed by a significant proportion of the population.
1.2   Further reforms remain incomplete and inconsistent in several respects. agricultural and energy
prices remain below world market levels and subsidies have not yet been sufficiently reduced. The
resulting budgetary and quasi-fiscal ueficits have led to high inflation, averaging about 20 percent per
month, with the price ievel Increasing nearly tenfold per year.
1.3    One of the most far-reaching transformations has taken place in the financial sector, where about
2,000 new commercial banks have been created since 1988, taking over most of the commercial banking
functions of the former state bank (Gosbank). The transformation of the financial sector ahead of the
enterprise sector is a unique feature of Russian reforms and entails both consider"ble opportunities as well
as risks. In the absence of a functioning capital market, the commnercial banks ae likely to play a key
role in the transformation and restructuring of the Russian economy. The new banks are the principal
channel to transfer resources from savers to investors and are the only external control over managers
of privatized enterprises, apart from product market competition. Other elements of corporate
governace, including well functioning capital markets, are still missing. The central role of the banks
in the transformation process also entails considerable risks: poor lending decisions and inadequate
monitoring of borrowers could expose the banks to substantial losses and could lead to systemic financial
instability.
1.4   The recently published sector review Russia-The Banking Systen in the Transiton, sets out an
agenda for further reforming the system. The main elements of this program include: (i) phasing out
directed credit programs; (ii) use of indirect methods of monetary management through such mechanisms
as the discount window and credit auctions; (iii) creation of banking standards and incentive programs
to improve the financial condition and performance of banks; (iv) improvement of bank infrastructure,
especially the domestic payments system; and (v) restructuring of the existing specialized state banks.
1.5   In support of the above agenda, the Financial Insdttuons Development Project (FIDP), will
specifically: (i) contribute to the strengthening of a core of private commercial banks operating according
to sound prac' ices, which would be expected to serve as a catalyst in the gradual enhancement of the
banking system; (i) promote prudent banking through the strengthening of prudential regulations and the



-2 -
build up of bank supervisory capabilities; and (iii) support the transitiol towards internationally acceptable
accountiig and auditing practices. A cornerstone of the project is the development of "twinning"
arrangements for banks, whereby a technical assistance agreement would be signed between a
participadng Russian bank and a reputable foreign bank, setting the stage for a long-term relationship
between the two banks.
1.6 A Payments System project prepared in parallel will support the modernization of the payments
system. Close co-ordination will be maintained between the two projects to enhance the compatibility
with the national pay'ments system of the technological decisions made bsy the commercial banks in the
modernliation of their individual systems.
1.7   The proposed project will create the institutional foundation for the forthcoming Enterprise
Restr rng Loan, and a parallel EBRD loan which will provide, inter alia, credit to new and newly
privatized enterprises. Macro-economic reforms are being discussed in the ongoing dialogue with the
IMP and the Bank, and formal training will be provided under the proposed Management and Finance
7raining project (FY94). These and other aspects of the Bank's program in Russia are discussed in the
County Assistance Strategy section of the Memorandum of the President for this project.
1.8   Ihe proposed project was appraised in December,1993 in close collaboration with the Ministry
of Finance (McP) and the Central Bank of Russia (CBR), and a follow-up mission took place in mid-
Jamuary, 1994. The project will be supported jointly by the Bank, the EBRD, and the European Union.
A number of other multilateral and bilateral donors have supported project preparation, and will also be
Involved in its financing. The preparation of the project involved a program of systematic screening of
the 2,000 Russian commercial banks, and the carrying out of comprehensive diagnostic reviews of about
50 banks throughout the Federation. Background information on the surveyed banks is developed fiulrther
in the annexes, and is also available in the project's files.



- 3 -
II. FINANCIAL SECTOR FRAMEORK
2.1    During the socialist period, the state bank (Gosbank) had wide responsibilities in money supply,
clearing and settlement, accounting and auditing, and public budget management. However, Gosbank
did not actively take part in resource allocation or risk taking.  Its role was to serve as the state's
accounting and auditing arm. Five specialized banks carried out some of the tasks under the general
supervision of Gosbank (Promstrolbank - findustry, Agroprombank - agriculture, Vnesheconombank -
foreign trade, Jilsotsbank - loca administration and services, and Sberbank - household savings).
2.2   In 1990, the Russian parliament passed several laws, effectively challenging the power of the
USSR Gosbank within the Russian territory. The five state banks changed their legal status tojoint-stock
banks and altered their function. Sberbank became a main source of financing the budget deficit,
Promstroibank transformed part of its branches into independent acint stock) banks, Vnesheconombank
was split into two, Agroprombank became Rosselkhozbank and focused exclusively on agriculture and
the food industry, while Jilsotsbank transformed its branches into independent banks and ceased to exist.
New commercial banks were allowed to be established. As a result, the State no longer possessed tull
control over most banks, and credit allocation stopped being dependent solely on the plan.
2.3   When the Union was dissolved in late 1991, Gosbank's operations were taken over by the Central
Bank of Russia (CBR). It was placed under the direct control of the Parliament. In practice it was
closely aligned with the industrial constituencies represented in the Parliament. It had lost a great deal
of direct influence over the commercial banks, but 1-ept its regulatory and supervisory functions over the
banking system. In this period, the number of banks expanded rapidly. In 1990, 225 banks were
registered, one year later there were approximately 1,000 banks, and in 1992 there were 1,600 banks.
Presendy, there are close to 2,000 banks registered.
2.4   While the commercial banks, including statowned banks, became de-facto independent in 1990
and thus responsible for their lending decisions, monetary and credit developments continued to be
deternined by budgetary developments and transition problems. Virtually all enterprises remained state-
owned until the end of 1992, and lending was largely In form of directed credit channeled by the CBR
through the specialized and commerciaW banks.
2.5    Until the liberalization of prices in early 1992, households (and, to some extent, enterprises) held
large involuntary savings balances in the form of savings accounts, current account balances, or cash.
Since many consumer goods were unavailable at prevailing prices, consumers had little choice but to keep
their savings in bank accounts. In early 1990, broad money (currency plus deposits) was equivalent to
80 percent of annual GNP and represented a large monetary overhang in an economy dominated by price
controls and supply shortages (Tabk 2-1).



Table 2-1
Monetary Survey
(percent of GNP, end of period)
tow '-'             19W      19''        199    19          1i992    199$'
Pomestic Cnedt        :     65%      67%5      72% i   73% I    91%         46%  i     22%,   14%
Claims on Government       9%       15%'    26%         32%       55%  '    7%          4%       2%
Claims on Enterpises      56% |     52% |    46% t   41%          37%      39%         18%      12%
Monev                 3    51%'    57%         61%}   64%I         80%  I   62%'       31% '   16%
Currene3yOutsideBanks      9%       10% I    10%        11%       12%       9%          4% 1    4%
RublebDeposits            42%,   47%          51%       53%       67%      43%         14% I    7%
FXdeposits                 0%        0% |      0         0%        1%  | 11%           13% .    5%
Memorandum            5         2         3         3        i           5
NominalGDP(Rb billion)     806       830 t     878,    952         639     1928       37811  255766
Echange Rate              1.67      1.67       1.67     1.67 .    22.88 . 169.20     414.50  1190.00
Implied Per Capita GDP 1    3256    3353      3545X   38451 -|         i                6151   1449
(US$ atanarketxcwhangel                 ~.__
-                    -                   m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
u USSR
2' Claims on houseLolds are less than 1 prent of total edit
'  Implied GDP Per Capita figures for 1989 and 1990 are not reposted as the market exchange rate was much below its PPP-
leveL  -
' Based on the first nine months of 1993.
2.6    in the face of this monetary overhang, the liberalization of prices in January 1992 created an
immediate fourfold increase in the price level. In the aftermath of the price liberalization, the
government was unable to control spending adequately, or raise sufficient revenue through taxes. The
result was a large government budget deficit (16 percent of GNP), exacerbated by 'extrabudgetaryw
spending, leading to a total deficit of about 22 percent of GNP. Consequently, inflation accelerated from
8 percent per month during 1991 to 19 percent per month during 1992(32 percent per month, if the one-
time price adjustment is included), and 22 percent per month in 1993.
2.7    Two years of practically hyperinflationary conditions have had a marked impact on the financial
system. Credit (and deposits) expanded much less than the price level and this led to a drastic contaion
of money and credit in real terms: total domestic credit declined from 90 percett of GNP in 1990 to only
14 percent in September 1993. Ruble M2 (currency and deposits) declined from 80 percent to 11 percent
of GNP. At the same time, currency snbstitution progressed rapidly as enterprises shifted about one half
of their deposits into foreign exchange, in part to finance their foreign trade activities (Table 2-1). These
developments have resulted in a complete, if involuntary, restructuring of claims. Debtors (enterprises
and government) have been forgiven 90 percent of the value of their debts, at the expense of their
creditors (bouseholds and enterprises). Practically the only remaining claims are equity claims (share
capital) on enterprises.



-  -
2.8    Under the mass privatization program, workers, managers and other citizen are becoming the de-
facto owners of enterprises. Households as savers have lost their savings but are being compensated by
share certificates in the same enterprises. Unfortunately, this has not happened on a one-to-one basis.
Workers and managers have generally gained in this swap of savings-for-shares, while other groups
(pensioners, government employees) have lost. For the banking sector this restructuring of financial
claims has also been beneficial: banks now have only small balance sheets and few non-performing loans.
In Russia, UI credits from banks to non-bank institutions were e'uivalent to only 16 percent of GNP
by July 1993 (Table 2-2). This is very different from other transition economies in Eastern Europe where
the new commercial banks have usually inherited large non-performing loan portfolios, equivalent to
about 10-25 percent of GNP.
Table 2-2
Assets of Large Banks
(as of July, 1 1993)
'TOW Assts
Specaid Banks                                 14,780      1    12.1
V- eshtorgbank                               74597            6.4
3 R osselkho6k                               3,984            3.4
- S- keobank                                 1,926            1.6
Promtoibark                                  1,273            1.1
20 Largest Commeial Ranks                     14,479           12.6
|Tota fanking System                          41,3i    34.9
Total Credi to Non-Banks   _      _           17,697           16.4
"Lending to non-ba  institon, prncipally to trading industrial and agricual eateprses and
organizatons.



-6 -
III. THE BANKING SECTOR
A. Background
3.1    The financial system in Russia is dominated by banks. Securities markets have started to develop.
in the wake of the privatization of the enterprise sector, including the creation of a number of exchanges
and of investment funds. A limited number of non-banks financial iustitutions (pension funds, insurance
companies) have also been established.
3.2   The Government and the Bank carried out in 1992-1993 a review of the banking system, the
findings and recommendations of which are spelled out in a report, Russia-The Banking System in the
7ansidon. The report, which focusses on the next three to five years, discusses reforms needed to enable
the banking system to become more efficient in performing its role in a market economy, specifically in
the mobilization of financial savings, the allocation of resources, and the processing of payments. The
report also proposes a strategy for the banking sector, which is further detailed below para 3.20-3.27).
The sections below further discuss: (i) the status of financial infrastructure; (ii) the CBR and the
commercial banks; and (iii) the main elements of the strategy for the banking sector.
B. Finandal Infrastructure
1. Legal and Regulatory Foundations
3.3    The legal framework of the former centrally-planned economy, still partly in place, emphasized
administrative rather than contractual relationships, imposed constraints on ownership, treated the banking
system as a component of the planned economy, rejected the freedom of contract, and maintained a State
monopoly over foreign economic relations.
3.4   The Law on Banks and Banking Activity and the Central Banking Act, promulgated in 1990, are
major steps forward, inasmuch as they create a basis for the development of a two-tier banking system.
As part of this reform, the CBR is vested with the responsibility of bank supervision and regulation. By
way of consequence, the CBR is entitled to issue and revoke bank licenses, as well as rules and
regulations pertaining to the major prudential matters, namely capital adequacy, liquidity, risk
concentration, and exchange rate risks. The law provides for the CBR to define accounting procedures
and reporting standards; to exercise off-site and off-site supervision; and to apply sanctions when a bank
fails to comply with the regulations, or when its financial situation represents a threat to the interest of
bank depositors and creditors.
3.5    Licensing of a bank is a fairly routine process and is, at the moment, actually easier than
establishing a branch of an existing bank. There is a lack of clarity about the meaning of such basic
terms as "bank", "credit institutions" and "deposits", leading to some difficulty in separating banks from
non-banks. The law is based on the concept of universal banking and allows a wide variety of financial
and banking activities including non-lending activities. However, banks are not allowed to undertake
commercial activities and insurance (except for currency and credit risk). Banks engaging in foreign
exchange transactions are given special licenses: there are currently about 60 generalforeign licenses and
about 70 so called enended interior licenses.



3.6    Under the law, foreign banks are formally allowed to establish themselves in Russia, but are
subject to more stringent licensing requirements. A Presidential decree in November 1993 further
restricted foreign bank activities. Except for two banks which had been servicing Russian clients before
November, foreign banks are now restricted to servicing non-resident clients. Applications for full
banking status for foreign banks are on hold for three years.
3.7    There are few limits on the scope of activities that banks can undertake, and portfolio
diversification requirements and limits on connected lending remain very liberal. Minimum capital
requirements have been quite tow, largely a reflection of the high inflation and the lack of indexation of
capital requirements (currently RblO0 million or less than US$100,000). However, in February 1994
the CBR raised the minimum capital to 20 billion roubles, effective January, 1995. The CBR also
indicated that it would further raise minimum capital to ECU5 million by 1999. Banks need to have at
least three shareholders and no shareholder can hold more than 35 percent of bank's capital. Enterprises
are only entitled to open a single settlement account with one bank or credit institution to facilitate
control, but they can take this account to another bank if they so desire.
3.8 The CBR issued in 1991 a comprehensive set of prudentidal regulations. The weights attached
to many risks are, however, significantly lower than those used in market economies and non-performing
loans are not well defined.
3.9    Enforcement of the banking laws has been weak: in view of the potential risk of insolvencies and
fraud in the banking system, the CBR must embark on a full-fledged program for developing its
regulatory and supervisory capabilities. Recently, CBR has taken some steps signalling a stronger stand.
It revoked the licenses of four commercial banks and in the third quarter of 1993, it fined 75 banks for
improper bookkeeping and 86 for delays in remitting funds.
3.10   Other urgent reforms in the current legislation should concern Inter alla insolvency; security for
lending; laws on ownership of property; the company law (aw of legal entities); the law on payments
and payments systems; the law on the currency; the law on inter-Republic trade; and laws regarding the
operations of securities markets.
2. Accounting and Auditing
3.11   The first step towards the reform of accounting was the adoption in December of 1991, of a new
accounting chart for commercial enterprises. Little progress has been made, however, since the adoption
of this chart. A new impetus should be given to this reform, under the auspices of the MoF, so as to
elicit a prompt modernization of enterprise accounting, which will be an essential element in monitoring
enterprise performance and viability in a competitive environment.
3.12   Financial institutions require, however, accounting principles and systems, which, while in line
with the main orientations of a general accounting chart, also capture the particular aspects of their
activities. With Bank and EU's support, the CBR has been very active at introducing new accounting
principles for banks, as follows: (i) in a first phase, the existing accounting system has been broadly
adapted, to bring it in line with international practices in terms of principles and of presentation; (ii)
instructions have been disseminated in August 1993, explaining the modalities for preparing the broadly-
adapted financial statements (BAFS); (iii) a new chart of accounts and a detailed instruction manual have
been drafted; and (iv) over the forthcoming 2-3 years, a detailed reform of the accounting s.'stw. will



- 8-
be carried out, pertaining to financial accounting, regulatory accounting, and statistical reporting.
Management accounting will also be introduced, once these transformations have been effected.
3.13   The auditing function is currently carried out by a number of authorized firms, including the "Big
Six." The formal requirement for full audit extends to all financial institutions. In practice, the scope
of work varies considerably and, in general, is significantly less than required for western reporting
purposes.
3. The Payments System
3.14   The modernization of the payments system was initiated as part of the IMF Technical Assistance
program to the Central Bank, with support of experts from the US Federal Reserve Board. More
recently, a joint-working group has been formed to provide assistance in this area, regrouping the Bank
and other IPIs involved in Russia, as well as a number of western central banks. A steering commiaee
has also been established, under the chairmanship of the CBR, and involving commercial banks, the
Parliament banking sub-committee, and interested IFIs (including the IMF and the World Bank).
3.15   Traditionally, the Russian payments system has been based on cash, checks, payments orders,
and payments demand orders. Cash, and to a much lesser extent checks, are used for retail transactions
and payments orders are used for wholesale transactions. The CBR maintains 1,400 cash settlements
centers. Keeping with the former monobank system, each branch of every bank maintains an account
in its local cash center. Payments and settlement orders are dispatched by mail and in rare cases,
electronically. As a result of these cumbersome arrangements, the clearing of payments requires a very
long time, important liaison accounts clog the balance sheets of the CBR and the commercial banks, and
banks and enterprises have tO maLntain very high levels of balances in accounts used to settle since
reserve and correspondent accounts have not yet been consolidated.
C. The Central Bank of Russia and the Commercial Banks
1. The Central Bank
3.16   The dismantling of the monobank system in the Soviet Union and the measures taken to establish
a strong, market-oriented financial sector, were aimed lzter alia at transforming the Gosbank int a fiul-
fledged central bank. Gosbank's responsibilities were subsequently vested with the CBR. In late 1991,
an ambitious development program for the CBR was designed, with the assistance of the IMF, other IHs,
and a number of foreign central banks. The immediate objectives of this program were to promptly
develop CBR's core functions. Substantial progress has been achieved to-date, particularly as regards
the introduction of a new organizational structure, foreign exchange operations, and the policy and
research functions. The program has been less effective, however, in the areas of monetary management
and bank supervision, and problems have also emerged in efforts for improving the efficiency of the
payments system.
2. The Commercial Banks
3.17   New banks have proliferated over the last five years, and close to 2,000 banks had been licensed
as of early 1994. These banks vary radically in a number of respects, as illustrated below. The report
on the Banldng System in the Transition identifies two main reasons that explain how banks have been
redeployed or established: funneling directed credit to state owned enterprises; and managing the financial



-9 -
resources and financial needs of a group of enterprises. Channel banks are those banks whose main
objectives are to transfer resources from directed credit programs from the CBR or the Government to
state owned enterprises to which the banks are linked; agent banks are banks created by an enterprise
or a group of enterprises to manage their cashflows and to perform payment system transactions on their
behalf. The former-specialized banks and their spin-offs, principally Promstroibank and Rosselkhozbank,
have been the most significant channel banks. Most newly-established banks (zero banks) have been
established initially as agent banks. The Sberbank differs from all other banks in that it enjoys a quasi-
monopoly on the raising of household deposits, which are fully guaranteed by the Government.
3.18   Market forces have already generated promising effects on the banking sector, as evidenced by
the bank reviews carried out during project preparation (para 5.5-5.7). Among the vast number of new
banks in Russia, there may be up to 100 leading commercial banks that are evolving into real banking
institutions. They are working on strengthening their balance sheets and their banking skills, and some
of them are also trying to reduce their single borrower and connected party exposure. These banks are
growing fast and are involved in profitable and genuine banking activities: lending to the emerging private
sector, lending for foreign trade, and raising foreign currency deposits. Enterprises are the main
sbareholders in most commercial banks. Hence, most banks are gradually becoming "privateu as their
shareholders are converted into joint stock companies and privatized. Still, this ownership structure is
worrisome as it helps perpetuate the common practice of connected and insider lending. Another issue
in the development of commercial banks is the current reservations to liberalizing the regime for foreign
banking presence. It is clear that limiting this involvement is a serious impediment to the overall
development system, and, among other things, will slow down the rapid transfer of banking know-how.
3.19   Nevertheless, the bank reviews have also revealed numerous weaknesses which require prompt
attention. Most of the banks surveyed, even among the better banks, have been working without clearly
formulated strategic plans. Their organization structures often have not been adjusted to reflect their
rapid expansion into new activities and products, and fail to address needs in some areas, while creating
redundancies in others. In many banks, credit management requires substantial strengthening, with
respect in particular to the financial and market analysis of loan applications. Financial management
(accounting, asset/liability management, planning and budgeting, internal control, and MIS) also are
highly underdeveloped. Marketing, branch management, human resources management, and training are
other areas were substantial improvements would be needed. Finally, for most banks, technology is at
an early stage of development, and banks that have already invested in new technologies have often done
so without first establishing an automation strategy.
D. A Strategy for the Banking Sector
3.20   Ihe strategy proposed in the Banking System in the Transition is articulated around the phasing
out of directed credit, improving the soundness of commercial banks, and restructuring large specialized
banks. It also recommends that financial inrastructure be further reformed.
1. Phasing Out of Directed Credit
3.21   Directed credit programs are the main instrument used by the CBR to effect monetary policy.
The extensive use of directed credit complicates any attempt at stabilization and delays the progress in
reforming the banking sector. Stabilization issues and financial policy reforms are further discussed
above in Chapter II. Directed credits and other subsidized programs also delay the introduction of hard



- 10-
budget constraints on enterprises, and other elements of financial discipline, which are essendal in the
transformation of enterprises and in the financial strengthening of the batiks which finance this sector.
2. Inproving the Soundness of Banks
3.22   The recommended strategy over the short/medium-term  for improving the soundness of
commercial banks is a gradual approach, referred to as the International Standards Bank (tSB) program,
which entices banks to improve their standards and submit to stricter supervision, thereby being
recognized as 'better banks" which would enjoy a privileged relationship with the CBR (in areas such
as clearing, or refinancing), and would qualify as credible partners on international financial markets.
Initially, only a small number of banks would qualify, but it is expected that the desire of other banks
to qualify would lead to a continuous increase in the number of 'better" banks, and in their market share.
3.23   The ISB has four primary objectives: (i) to progressively raise the soundness of the Russian
banking system; (ii) to progressively improve allocative efficiency in the Russian economy by increasing
the portion of bank credit that is allocated on the basis of arms-length transactions, rather than through
current widespread 'insider" transactions involving the bank and its owners; (iii) to improve the ability
of the public to differentiate "good" banks from "bad" banks; and (iv) to provide Russia with a group
of banks that would form the core of the banking system of the future. It is important to note that, while
the ISB standards are consistent with western banking standards (e.g. BIS, European guidelines, etc.),
they constitute a streamlined framework which would enable the CBR to regulate the most essential
banking functions at first. The ratios pertaining to these standards will be gradually increased, to reach
mnternaionally acceptable levels over a number of years.
3.24   Preparing banks to operate in a market environment prompts the need for introducing completely
different methods for managing banks, marketing and delivering banking services, controlling risk,
ensuring banks' financial viability and performance, and carrying out basic banking operations. These
would be achieved principally through the undertaking of far-reaching institutional development programs,
and carrying out extensive in-house and external training and retraining programs.
3. Building up Financial Infrastructure
3.25   The recent election of the new Parliament should elicit the resumption of legislative work in
Russia. The main areas of needed emphasis are identified above (para 3.3-3.10). Further, the
development of enabling legislation, human skills and support institutions will be needed to facilitate the
early enforcement of these new laws.
3.26   The complete overhaul of accounting and auditing standards and practices, which is needed to
enable enterprises and banks to operate in a market economy, will be supported by a development
program stretching over many years, and covering the entirety of the commercial sector. A medium-term
program for strengthening the accounting and auditing profession would be articulated around the
following: (i) retraining and upgrading the competencies of the existing practitioners; (ii) establishing
criteria for certification of new professionals entering the industry, identifying needs for new institutions
to maintain and enforce the criteria, and defining the curricula of instructions in accounting appropriate
for secondary schools, institutes, and universities; (iii) identifying the locus for a continuing capacity to
keep up with the changing needs generated by an evolving market-based economy; (iv) fostering the
development of professional associations; and (v) encouraging the development of auditors.



- 11 -
3.27   At this stage of development of the financial sector in Russia, the modernization of the payments
system should be carried along the following main directions: (i) simple and low cost enhancements to
existing arrangements could bi ibiti ated  iW teiAib u ii aies-ftt miiifaisms for the public mail
system in urban areas. Such programs I ave already begun, with support from the CBR; (ii) efficient
payments instruments would be introduced, in line with the availability of technologies and human
resources needed to manage them; (iii) a same-day settlement system with finality should be further
introduced for large-ruble payments; (iv) procedures introduced to facilitate coordination between the
central bank and commercial banks, particularly as regards the operations of private clearing and
setdement systems, since close coordination, aimed at system standards and regulatons, will be critcal
to the success of this reform; (v) encouraging the emerging efforts by commercial banks to setup bi- or
multi-lateral clearing centers in metropolitan areas. A first Fep in this direction was the recent
establishment, with Bank's support, of the steering committee referred to above. The Bank is chairing
a working group on technology issues, which reports to this committee. It is expected that the
forthcoming Payments System Project will provide key support to the modernization of the financial sector
operations.



- 12 -
IV. BANK'S GROUP ASSISTANCE AN) STRATEGY
A. Lessons of Experience
4.1    The Bank's experiences in other countries with both financial sector loans and technical assistance
loans are relevant to the design and implementation of the proposed project. With respect to financial
sector reform, the first lesson to be drawn is that this is a process requiring a long-term time horizon.
For this reason, it is best to initiate the institution-building component of reform as early as possible.
Establishing a strong legal and accounting framework, developing management and lending capability in
financial institutions and restructuring of insolvent banks require years of on-going assistance. Such
programs should be supported by a series of successive loans spread over a number of years. The second
lesson of financial sector reform is that the sequencing of individual components is critical to the overall
success of adjustment. Commencing the infrastructure-building reform components early on provides a
necessary foundation for a strong financial system. As government direction over interest rates, credit
allocation and capital flows is reduced, the existence of a strong regulatory capacity becomes more
important.
4.2   In developing bank supervision capacity in these transition economies, experience has
demonstrated that more attention should be dedicated to instilling regulators with an understanding of
fundamental concepts, inter alia the role of banks during and after the transition. Another lesson taken
from experience is that supervision capacity will be limited during the initial years of the transition and
that this constraint elevates the importance of establishing priorities and a strategy for bank supervision
which is consistent with overall policy objectives. In Russia, the ISB program explicitly addresses the
problem of insufficient supervisory resources and confirms development of a core group of 'good' banks
as a policy priority.
4.3    The Bank's experience with technical assistance projects across sectors and countries has
demonstrated that instilling a high degree of ownership in the borrower is the foremost critical success
factor. Early and active involvement of the borrower helps avoid the perception of technical assistance
as external criticism. It also enhances sustainability of the project. In considering the design of a
technical assistance program, the Bank has identified several criteria associated with success. First of
all, it is very important to identify borrower needs very early on and formulate a clear and precise
statement of objectives. The technical assistance program should be consistent with the borrower's
institutional development strategy and administrative capacity. Due to limited management resources in
developing countries, it is usually best to focus more narrowly and in greater depth on fewer technical
assistance activities.
4.4    The cornerstone of the commercial banking component is the development of twinning
arrangements between Russian banks and reputable foreign banks. The box on the following page
summarizes the main aspects of twinning. Iroduced in Poland for the first time as a vehicle to deliver
technical assistance across the banking sector, twinning has proved to be a powerful and efficient
mechanism ensuring an effective and rapid transfer of know-how, setting up the stage for cross-border
banking relationships, and contributing to a sustained and prompt enhancement of banking standards.



- 13 -
Mt pots of ito fllsi   tto t *h     e W_oa  ousted .     * OVup4 of ii W oak denh   e h* 4vwu"  to
sm.e.cuJo*bto3s devttammt of..o am  WoU40     osumeow  %ba, 0toAh tuhmto  ertowwN   wit Wutom  Fajrpm
hos*s   u The o      a,ts  go   a two to &vwwy4w p@10 ad Pesv  to  ft*o We*  lmho   t 4e1vor a OEWpftuinhe tbuki
cw       o                 ii ajot A.ioof  so ehUmhseh, to do P.lhk bw*. . POW   W do             tom In Pole. *. Woud VB
b1 o  o"i=m  VJog wbo%g uwmumu  fotoomcal Wk heiEm  b ft. ibowuw, tW                                   umewmnce pc*m in
lbe pea,  lablauo , bee    d mg4ducation otsa  h O         ita'x u =6  of whnlag *   bhlht  aoufizi twui la woeeki*
kI m  of   oduaoo e*VOW  to SGe                4;wz   pIro         los RUi. oo=aww  bak, bot tb Wad U.ako brod
I ktp        wih tw iag 1   tb e saeAifam  of th Pch ommW   baob  mnut be oodtetd.
RPeD        te oeef do   sw  e   Wbin.   defne  qo en  bAomd  mugmut pwoid. fiw do 4.imy of  acnlect.
_Maun   to an tpdae at ogatnhwos _            o      4 :O 'oo     *am  AWlht.1V  in m os    .    aty i  a doekopd  oMt.  Th
ps*d  atweob   of aiwiwig 9u w e vmd4                  efool  cft*gw  omb e Ae*w Jm isp  pin  P4wiWV of aebtoto a diect
amaae of       t opesatica  bnoldp tfro,  u                   Uy. Thistiulftt OfgpWut                            kowdgv
ad oet    in   _wodoe ig ot . rAuh eacaam    fff tb     pvMe lot  uos shae   *"or. tug  pYw undas
- r   *ow dbthe wsiw tt *i th epUiOt" u          Wo: hr o lFgs.   tOI- *  .o0ame -  wlga   *u4erme uowo* of
ini-peaedum  do t    kAgotcwd w:t   w  opettio l ow-e Ohuaatlft e of bWuh*InforAun,   wl *As o6we
'|t t*. 'Allt pgie ':*ft.b s ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~of 1X
tonice helsior poUUh1 fobed Amonue epoa  empat  en                              dp .41a4catoe owdo~            er twitoe 
Mus   d           and  s-- - hi- h -           ato t-,   di. jno    ba 't :ie   ln    n-e
Wm. 1.                                                                             I hs t   o   denm   i_.  . - ' ,
>   e,  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:i                   _ =* 
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O ft VA-Ia  .                                               k:
tode.  A ragte  nu,-.- .mua                                                                                        ..k ;f.Iatw   eshn   mnnfL   mn   i  etaih   a   o .  Mosw i,,
tw  -tsf. ad toplmad   m u-> :a sed. :-*. : .
Box 1



14
4.5   Experience of prior automation programs in Eastern Europe has indicated that at this early stage
in their development cycle, the commercial banks' management have not yet crystallized their processing
and reporting requirements, are not cognizant of the technological options available, have not finalized
their organizational structure, nor identified the products and services they would offer in the long term.
During this key initial period, the banks are also subject to intense marketing efforts by various suppliers
of technology. This often results in premature, expensive and incompatible solutions. By requiring the
PBs to adhere to standard Bank procurement procedures, this FIDP will enhance the quality of purchase
decisions made under the Project and in the future.
4.6    Another lesson learned is that banks have a tendency to commit themselves to major investments
in technology based on sophisticated solutions which may or may not be the long term ideal. A phased
and building block approach is therefore advocated. This would visualize a low cost and basic standard
so!ution which would provide an interim capability, as well as function as a training tool since it would
provide functionality commensurate with requirements of banks in developed economies.  Once
management finalizes its requirements, in conjunction with the institutional developmental exercise, it
would then embark on a more comprehensive effort to implement sophisticated Management Information
Systems. This staged approach is incorporated in the FIDP by restricting the automation subcomponent
to financing the PBs' "core' automation needs comprising limited hardware and packaged banking
application software. The eligibility of additional automation equipment needs for financing under the
proceeds of this Loan would be decided later and depend, inter alia, upon the availability of funds.
B. Bank Past Lending and Strategy in the Sector
4.7   Bank work in Russia in FY93 has been derived in part, by synthesizing and consolidating the
major results of the Technical Cooperation Program (TCP). In the financial sector, the TCP concerned
banking legislation, bank supervision, and bank accounting. IFC has focused on the provision of advisory
services for privatization, and for capital market development. This has included in particular advice on
an important small-scale privatization program in Nizhny-Novgorod, and assistance in developing an
equity market.
4.8   In the financial sector, a number of important initiatives have been initiated with the assistance
of international organizations and other donors, as well as by various domestic institutions and groups
to develop a program for modernizing the Russian financial sector. In this context, the Bank has
contributed in FY93 to a review of the banking sector' and provided a Country Assistance Strategy,2 and
the European Union has also financed a broad program of Technical Assistance, focusing on accounting,
payments related issues, assistance to selected institutions and bank training. The IMF has developed a
program of Technical Assistance to the Central Bank of Russia, with a particular focus on monetary
policy formulation and implementation, bank supervision, foreign exchange management, the payments
system and central banking accounting and organization. EBRD's initial focus has been on bank training
and on the establishment of the Russian Project Finance Bank (RPFB).
Russia-7he Banking System in the Transition.
2  The most recent CAS appears in the Memorandum of the President for this Project. The previous CAS was
presented to the Board with the Highway Rebabilitation and Maintenance Project on December 21, 1993.



- 1s -
4.9   The economic transformation in rural Russia that is made possible by the on-going privatization
of state and collective farms and rural industry is iikely to be severely constrained due to the lack of and
access to working capital, and term credit that is critical for enterprise restructuring and development.
In the short-to medium term, the private banking system is not likely to be ready in terms of resources,
branch network and institutional capabilities to finance agriculture and replace government budgetary
savings which in the past have been the main source of investments in agriculture and rural industry.
The budget allocations for agriculture are rapidly declining in real terms, and must reduce further as the
privatization process deepens, and budgetary constraints become increasingly stringent. The Bank has
begun a dialogue with the government on issues concerning rural financial market development including
phasing out of credit subsidies; possible restructuring and commercialization of specialized banks that
disburse agricultural credit, and establishing a policy and legal framework for entry of new commercial
banks and financial institutions such as credit unions, savings and loan associations, mutual funds and
agricultural cooperatives.
4.10   The Government is preparing a Housing Reform and Construction Project for possible Bank
financing. The project is likely to include a line of credit for construction lending. This line of credit
would operate through the commercial banks that will be accredited under the Financial Institutons
Development Project in about six cities that are carrying out major housing reforms. Technical
cooperation and training provided by USAID and other bilateral donors would assist the participating
banks in developing specialized skills that are needed to appraise housing construction and rehabilitation
investments, and to disburse funds against construction progress. The development of long term
mortgage finance is required for accelerating housing sector reforms and development. Markets in
mortgages would only be feasible in a stable macroeconomic environment. The Bank project under
preparation would include technical assistance for mortgage finance with a focus on developing mortgage
instruments, real estate regulations, and institutional framework. This approach is expected to lead to
future housing development using exclusively mortgage finance.
4.11   Most of these initiatives have been limited to study and preliminary advice, with only a limited
amount of coordination and concern for overall consistency and internalization/absorption by the Russian
counterpart. A serious attempt to coordinate the actions of the major IFIs and major foreign central
banks succeeded during the identification mission for the proposed project, around the payments system
subcomponent. It is intended to extend this coordinated approach, to the extent possible, to other parts
of the program.
4.12   The Bank's lending strategy is designed to support the process of structural adjustment. This
strategy is spelled out in the Couwy Assistance Strategy document, which is included in the
Memorandum of the President for this Project. The Prvrztization Implementation Support loan, presented
to the Board in December 1992, supports the rapid privatization program currently underway in Russia.
The Enterprise Restructuring Project (ERP), being processed in parallel with the proposed project,
supports a broader G-7 program of post privatization assistance to enterprises in the form of loans equity
and technical assistance. The proposed project, following on the findings of the sector review prepared
with the assistance of the Bank, seeks to strengthen the banking sector through assistance to the Central
Bank in improving Bank supervision and bank accounting; to the Ministry of Finance in improving
enterprise accounting; and the commercial banks in developing strategies and business plans,
strengthening their operations and financial structure, and modernizing their systems and processing
mechanisms. The proposed loan will thus help provide the basis for improving the access of the new
private sector to the banking system in general and more specifically through the ERP. The proposed
loan would be followed in the next fiscal year by the Russian Payments System loan directed at



- 16-
strengthening the clearing and settlements system. Formal training pertaining to management, banking,
and accounting would be supported by the proposed Management and Finance TRaining loan (FY94).
The social safety net aspects of the adjustment program are being addressed through the Employment
Servces loan, presented to the Board in November 1992, and a proposed Social Safety Net loan. Macro-
economic reforms are being discussed in the context of the ongoing dialogue with the JMF and the Bank.
Finally, a proposed Legal Systems project would also support a broad program of technical assistance to
reform the legal framework.
4.13  IFC has been actively involved with the privatization program in Russia since late 1991, and a
report on its activities was discussed with the IFC Board in early 1993. Initial IFC investment activity
in Russia will support joint venture projects with a foreign investment component. IFC seeks projects
with strong western partners willing to make significant equity commitments. Given the uncertain
political and economic enviromnent in Russia, IFC also views strong local sponsor support as critical.
In addition to foreign exchange generating projects (e.g., oil, gas, minerals, hotels) IPC will also pursue
infrastructure (e.g., telecommunications, ports) and manufacturing investmnent, where the development
impact is expected to be substantial. IFC is also considering establishing a regional enterprise fund in
cooperation with institutional investors. IFC will also support the growth of small businesses through
the creation of financial vehicles such as capital funds and country funds, which will invest in the equity
of emerging businesses in the Russian private sector. IFC has already invested US$94 million in four
transactions, two in the oil & gas sector and two in the financial sector, including a US$15 million
medium-term credit line to International Moscow Bank, signed in August 1993.



- 17 -
V. THE PROJECT
A. Project Rationale
S. 1    The development of a market-oriented financial system in Russia is a complex process which will
require sustained efforts over many years and will need to be supported by a series of Bank operations.
An immediate priority is to put in place the principal building blocks of financial sector infrastructure,
i.e., the clearing and settlements system, a rudimentary supervision capability, banking legislation, an
accounting and auditing system, a securities market infrastructure and a framework for improving
individual financial institutions. The proposed project is designed to institutionalize some of the key
elements of financial infrastructure and to strengthen the financial institutions which are perceived to have
the greatest prospects for participating effectively in a private market economy.
B. Project Objectives and Desciption
5.2   The ultimate objectives of the program are to increase the quantity and improve the quality of
banking services, promote banking stability, and contribute to a more efficient mobilization of financial
resources and allocation of bank credit (including any bank lending financed by the Bank or other
international sources). The immediate goal is to strengthen a core group of banks which will: (i) set
higher banking standards and create a dynamic for enhancing the quality of banking activities in Russia;
(ii) create the basis for a private clearing system operating at the level of the Federation; and (iii) qualify
as on-lenders of World Bank and other international lines of credit.
5.3   The project will consist of four components: (i) a commercial banking component, consisting of
institutional strengthening programs and systems modernization and automation programs for private
commercial banks; (it) a bank regulation and supervision component, consisting primarily of the
development of on-site supervisory capabilities and the provision of legal assistance for the CBR; (iii) a
bank accounting component, which will support the modernization of accounting standards and practices;
and (iv) a PIU component which will contribute to the establishment and early stages of operation of the
PIU.
1. Commercial Banking Component
5.4   This component will support a three-pronged program consisting of: (i) strengthening bank
operations; (ii) systems modernization; and (iii) measures aimed at enhancing the financial soundness of
banks. The technical assistance provided would place a particular emphasis on promoting twinning
arrangements with reputable foreign banks.
5.5   In close collaboration with the Russian authorities, and with the support of a number of donors,
a massive effort was initiated in the summer of 1993 to identify, throughout the Russian Federation,
banks that would be eligible for participating in the project. A selection process has now been completed
for a first batch of banks that are being considered for participation in the project. The process has
involved five main steps: (i) brief familiarization visits to about 30 banks to develop an up-to-date sense
of the condition of a cross-section of commercial banks; (ii) preparing an objective selection methodology;
(iii) screening the 2,000 or so Russian banks to select those which would be diagnosed more intensively;
(iv) conducting diagnostic reviews of 45 banks; and (v) preliminarily selecting 20 candidate participating



- 18 -
banks (PBs). Terms of reference and cost estimates for institutional strengthening and systems
modernization and automation have been developed for these twenty banks, and terms of reference for
their financial audits have been completed. A number of audits are under way.
5.6   The most important selection criteria for inclusion in the program have been: capital adequacy;
concentration of ownership; profitability; liquidity; credit policies and procedures; lending activity
(including lending to shareholders); internal controls; management capability and autonomy; degree of
-'f-development; and focus on private sector. Annex 5-1 discusses the screening and selection process
in greater detail. Consideration has been given to achieving a reasonable geographic representation, with
a view to cover to the extent possible all the main economic centers throughout the nation. The Bank
and the Government foresee the inclusion of additional banks meeting selection criteria, but intend to limit
the size of this first program to thirty to forty banks in order that it remains manageable.3 Annex 5-2
summarizes the accreditation procedure, and Annex 5-3 accreditation criteria and PB's performance
monitoring. A follow up operation could rapidly be put together in case of need.
5.7   The twenty banks preselected so far are in nine cities, all important economic centers, spanning
the Russian Federation: four in St. Petersburg, six in Moscow, one in Togliatti, two in Ekaterinburg,
one in Tyumen, one in Omsk, two in Kemerovo, one in Khabarovsk and two in Vladivostok. Through
their branch networks, these banks serve all major economic areas of the country (the map attached to
this report illustrates the distribution of PBs' head offices and branch network). Among the twenty banks
is a mixture of "zero" banks (new banks) and "spin-offs" from former state specialized banks. The
twenty banks also range widely in size, from several of the largest Russian commercial banks, with over
50 billion rubles in shareholders' equity and over 500 billion in assets, to relatively small banks, with 2
billion to 10 billion rubles in shareholders equity and 30 billion to 100 billion in assets. The aggregate
capitalization of the preliminarily selected banks is about US$700 million.4 Annex 54 provides summary
financial and operating data on these twenty banks, as well as information on their ownership,
management, operations, and financial status. Consolidated institutional findings of the diagnostic reviews
are in Annex 5-5.
5.8    A systematic identification of foreig: banks interested in twinning is underway, with particular
emphasis on Western Europe, Northern America, and the Far East. Already about twenty-five foreign
banks have expressed a strong interest in twinning with a Russian bank, and initial contacts have been
organized. Procurement procedures developed jointly with EBRD and in conformance with World Bank
Guidelines for Consutts' Services will be followed throughout this process.
5.9   Program for Strengthening Bank Operations. The program of institutional strengthening will be
articulated around the preparation of a strategy and business plan for each PB, and the formulation and
implementation of a functional development program, with a particular focus on credit and risk
assessment, loan portfolio management, treasury management, budgeting and internal control. The
preferred approach for the provision of this assistance, to be financed under the proposed loan, will be
through the establishment of flexible "twinning" arrangements with a reputable foreign bank for each
target bank, tailored to the development needs, priorities, absorption capacities, and budgets of the target
' The project will be jointly financed by the Bank and by the EBRD. The EBRD is committing substantial
supervisory resources to this project.
4  On the basis of June 30, 1993 data.



- 19 -
banks (Annex 5-6). In most cases, this would consist of a review and update of earlier diagnostic and
audits, preparation of a strategic plan, reorganization, and development of key banking functions and
skills; it could also consist of establishing a counselling relationship with senior management
supplemented by bringing experts from time to time to help meet specific technical needs. Terms of
reference for institutional development are in Annex 5-7. The total amount of the World Bank/EBRD
loan available to PBs for these programs is US$54 million. Grant financing in an amount of US$34
million equivalent from the EU, and an additional US$20 million of grant funding from other donors will
complement the financing of this subcomponent (para 5.19).
5.10   Technology Development. The prompt modernization of banks' information systems and the
acquisition of up to date processing equipment and software are essential elements in the transformation
into efficient profit-oriented institutions. This process needs, however, to be closely integrated with the
overall institutional development program. Therefore, support under the Project would be provided only
to banks which have already formulated an institutional strengthening program as described above. The
project would support the procurement of technical assistance, hardware and software, training and
support services. Annex 5-8 speils out the design of the proposed subcomponent. The development
projects financed under this subcomponent would be consistent with, and come in support to the banks'
development strategies and business plans. Procurement would have to be carried out according to the
Bank guidelines for the procurement of goods and services (para 6.13-6.16). Close liaison would be
maintained with the Pavments System Project and efforts would be made to enhance system
standardization and to maximize consistency between the two projects. A typical systems modernization
and automation program is presented in Annex 5-9. The scope and costs of the programs preliminarily
developed by the PBs vary greatly and range from US$250,000 up to US$10 million, with an average
cost of US$6.5 million (individual automation programs for the 20 preselected banks are in the project's
file). A typical program will include financing for: (i) information technology experts to write
specifications; (ii) various types of automation hardware and software; and (iii) training. The World
Bank and EBRD will provide an aggregate amount up to US$236.4 million in loans to PBs for the
financing of these programs.
5.11  Financial Strengthening. As a first step towards the introduction of the ISB program (para 3.22-
3.23), PBs will be required to meet banking standards, regarding, inter alia, their capitalization, lending
and resource mobilization practices, and financial reporting. This will be compiemented by yearly audits
carried out according to international standards. Much of the initial audit work is being financed out of
World Bank-executed grant funding. Audits for subsequent years will be financed by the PBs out of their
own funds. The composition of the banking standards program and the schedule for its introduction have
been agreed at Appraisal (Annex 5-10), and the program will be closely supervised during project
implementation. 7he CBR will monitor the introducton of those standards, with a view that this program
will serve as a pilot in the design of a sector-wide program.
2. Bank Supervision and Regulation
5.12   Amendments to the law on commercial banking activities were passed by Parliament in June,
1993. The process was stalled, however, by the rejection of the amendments by the President and the
recent Parliamentary crisis. Substantial legal work will be needed to further the reform of the law, and
help develop the enabling legislation and enforcement infrastructure. The project would finance a limited
amount of legal advisory services to assist in the above areas. Annex 5-11 spells out the main areas of
focus of the proposed assistance.



- 20 -
5.13  In order to support the strengthening of bank supervision and inspection, technical assistance
would be provided to the CBR in the following areas: (i) training of on-site bank inspectors; (ii)
preparation of the major documents relating to on-site inspection, including a bank inspection manual and
a bank inspection report form; and (iii) assistance in the development of off-site surveillance including
in the design of an early warning system to detect problem banks at an early stage. Provision for
assistance in designing an off-site surveillance system designed to detect problem banks at an early stage
has also been made under the project.
5.14   The proposed program would cover a three year period. It should be emphasized that the
technical assistance provided by this program has been developed by the World Bank in close cooperation
with the IMF and the Banque de France, and is designed to supplement the technical assistance in bank
supervision that is now being provided under the sponsorship of these organizations.
5.15   The cost of the above component is estimated at US$4.5 million. The program is further
developed in Annex 5-12. USAID will be financing the subcomponents relating to on-site supervision
(para 5.13-item i and ii), and will be responsible for their implementation. Canadian financing is
envisaged for sub-component (iii). Close consultation with the Bank will be required throughout the
execution of these tasks, to ensure full consistency with the overall Bank program.
3. Accounting and Auditing
5.16   This component would provide support to the Ministry of Finance (MoF) and to the CBR for
continuing the on-going reform of accounting in Russia, with a view to bringing accounting and auditing
in Russia more in line with international practice. The subcomponent would include the provision of
tenical assistance and training to: (i) the MoF to support the reform of enterprise accounting; (ii) the
CBR to support the reform of bank accounting; and (iii) support the establishment of a working group
on auditing issues within the MoF and the development of the auditing profession. Assistance to the
reform of enterprise accounting will include the introduction of internationally accepted accounting
standards for enterprises, the development and introduction of a new chart of accounts and of reporting
formats for enterprises, and the provision of advisory services and training. The bank accounting
subcomponent inclddes the implementation of the Broadly Adapted Financial Statements 'BAFS), and the
finalization and implementation of the new chart of accounts for banks. In addition, swidy tours and
secondments will be included in the proposed project. Support will also be provided to th.- existing
international Advisory Boards, which will continue to ensure the coordination and supervision of the
accounting and auditing reform. The cost of this component is estimated at US$8 million. Half of
project cost would be provided by the proposed loan with the balance provided by grant resources (EU)
and by the CBR. The funds will be used to finance consultants, internships, study tours, and formal
training. Further details on the proposed program are in Annex 5-13.
C. Project Costs and Financing
5.17         The total project cost is estimated at US$389.4 million equivalent (net of local taxes).5
Component costs are shown in Table 5-1 below, and detailed estinates are included in Annex 5-14.
Foreign exchange costs represent 97.7 percent of total costs because of the relatively high significance
$ In case taxes have to be paid on consulting services and goods, PBs or MoF/CBR respectively, will be
responsible for absorbing these costs.



- 21 -
of the automation component which will principally finance imported computer hardware and software
and the consulting services of foreign automatio. experts. For the commercial bankirig component,
assuming 36 PBs, the total project cost is estimated at US$368.4 million. Institutional strengthening
programs are estimated to cost around US$3.3 million per PB, including initial audits and preparation.
Systems modernization and automation programs are estimated to cost a total of US$248.4 million for
the 36 banks. As detailed in Annex 5-14, 87 percent of this subcomponent cost will be for
hardware/software investments while the remainder reflects the cost of external consultants needed for
specifications and for training PB staff. Some banks participating in insticutional strengtiening programs
have already initiated large investments, in this area, particularly in hardware. For such banks, the
project will only finance incremental technology requirements. The CctSt of the two other components
is estimated as US$12.5 million, including US$4.5 million for training of bank supervisors, developing
materials and establishing an off-site bank supervision system, and legal assistance, and US$8 million for
developing the accounting and auditing capacity for enterprises and banks.  Cost of project
implementation is estimated at US$8.5 million, including US$5 million to finance the PIU's operations,
US$1.5 million in service contracts and US$2 million for the Bank Review Unit. The estimated costs
shown in Table 5-1 are exclusive of taxes and the duties.
5.18   A summary of the Project Financing Plan, as reviewed and discussed at Appraisal, is shown in
Table 5-2 below, and detailed in Annex 5-14.
Table 5-1
Project Costs
L'oca    Foreign    Tota    Foreign  Component
]PROJECT COMPONENT                                                 as    as pecent
(UsJ$ -miin equivalet)    percent   of tota
Of total
COMMERCiAL BANKING                    85       359.9     3684A     9          94.6
A. Institutional StrengthenIng     2.0      118.0     120.0    983         30.8
B. Systems Modernization and       6.5      241.9     248A      97A        63.8
Automation
BANW SUPERVISION AND                  0.5        4.0       4.5    88.9         1.1
REGULATION
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING               2.0        6.0       80Q
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                0.5        8.0       8.5    94.1         2.2
TOTAL                                           77.9     389.4    97J        100.0
5.19 The financing of the commercial banking component will be covered by the World Bank
(US$195.4 million), the EBRD (US$95 million), grants (US$64 million), and the PBs (US$14 million).
Grant financing is being provided principally by the European Union (US$34 million equivalent) and the



- 22 -
Japanese Government (US$18.6 million). Grant financing will be made available to PBs to cover up to
50 percent of the cost of the institutional strengthening programs, with a cap of US$1.5 million per bank.
This concession is felt necessary because of the extent of the needed technical assistance, and because of
the high cost of foreign technical assistance, particularly for the smaller PBs. The systems modernization
and automation subcomponent will be entirely financed by the World Bank/EBRD loans, and by the PBs
(para 5.10). The MoF or CBR are not involved in the financing of this component, which reflects the
fact that the financing is for private commercial operations. However, the MoF has accepted the
responsibility of acting as an intermediary for on-lending to PBs, and has also channeled to the PBs
substantial amounts of grant financing to support the preparation and the implementation of the program.
5.20   As indicated above, USAID will contribute US$3.4 million to the financing of the bank
supervision and regulation component. It is currently expected that the World Bank will finance the
remaining (US$0.6 million) of the foreign exchange costs for this component, although Canadian
cofinancing may be available. Local costs (US$0.5 million equivalent) will be financed by the CBR.
5.21   The financing of foreign exchange costs for the Accounting and Auditing component will be
through World Bank financing (US$4 million) and though grant financing from the EU (US$2 million).
The CBR and the MoF will finance the local costs for the subcomponents for which they are responsible
(US$0.8 million and US$1.2 million respectively).
-.5.22   Finally, given that projec! imnplementation will require substantial technical assistance, the costs
will be relatively high and will be predominantly in foreign currency. The foreign exchange costs of
project implementation will be financed by the World Bank, EBRD, and by grant financing. At this
stage, US$2 million of grant financing from the Japanese Grant Facility has been earmarked for financing
the PIU. A number of advisory positions could also expected to be financed under bilateral grant
funding. For the time being, it has been agreed that the Government would borrow the amounts required
by the financing plan, until such a time as additional grant financing has been secured. It is expected that
cost recovery will be achieved from the PBs through the spread levied on on-lent funds (para 6.10-6.12).
The PBs are financing independently of the Loan an estimated US$14 million of costs associated with the
automation programs.



1181  1  i1[   1818j8
P ~~~~~~....................................   ........ ,   ....
................................................... ....................   ......  ....... 
1.                                                       It~~~~R1:I
s     , , it
iii          118  t       18     18 1:         Ra   I        8
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a lap'
5          G,b    NS 1    1;        i      1    8 ;
is 2    ;          1           lo a1    18 1:            
if,    HP



- 24 -
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
A. Project Implementation
6.1    The Government of the Russian Federation will be the Borrower of the Loan and has appointed
the MoF to serve as the Lead Authority for the management of the Loan and the coordination of its
implementation. The Lead Authority will represent the Borrower and will be the focal point for relations
between the Government and the Bank. The MoF will be more directly responsible for the commercial
banking component and for the reform of enterprise accounting; the CBR will be responsible, under an
agreement signed with the MoF, for the bank supervision component and the bank accounting
subcomponent. The signing of these agreements will be a condition of disbursement for these
components. The MoF and the CBR will maintain close collaboration with respect to the introduction of
banking standards.
6.2   The project is complex and requires strong implementation arrangements. Implementation
arrangements for the commercial banking component will be articulated around an oversight Task Force
(rF), operating under the terms of a separate agreement between the MoF and the CBR, a Project
Implementation Unit (PIU), and a Bank Review Unit (BRU). The chart below illustrates the various
PROJECr DfPLEMENTATION & SUPRVISION
ORGANIZATION CHART
TASK FORCE
P,U
BaakRtIJni         MmPs
bodies involved in implementation of the projer, as well as their organizational and functional
relationships. Project implementation arrangements are further developed in Annex 6-1. Given their close
interrelation, it is envisaged that the proposed project and the Enterprise Restructuring Project share the



- 25 -
same implemnentation structure'. 7he paragraphs below only cover those actvities that are directly related
to implementation of the Financial Institutions Development Project (FIDP).
6.3    The oversight TF will be responsible for overseeing proper implementation of the Project. In
this capacity, it will monitor progress under project components, with a particular focus on assessing
continued performance of PBs and accrediting new banks. The TF will request the management of
nonperforming banks to take corrective actions, as needed, and, in case of continued nonperformance,
will reconmmend suspension or cancellation of the accreditation of the concerned bank. In cases where
no improvement in the condition of a delinquent bank can be expected over the short/medium-term, the
bank will be required to reimburse all outstanding amounts borrowed from the MoF under the FIDP.
A reporting system for banks, as well as a schedule of enforcement measures available to the TF, was
agreed at Negotiations. The TF will be a high-level boay, including the Minister of Finance and the
Governor of the CBR or their appointees. The Head of the PIU will act as Secretary of the TF. The
TF will meet quarterly, or more frequently if justified by unexpected developments requiring its
intervention, such as the adoption of emergency measures concerning a delinquent PB.
6.4    The general responsibilities of the PIU will include: (i) monitoring and providing advice to PBs,
with respect to their institutional strengthening programs and systems modernization and automation
programs. This will include, inter alia, assistance in the preparation and procurement of bank
institutional strengthening and systems modernization packages (para 5.9-5.10); (ii) collecting monthly
bank returns and other progress reports from the PBs; (iii) forwarding banks' returns to the BRU, and
assisting this unit in organizing visits to PBs, as well as to new banks seeking accreditation under the
project; (iv) monitoring disbursements under the Loan, including administration of Special Accounts, and
repayments of subloans by the PBs; (v) monitoring and accounting of grant funds; (vi) ensuring the
overall accounting and organizing the auditing of project accounts, and preparing consolidated progress
reports and the Project Completion Report; and (vii) managing cost-sharing arrangements for financing
of TA to PBs. While each participating institution will be responsible for the development of terms of
reference, short lists, bidding process and negotiation, signing and executing contracts, the PIU will
guide, assist and advise the participating institutions in this area.
6.5    The PIU will be established as an agent for the Government and as such will have the power to
carry out implementation on behalf of the Government. Contracts with suppliers of goods and services
as well as subsidiary agreements will be signed by the Minister of Finance. The complexities associated
with the coordination of project implementation will require the development within the PIU of high-
standard technical, management and organization skills. Under the authority of the Head of the PIU,
whose appointment was confirmed prior to Negotiations, the PIU will consist of four sections managed
respectively by a banking specialist, a bank technology specialist, a procurement officer and a
disbursement officer. The PIU duties and responsibilities will be carried out through a consulting contract
with the MoF, and supplemented by other contract services in the areas of procurement, legal accounting,
Procurement, disbursement, accounting and organization of auditing are core activities of the PIU
relevant both to the FIDP and to the ERP. Staff needed for the HDP will be recruited as per the
staffing plan agreed upon at Negotiations. The Banking and Technology units will be involved
primarily with the implementation of the commercial banking component of the FIDP, while the credit
operations unit will administer on-lending under the ERP, and will be staffed as part of this later
project.



- 26 -
and auditing. The Head of the PIU will be responsible for overseeing and managing the consulting
contracts. The staffing plan for the PIU, as well as its financing plan, was agreed upon at Negotiations.
6.6   The Bank Review Unit, reporting directly to the TF, will consist of a separate body of senior
bankers and information technology specialists, who will advise and assist the TF on monitoring the
performance of PBs. The BRU will be in charge of analyzing PBs' returns, and of visiting PBs from
time to time (it is expected that each bank would be visited twice a year, in average). The BRU will
report on the financial conditions of PBs and other aspects of project implementation including assessing
progress of TA and automation programs for commercial banks, developing corrective action programs
with problem banks and monitoring their performances under such programs, and recommending on
accreditation of new banks and on sanctions for delinquent banks. One of the senior bankers will act as
head of the BRU, and in this capacity will be in charge, inter alia, of organizing the work plan for the
unit, reporting to the TF, and liaising with the PIU. Given the sensitivity of the tasks, and scarcity of
experienced Russian bankers, the BRU will be staffed with foreign bankers. While for the time being,
only US$2 million of grant financing is available to finance the project implementation activities, it is
expected that additional grant financing will be identified in the near future. Otherwise, these experts
could be financed out of the Bank and EBRD's loan proceeds.
6.7   Setting up of the main implementation arrangements, including the conclusion of the agreement
between the CBR and the MoF (para 6.2), the establishment of the Task Force, the appointment of two
senior bankers for the Bank Review Unit, and the selection of the consulting firm to carry out PIU duties,
will be a condition of effectiveness. The Government will, through the PIU, enter into participation
agreements with eligible banks. The signing of participation agreements by at least three commercial
banks will be a condition of effectveness.
6.8    As indicated above, the CBR will be responsible for implementing the bank supervision and
regulation component, and the bank accounting subcomponent. Due to the current organization of the
CBR, three different departments at the CBR will be concerned. The Directorate of Accounting at the
Ministry of Finance will be responsible for the implementation of the enterprise accounting reform.
6.9   To speed up project preparation, a US$1.5 million Project Preparation Facility (PPF) was set up
in October 1993. The PPF is aimed at, inter alia: (i) contributing to the establishment and operation of
the PIU; (ii) completing bank diagnostic reviews and preparing initial technical assistance programs; and
(iii) preparing tenders for institutional and financial audits. The PPF is administered by the MoF, which
is currently working at implementing its three components. Funds from a Japanese Grant (para 5.19),
in an approximate amount of US$8 million, are being used to finance the diagnostic audits of PBs (para
5.5).
B. On-Lending Terms and Arrangements
6.10   The Loan to the Government will be at standard Bank terms for Russia of a 17-year maturity with
a 5-year grace period. The Loan will be denominated in the Bank's currency pool and bear interest at
the Bank's Variable Lending Rate (VLR). A term sheet is included in Annex 6-2. The EBRD will
provide a loan to the Government of US$99 million, equivalent to one half of the proceeds of the World
Bank Loan which will be applied to the commercial banking component. The EBRD loan will be
denominated in US dollars, will have a maturity of 15 years and a 5-year grace period and will carry its
standard sovereign interest rate of LIBOR plus 1 percent. The disbursement schedule of the EBRD loan



-27 -
will be structured such that disbursements equal one half of the amounts disbursed under the World Bank
Loan for the commercial banking component.
6.11   The Government will extend through the PIU subsidiary loans to the PBs for the institutional
strengthening and systems modernization components, using combined proceeds of the Loan and the
EBRD loan which are blended at a 2:1 ratio. The subsidiary loans will be denominated in US dollars.
The interest rate on the subsidiary loans will be a floating rate, adjusted semi-annually and equivalent to
the weighted average of the six-month, US$ LIBOR plus 1 percent (one third) and the World Bank VLR
(two thirds) plus 2.5 percent, and rounded up to the nearest 0.5 percent interval. The cross-currency risk
associated with the Government borrowing the currency pool and on-lending in dollars will be covered
by the Government. Detailed term sheets of the subsidiary loans for institution strengthening and for
systms modernization are also included in Annex 6-2.
6.12  The financing of an institutional strengthening program for a commercial bank will be achieved
through cost-sharing mechanisms, which will combine grant funds and financing out of the blended
proceeds of the proposed Loan and of the EBRD loan to the Government. Giant financing will represent
about 50 percent of the total cost of an individual program, with a cap of US$1.5 million per bank.2 The
balance will be financed from the blended proceeds of the World Bank and EBRD loans. Subsidiary
loans for the institutional strengthening programs will have a grace period of three years and a maturity
of 8 years. With respect to their systems modernization program, PBs would be eligible for borrowin,;
up to 100 percent of the net cost of their programs from the blended proceeds of the World Bank anl
RBRD loans. Subsidiary loans for systems modernization will have a grace period of up to four years
and a maturity of up to twelve years.
C. Procurement
6.13   As outlined below, procurement of goods and technical assistance services will be implemented
according to relevant World Bank Guidelines. Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 6-1
below. Annex 6-3 further details the categories and numbers of major contracts, as well as the projected
schedule for these procurement actions.
2 The percentage of grant financing and the cap will be firmed up on the basis of commitments by donors
as they are received. The Government/PBs have committed to borrow from the World Bank/EBRD in
case the grants do not materialize.



- 28 -
Table 6-1
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
ICB            LCB             Other            NBF          Total Cost
Office, Misc. Equipment             -               -               -               2.5             2.5
164.4            4.01           38.02           12.0            221.1
Computer Systems                  (113.6)           (2.0)          (24.0)           -             (139.6)
Consultancies, Training             -               -             155                              165.5
(57.4)                         (57.4)
Study Tours, etc.                   -               -               3.0                            ( 3.0
i                                                   l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3.0)      (3.0)
Totals                            164.4             4.0           206.5            14.5            389.4
(113.6)           (2.0)          (84.4)           (0.0)         (200.0)
Notes: Figures in parentheses are respective amounts financed by the Bank loan. NBF: Not Bank-Financed.
"Groods (including some ancillary instalation services, e.g. for LANs and software) procured locally in accordance with Bank
Guidelines, Section 3.3.
2"Includes proprietary mainframe computer, perpherals and software upgrades (US$22 million); and LIB for Umited-source
mainfiame computer/network equipment, special software, and IS off-the-shelf items (US$8.5 million and US$5.5 million,
respectively). Also includes LS under Section 3.4 of the Guideiines (US$2.2 taillion).
"tServices shall be procured in accordance with World Bank Guidelines: Use of Consuttans, 1981. Includes information systems
and training services that will be "packaged", wherever possible, to reduce contracting actions.
41A Project Preparation Facility (PPF) is intended to be used to finance initial consulting activities for the PIU and intial TA
(para 6.9).
"Study Tours for accounting, audit and information management.
6.14   The selection of the consultants will be carried out following the Guidelines: Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and the World Bank as Executing Agency, published by the Bank in August
1981. Selection and engagement of twinning-type services will be carried out under a procedure that is
jointly approved by the Bank and EBRD and is consistent with the Bank's guidelines for the use of
consultants.? The solicitation methods and terms of reference for all consultant assignments, and all
documentation and contracts for consultant services valued at greater than US$100,000 will be subject
to prior Bank review and approval. Twinning and major consulting contracts are expected to total about
fifty contracting actions. Other contracts will be subject to the Bank's ex-post review including, where
appropriate, ex-post review on a selective basis. To the extent practicable, professional services for the
3   The procedures are being further reviewed to accommodate EU's particular requirements.



- 29 -
review or development of information systems and strategic plans and training will be delivered in
consolidated consulting contracts to lower purchaser costs and administration burdens.
6.15  ICB/LIB Procurement. Except as discussed below, ICB procedures will be used tor all
purchases expected to exceed US$300,000 per contract. Of the total of approximately US$140.0
million of Bank funding allocated for the purchase of goods, an estimated US$113.0 million, or eighty-
plus percent, will be expended using International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures. The principal
categories of ICB purchases are computer systems and software, workstations, banking equipment and
teleconununications upgrades. Initial purchases will help PBs establish "core" electronic functionality and
modernize their banking operations. Additional PB systems improvements will be outlined as other banks
are included and "Twinning" progresses. In the comparison of bids for equipment procured through
ICB, Russian manufacturers would be allowed a preferential margin of fifteen percent or the existing
customs duty that a nonexempt importer would have to pay, whichever is lower, over the competing price
of imports, providing domestic value added is at least 20 percent. LIB procedures, as outlined in Section
3.2 of the Guidelines will be used where automation improvements, such as banking and LAN software
offered by only a few suppliers, do not justify full advertisement procedures. The project is expected
to include about eighty ICBs (average value: US$2.1 million) and about thirty LIB actions (averaging
about US$260,000), with a total value of US$8.5 million -- prior to PIU-guided procurement
consolidations that might simplify administration and reduce landed costs. The PIU and its envisioned
procurement services contractor will help PBs with procurement strategies, procedures and documentation
needed to satisfy Bank procurement requirements. Bank staff will review and clear ICB/LIB procedures,
documentation and contracting, and otherwise review and provide "no objection", as indicated in the
Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, dated May 1992. Two-stage
bidding may be used for the procurement of some computer equipment and scftware. World Bank
standard bidding documents will be used in procurement actions.
6.16  Direct Contracting/International Shopping. Direct Contracting (DC) is envisioned for the
procurement of specialized information technology equipment, e.g., vendor-specific mainframe
extensions, proprietary operating systems to expand existing bank networks, and computing and
telecommunications hardware to continue PBs' standardization and service/spare parts programs. Such
solicitations will be justified and procedures and prices reviewed and cleared beforehand as required by
the Bank's Guidelines. It is projected that Direct Contracting will involve approximately US$22 million
and might, prior to consolidation, result in about thirty-five contracting actions. As provided for in the
Guidelines, all DC documentation, awards and contracts will be subject to prior Bank review and
clearance. International Shopping (IS) may be authorized for readily available, off-the-shelf type
purchases under US$300,000. IS will be based on quotations from at least three suppliers, from at least
three different eligible countries, as indicated in Section 3.4 of the Guidelines.  International
Shopping is expected to total about thirty-five procurement actions, averaging US$160,000 each (total:
US$5.5 million). Bank reviews of IS actions will be conducted on an ex-post basis and/or during
supervision missions.
6.17 Local Competitive Bidding. To procure ancillary equipment and make modifications in
computer facilities, it is envisioned that PBs will do some procurement using Local Competitive Bidding
(LCB) procedures. These procurements are expected to number about thirty actions, averaging
US$135,000 and totalling about US$2 million of the Bank's project financing. Since the Bank's Country
Procurement Assessment Report has not yet been completed for Russia and the Borrower's local
competitive bidding process not endorsed, Bank Guidelines, Section 3.3 will be followed for these
purchases.



- 30 -
6.18   LoAl Shopping. To accommodate operational improvements and computer system upgrades,
it is envisioned that PBs will do a limited amount of Local Shopping (LS) for small value items (under
US$50,000), obtaining three quotations for a purchase action, as provided for in Section 3.3 of the Bank's
Guidelines. These procurement methods will be used where purchases are of smaller value and higher
local content. Such are expected to number about sixty actions, averaging US$30,000 each and totalling
about US$2 million of the project's financing. Small value purchases will be subject to ex-post
documentation reviews, with payments via Special Account and Statement of Expenditure.
6.19   In summary, ICB, LIB and DC procurements over US$300,000 will be subject to prior Bank
reviews and "no-objection' as provided for in the Guidelines. This will result in Bank reviews for
approximately  ninety percent  of  Bank-financed  contracts for goods.  Reviews of actions,
documentation and contracts for technical services will similarly exceed ninety percent of financing
for the services category. Other details on the procurement of goods and services, including the
quantities and distributions of contracts, are contained in Annex 6-3.
6.20   Procurement technical assistance, financed under the loan, will be engaged to assist the PIU with
the preparation and processing of the large number of contracts to be financed under this project. The
procurement ser ices firm and the PIU will contribute to the build up of institutional capacity within the
PIU, the PBs and other concerned entities, and will organize seminars on the Bank's procurement policies
and standard bidding documents. The procurement services firm will advise and assist with advertising,
international and local bidding, selection of suppliers, awarding of contracts, and monitoring and
maintaining of records of procurement activities. The procurement services firm will also help the PIU
coordinate the reviews and issuances of "no objections" by the Bank. The PIU and the procurement
services firm will also monitor procurement actions and documentation of the PBs. In addition, IBRD,
EBRD, and EC staff will monitor procurement, contract administration, and record keeping to ensure the
P3IU is conducting the program in accordance with agreed guidelines (Annex 6).
D. Disbursement
6.21   Generally,4 loans from the IBRD and from the EBRD will be pooled and blended at the level of
the MoF. Whenever possible, grants will be disbursed first. Disbursements from the IBRD loan and
from the EBRD loan will be generally on a pari passu basis, at the ratio of 2:1. At any point in time,
the PIU will ensure that disbursements from the Bank loan and from the EBRD loan are maintained
approximately at this ratio of 2:1, even in cases when pan passu disbursements are not the preferred
arrangement5 (as may be the case for small contracts). Detailed disbursement arrangements for the IBRD
loan are spelled out in Annex 64.
4  During Technical Discussions with the EBRD completed prior to Negotions, joint disbursement
policies and procedures were developed. Discussions with other donors will be held prior to Board
Presentation with a view to harmonize the procedures for using the various sources of financing. It is
likely, however, that constraints attached to specific sources of financing may limit the extent to which
full resources can be blended and disbursement arrangements harmonized.
5 Disbursement arrangements are still under development, and will be firmed up/amended when the
various sources of grant financing are confirmed.



- 31 -
6.22  It is projected that US$61.3 million would be disbursed in FY95, US$81.3 million in FY96,
US$42.4 million in FY97, and US$15 million in FY98. Disbursement schedules are found in Annex 64
and an Implementation Plan is detailed in Annex 6-5. The project is expected to be completed by
June 30, 1998, and the Loan closing date would be December 31, 1998. Disbursements will be fully
documented except that disbursements for (i) contracts of goods below US$50,000 and (ii) training
operations of less than US$50,000, which will be made on the basis of statement of expenditure (SOE).
The documentation to support these expenditures will be retained by the PIU for at least one year after
receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement is made. This
documentation will be made available for review by the auditors and by the Bank upon request (see
section below on Financial Reporting and Auditing).
6.23  To facilitate the disbursement of funds, a Special Account will be established in a commercial
bank acceptable to the Bank. Guidelines for selection of the commercial bank holding the Special
Account will be followed. The authorized allocation to the Special Account will be US$1.0 million. The
account will be opened in the name of the Borrower and will be admini.stered by the authorized
representatives of the PIU on behalf of the Borrower. The Special Account will be used to effect urgent
payment and payments under US$50,000. Other payments will be made on the basis of normal
disbursement procedures which are described in the Disbursement Handbook. The PIU will send on a
monthly basis or more frequently, if necessary, to the Bank requests for replenishment of the Special
Account for the amounts transferred. In addition, monthly bank statements of the Special Account which
have been reconciled by the Borrower should accompany all replenishment requests.
E. Project Accounting, Financial Reporting, and Auditing
6.24 Accountint. The Borrower will have responsibility for appropriate accounting of the funds
provided by the Bank under the Loan, for reporting on the use of these funds, and for ensuring that audits
of financial statements or reports are submitted to the Bank. The audits will be carried out by auditors
satisfactory to the Bank.
6.25 The PIU (on behalf of the Borrower) will establish an appropriate accounting system to provide
information on the proper receipt and use of funds in accordance with the Loan Agreement. The system
should ensure timely and accurate azcounting of all trmsactions under the Loan and clear presentation
of the financial information.
6.26 Financial Reporting. Financial reporting, to be developed and carried out by the PIU, would
closely reflect the specific requirements of the Loan. It would comprise a statement of receipts and
payments for the reporting period since the beginning of the program. The reporting would be in
accordance with the disbursements classified and reported by expenditure categories agreed with the
Borrower and spelled out in the legal documents. Quarterly progress reports would be submitted,
including a separate report in respect of the Special Account. A Project Completion Report will be
submitted to the Bank by the Borrower promptly after the completion of the program, and in any event
not later than six months after the Loan closing date.
6.27  Auditing. A condition of the Loan will be that financial statements and reports on the Loan
(including the Special Account) should be audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards by independent auditors (preferably an international accounting/and auditing firm acceptable
to the Bank).



- 32 -
6.28   The criteria for selecting auditors will be as follows: (i) impartial and independent from the entity
to be audited; (ii) well established and reputable; (iii) experienced in the type of assignment to be
undertaken; and (iv) able to fulfill the terms of reference required within the specified timetable.
6.29   The audit report is to be submitted to the Bank by the Government within six months of the end
of the reporting period, i.e. the fiscal year end. The audit would cover a review of the supporting
documentation including customs documentation.
F. Project Supervision
6.30   Project supervision will be jointly carried out by the Bank, the EBRD, and the EC for the
commercial banking component, which accounts for the bulk of the supervision requirement for the
project. The other two components and PIU oversight should require only limited supervision resources.
Establishment of the TF, the BRU and the PIU will help facilitate smooth project implementation and
supervision. Yet due to the complex nature of the commercial banking component, the multitude of PBs
involved and the need for individual tailoring of development programs, project supervision input by
Bank staff is expected to be very high, particularly in the first three years of project implementation.
Savings may be achieved through organizing complementary review and supervisory arrangements
between the IBRD, the EBRD, and the EC. The degree of coordination between the Bank, the EBRD,
and the EC regarding the sharing of supervision activities will depend in large part on the disbursement
arrangements for each project activity. Table 6-2a6 shows that general supervision is expected to require
an average of 20 staff weeks (sw) per year for the first three years while an additional 60 sw per year
will be needed for audit and procurement review in connection with the commercial banking component.
Table &2a shows supervision requirements of the World Bank assuming pan passu disbursement for
each contract to be financed, and therefore represents the maximum supervision input. Savings would
be achieved to the extent that parallel financing is utilized.



-33 -
Tabl 6-2a
(F-FM
VY 99      FYN              FM7?           Tota
wat                                . __   _    -    we" - -  
%#I                           *#  Stf    %of
G ral Saso              28.8   35.1    18.0   16s5   14.8   33.5   61.6   26.2
(missions, report review)
hutOlna                 21.0    25.6   24.8    22.7    14.4   32.6   60.2   25.6
Automation              27.7    33.7   65.0   59.6    14.7   33.3   107.3   45.6
ank Supivhou             0.3     0.4    -       -       -       -       0.3    0.1
Accouning & Auding       1.4    1.7    0.9    0.8       -       -       2.3    1.0
Jmplauentatlon           2.9    3.5    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.9    3.7    1.6
TOTAL SEISON            82.1   100.0   109.1   100.0    44.2   1(110   235.4  100.0
6.31   Tabk 6-2b provides a breakdown of the World Bank/EBRD/EC yearly supervision requirment
ito the various supervision activities. lbe tota resource requiemet for FY95-FY97 is estimued at
235.4 sw (5.4 staff yea). Procurement review accounts for 58 percent (135.8 sw) of total supervision
resources. -The review of yearly audits of PBs is esdmated to account for an additional 16 percent (38
sw) of supervision resources. Following FY97 and the completion of procurement activities, it is
expected that supervision requirements will fall to levels of 15-20 staff weeks per year needed for
missions, monitoring, and audit review.



- 34 -
Table 6-2b
Yearly Supervision Requirement
By Supervision Funcion
(fM - FM)
FY9            FY 96            FY97           Total
stffl % of   Staf    % of    Saf        % of sStaff        of
L~~~~~~~ek I  ot                  Wew  wd   Weeks   WW    WeSal
Review of Procurement    44.9   54.7   76.3   69.9    14.6   33.0   135.8   57.7
Audit Review             8.4    10.2    14.8   13.6    14.8   33.5    38.0   16.1
Quarterly Report Review    8.8    10.7    8.0    7.3    4.8    10.9    21.6    9.2
Supervision M;ssons     20.0   24.4    10.0    9.2    10.0   22.6   40.0   17.0
TOTAL SUPERVISION    82.1   100.0   109.1  100.0   44.2   100.0   235.4  100.0
6.32   Further supervision arrangements are detailed in Annex 6-6. The tables in the annex spell out:
(i) the schedule for Bank supervision inputs and the skill mix required; (ii) specialist staff needs for the
instiutional and technology development programs; (iii) aspects of the Projects that require special Bank
attention during supervision and the resource requirement; and (iv) a schedule of monitorable targets and
performance indicators.
G. Environmentsl Aspects
6.33   None of the project components is expected to have an impact on the environment. According
to O.D. 4.01, the project has been rated Category "C".



- 35 -
VII. PROJECT BEN4EFTS AND MAIN RIMS
A. Project Benefits
7.1   The build-up of the financial infrastructure and improved operations in the banking system will
lead to a more efficient mobilization of financial resources, and to an improved allocation of resources
to viable activities in the productive sector. The project will also promote the standardization of banks'
systems and will enhance operations of the payments systems. The reformed and strengthened legislative,
regulatory and supervisory framework, as well as the institutional development of banks, will help
improve the efficiency and prudence of bank operations and thereby instill greater financial discipline in
the sys. .m. Improvements in accounting and auditing will significantly enhance transparency and
reliability of financial data. Assistance in the development of a network of commercial banks operating
according to common higher standards will contribute to further institutional development, improve inter-
enterprise payments, and broaden financial markets. All of these improvements in the financial sector
will enhance restructuring of the real economy and contribute to the resumption of growth, and provide
a basis for IBRD and other IFIs' lending.
B. Project Risks
7.2    Uncertainties in the macroeconomic situation and inexperienced management may jeopardize the
solvency of PBs. The introduction of banking standards for the PBs and improved bank supervision, as
well as the strengthened managerial, financial, and operational capacities of PBs, should contribute to
reducing these risks. Another risk relates to the lack of familiarity of Russian counterparts with Bank's
procedures, which may slow down project implementation.  The early introduction of project
implementation and supervisory arrangements, including establishment of the Project Implementation Unit
(PIU), as well as training of counterpart staff, will address this risk. Multiple co-financiers, each having
their own procurement and disbursement policies, also could slow project implementation. The Bank and
the EBRD did establish a uniform set of procedurea and, to the extent possible, joint institutional
arrangements in these areas prior to Negotiations. Every effort will be made to reach early agreements
with other co-financiers.



- 36 -
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACIED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.1    During Negotiations, agreements with the MoF and CBR were reached on the following: (i) the
Accreditation Criteria and Accreditation Process for PBs (Annex 5-3); (ii) the establishment of the PIU,
its staffing plan, financing plan, and its activities, including the undertaking of bank audits, as well as
procurement, disbursements, accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements (part VI); (iii) the
MoF and CBR will provide staff and resources to maintain the TF, the PIU and BRU under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank (part VI); (iv) the MoF will enter into subsidiary loan agreements with
the PBs for the on-lending of the proceeds of the Bank and EBRD loans under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, including the submission of annual audit reports (Annex 6-2); and (v) the MoF
and CBR will make arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for the implementation of the supervision and
the accounting and auditing components.
8.2   The issuance by the MoF of the invitation letter for the PIU consulting contract is a condition of
Board Presentaton (para 6.5).
8.3    Conditions of effectiveness consist of: (i) the signing of subsidiary loan agreements with at least
three banks under the commercial banking component (para 6. 7); (ii) the conclusion of the agreement
between the MoF and CBR and the establishment of the Task Force (para 6.2 and 6.7); (iii) the
recruitment of two senior bankers for the Bank Review Unit (para 6.7); (iv) the selection of and signing
of the contract with the consulting firm carrying out PIU activities (para 6.5); and (v) the EBRD loan
becoming effective.
8.4   The signing by the CBR of an agreement for the bank supervision and the bank accounting
components will be a condition of disbursement for these components (para 6.1). The above has been
reflected as covenants in the legal documents.
8.5   The proposed Project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$200 million equivalent to
the Government of the Russian Federation.



Annex 5-1
Page I of 3
RUSSIA
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selection of Banks
1.    The selection of banks for technical assistance (TA) and for on-lending has been conducted
through five main steps taken during May through October 1993: (i) brief familiarization visits to about
30 banks in several regions during late May and early June to develop an up-to-date sense of the
condition of a cross-section of commercial banks; (ii) preparing an objective selection methodology; (iii)
screening the universe of banks to select those which would be diagnosed more intensively; (iv)
conducting diagnostic reviews of 45 banks in July, September, and October; and (v) preliminarily
selecting 20 candidate banks in mid-October. Provision has been made in the project for adding more
banks to the program at a later stage (project costs have been skedfor 36 banks, based on an average
cost for a typical institudonal development and systems modernization program).
Familiarization Visits
2.    Familiarization visits were made to about 30 banks in the Northwest, Central, Volga, Urals, and
Siberian regions in late May and early June by several World Bank teams. The purpose of the visits was
to develop an up-to-date understanding of the state and pace of evolution, the current condition, - .4 the
development plans of a cross-section of Russian commercial banks to serve as a practical oasis for
planning concrete actions for strengthening the commercial banking sector.
Selection Methodology
3.    Based on these findings, and the findings of prior missions, a selection methodology was
developed, focused on objectively identifying 20-30 'good" banks in major economic centers which: (i)
could benefit from technical assistance and seeve as models for other banks in their regions, and thus lead
the way in strengthening the commercial banking sector, and/or (ii) could serve as effective on-lenders
of World Bank and other IFls' funds. The methodology was developed by banking experts and honed
through numerous discussions as well as a full "test run" of the methodology with six Russian banks in
four cities in July.
4.    The selection methodology comprises several elements: (i) a basic approach for screening the
universe of banks to identify the best candidates for more intensive individual diagnostic reviews; (ii) a
detailed request for a range of financial, credit, automation, banking process, and other information to
be provided by individual banks to the diagnostic team prior to the diagnostic review (DR); (iii) interview
guides elaborating a series of key questions to be asked regarding the bank's strategy, governance
structure, organization, skill needs, credit management, financial management, and computer technology;
(iv) analytical and data presentation formats; (v) a "scorecard" for rating each bank in terms of about 50
criteria regarding their appropriateness for technical assistance and/or on-lending; (vi) a diagnostic work
plan and team member selection criteria; (vii) examples of the required scope, depth and quality of
required diagnostic results; and (viii) a package of materials for a two-day briefing of diagnostic team
members.



Annex 5-1
Page 2 of 3
Screening
5.    The universe of close to 2,000 commercial banks was screened in a series of steps to identify the
specific banks which would be individually analyzed: (i) seven major economic regions were first
identified, consisting of the Northwest, Central, Volga, South, Urals, Siberia, and the Far East; (ii)
within these regions 28 major oblasts were selected based on size of manufacturing output, population,
number of banks with foreign exchange licenses, and the existence of free economic zones; (iii) within
each of these oblasts, an average of five banks were selected-more in the larger centers, less in the
smaller centers-based mainly on size; (iv) for the 145 banks so selected, and on the basis of data
provided by the CBR, 43 banks were selected, based on several criteria-size of capital, adequacy of
capital, profitability, breadth of ownership, volume and quality of lending, and high reliance on market-
based funding.
Diagnostic Reviews
6.    A three-day diagnostic review (DR) of each of the 43 banks was conducted by a team of three
to four banking experts, each of whom took responsibility for one or two of the following areas: strategy
and organization, credit, financial management and technology. The review teams completed their
reviews by preparing, and discussing with each bank's management, a report outlining the team's mai
findings and conclusions regarding the bank's priority development needs. Individual team members also
provided ad hoc counsel to managers during their discussions of the bank's activities and results.
Seection Criteria
7.    The criteria for selecting a bank for TA and for taking the next step in the qualification
process-which is the conduct of a thorough international audit-were as follows: (i) the quality of the
credit portfolio and the lending process; (ii) the level of capital adequacy; (iii) the liquidity of the bark
and its competitiveness in market-sourcing of fuads; (iv) the level of earnings and profitability; (v) the
soundness of the governance structure of the bank and the degree of autonomy of its top management;
(vi) the soundness of its strategy; (vii) whether or not an international audit had been conducted or was
planned; (viii) the quality of its credit risk assessment process and staff; (ix) the quality of its project
appraisal process and skills; (x) the adequacy of controls; and (xi) the adequacy of credit portfolio
management. In addition, several broader criteria were applied: (f) relative size in the region; (ii) degree
of competitiveness; (iii) a strong focus on the private sector; (iv) evidence of active self-development; (v)
minimal concentration of ownership; (vi) minimal lending to large shareholders; (vii) the capabilities of
senior management; (viii) active le-iing, including hard currency lending; and (ix) the need for technical
assistance.
Prliminary Selection
8.    After completion of all the DRs, 20 banks were preselected, which best met the pre-determined
TA and on-lending criteria. The 20 banks are in nine cities across the span of the Russian Federation:
four in St. Petersburg, six in Moscow, one in Togliatti, two in Ekaterinburg, one in Tyumen, one in
Omsk, two in Kemerovo, one in Khabarovsk, and two in Vladivostok. Banks in six other cities were
assessed and found to be not qualified: Nizhny-Novgorod, Smolensk, Perm, Chelyabinsk Novosibirsk,
and Krasnoyarsk. Several of these banks, however, may become qualified in a few years, once they have
furer developed and demonstrated their operational and financial viability. It has also to be noted tbat



Annex S-1
Page 3 of 3
the selected banks have branches in all important economic centers, including the towns mentioned above,
where no regional bank has qualified.
9.    Among the 20 banks is a mixture of 'zero banks and 'spin-offs' from former state specialized
banks. The 20 banks also range widely in size, from several of the largest Russian commercial banks,
with over 50 billion rubles in shareholders' equity and over 500 billion in assets, to several relatively
small banks, with 2 billion to 10 billion rubles in shareholders equity and 30 billion to 100 billion in
assets. The aggregate capitalization of the preselected banks is about US$700 million.



Anex 5-2
Page 1 of 2
RUSS
FINANCIAL INSTTTONS DEVELOPMET PROJECr
Procedure for Accreditng Banks
1.    Idenftifying Bank Candidates
(a)    Twenty bank candidates have been identified based on a bank selecdon process conducted
during September and October 1993.
(b)    Over the next few months, the World Bank/European Bank will work with the MoF and
CBR to select an additional 25-30 banks for diapostic reviews.
(c)    MoF and CBR may independenty nominate addiional banks for consideration.
(d)   Banks can independendy apply for consideration.
(e)    All additional bank candidates will be screened by the World Bank/European Bank team
based on the likelihood that they can meet the accreditation crateria within the required
time frame.
2.    Conductng Dlagnosdt Reviews
(a)    A full diagnostic review will be conducted in each selected candidate bank.
(b)   Based on the results of the diagnostic reviews, the World Bank/European Bank team will
determine whether or not the bank qualifies for proceeding in the accreditation process
i.e., to move to the stage of having an on-lending audit conducted.
3.    Conducti  On-lnding Audits
(a)    A full on-ending audit wi  be conducted in each selected bank by an international
auditg firnm.
(b)   The audits, Inter alia, will measure and verify each bankcs degree of conformanc with
the accreditation criteria.
4.    MaXn the Accrdtaton Dedson
(a)    The audit results will be reviewed by the Bank Review Unk, which will Q) advise the
MoP and CBR on whether or not to accredit the bank, and (ii) design a corrective action
program for the bank to follow, if necessary, to justify the accreditation or to become
accredited at a later time.
(b)   The Government will formally issue appropriate decisions on accrediation upon the
recommendation of the MoP, and after receving a notice of *no objectioe fom the



Annex 5-2
Page 2 of2
World Bank/EBRD/EC. In practice, the MoF will obtain the prior consent of the CBR
and the concurrence of any other concerned agencies.
(c) The PIU will communicate the Government's decision and the corrective action program
to the concemed bank, and monitor with the assistance of the Bank Review Unit the
compliance of the bank with the terms of the corrective action program.



Annex 5-3
Page 1 of 7
RUSSIA
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Accreditation Criteria and Monitoring of the Performance of PBs
A. Accreditation Criteria
I1.    Banks participating in the program would be required to meet and maintain conformance with
eligibility criteria established by the Government and World Bank. All PBs would be required to meet
the prudential standards described in Annex 5-10. Additional eligibility criteria would include:
General Actions
*     Agreeing to and implementing an institutional development plan and time-table acceptable
to the Government and World Bank/European Bank.
o     Agreeing to and implementing an automation plan and time-table acceptable to the
Government and World Bank/European Bank.
*     Undergoing an annual audit conducted by an international auditing firm in accordance
with international accoundng and auditing principles.
*     Submittig to the PIU monthly financial statements prepared in accordance with the
August 1993 CBR Instruction, BAFS and IAS 29 on inflation; submitting annually to the
PIU forecast financial statements for three fiscal years prepared according to the same
principles as the quarterly statements.
     Complying with all CBR instuctions and requirements.
Capital Adequacy
*     Maintaining a total capital to risk-adjusted assets ratio of 4 percent in 1994 and reaching
a total capital to risk-adjusted assets ratio of 8 percent by 1998, applying risk-weightings
specified in Annex 5-10.
o     Maintaining minimum equity capital of ECUS million, equivalent.
*     Realistically provisioning for possible loan losses in accordance with CBR instructions
and international standards.
Profitablity
*     Demonstrating financial solvency and profitability as measured by net income (adjusted
for iflation and loan loss provisions in accordance with inrnational accounting
standards) providing a positive return on assets during the previous two years.



Annex 5-3
Page 2 of 7
Quality of Lending Process and Loan Portfolo
o     Limiting maximum exposure to a single borrower and its connected parties to 50 percent
of equity capital in 1994; and then to 35 percent in 1995 and 25 percent in 1996.
     Limiting maximum aggregate large exposures (defined as any credit and off-balance sheet
exposures to a single party exceeding 10 percent of bank's equity capital) to 12 times
equity capital in 1994; and subsequently to 10 times in 1995 and 8 times in 1996.
o     Maintaining single loans to shareholders/directors at less than 30 percent of capital and
the aggregate total of such loans at 100 percent of capital in 1994; these percentages
would subsequently decrease according to the schedule in Annex 5-10 to 10 percent and
20 percent by 1998.
o     Maintaining a loan portfolio, exclusive of working capital financing, of which (i) no more
than 20 percent has been rescheduled and (ii) less than 5 percent has been rescheduled
more than once.
*     Actively engaging in lending.
o     Maintaining a total collection rate (total amount of current and overdue principal and
interest collected as a percentage of current and overdue amounts due in the year,
calculated before loan reschedulings) greater than 85 percent.
*     Limiting the remaining principal value of loans in arrears to 8 percent of the total
portfolio and the remaining principal value of loans in arrears for a period exceeding 12
months to 2 percent of the total portfolio.
*     Maintaining a minimum 1:1 ratio between loan loss provisions and the sum of doubtful
and loss assets, where "doubtful assets" are those where collection or liquidation in full
is highly improbably and 'loss assets' are those considered uncollectible.
*     Maintaining an interest rate structure reflecting a satisfactory assessment and monitoring
of risk and return.
o     Demonstrating a satisfactory set of policies and practices for assessing the environmental
effects of projects it finances.
Resource Mobization and Uquidity
*     Sourcing no more than 10 percent of loan funds from directed government credits.
o     Maintaining a non-inter-bank loans to non-inter-bank deposits ratio of less than 80
percent.



Ar.nex 5-3
Page 3 of 7
Managerial Autonomy
0     Demonstrating substantial managerial autonomy to the satisfaction of the international
auditors, the World Bank, EBRD, MoF, and the CBR through:
- sources of funds,
- legal and ownership structure,
- composition of and locus of authority for appointment of Board of Directors,
- management and staff selection and promotion policies and practices,
- loan approval procedures (equal treatment of shareholders and non-
shareholders and the absence of shareholders on the credit committee).
Management Effectiveness
o     Demonstrating adequate policies, procedures, and performance in the following functional
areas in the view of the international auditors, the World Bank, EBRD, the MoF, and
CBR:
- market strategy
- organizational structure
- credit
- financial management (asset-liability management, foreign exchange,
accounting)
- planning and budgeting
- internal audit
- management information systems
- training
Private Sector Orientation
     Demonstrate a significant level of lending to the private sector.
o     Demonstrate significant share ownership by private sector.
Exceptions
2.    Banks not meeting one or several of the above criteria may still be accredited for participation
in the project in the event that they agree with the World Bank/European Bank and the MoF on a plan
of action for addressing their deficiencies and an explicit set of targets for monitoring their progress in
meeting the accreditation standards.
Additional Banls
3.    The MoF, in consultation with the CBR, will be responsible for screening and qualifying
additional banks applying to participate in the program. Since the program, as presently envisaged, is
open to up to 36 PBs, 16 banks beyond those initially recommended could be included. Additional
banks must demonstrate that they meet the selection criteria described in Annex 5-1. They must submit



Annex 5-3
Page 4 of 7
to a diagnostic review and an external audit by an international finm. Information obtained during these
two phases wIll provide the basis for the decision made by the MoF.
B. Reporting and Monitoring of PBs' Performance
4.    Monthly financial returns, as well as quarterly progress reports and annual external audit reports
will be sent by each PB to the PIU. The PIU, which is responsible for the collection of these returns and
reports, will forward them promptly to the BRU. The PIU will seek explanations and report to the BRU
in cases when a PB fails to send its returns and report on time. The BRU will evaluate PB's conformance
with eligibility criteria on the basis of reports and information prepared by the PB. The BRU will submit
its f,.ings and recommendations to the MoF, the CBR, the World Bank, and the EBRD, each of whom
must approve these recommendations. The MoF, the CBR, the World Bank, and the EBRD, retain the
right to request additional information on a PB and to make the final decision regarding a PB's
qualification for the program. Proposed remedies in case of non-performance are developed in Section
C below.
5.    The format for returns and reports will be fiurther developed during project implementation. The
proposed format for the monthly return is detailed below:
Definons of Selected Tenns
Exposures. Exposures include all transactions, both on and off a bank's balance sheet,
that expose the bank to potential loss.
Off balance sheet exposares. Exposures, such as guarantees, that expose the bank to
potential loss, but are not reflected on the bank's balance sheet.
Related party. A party that has an ownership or control relationship with the party
having the exposure, or whose financial soundness is subject to the same basic factors
(for example, the profitability of a jointly owned company).
Connected pary. A connected party would include a manager or director of the bank,
or any entity that owns or controls more than 10 percent of the bank's stock.
Doub(d assets. Assets held by a bank where collection or liquidation in full is highly
improbable.
Loss assets. Assets held by a bank that are considered uncollectible.
Directed Govenment Credits. Credits allocated according to the Government's special
decision.
Working capdalflnancing. For each borrower, working capital financing is defined as
credit equivalent to 90 days of sales.



Annx 5-3
Page 5 of 7
OECD coutes. OECD countries include: Austraia; Ausia; Belgium; Canada
Denmark; Finland; France; Gemay; Greece; Iceland; Ireland; Italy; Japan;
Luxembourg; Netherlands; New Zealand; Norway; Portugal; Spain; Sweden;
Switerland; Turkey; United Kingdom; and United States.
DA  Rag to Cak   dquacy
- Amount of totl asse
- Amount of off balance sheet exposus
- Amount of cash, claims on the Government of the Russian Federaion, and deoits
at the Central Bank of Russia
- Amount of claims on banks in OECD counties
- Amount of claims on banks in non-OECD counties
- Amount of equity capital
D21 Rlat  to E&oswvs to a SIngke Pay and Lawge Eposms
- List all exposures to a siugle party (and parties related to that single party) that exceed
10 percent of the ban's equity capita
Nam  of singk party                  Amount of expo
h. Rlating to Exposw  to Coaned P.1,
- List al exposures to a connected party (and pardes related to that connected paty)
irespecve of the amount of the exposure
Nme of connectpwy                    Amonof eVosure
lnoraionok  Rag to Tramadatvon with Cewetded P.11.
- List all exosur  to connected parties Ihat were wi made on commercl (or "ams-
lengt1) terms
Name of conected party               Amowu of exposure
Dam Rd   Qtgo  ualy of dt  Leadg Pess and Le  Poilfo&o
- Amount of total loans
- Amount of loans ta have been rescheduled
- Amount of loans that have been rescheduled more than once



Ane 5-3
Page 6 of 7
- Amount of current and overdue principal and interest that was collected during the
reporting period
- Amount of current and overdue principal and interest that was collected during the
reporting period, calculated before loan reschedulings
- Amount of loans that are in arrears
- Amount of loans that are in arrears for a period exceeding 12 monts
- Amount of the loan loss provisions
- Amount of doubdzll assets
- Amount of loss assets
Data Rladig to ?wfaiky
- Net income during previous two years
Dta Reatig to Rea Lendn Rates
- Current interest rates charged to highest quality borrowers on short-term loans
Daft Rdladg to Resouree MobiJton and Liqsddty
- Amount of outstanding loans that were funded from directed government credits
- Amount of loans other than interbank loans
- Amount of deposits other than in k deposits
C. Propsed temedies for Non-Performing  1ank
6.    From time to time, individual participating banks may fall out of compliance with one or more
of the accreditation sandards. When this happens, the case must be considered by the Task Force, with
the assistace of the Bank Review Unit, which will make a recommendation to the Task Force.
7.    Non-compliance by a participating bank can be handled in one of three ways of increasing
severity:
(i)  The Task Force will enter into an agreement with the participating bank to
retrn to compliance within a specified time period. During this period, the
non-conforming bank would contiMe to receive disbursements from the
program as originally scheduled.
(ii)  The Task Force could enter into an agreement with the participating ba. to
return to compliance within a specified period, but would suspend the bank
from receiving any fiuther disbursements until the bank <tUirns to fun
compliance.
(id) The Task Force could remove the non-conforming bank from the program and
require the bank to make fill rmburement.



Ann"ex 5-3
Page 7 of 7
8.    In choosing among these three options in Individual cases, the Task Force must use a great deal
of discretion. The Task Force must simultaneously maintain a disciplined program, but avoid actions that
would be viewed as arbitrary and capricious. In making decisions, the Task Force should give primary
weight to the following considerations:
(i)  lhe number of accreditation requirements in which the bank is not in
compliance.
(i) The degree to which the bank is out of compliance with the requirement(s).
(iii) lhe relative importance of the requirement(s) in which the bank is not in
compliance. For example, non-compliance with the capital adequacy
requirement or limitations on connected lending would be viewed as
particularly serious.
(iv) The bank's past history of compliance with the requirements.
9.    In all cases in which a bank falls out of compliance with accreditation requirements, 'out is not
removed from the program (options 1 and 2 above), the Task Force would have authority to require any
special reports from the bank needed by the Task Force to monitor the bank's performance.



Annex 54
Page I of 5
RUSSIA
FINANCIL JNSTIrIrTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary Review of Partldpatling Banks
Overview
1.    The 20 banks pre-identified for participation in the program during the first round of diagnostic
reviews were selected on the basis of their performance relative to other commercial banks in Russia, as
measured by the accreditation criteria and prudential standards described in Annex 5-3 and Annex 5-10.
The table on page 6-8 of this annex, provides summary statistics measuring the individual and average
performance of the 20 pre-identified banks, as well as the average performance of the 23 banks which
underwent diagnostic reviews and were not selected and the average of all 1,776 Russian commercial
banks (as per statistics collected in May-June 1993). These results reveal that the PBs are distinguished
from their peers in most areas. However, in some respects, such as ownership and lending practices,
the PBs are representative of the sector. A brief discussion of the PBs' performance relative to each other
and to other Russian banks follows. The project files include more detailed information on each of the
bank's origin, ownership, target market, range of activities, and main strategic objectives.
Origin and Ownership
2.    Of the 20 pre-identified banks, nine are zero banks, five are spin-offs of Promstroibank, five are
spin-offs of Zhilsotzbank and one is a spin-off of Rosselkhozbank. A comparison to the entire banking
sector is presented below:
.; .Zv.;....-  .n.....t- .I
[ALLBANKSI
Zero Banks                                  45%                        61%
Former Promstroibanks                       25%                         12%
Former Zhilsotzbanks                        25%                         8%
Former Rosselkhozbanks                      5%                         19%
3.    Zero banks are predominant in both groups, but among the PBs there is a higher representation
of Promstroibank and Zhilsotzbank spin-offs than is found in the entire population of Russian commercial
banks. Ihe lower representation of Rosselkhozbank spin-offs among the PBs is largely due to the fact
that the principal activity of most such banks remains channelling state credits at highly subsidized rates
to collective farms, and several of the selection criteria are heavily biased against such behavior.
4.    Russian banks are principally owned by enterprises, and these owners are often concentrated in
one or two industrial sectors. Ownership also tends to be fairly concentrated among a few significant
enterprises. For the larger group of 150 banks which was screened in the summer and which included
the 20 PBs, the average ownership stake of the five largest shareholders was 50 percent. Among the PBs,



Annex 54
Page 2 of 5
it is the zero banks which most closely conform to this pattern; the five largest shareholders of the nine
zero-banks in the group hold from 12 percent to 98 percent, and an average of 52 percent, of the shares
of these banks. The former Promstroibanks and former Zhilsotzbanks among the PBs have more broadly
dispersed shareholdings, with the five largest shareholders on average accounting for 23 percent and 33
percent, respectively of total shares.
Geographic Scope
5.            The geographic reach of the PBs is nationwide, but the concentration of their
headquarters, branches and assets in Moscow and St. Petersburg mirrors the former command structure.
Efforts have been made, however, to identify PBs in all the main economic centers. The 20 PBs are
headquartered in nine cities spanning the Russian Federation: four in St. Petersburg, six in Moscow, one
in Togliatti, two in Ekaterinburg, one in Tyumen, one in Omsk, two in Kemerovo, one in Khabarovsk,
and two in Vladivostok.
6.    Through their branch networks, these banks are represented in 49 of Russia's 88 oblasts and
autonomous republics. These 49 oblasts include all major economic areas and account for 68.5 percent
of the nation's industrial output and population.   Of those oblasts where the PBs do not have any
branches, only three account for more than 1 percent of manufacturing output. One of the priorities of
the second round of diagnostic revi-ws will be to expand the geographic coverage of the Project by
identifying banks in significant oblasts which are currently under-represented among the 20 PBs.
~~~~~~~.    .. . . . .
Mooowr          S63%         30.0%          9.9%         68.3%         44.1%        56.9%
St. Pcesnburg     3.6%        20.0%         19.4%          4.0%          7.7%         4.5%
Vo4p           12.7%         5.0%          6.3%         9.1%          13.8%         9.9%
huns           12.1%        10.0%        22.1%          2.3%         15.1%         12.6%
Slboria         7.9%        20.0%         24.8%         14.6%          7.1%         8.6%
Far Bast        7.4%        15.0%          S.7%          1.6%         12.2%         7.5%
TOTAL          100.0%       100.0%        100.0%S      100.0%        00.0%    |   100.0%
Size
7.    Significant size within its geographic region was one of the selection criteria, and hence even the
smallest PBs, with capital of Rb3 to 5 billion and assets of Rb3O to 35 billion, are larger than the average
Russian commercial bank which has capital of about Rbl billion and assets of RbI9 billion. The CBR's
low minimum capital requirement of Rbl00 million oess than US$100,000) has led to a proliferation of
tiny banks in Russia; 1,666 banks had paid-in-capital of less than Rb300 million as of May, 1993. The
table below summarizes information on the capital, assets and branches of PBs and of the entire banking
sector.



Annex 54
Page 3 of 5
Select  Information on Ptddpating Bank
(_US$ illion equivalent)
Min.             Max.              Avg.           Avg. of All
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _B ank s
Total Equity                3               162                39                1
Total Assets               32             2,298              445                18
Branches                    2                40                18                2
Employees                 274             3,000             1,097               na
Capital Adequacy
8.    The PBs, on average, appear well-capitalized, with total capital to risk-adjusted to assets ratios
of 15 percent (about the same as the average for the entire banking sector). However, it is likely that
these capital ratios are overstated since very few Russian banks, even among the PBs, undertook loan
classification and provisioning prior to October 1, 1994 when the CBR instruction on this subject went
into effect. One would expect that the degree of overstatement due to inadequate provisioning would
vary greatly among banks, depending upon the quality of their portfolios. The audits to be completed
by May 1994 will provide a clearer picture of the capital position of the PBs, but the seven largest PBs,
with combined total equity accounting for Rb647 billion of the group's Rb773 billion, have capital
adequacy ratios ranging from 10 to 40 percent.
Quality of the Credit Portfolio and Lending Process
9.    The diagnostic reviews provided a snapshot of the credit portfolio and lending process of each
PB. The audits will provide more detailed information on both areas and also assessments on the quality
of individual loans, the accuracy of loan classifications made and the level of loan provisioning.
Discussion of the lending process is covered in Annex 5-S on "Consolidated Institutional Findings of
Diagnostic Reviews".
10.   Given the weak legal and judicial infrastructure for enforcing creditors' rights, banks' limited
experience and skills in credit analysis, poor accounting standards and the low quality of information
available on borrowers, Russian banks display a strong preference for lending to companies they know
well. This group of "knownw companies with privileged access to credit is mainly composed of
shareholders and enterprises in which a bank holds an equity stake, as well as suppliers and customers
of these connected enterprises. On average, the aggregate of loans to their five largest shareholders
account for 13 percent of the PBs' total loans, versus 27 percent for the 23 non-PBs. Portfolios of the
PBs also display a high degree of concentration, with the five largest loans accounting for 57 percent of
the portfolio on average.
11.   However, since another characteristic of Russian banks is restrained lending, with an average total
loans to total assets ratio of about 37 percent for the entire banking sector and 33 percent for the PBs,
such high concentration appears only modestly imprudent when measured against capital. For the PBs,



Ann  5-4
Page 4 of 5
the sum of loans to their five largest shareholders is about 32 percent of capital. This should be
compared to the ISB Program's proposed standard for maximum aggregate exposure to connected parties
of 100 percent of capital in 1994, subsequendy dropping to 20 percent by 1998. When measured against
the proposed ISB standard for maximum exposure to a single party of 50 percent of capital in 1994, the
PBs on average comply at 42 percent, with maximum single exposures ranging from 1 percent to 256
percent.- Comparable data on concentration and insider lending is not available in aggregate for the
commercial banking sector.
Liquidity and Competitiveness in Sourcing Funds
12.   The PBs as a group enjoy a higher level of liquidity than the average Russian commercial bank.
One measure of liquidity considered in the diagnostic reviews was the ability to mobilize deposits to
cover funding needs. The PBs scored high in this category as measured by their average ratio of non-
bank loans to non-bank deposits of 88 percent, versus 133 percent for the entire banking sector and 281
percent for the 23 non-PBs. The PBs are also rapidly moving away from on-lending of CBR credits.
Twelve report that CBR credits account for less than 5 percent of their total liabilities, and seven of this
group do not engage in any CBR on-lending. All but two of the 23 non-PBs serve as channels for
directed government credits.
Soundness of Strategy
13.   The PBs have ambitious growth and diversification strategies. All of them have foreign
exchange licenses and established foreign exchange departments engaged in lending, deposittaking,
trading, and executing payments. With few legal or CBR restrictions on universal banking and the
absence of strong investment funds or insurance companies, many of the PBs see a market opportunity
and are developing their capital markets capabilities. In addition to securities trading, direct equity
investments, as one of the building blocks for creating a financial-industrial holding company, are of great
interest to some PBs. For the first six months of 1993, the PBs, on average, derived 29 percent of their
income fiom fees, dividends, and capital gains. However, the banks profiles are quite varied in this
respect, with non-interest income accounting for as litde as 5 percent and as much as 67 percent of
income for this period. The zero banks have been most aggressive in diversifying their activities and,
on average, non-interest income accounts for 41 percent of total income for this group.
Conduct of an International Audit
14.   Eight of the PBs have previously been audited by international accounting firms. Compared to
the rest of the banking sector, this is a remarkably high nmber. Even though the first international
accounting firm to open an office in Russia did so in 1989, and since 1992, all six have been operating,
it is rare for a Russian bank to engage an international firm to conduct the annual audit which is required
by the CBR. More rarely seen is an audit conducted according to international accounting and auditing
standards, even by an international audit firm. The cost of such services is high (about US$150,000 for
an annual audit) and most banks' lack of international correspondent relationships and demanding
This average exclude one bank which is an outlier with its largest single loan accountng for 256 perent
of capital.



Ann  5-4
Page 5 offS
shareholders have thus far limited demand among the vast majority of Russian banks for international
audits performed by international firms.



Annex 5-5
Page I of 6
RUSSIA
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Consolidated Institutional Findings of Diagnostic Reviews
1.    The diagnostic reviews identified development needs in all the main functional areas of banking:
(i) strategy; (ii) organization structure; (iii) credit management; (iv) financial management; (v) marketing;
(vi) branch management; (vii) human resources management; (viii) training; and (ix) technology.
Reflecting the diversity of banks involved in the program, their relative strengths and weaknesses in these
areas span a wide range.
Strategy
2.    Until quite recently, banks have been working successfully in Russia without written strategic
plans. Weak internal information systems, a deficit of market information, frequent changes in CBR
regulations and opportunities for large profits in trading and speculating all served to discourage planning.
However, the banking sector is evolving rapidly. Today, commercial banks in the Russian Federation are
faced with considerable opportunities and considerable risks, as well as considerable competition.
Among the participating banks, about half have written business strategies consisting of a statement of
five or six fairly generic objectives (i.e., increasing capital, developing nationwide branch network,
serving needs of shareholders and clients, developing foreign exchange operations, and training staff).
The banks strategic plans are underdeveloped because there is usually little underlying analysis of market,
profitability, and competition. With one notable exception, the long term strategic plan is not linked to
a financial plan or section budgets. In order to meet the challenges of the Russian environment, the
banks need to adopt a strategic planning process and utilize the process to target specific markets,
products and services and to prepare a realistic plan which is translated into specific action programs for
staff and operating sections.
Organization Structure
3.    The organization structures of most Russian banks have evolved incrementally as they added new
products, services and functions and expanded their branch network. The result is often a complex
diagram which fafls to address needs in some areas, while creating redundancies in others. As a rule,
organization structures are product-oriented, rather than client-oriented. Ruble and hard currency
operations are always conducted through two entirely separate departments. Each maintains its own
financial accounts, credit files and deposit records, and often they have distinctly different institutional
cultures. It is only at the level of the Management Board, the Credit Committee, and the ALCO (in the
few cases where one exists), that the 'ruble bank' and the "hard currency bank" are unified. Perhaps
the most striking example of the absurdity of this organization structure is in the credit area, where a
client with both hard currency and ruble funding needs must deal with two separate loan officers, who
employ different credit processes, and may even reach conflicting decisions on extending credit.
4.    Another common weakness in the organization structures of Russian banks is the absence of a
treasury department in both hard currency and ruble operations. Deposit-taking operations are often
located within a "Credit Department," and there is a small group handling inter-bank borrowing, if the
bank utilizes such funds.



Annex 5-S
Page 2 of 6
5.    Obviously, organization structures of the type prevalent among Russian banks impede information
management, risk and profitability analysis and the quality of service provided to both depositors and
borrowers. As the Russian market becomes increasingly competitive, banks will need to develop more
rational and more client-oriented organization structures.
Credit Management
6.    The economic, legal and competitive environment for commercial banking in Russia is just
beginning to advance from that stage of development where relationships (shareholder-investor, supplier-
customer) are the most reliable tool for assessing and managing credit risk. Few banks in Russia have
yet recognized this trend, and even fewer have responded by modernizing their credit evaluation and
supervision systems. The banks participating in the project are at the forefront in this area, and most
have adopted written credit policies and procedures. Still, many deficiencies remain in their credit
management process.
7.    Financial and market analysis of loan applications is weak, and even the few banks engaging in
project finance are not conducting their own cash-flow analysis of borrowers. Loan applications from
shareholders and companies in their supplier-customer network are subjected to an even less rigorous
evaluation than those received from other types of companies (often private, often trade-related).
Approval limits among branches vary by bank and are set at the levels of branches, the credit department,
and even the credit committee.
8.    Lending decisions are based on the strength of collateral rather than the strength of the enterprise.
Attempting to compensate for the weakness of their credit-risk evaluation ability and the weak legal
protection provided creditors, banks usually require an insurance policy or guarantee from an acceptable
bank or third party (a shareholder) for loans to non-related companies. Some will accept a pledge over
real estate, equipment or inventories, but this is much less desirable.
9.    Banks adhere to a single loan limit set by the CBR at 100 percent of capital which is high by
international standards. The most progressive banks have adopted stricter individual loan limits, but few
have stated objectives regarding the segmentation of their loan portfolios by sector or maturity. Only a
handfUl of banks initiated loan classification and provisioning prior to the CBR's October, 1993
instruction. Most claim that they have never had a problem loan; in fact, banks often roll over loans
or turn them over to their collections department or insurance company which have their own ways to
compel payment.
10.   The shortage of staff with training and experience in modern credit-risk evaluation methods is
one of the greatest obstacles to upgrading the credit management process. Pressure to provide preferential
treatment to shareholders" applications for granting and rescheduling credit also impedes consistent
implementation of new procedures. Hence, upgrading and documenting credit management processes
and educating both management and loan officers are high priorities in all institutional development
programs.



Annex 5-5
Page 3 of 6
Fdnancial Management
11.   For all participating banks, financial management functions are highly underdeveloped.
Following is a discussion of common deficiencies in five main areas of financial management: (i)
Accounting; (ii) Asset/Liability Management; (iii) Planning and Budgeting; (iv) Internal Control; (v) MIS.
12.   Accountng. The accounting system imposed on Russian commercial banks by CBR reporting
requirements does not meet international standards and does not provide management or shareholders with
an accurate understanding of the bank's performance. The major deficiencies in this accounting system
are: (i) the reporting of interest income on a cash, instead of accrual basis; (ii) the absence of loan
classification and provisioning; (iii) an unclear distinction between permanent reserves and some deferred
liabilities; (iv) the lack of a permanent instruction for taking account of the effects of hyperinflation.
The CBR's introduction in October 1993 of parallel accounts prepared according to the BAFS format
recommended by the World Bank has encouraged all participating banks to begin loan classification and
provisioning and [accrual reporting of interest]. Although most of the participating banks recognize the
remaining inadequacies in the CBR accounting system, their progress in adopting internal accounting
systems which address these weaknesses is mixed.
13.   Preparing accountants to meet the banks' needs for modernization is a great challenge, particularly
at the 'spin-offw banks which tend to be overstaffed with employees burdened by twenty years of Gosbank
experience and possessing limited future ambitions. In addition to training and introduction of a modern
accounting system, all banks would benefit from improved and more intense automation of their
accounting infrastructure.
14.   Asset/Liat  Management.  Relative to credit management, treasury and asset/liability
management functions are undervalued and underdeveloped at all Russian banks. Deposit-taking
capability was not important under the old system because of the dominance of centralized resources and
the Savings Bank's monopoly on the retail market. Today, most banks still do not have a separate
treasury group (deposits are managed by the credit department) or an ALCO. Written policies on risk
management do not exist, except for the CBR instruction on liquidity parameters. Decision-making
responsibility with respect to interest rates, foreign exchange positions and liquidity is usually
concentrated in the Management Board. Russian banks explain the absence of formal processes in these
areas by the volatility of the commercial, economic and political environments in which they operate.
At a small bank, a high level of involvement by senior executives in financial management is possible.
However, all of the participating banks have already grown to the point where formal policies and
procedures must be established and responsibility decentralized. Raising the sensitivity of all staff to the
impertance of asset/liability management issues and training them in risk management methods is clearly
required. Mid-level managers working in these areas tend to have strong educational backgrounds in
economics or finance and would rapidly absorb and utilize appropriate training and assistance.
15.   Pln    and Budgeding. Ihe planning and budgeting processes of all banks are inadequate.
They incorporate insufficient quantitative analysis of opportunities, risks and costs and almost no attempts
at forecasting under alternative scenarios. Few Russian banks establish a formal operating and financial
plan extending more than one quarter into the future. Although it may receive support from a planning
or finance department, the Management Board is usually involved in the details of establishing the plan.
As with ALM management, banks cite the volatility of the environment. as the principal reason for lack



Annex 5-5
Page 4 of 6
of a more formalized planning process. The unimpressive results of 70 years of central planning are
another explanation provided by some banks.
16.   Interin Control. The inadequacy of supervision by the CBR and immaturity of the auditing
profession in Russia elevate the importance of the internal control function; and international experience
from the 1980's suggests that strong internal control is management's best source of information.
However, internal control and audit at most Russian banks is underdeveloped and understaffed. One
possible exception is the cash management function, where a separate group is often responsible for
supervising and auditing transactions. The nternal control group responsible for all other functional areas
tends to focus on branch management and credit process and portfolio review, In other areas, audits are
seldom undertaken, and written policies and procedures are absent. Clearly, all banks need to develop
and document improved internal contol processes and raise the number and skill level of staff working
in this area.
17.   MIS. At most banks, the management information systems have developed in a reactionary,
rather than strategic manner. One result is that reports often travel directly from the operating divisions
to senior management, with no intermediary preparing consolidated information, for instance on cost of
funding from various ruble and hard currency sources. It is common to find information redundancies,
inconsistencies and inaccuracies in the reports received by senior management from different operating
divisions. Another problem is that reporting formats do not meet the needs of banks operating in a
competitive environment. In order to better control and utilize information, Russian banks require
assistance in designing and implementing new reporting systems and formats.
Marketing
18.   One of the legacies of a centrally planned economy is a severe deficit of marketing knowledge,
skill and experience. Among Russian banks, success and interest in developing the marketing function
vary greatly. The zero banks tend to be most advanced in this function, achieving the best results in
introducing new products and services and in gainiW new customers. Elevating the importance of
marketing for Russian banks is the intensification of competition resulting from the recent entrance of
foreign banks onto the Russian market. If economic reform and stabilization succeed, resulting in
reduced liquidity in the financia sector, marketing as a tool for expanding the corporate and individual
client-base will become more significant. Economic restructuring and growth also will be accompanied
by gfowth in the retail market; and most banks will need to respond by acquiring more sophisticated
arketing techniques and skills to access individual depositors.
Branch Management
19.   Lack of respect for the administrative processes involved in controlling a branch network is
common to the senior management of Russian banks. The resulting absence or inadequacy of written
policies, combined with poor information and telecommunications systems and limited internal audit
capacity, allow bank branches a high level of autonomy in Russia. This situation impedes management's
ability to manage liquidity, interest rate and credit risk; to evaluate profitability and growth; and to
formulate business and financial plans. Most banks have programs underway to upgrade their branch
management systems, but all could benefit from external assistance in designing and implementing
imptovements.



Annex 5-5
Page S of 6
Human Resources Muangement
20.   The main problems the banks face in the area of human resources management are insufficient
management and banking skills, weaknesses in the organizational culture, and a lack of effective human
resource management tools skills. In addition, improving the quality of staff in the personnel department
should be a high priority at most banks. Banks usually possess a basic set of human resources
management processes - hiring, placement, remuneration and, sometimes, dismissal. However, they
require a broader range of processes, as well as improvements in existing ones, in order to more
effectively manage and develop their work forces. Banks pay among the highest salaries in Russia, and
consequently attract some of the brightest and most ambitious people. However, the market for
individuals with banking experience and/or a university degree in finance or international economics is
both limited and highly competitive. Under such labor market conditions and in a service business where
the quality of personnel has a great impact on performance, a strong human resources management
capability is now a strategic imperative for Russian banks.
Training
21.   The approach to training at most banks has been enthusiastic, but haphazard. Employees
participate in a variety of training forums: in-bank seminars; one-week to six-month courses at Russian
institutes and schools; shorter courses held abroad and sponsored by foreign business schools, banks and
international organizations; and internships at foreign banks. Subjects included in training span the full
range of bank activities, but there is most interest in foreign currency operations and credit-risk analysis.
The difficulty for Russian banks is to effectively and economically exploit the plethora of opportunities
for training now offered to them. A common problem for banks is to confuse training (particularly
outside of Russia) with reward. Banks must develop processes for analyzing and prioritizing training
needs, allocating resources, evaluating the effectiveness of various training methods and upgrading of
their training infrastructures. Undertaking such steps would enable them to design and implement of a
comprehensive training strategy and program.
Techology
22.   For most banks, technology is at an early stage of development. Few have yet formulated
automation strategies. Most rely on PC-based automation, with weak linkages between departments and
branches. An institutional problem typical of most Russian banks is the isolation of the technology
department from the user groups. One result is that the technology staff, who usually have very highly
developed computer programming skills, lack an understanding of applications needed by users. Even
when the technology group does develop applications, end-users lack of involvement during the
development process sometimes results in resistance and other problems during implementation.
23.   Although some banks already have made significant capital investments in technology, most did
so before establishing an automation strategy. Typical results have included: acquiring a system
inappropriate for the bank's needs; over-payment for a system purchased through a single-vendor
procurement process; and implementation problems due to poor follow-up and service by the vendor.
24.   Banks require assistance in developing automation strategies which are consistent with their
business strategies and financial resources. Support in structuring a procurement process providing for
solicitation and evaluation of bids from multiple vendors is also needed. The most urgent automation



Annex 5-5
Page 6 of 6
needs are in branch management, credit monitoring and foreign exchange operations. Building strong
security measures into automation systems is also a high priority In Russia.



Annex 5-6
Page 1 of 2
RUSSIA
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVOPMENT PROJECT
Mode of Delivery for Assistance
1.    Three alternative modes of providing technical assistance services are anticipated: (i) 'twinning'
with a foreign bank; (ii) retaining an international consuldng firm; and (iii) utilizing a combination of a
foreign bank and/or one or more international or national consulting firms.
Twinning
2.    The basic concept of twining is to establish a working relationship between a qualified foreign
bank and a Russian bank, for the immediate purpose of providing the defined technical assistance, and
for the longer range puipose of building a business relationship that might include a financial investment
by the foreign bank in the Russian bank.
3.    The immediate purpose of providing the defined technical assistance is met through, in effect,
a consulting arrangement wherein the foreign bank enters into a contract with the Russian bank to provide
specific agreed-on technical assistance services (and results) for a fee that would at least cover the costs
incurred by the foreign bank. Ihe technical assistance is provided by expert staff of the foreign bank,
who during both long-term and short-term periods in the Russian bank, work directly with management
and staff of the Russian bank to assess the strengths and weaknesses of targeted banking areas (e.g.,
stategy, organization, credit, financial managment, human resource management), identify priority
development needs, and develop and implement solutions that draw on the experience and expertise of
the foreign bank and are fited to the Russian banking environment.
4.     The longer term purpose of building a business relationship between the two banks is to be
achieved by the two banks voluntarily. This longer-term relationship is not a prerequisite for providing
the specified technical assistance services. It is expected to evolve out of working together, leaming
about each other's capabilities, achieving mutual trust-and finding mutually beneficial business interests.
5.    There are three special advantages of twinning for the Russian bank: (i) bankers can work with
bankers and draw on each other's real-world experiences, learning from past successes and failures; (ii)
the foreign bank has the full range of skills, policies, procedures, systems and operations of a working
bank to draw on to provide the technical assistance; and (iii) the short-term technical relationship could
evolve into a mutually beneficial long-term business relationship, which would also help continue the
Russian bank's infrastructural development.
6.    The first and last of these advantages are also advantages for the foreign bank in entering into
the twinning relationship.
7.    Twinning is the approach favored by most of the Russian banks, and by the World Bank. Most
Russian banks are interested by entering into a long-lasting relationship with a reputable foreign bank.
The World Bank prefers this approach because it has proved to be effective in the past, both for
delivering the defined technical assistance and for providing longer-term benefits to the domestic banks.



Annex 5-6
Page 2 of 2
Intnational Consulting 1irm
8.    An alternative to twinning is the utilization of a qualified international consulting firm to provide
the technical assistance services. This would be a typical consultant/client relationship where the
consultant brings in one or more teams of experts to work direcdy with the management and staff of the
Russian bank to provide the services and achieve the specified results.
9.    To be considered "qualified", a firm will need to have a broad scope and depth of expertise in
commercial banking in developing markets in order to meet the fill range of development needs of the
Russian bank.
10. The advantage of utilizing a qualified consulting firm is that they have well-developed skills in
diagnosis, prioritization, and development and implementation of practical solutions in diversified and
difficult environments.
11.   Where a twinner cannot be found for a Russian bank, consulting firms wi1l be invited to bid for
the work. Where one or more twinners can be found, the Russian bank may still choose to ask consulting
firms to bid on the work.
Combination Approaches
12.   Where individual twinning banks o. consulting firms do not have the full spectrum of es. .ertise
to conduct the required work, or do not have cost-effective resources to do so, the best approach for
providing technical assistance to any bank may be a combination approach wherein a twinning bank
utilizes one or more international or national consulting firms to conduct certain modules of work, or
where an intmational consulting firm brings in other consulting firms or a bank to supplement their
resources. In either cases, one institution, the twinning bank or the international consulting firm, will
take full responsibility for all the work, including the work of sub-contractors.
Additional Comments
13.   The selection of the twinner or consulting firm will be made ultimately by the Russian bank. An
evauation committee, comprising representatives of the Russian bank, the Ministry of Finance, the
Central Bank of Russia, and the PIU will be established to assist the Russian bank in evaluating proposals
submitted by twinners or consulting firms.



Annex 5-7
Page I of 6
RUSSIA
FINANCIAL lNSTrIuTONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference
lsitutonal Strengthenlng Program
A. Scope of Program
1.    For each Russian bank, the twinned foreign bank or consultant (hereafter, referred to as the
"Consultant") selected to deliver technical assistance will utilize the diagnostic review report and on-site
discussions with management in order to prepare an institutional development program tailored to that
bank's particular strategy, needs and resources. The Consultant will generally act in an advisory capacity
during the implementation phase of the program, although line responsibilities may be requested in some
critical areas. Training of counterpart and other staff, particularly in new banking processes that are
developed, will form an important part of the Consultant's duties. All plans assume significant
involvement of Russian bank staff in order to promote skills transfer, minimize the cost of foreign
consultants and to ensure that the program remains consistent with the environment and strategy of the
bank. The Consultant should arrange for, and will be responsible for, all the services required by the
Russian bank under this program. Sub-contracting arrangements are allowed under terms of the contract,
but services for which this option is to be employed must be specified in the Consultant's proposal and
contract documentaton.
2.    The instituional development programs have been structured in nine *modules* corresponding
to basic functional areas of banking: (i) strategy; (ii) organization structure; (iii) credit management; (iv)
financial management; (v) marketing; (vi) branch management; (vii) human resources management; (viii)
training; and (ix) technology. The selection of these modules was based on the finding of the diagnostic
reviews that a number of skill deficiencies and procedural and polcy inadequacies were common to all
banks. However, not all participatng banks will pursue or require assistance in all nine modules. The
detailed content, prioritization and timetable of each module [has beenl individually developed to take
account of each bank's particular strategy, needs and resources.
Stmrtegy
3.    In the strategy area, the Consultant will: (i) refine and expand the bank's strategic planning
process to cover all important areas of strategic analysis and decision; (ii) train the bank's planning staff
and a selected group of line managers in its use; (iii) work with the bank's management to develop a
practical strategic plan for the bank and a concrete program for its implementation; and (iv) work with
line managers to translate the strategic plan into specific plans and goals for each major area of the bank.
4.    This module will include analyses such as market analysis, competitive analysis, profitability
analysis of customers, products and units, and at the plan wiUl define the bank's mission, goals, basic
strategies, target markets, products and services, resource requirements, and action programs, covering
both corporate and retail banking.



Annex 5-7
Page 2 of 6
Organizaon Struure
5.    The Consultant will work with management to: (i) assess the existing head office organization
structure and a sample of branches in the context of the strategic plan; (ii) plan a new organization
structure for the head office focused on successfully executing the strategic plan, exploring specific
opportunities for making the structure more market-oriented; (iii) plan a new organization structure for
perhaps two representative branches to serve as models for all branches; (iv) identify the required staffing
levels and the main skill requirements in each organization section; and (v) prepare a concrete plan for
implementing new structures.
6.    In defining new organizational sections, the Consultant will provide sufficient detail about the
section so the Bank can successfully implement it-e.g., the section's basic mission, main responsibilities,
and key functions for carrying out each responsibility, as well as the required staffing levels and main
skill requirements as noted above.
Cre  Management
7.    The ConsUtant will: (i) assess the bank's existing credit policies, processes, organization and
skills-covering ruble and hard currency lending, enterprise and individual lending, and project finance,
fromoriginationthroughanalysis, approvalstructuring,pricing, administration, monitoring, classification,
provisioning and problem loan management-in the context of the credit requirements of the strategic plan
and good credit management practice: (ii) identify areas that need to be improved or developed; (iii) work
with management to make those improvements-ultimately necessary to build a fully effective credit
management system; (iv) document the new policies and procedures in a credit manual; (v) train a core
staff in utilization of the new or modified processes; (vi) identifty the additional skill development needed
by the bank to effectively execute and sustain the system; and (vii) idetntify the automation requirements
of the new credit management system.
inani Management
8.    The Consultant will: (i) assess the full scope of the bank's financW management processes,
organization and skills, and identify needed improvements; (ii) work with management to make needed
improvements in priority areas-which, at this point, are anticipated to include the accounting system,
planning and budgeting process, financial reporting, management information, asset/liability management,
treasury operations, performance assessment and internal controls; (iii) train a core financial staff in
utilization of new or modified processes; (iv) identify additional skill development needed by the bank
to effectively execute and sustain the system; and (v) identify the automation requirements of the new
financial management system.
Mai*etg
9.    In conjunction with the strategic planning module, the Consultant will work with the bank's
management to: (i) prepare a concrete marketing plan for the bank and its main businesses, recognizing
the different needs of corporate and retail banking; (ii) specify the organization and other resources
needed for executing the plan; (dii) develop key marketing techniques to be used by the bank in each
business area; and (iv) identify the skills needed by the bank to sustain a successful marketing program.



Annex 5-7
Page 3 of 6
The Consultant is expected to transfer skills of market analysis and market planning to the bank during
this work and to generate a formalized market planning and development process.
Birh Management
10.   In this area, the Consultant will: (i) review the current system of managing branches and identify
needed improvements, particularly in control and risk management; (ii) review the process of planning
the branch network and identify needed improvements; (iii) select, with management, a 'typical' branch,
redesign its work flows, organization, staffing, physical layout, equipment, quality standards for
operations and customer service, and other major operating elements so that it can serve as a model for
all other similar branches in the network; (iv) plan the development of a computer system for assembling
branch asset and liability data on a real-ime basis; and (v) prepare a plan for improving head
office/branch communications
Human Resouars Management
11.   The Consultant will work with management to build an effective human resource management
system, refining existing human resources processes such as recruiting, remuneration and incentives, and
building or improving human resources processes such as performance/potential appraisal, individual
development planning, training and development, transfer and promotion, and succession planning. The
Consultant will also train a core human resources staff in the utilization of new or modified processes and
identify any additional skill development needed for an effective ongoing human resources management
function.
12.   During the course of the project, the Consultant will also (i) assess the organizational culture; (ii)
identify major aspects of the culture that require change in order for the bank to successfully operate in
a commercial, competitive and market-oriented mode; and (iii) define the actions needed to achieve these
changes.
13.   After the new organization structure is defined, the Consultant will work with training staff to
(i) conduct a training needs analysis of key jobs in all sections; (ii) prioritize training needs, with a view
towards the required integration of training with the business plan, and organize them into a training
master plan that meets priority training needs within the required time period and reasonable departmental
budgets; (iii) reassess the training infrastructure in the context of the training master plan; and (iv) make
needed improvements in areas such as planning the training center, methodologies for training course
development, methodologies for conducting training, traning materials, on-the-job training, identification
and evaluation of external training, selecting and preparing trainers, selecting and preparing trainees,
training evaluation, and the training orgaoization.
14.   As noted in the above sections, the Consultant is expected to train core staff in all new banking
processes developed or modified during the project. In addition, the Consultant is expected to provide
training to managers and professionals in other high priority skill areas. The scope and type of this
training is to be determined between the Consultant and bank management, based fundamentally on
importance, cost. and the relative advantage of the Consultant providing such trairing compared with
other potential providers. The following methods will be utilized for delivering training: (i) 'on-the-job'



Annex 5-7
Page 4 of 6
training for the bank's counterpart staff who are working with the Consultant; (ii) training of core
functional staff in utilization of new or modified processes developed by the Consultant; modified
processes developed by the Consultant in each module of work; and (iii) additional training of managers
and professionals in high priority areas as decided between the Bank management and the Consultant.
Technology
15.   In this area, the priority for the Consultant will be to clearly define user requirements and refine
the bank's automation strategy in the context of the bank's overall strategic plan, then refine the existing
automation plan to ensure the most cost-effective implementation.
16.   The Consultant may need to achieve this goal through several stages: (i) evaluating the bank's
existing hardware architecture and systems engineering and its near-term automation plans in the context
of the new strategic plan; (ii) working with managem..nt and its consultants to refine and update the plan;
and (iii) continuing to update the plan as new banking procesees are developed-e.g., in credit
management, financial management, human resource management   branch management. In addition,
the Consultant will identify priority needs for development of co. .echnology skills and technology
management processes.
B. Reporting
17.   Given the expected communication difficulties, the PBs and PIU will need documentation of the
plans and progress of the work. At a minimum, the technical assistance contractors will prepare and
review with the PBs' management the following:
-     WWithin two months of commencing work, a detailed, updated work plan, including the
proposed level of effort (work-weeks/months) and scheduled outputs.
-     Monthly financial reports providing information on a number of key financial parameters
[format was given at Negodaions].
-     Quarterly progress reports documenting findings, conclusions, recommendations, end-
products, issues and proposed next steps.
18.   Specific reporting requirements, including contract budget and implementation progress
measurement criteria, were agreed between PB management and the contractor during contract
Negotianons.
19.   The two-month updated work plan and all subsequent monthly and quarterly reports will be
submitted to the PIU. It is the responsibility of the consultant to ensure that these are received within
two weeks subsequent to the end of the month/quarter, regardless of the status of discussions with
management.
20.   PB management also will be required to prepare semi-annual evaluations of the program and
submit these to the PIU.



Annex 5-7
Page 5 of 6
C. Budget
21.   Each institutional development program will be designed and negotiated to meet the particular
needs of the PB which it is intended to serve. No two programs will be identical. However, most PBs
will adopt programs requiring consultant inputs in the nine functional modules outlined below.
Work Modules                                  Work-Weeks
Min.         Max.
1.    Strategy                                      30           50
2.    Organization                                  15           25
3.    Human Resource Management                     20            30
4.    Marketing                                     15           25
5.    Credit                                        30           45
6.    Branch Management                             10            30
7.    Training (excluding training programs)        10           20
8.    Financial Management (excluding systems)
a     ALM process                      30           50
e     Accounting Infrastructure        40           50
O     Internal Control / audit         15           30
*     Planning and budgeting process   10           20
*     MIS design                       25           50
9.    Technology Plan                               15           25
26S    .     ... 450
D. Detailed Costs Estimates
22.   Tentative institutional programs have been completed for the 20 preselected banks (Annex 5-1).
Detailed cost estimates for these programs are in the Project's file.
E. Timetable
23.   Negoaions with twinning banks/consultants were initiated in early 1994. It is expected that
contracts for at least 20 banks will be signed by December 31, 1994. Contracts will be entered for a
duration of 2-3 years, depending on the nature of the program, and on the preference of the partners.
24.   The PB management and technical assistance contractor will agree on the most logical sequencing
of the work and implementation of the outputs, for discussion and finalization with management.
However, at a minmum, the following results will be obtained during the first year of the project:
-     Development and implementation of the strategic plan;



Annex 5-7
Page 6 of 6
Development and implementation of the organization structure;
Development and implementation of the marketing plan;
Implementation of key elements of the credit management system, particularly those
focused on risk management;
Implementation of key elements of the financial management system, particularly those
focused on generating needed information and managing risk;
Refinement and updating of the automation strategy;
The training needs analysis, the training infrastructure assessment, and training in new
processes developed in the other modules of the project;
Implementation of key human resources management systems, particularly those related
to recruiting , remuneration, incentives, appraisal and development; and
Improvements in the branch management system and branch networking planning.



Annex 5-8
Page I of 3
RUSSIA
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Design of the Technology Component
A. Concept
1.    The technology component of the project was designed to support the Institutional Development
(ID) of the participating banks. A two-phased approach was advocated and accepted by the banks, which
in all cases have already embarked on individual automation programs with varying degrees of success.
These individual programs, involving microcomputer and minicomputer technologies, have been in
operation for at least two years and entail reasonable capital investments. In this context, these banks
are more advanced than their counterparts in other developing environments, e.g., East Europe.
2.    In the first phase, technology experts designed the FIDP technology programs to provide and
enhance the "core" functionality of the banks-comprising a western banking application software
package, appropriate hardware, TA, training, software development tools-which would be implemented
expeditiously to enable the banks to improve their liquidity and credit risk management, loan portfolio
analysis and other basic back-office banking operations. In the second phase, the core capability would
thereafter be enhanced by the banks themselves in accordance with the business strategies, organizational
structures and MIS/reporting/control requirements elaborated through the ID programs.  Close
coordination will be maintained between the FIDP and a parallel program to enhance the payments systeni
in Russia.
B. Rationale
3.    The phased approach was advocated based on lessons learned through the automation of banks
in other projects. During the first few embryonic years, bank management and staff are still learning
about modern banking practices and restructuring their organizational frameworks and management teams.
This learning experience is enhanced through exposure to, and dealings with, Western banks. TMe
availability of a modern banking software package (through the first phase) would sustain the learning
process through the provision of standard management and control reports, analysis and planning tools.
Through exposure to, and use of these tools, management would be able to refine their longer term
requirements. The ID programs would provide critical inputs to enable management to finalize their
requirements in coordination with the ID experts. During that work, expected to be accomplished in a
two- or three-year timeframe, the banks would be in a position to enhance their core capabilities through
the internal/in-house development of a sophisticated management information system. This would be
supported by the availability of software development tools, and extensive training through the FIDP
information technology (IT) component.
4.    The proposed two-phased strategy has a number of advantages associated with it. These include:
e     Implementation of the inal core functionality to enable banks to automate their
operations In the near futre without having to wait for management/operational
strategies and requrements to be finalized through the ID programs. The banks'
management have indicated that they could not afford to delay the modernization of their
operations for the three- to four-year period commensurate with the definition of the find1



Annex 5-8
Page 2 of 3
requirements through the I) programs, and tendering and implementation of the new
systems(s). Moreover, many automation requirements are clear now.
O     flexibility of modular and parameterzed banking software packages today to suppoit
fiture customization and enhancerents, and reponing and control requ&rements. This
would enable the recommendations emanating from the ID programs to be incorporated
without a major overhaul of the banking software.
o     Near-erm replacement of the exishng 'accounting Isoftware, developed either in-house
orby local software companies, by more powerful and extensive banking software. The
current software is based primarily on the central bank customer accounting system, and
is not a banking-oriented system. It presents several operational constraints to the
introduction of modem banking philosophies and practices: in particular, the software
cannot produce planning and analysis reports which the Banking Training Schools are
advocating as critical operational tools.
9     A low-cost inmediate interim solution. Usually, the in-house development of banking
software is a very time-consuming and expensive operation; it usuallv is the single most
expensive investment in a banking automation exercise. In the West, banks are now
either out-sourcing their IT operations, or are investigating the possibility of replacing
their in-house developed software with packaged solutions. The FIDP participating banks
have also indicated that there is sufficient relatively inexpensive IT expertise in Russia
to enhance the interim solution as their needs crystalize through the ID programs.
C.    Long-tem Infornatics Strategy
5.    The requirements and estimation of financing needs for modern technology was accomplished
through a preliminary needs assessment study. It was of necessity an expedited evaluation. These
requirements would be further developed into an indicative system engineerirg and compilation of
specifications through short-term consultancy assignments, financed through the loan, conducted by
experienced external banking and IT specialists. These studies would result in the production of tender
documents in conformance with Bank procurement guidelines. This approach recognized that the core
capability, financed through the proposed loan, would need to be augmented or enhanced in the future
in consonance with the business plans and operational modalities refined through the ID program. The
specification of a comprehensive Management Information System is an important output of each ID
program. With this in mind, the ID programs have in most cases included a study to formulate a long-
term informatics strategy. In some cases, an IT diagnostic study has also been included where the IT
strategies have not been determined. Based on the results of these studies, and the on-going ID
recommendations, the banks would identify the incremental requirements and modifications and
implement them using in-house or locally available expertise.
D.    Interim Technology Requirements
6.    The technology financing needs of the banks were investigated individually for each bank. They
were based on current IT status, investments to-date, branch networks (both current and projected in three
years), clientee, transaction volumes, types of business services to be offered (e.g., retail, wholesale,



Annex 5-8
Page 3 of3
investments, correspondent), staffing, geographical spread of branches, lines of reporting and
accountabilities, and telecommunication infrastructures. This investigation was undertaken to engineer
and size the hardware, with a view to estimating the financing requirements. Most of these requirements
are important additions based on current operations. However, it was emphasized that the engineering
would probably need to be modified in the future to support the decision formulated through the ID
programs. The procurements and deliveries of hardware would be phased in accord with the projected
expansion and contraction of products, services, markets, branch networks and staffing levels; ID experts
would monitor the growth rates and targets and recommend continuation or termination of additional
deliveries of equipment and software modules. This would ensure that excessive investment are obviated.
7.    Four banks are already in the process of implementing western banking software packages on
newly procured modem minicomputer hardware. In such cases, the project would finance only the
incremental needs. The investment financing needs of the participating banks vary from US$200,000 to
US$8.0 million each. The average investment financing requirement per bank is US$6.7 million. Of
this amount, about US$2.3 million has been allocated to the procurement and customization, by the
supplier, of banking software packages. The balance would finance the procurement of hardware,
technical implementation assistance, consultancies to prepare tender documents, training (both local and
extemal), software development tools, telecommunications equipment, and minimal number of automatic
teller machines (ATMs), etc. The cost of accomplishing IT strategy studies was included in the respective
ID programs. Eacei individual banks' capitalization and cash flow situation was analyzed to confirm its
liquidity and debt repayment capacity.
E.    Service Expansion Plans
8.    The banks have indicated that expenditures of approximately US$1.0 million are required to open
a new branch in urban areas: this is primarily due to real estate costs. To avoid these high expenditures,
some banks propose to open small retail/banking 'window' outlets serviced by two personnel, and
supported technologically through interconnections with either the larger branches or to the head office.
Other banks plan to install ATMs/POSs (Point of Sale terminals) in strategic locations, especially in the
premises of their larger enterprise clients, and offer direct debiting of salaries. This avoids overhead
associated with opening new branches to support retail banking. These planned measures reinforce the
transition from a cash-based economy, and also mobilize savings and contribute to capital formation.
F.    Multilateral Clearings between Financial Intermediaries
9.    The project would also support more efficient bilateral or multilateral clearing between the banks,
with the settlements being enacted on the books of the Central Bank. In due course, as the payments
system is modernized, the banks plan to submit end-of-day netted positions to the Central Bank. In
preparation of this development, some of the larger regional banks propose to offer clearing" facilities
and services to smaller banks in the same region. Even though two banks are already implementing this
capability, the present lack of appropriate technological infrastructures inhibits the large scale transfers
of inter-bank transactions between banks. This is especily true of banks in outlying regions, though
high-speed modern telecommunication links (e.g., fiber optic, satellite) are either under construction, or
are available today in the urban and metropolitan areas.



Annex 5-9
Page I of 3
RUSSIA
FINANCL4  IN          ONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sample Commercial Bank Automation Program
Present Status
1.    The bank has a network of 11 branches in Moscow with another 14 located in the regions. It
plans to expand this network by another 6 branches within six months. two of the branches may be
classified as big, with accounts in excess of 10,000 and approximately 6,000-7000 transactions daily.
The bank has a total of 70,000 clients and offers a mix of commercial and retail services. The branches
submit liquidity positions overnight; either electronically, by fax or electronic mail. The staff strength
approaches 25,000, of which 69 are 1T specialists; of the later, 14 may be categorized as experienced
systems analysts.
2.    The bank has installed a ST400 Swift connection and the Reuters 2000/Blumberg connections.
About 500 daily transactions are entered through Swift; these include "correspondent" clearing" services
for other banks. It has also issued about 2,000 VISA debit cards since August 23, 1993. The number
is expected to grow substantially with time.
3.    The bank has invested in NCR minicomputers in HQ and other smaller file servers in each
branch. The accounting software was developed locally, and other smaller modules have been procured
from other companies as a stop gap measure pending the development of a more comprehensive suite of
programs. The existing software was developed using BTRIEVE Filer. The bank has alsc procured the
Informix dbms and the ADW Case software development tool. The Third Wave Consulting (IWC)
company has been contracted to advise on operations, standardization of documents, processes and
selection/development of banking software. The bank professed satisfaction with the quality of advice
and inputs. The TWC and another local software house have created a joint venture (LEEKS) which
assists the bank in its software activities; this collaboration serves to lower consulting costs as well as
promote the transfer expertise.
4.    In Moscow, the branches are connected through leased public switched lines operating at speeds
of up to 64k baud using special digital multiplexors and modems. The bank claims that the costs of
leased lines are so high that satellite-based technology (VSAT) and links are cost competitive. The bank
has installed 2 ATMs as a pilot project It has also received and installed 60 of the 300 POSs'; these are
located in the premise of major client/enterprises and retail outlets in Moscow.
Future Plam
5.    The bank would like replace its file servers at the branches with more powerful versions, while
retaining its NCR minicomputers in HQ. The preferred operating system is UNIX, and about 20 percent
of the fT staff have already been trained. The Informix dbms will be retained in the future. The bank
has adopted a unique approach in its development of a comprehensive banking application software; it
has procured the specifications of a sophisticated package and is enhancing the functionality prior to
having LIEKs and Its staff develop the programs.



Annex 5-9
Page 2 of 3
6.    It will retain decentralized databases at the regional branches with balance movements being
communicated to HQ to allow for up-to-date account maintenance. The Moscow branches would each
retain its customer accounts and also copy all balance movements on-line to HQ where a duplicated
database would be maintained. The satellite channels with X.25 packet switching would be used to link
remote branches, while TCP/IP would be the standard within the Moscow region.
7.    It plans to invest heavily in ATM and POS technology to gain a competitive edge, and also will
invest heavily in training its IT staff to ensure good systems development.
Timetable
8.    The eight major banking application modules will be implemented within 2.5 years. However,
most of the procurements of hardware and software will be accomplished in the 1994-1995 timeframe.
Financing Requirements
COSTS in US$'000
Investments         3 Yr Maint/License
o     Hardware (60 File servers)              1200
o     Special Banking Software                 150
e     DBMS/Utilities                                                     200
30 UNIX S5.4 operating system    1500
30 Informix Run Time versions    1200
Informix Upgrades                200
ADW Software Development tools    400
Statistical software              100
o     TA for Implementation assistance
150mm of local consultancy       300
25mm of external assistance      750
Project management (12mm)        350
o     Training
abroad for 80 weeks              400
locally by external expertise    200
Study Tours                       150
o     Telecommunication technology
30 local Area networks           1500
TCP Routers                      200
o     30 Power Supplies for Servers            300



Annex 5-9
Pe 3 of 3
COSTS in US$000
nv1mtnh             3 Yr Maint/License
0     Security equipment                       100
*     Magnetic card technology
11ATMs                            440
20 cash dispensers                400
300 POSs'                         300
Grand Total= US$10.15 million



Annex 510
Page I of 4
RUSSIA
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Prudential Standards
For Partidpating Banks
Proposed Standards and Schedule for Introduction
1.    The proposed standards will concern: (i) capital adequacy; (ii) exposure to a single party; (iii)
exposure to a single connected party; and (iv) aggregate exposure to connected parties. The standard
would be gradually introduced over the coming years. PBs will be committing themselves to meetings
these standards according to schedules attached to the participating agreements that they will sign with
the MoF.
DefiNion of Sdected Terns
Eposures. Exposures include all transactions, both on and off a bank's balance sheet,
that expose the bank to potential loss.
Off balance sheet exposures. Exposures, such as guarantees, that expose the bank to
potential loss, but are not reflected on the bank's bGance sheet.
Reated party. A party that has an ownership or control relationship with the party
having the exposure, or whose financial soundness is subject to the same basic features
(for example, the profitability of a jointly owned company).
Connected party. A connected party would include a manager or director of the bank,
or any entity that owns or controls more than 10 percent of the bank's stock.
Doubpld assets. Assets held by a bank where collection or liquidation without loss is
highly improbable.
Loss assets. Assets held by a bank that are considered uncollectible.
OECD countries. OECD countries include: Australia; Austria; Belgium; Canada;
Denmark; Finland; France; Germany; Greece; Iceland; Ireland; Italy; Japan;
Luxembourg; Netherlands; New Zealand; Norway; Portugal; Spain; Sweden;
Switzerland; Turkey; United Kingdom; and United States.



Annex 5-10
Page 2 of4
CpW  Adequac
2.    The schedule for D;eedng the minimum capital adequacy ratio would be as follows:
Year End            Mnmuwn Equity Capital to Risk Weighted Assets
and Off-Balknce Sheet Items
1994                            4 percent
1995                            5 percent
1996                            6 percent
1997                            7 percent
1998                            8 percent
3.    Risk weights per class of asset would be the following:
Cass of Asset                                  Risk Weights
Cash, Claims on the Government of the
Russian Federaion, and Depost at Central
Bank of Russia                                                 0 percent
Claims on Banks in OECD Countries                             10 percent
CWms on Banls in Russia and non-OECD
Countries                                                    50 percent
Al Other Assets and Off Balance Sheet
Items                                                        100 percent
4.    The above risk wegbts are designed to capture the major types of assets that should be risk
weighted, but avoid geting involved in a complex formulation.
rpeoswv to a Sngle Pat
S.    Exposure to a sige party would be decreased as follows:
Year End                    Maxm  Exposure to a Singk Party
as a Percent of a Bank's Equiy Captal
1994                                   50 percent
1995                                   35 percent
1996                                   25 percent



An     O10
Page 3 of 4
6.    This limitation would apply to the aggregate of a bank's exposure to a single party and allparies
related to that single party. Also, the single exposure limitation would apply to both extensions of credit
and off balance sheet exposures.
7.    Ihe limitation for year end 1994 would be more restrictive than the present single exposure limit
in the Central Bank's regulation because: (1) the existing limitation varies from 50 to 100 percent of bant
capital, depending on the stas of the bank involved; and (2) the present regulation does not include
parties that are related to the borrower.
8. It will be necessary to develop a precise definition for 'related parties' for later use. It should
be noted that auditors in future years almost surely will have difficulty tracing wrelatedness", given
current information available in Russia. However, *relatedness' cannot be Ignored without great risk that
the single exposure limitations (and the connected lending limitations) will be circumvented by many
borrowers who might create subsidiaries or holding companies to increase their borrowing capacity from
a given bank.
Aggregate Lwae Eosums
9.    A large exposure is defined as any credit and off balance sheet exposure to a single pary or
parties related to the single party that exceeds 10 percent of the bank's equity capital. PBs would have
to reduce their aggregate large exposure ratio as follows:
Year End                         Maumnw  Aggregate Large Exposures
as a Multipk of a Bank's Eqiy Capial
1994                                         12 times
1995                                         10 times
1996                                          8 tmes
Exosure to Singk Connded Pay
10.   Limits for PBs would be as follows:
Year End                      Maxlmwn Exposure to a Single
Connected Party as a Percent
of a Bank"s Equity Capital
1994                                    30 percent
1995                                    25 percent
1996                                    20 percent
1997                                    15 percent
1998                                    10 percent



Awwx S.tO
Page 4 of4
11.   An additional requirement would be that all of a bank's lending and off balance sheet exposure
to connected parties would have to be on commercial terms.
12.   The above quantitative limitation would apply to the aggregate of a bank's exposure to a sine
connectW party and all parties that are related to that single party. Moreover, the limitation would apply
to both extensions of credit and off balance sheet exposures.
Aggregate Exposure to Connedted Ponies
13.   Given widespread connected lending that now pervades the Russian banking system, this
limitation may be very binding on many banks. However, it should not be unduly binding on those bas
that were created to serve the banking needs of the public, as opposed to the interests of their owners.
Limits would be the following:
Year end                              Maaumum Aggregate Exposure to
Connected Parnes as a Percent
of a Bank's Equfy Capital
1994                                          100 percent
1995                                          80 percent
1996                                          60 percent
1997                                          40 percent
1998                                          20 percent



Annex 511
Page I of I
RUSSIA
FINANCIAL INSTnTUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Leal Aspecs of Flnandal Institutions Development
Banking law reforms are an essential complement to a financial sector assistance strategy for
Russia. A number of areas have been identified as areas that would benefit from specialized external
legal exprtise. Ihis cxpertise might be provided as a technical assistance component in the proposed
Financial Instiutions Development Project. Among the areas to be included are:
(i)    Review of proposed banking law amendments (draft amendments to the Law on
Banks and Banking Activities, currency pending enactment by the Federal
Assembly, following advanced preparation and debate by the Supreme Soviet in
August 1993);
(ii)   Role of designated agent-banks of the Government in implementation of
internationally financed investment sub-projects involving commercial end
borrowers;
(il)   Review of the allocation of functions among federal authorities (Central Bank,
Ministry of Finance) in the institutional development of commercial banks, such
as supervising the implementation of the FIDL institutional development
programs, particularly as regards their selection and certification as participating
financial intermediaries for financial intermediary loans;
(iv)   Commercial banks' right to form 'associations, unions, and groups of various
kinds (and whether such activities should be under Central Bank or Anti-
monopoly Committee regulation);
(v)    Reformation of the payments system (organizing committee created);
(vi)   Activities of foreign banks in Russia; and
(vii)  PrudentW regulations and other regulations aimed at insuring sound banking
practices in Russia. An amount of US$500,000 has been included in the loan to
support legal technical assistance (principally to the CBR) in the above areas.



Annex 5-12
Page I of 7
RUSSIA
FINANCIAL INSTITTONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tenrns of Reference
Bank Supervision and Examination
A. Background
1.    A key element in the development of the Russian banking system is the establishment of an
effective system for the prudential supervision of banks. Such supervision is necessary to assure that
Russian banks conform to banking laws and regulations and do not engage in unsound banking practices
that could undermine the stability and operations of the banking and payments systems.
2.    Present Russian banking laws indicate a clear commitment by the Russian govermment to build
a system of prudential supervision. However, in order to carry out this commitment, the Central Bank
of Russia-the government agency responsible for bank supervision-will have to develop an effective
supervisory capacity, including the ability to conduct effective on-site bank examinations and off-site
surveillance and to take effective supervisory enforcement actions. At present, the central bank is only
in the early stages of developing this multi-dimen.0-nal supervisory capacity.
3.    This technical assistance program is designed to foster the development of this supervisory
capacity. The program is in four parts. The first part would involve the training of approximately 650
Central Bank supervisory staff in the techniques of on-site bank examination. It is anticipated that a high
percentage of these examiners would be from the various regional branches of the Central Bank, while
the remainder would be from the Moscow headquarters. The bank examination training program would
consist of: (i) approximately one month of classroom instruction conducted by a team of foreign
consultants experienced in bank examination; and (ii) participation by tiainees in an on-site bank
examination that would last approximately one month and would be under the supervision of one of the
foreign consultants. The bank examination training program would be conducted over a three year period
with approximately one third of the 650 examiners being trained each year. In order to maximize the
effectiveness of the training program, the foreign consultants should have some flexibility to vary the
amount of time devoted to classroom instuction versus on-site examination, based on their cumulative
experience over the three year period.
4.    At the end of the three year assistance program, the examiner training program will pass to the
control of the Central Bank. In order to prepare for this transition, the foreign consultants would begin
to integrate into the training program a small number of particularly well qualified Central Bank staff who
would be recponsible for conducting the program in future years. This integration process should begin
during the second year of the assistance program, and would increase in scope during the third year. The
central bank staff could participate in both classroom instruction and the supervision of on-site
examinations.
5.    It is possible that the integration of selected central bank staff into the training program might
release sufficient foreign consultant resources to allow these consultants to establish several short, more
advanced courses in bank supervision and examination for graduates of the initial training program.
However, the creation of any such additional training programs should not result in any material
reduction in the quality of the initial training program that is the primary focus of this technical assistance
program. Moreover, the creation of any more advanced training programs should be undertaken in close
consultation with the Bank, to ensure full consistence with the overall program.



Annex 5-12
Page 2 of 7
6.    The second part of the technical assistance program would involve the preparation by a foreign
consultant of the basic documents that underpin the on-site bank examination process. These documents
would include: (i) a bank examination manual that would spell out the procedures to be followed by
Central Bank staff in conducting on-site examinations; and (ii) a bank examination report form that would
be used by examiners in future examinations conducted by the Central Bank.
7.    The third part of the assistance program would involve the provision of policy advice by the
foreign consultants on specific bank supervision and examination issues that would arise during the three
year program. This advice, for example, could cover such subjects as increasing the effectiveness of the
Central Bank's off-site surveillance system, and improving the central bank's supervisory enforcement
capabilities.
8.    The fourth part relates to the development of an off-site surveillance system, including an early
warning system enabling the Central Bank to detect rapidly emerging problems of individual banks.
B. Objectives
9.    The technical assistance program in bank supervision and examination has the following major
objectives:
*     To create a technically competent bank examination staff at the Central Bank of Russia
that is able to evaluate the financial condition and operations of Russian banks;
O     To create a bank examination manual aid report form that would assure that bank
examinations performed by the central bank are comprehensive in scope and carried out
in a consistent manner throughout the country;
*     To train central bank instructors so that they will have the capability to administer and
teach the examiner training program in the future;
o     To provide policy advice to the central bank in order to strengthen that agency's bank
supervision and examination policies and procedures.
C. Assistance StrateW
10.   As indicated earlier, the Central Bank is in the early stages of building its capacity to supervise
banks. To date, the central bank has allocated most of its very limited resources to processing various
licensing applications submitted by Russian banks, developing new prudential regulations, and checking
on bank compliance with already existing regulations. Beginning in the autumn of 1992, the Central Bank
began receiving technical assistance in bank supervision from a senior bank supervisor from the Banque
de France. This assistance was part of a broad technical assistance program in ceatral banking carried
out under the aegis of the Intnational Monetary Fund. The major focus of the technical assistance in
bank supervision has been the improvement of a number of prudential regulations that are mandated by
Russian banking law.
11.   The technical assistance program envisaged in this loan would supplement and expand on-going
assistance provided by the Banque de France. The major focus of the assistance program would be to
develop the central bank's capacity to conduct effective on-site bank examinations--a capacity that is now
largely lacking and must be built if the central bank is to carry out its statutory responsibilities to



Annex 5-12
Page 3 of 7
supervise banks. The training of approximately 650 bank examiners over the three year training cycle
would give the central bank a steadily increasing capability to conduct effective examinations throughout
Russia. This initial training program could be supplemented Lder on by other, more advanced training
programs, such as the World Bank/Federal Reserve's senior bank supervisors training program that is
conducted several times each year for supervisors from the developing countries.
D. Counterpart and hnplementation Arrangements
12.   The coordinating agency for this bank supervision and examination program is the Ministry of
Finance. The project implementation unit is the Central Bank of Russia. The Central Bank of Russia is
also the counterpart agency.
13.   One of the team of foreign consultants will be selected as the leader and will report directly to
the Deputy Governors of the central bank who are responsible for the bank supervision and examination
functions. This consultant also will coordinate the design and implementation of the various assistance
programs with the departments of bank inspections, bank supervision and central bank training, and with
any foreign advisor who is working on bank supervision under the aegis of the International Monetary
Fund.
14.   To support the effective impleinentation of the bank supervision and examination technical
assistance program, the Central Bank of Russia will:
*     Select those bank examiners who will participate in the training program;
e     Provide all selected trainees with prior instruction in bank accounting and bank
operations;
X     Provide for the travel, housing and subsistence of all trainees;
3     Provide a suitable training site in the Moscow area for the conduct of classroom
instruction;
O     Select the banks that will be subject to the on-site bank examinations;
O     Provide the foreign consultants with adequate office space and secretarial support to carry
out their responsibilities effectively; and
O     Select and assign particularly well-qualified graduates of the training program who would
become part of the instructional staff during the latter part of the assistance program.
E. Activities and Outputs
1.    Training On-Site Examiners
15.   The on-site bank examination training program will continue over a three year period. Since the
program is designed to train 650 central bank examiners, about twenty new trainees will enter the
program each month. Each of these trainees will receive two months of training. During the first month,
each trainee will receive extensive classroom instruction in the methodology and techniques of on-site
bank examinations. After this clasbroom instruction, each trainee will participate in an on-site examination



Annex 5-12
Page 4 of 7
that will be supervised by one of the foreign consultants. It is anticipated that these examinations will take
about one month and that five to ten trainees would make up each trainee team, depending on the size
of the bank to be examined. It is anticipated that most or all of the banks to be examined will be located
in the Moscow region where classroom instruction will be conducted. To the extent possible, trainees
would rotate jobs during the examination in order to maximize their exposure to various aspects of the
examination process. Near the end of each examination, the foreign consultant and the trainees would
prepare an examination report summarizing their findings and making recommendations for any needed
remedial action on the part of the bank.
16.   Since there are 650 central bank examiners to be trained and each classroom session will have
about twenty participants, there should be approximately 33 separate classroom sessions during the three
year period. Likewise, since each on-site examination will be made up of five to ten trainees, there
should be approximately 87 examinations conducted during the three year period. In most cases, a typical
class of about twenty trainees would be split up into three groups for purposes of conducting on-site bank
examinations. In some cases, however, where relatively large banks are to be examined, the trainees
would be broken down into two examination groups.
17.   After prior discussions with senior staff of the central bank, the foreign consultants should: (i)
develop a core curriculum for the classroom instruction; (ii) prepare Russian language training materials
and classroom lectures on the methodology and techniques of on-site bank examination; and (iii) prepare
testing materials that could be used to evaluate the performance of individual trainees. The instruction
materials could include case studies, where appropriate.
18.   Among other topics, the instruction materials should cover:
(a)    The objectives of bank regulation and supervision;
(b)   The role of on-site examinations in the supervisory process;
(c)    The techniques of credit analysis and the evaluation of a bank's loan portfolio;
(d)   The evaluation of a bank's capital, reserves, liquidity and earnings, and the
bank's exposure to interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk;
(e)    The evaluation of bank management policies and internal control procedures;
(f)    The preparation of a bank examination report, including the identification of any
necessary remedial actions to be taken by the bank;
(g)   The process of following up on required remedial actions; and
(h)   The use of enforcement actions to counter serious bank problems.
19.   Following the classroom instruction program, the foreign consultants will lead teams of examiner
trainees on a one month on-site examination of a bank. For each examination, the consultant will
determine the appropriate size of the examination team, will assign all team members specific examination
tasks, and will then closely supervise the performance of these tasks. Prior to the examination, the Central
Bank will make available to the consultant and his team relevant information on the bank to be examined.



Annex 5-12
Page 5 of 7
20.   The examination should cover the basic elements of an on-site examination, but should be tailored
to the unique characteristics of each bank. The examination should place particular emphasis on: an
evaluation of the bank's loan portfolio; the adequacy of the bank's capital and reserves; the bank's
adherence to banking laws and regulations; and the bank's managerial policies and internal control
procedures. At the conclusion of the examination, the consultant and the trainee team should jointly
prepare an examination report. This report should contain the major conclusions of the examination and
any remedial actions that the bank should take to correct unsatisfactory conditions or practices identified
during the examination.
2.    Preparation of Examination Documents
21.   The foreign consultants will prepare a written examination manual that specifies in detail the
policies and procedures that bank examiners should follow in conducting an on-site examination. This
manual should cover the basic subjects included in examination manuals employed in the developed
countries, but should be modified, where necessary, to take account of the unique operations of Russian
banks at this stage in the development of the Russian banking system. The manual should include a set
of procedures that examiners should follow to assure that required remedial actions by banks are taken
in a prompt and satisfactory manner.
22.   The consultants also will prepare an examination report form that would be completed by
examiners at the conclusion of each bank examination. This report should serve as a vehicle for
communicating to bank management the examiners' major findings and those actions that bank
management should take to correct any deficiencies uncovered during the examination. In developing
the basic bank examination documents, the consultants should work in close coordination with senior
central bank staff who are responsible for the bank examination process.
3.    Provision of Policy Advice
23.   The provision of policy advice on bank supervision and examination could take place at any time
during the three year technical assistance program. It is anticipated that the total amount of consultant
time devoted to this activity would approximate three months over the three year period. The nature and
scope of the policy advice provided should be worked out between the foreign consultants and senior
officials of the Central Bank, as well as any foreign advisor working under the aegis of the International
Monetary Fund.
24.   This three part technical assistance program is being carried out exclusively to enhance the bank
supervision and examination capabilities of the Central Bank of Russia. Accordingly, the consultants
should limit their discussions regarding the contents of this program, and the distribution of materials
relating to this program, to the Central Bank of Russia and the World Bank, unless receiving prier
authorization from both agencies.
4.     Development of Off-Site Surveillance System
25.   In cooperation with senior central bank staff, the consultants will develop and implement an off-
site surveillance system. This system would be based on periodic financial reports that Russian banks
are required to file with the central bank. The consultants undertaking this task should consist of: (1) a
financial analyst experienced in the design and use of off-site surveillance systems; and (2) a systems
analyst who would design the required automated system znd oversee the work of Russian computer
programmers. The financial analyst also would develop a manual on the of the system by designated



Annex 5-12
Page 6 of 7
central bank staff. This manual would explain the purpose of the system and how the system can be used
for maximum effectiveness. Also, instruction on the use of off-site surveillance systems should be given
to those central bank staff who will be responsible for conducting off-site surveillance.
26.   The consultant designing the off-site surveillance system should determine the specific ratios and
other financial data that would be most useful in detecting emerging problems at individual banks. The
consultant should then determine the extent that existing financial reports provide these data and whether
it would be feasible to expand existing reporting requirements to include additional data. The system
should be designed to allow users to analyze and evaluate both the present level and trends in the financial
condition and performance of individual banks.
27.   The system should provide for the compilation of raw data into a database. The system for data
entry should include processes for checking the accuracy of the data from periodic bank financial reports
and any other sources used. Moreover, the system should have the -  'ability to provide the user with
the ability to query the database using keyed short names, to downloau lie data into spreadsheet models,
and to produce reports through automated means. Selected ratios should be calculated automatically and
maintained as part of the database. Finally, the system should have the capability to produce periodic
standardized reports that permit the user to analyze trends in the financial condition and performance of
individual banks.
F. Reporting
28.   The consultants will submit quarterly reports on the implementation of the bank supervision and
examiiation technical assistance program. Two copies of all reports in the Russian language should be
submitted to the Central Bank of Russia and the Ministry of Finance, and two copies of all reports in the
English language should be submitted to the World Bank. These reports should take the form of briefs
and be written in informal style. All reports should enumerate the inputs, activities and outputs of the
last period; the contributions to the project's objectives; the problems that were encountered and the
remedies sought; the consultants' plans for the coming period; suggested changes to the plans for
subsequent periods; and other issues relevant to the assistance program. The reports should annex all
distributed training materials and completed examination documents, as well as any written documents
involving policy advice.
G. Consultant Qualifications
29.   Those consultants participating in the technical assistance program must have extensive experience
in bank supervision, bank examination and/or auditing. Moreover, it would be highly desirable if the
consultants had some prior experience in training or teaching, and were fluent in the Russian language.
30.   All consultants participating in the examiner training program should agree to remain in the
training program for at least six months, and preferably considerably longer. This requirement is
necessary to assure that the training program will have reasonable continuity. Moreover, to assure the
continued high quality of the program over its three year duration, no consultants originally designated
to participate in the program should be replaced without the prior agreement of the World Bank.
H. Inputs
31.   The consultant's contract will cover:



Annex 5-12
Page 7 of 7
o     Fees, including overhead;
o     Travel, accommodation, and living expenses;
o     Project-related communications, report distribution, and office supplies;
*     Translation, interpretation, and English-language secretarial support; and
o     Office equipment (computers, printers, facsimile machines, copiers, etc.) and vehicles
for direct project use by the consultants.
The Central Bank of Russia will make available to the consultants:
O     Assistance in arranging housing or hotel accommodations, visas, and travel;
9     Russian language secretarial support;
*     Data and legal texts requested by the consultants that are necessary to carry out their
assignments;
o     A furnished office with telephone facilities; and
o     A classroom facility.
1. Budget and Funding
32.   It is currently anticipated that the total cost of the technical assistance provided by the foreign
consultants will amount to approximately US$3,500,000. In addition, the Central Bank of Russia will
incur certain local costs estimated at about US$500,000 equivalent. The USAID has proposed to fund
the training program for the bank examiners, and the development of examination manuals. The
Canadian Government has also offered to finance some of the proposed activities (probably the
development of off-site capabilities). Further details on Bank supervision activities are in the Project's
files.



Annex 5413
Page I of 16
RUSSIA
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Accounting and Auditing
1. BACKGROUND AND StY
A. Background
1.    The transition to a market economy, initiated by the Russian Government in 1987 began with the
rapid development of the financial sector from its rudimentary beginnings. This deep and substantial
process of change requires significant reforms in a number of areas, including accounting and auditing
standards and practices.
2.    To say that the system for accounting and auditing originally designed for Soviet state-owned
enterprises may not be suitable for enterprises operating under market conditions is a massive
understatement. Accounting and auditing system is a basic conceptual infrastructure for a profit-oriented
enterprise system, further progress on Russia's economic transition absolutely requires that Russian
accounting and auditing practices be modernized and brought into compliance with international
accounting and auditing standards. Without such a proper accounting system, managers, as well as
investors and the public, will be in no position to evaluate business performance. The diffusion of
knowledge about international standard accounting and. auditing systems for market economies and
encouragement for their concomitant incorporation into the routine operations of Russian businesses are,
therefore, especially urgent tasks in the World Bank assistance to the transition process.
3.    This accounting and auditing reform process already is underway in Russia. For example, in
December 1991 the Russian Government adopted a new accounting chart .or commercial enterprises,
including detailed regulations on bookkeeping and the development of accounting standards. With Bank
and EU's support, the CBR has been very active at introducing new accounting principles for banks. In
August 1993, instructions explaining the modalities for preparing the broadly-adapted financial statements
(BAFS) have been disseminated. A new chart of accounts and a detailed instruction manual have been
drafted. In the legislation the draft accounting law has passed its frst reading in the Russian Parliament,
and the December 1993 Presidential Ordinance on Audit has the status of the audit law for the Russian
Federation until it is revised by the newly-elected State Duma in September 1994.
4.    The pace of accounting and auditing reform has remained both a practical and a political issue,
despite the apparent progress already made. It will take some time before the revised standards and
increased requirements of accountants and auditors will have been fully absorbed and even longer until
the professions will have grown sufficiently in quality and quantity to deliver a consistent product fully
in line with the requirements. A modern system of accounting and auditing, fully in compliance with
international standards, will require a development program stretching over many years.
B. Objectives
el    Working closely with the Ministry of Finance and with the CBR, the World Bank has been
preparing a number of projects to support the Government's long-term strategy for developing the
financial sector. An important component of the Government's overall strategy is the Financial Institutions



Annex 5-13
Page 2 of 16
Development Loan (FIDL) which includes the technical assistance program in accounting and auditing.
This FIDL technical assistance program is needed to enable enterprises and banks to operate in a market-
oriented economy. The technical assistance program in accounting and auditing has the following major
objectives:
Developing and implementing a sound accounting system and adequate rules on
information disclosure for enterprises and banks aimed at the effective transition to a
market economy and the successful integration into the world economic community;
Designing and implementing training programs for training accountants in international
accounting practices and standards;
Establishing and developing an accounting and auditing profession using internationally
recognized criteria for accreditation.
C. Project Summary
6.    The accounting and auditing component of the technical assistance program would provide support
to the Ministry of Finance (MoF) and to the CBR for continuing the on-going reform of accounting in
Russia, with a view to bringing accounting and auditing in Russia more in line with international practice.
The component would include the provision of technical assistance and training to: (i) the Ministry of
Finance (MoP) to support the reform of enterprise accounting; (ii) to the CBR to support the reform of
bank accounting; and (iii) to support the establishment of the working group on auditing issues within
the MoF and the development of the auditing profession. In addition, study tours and secondments will
be included in the proposed project. Support will also be provided to the existing International Advisory
Boards, which will continue to ensure the coordination and supervision of the accounting and auditing
reform.
7.    Bank Accounting. In paralel to the assistance provided to the MoF for the reform of enterprise
accounting, consulting services estimated at 120 staff-months of foreign consultants and 360 staff-months
of local consultants would also be provided to the CBR to assist in pursuing the reforms already initiated.
This assistance will include: (i) the implementation of the Broadly Adapted Financial Statements (BAFS);
(ii) the finalization, adoption and implementation of the new Chart of Accounts for banks, and of the new
reporting formats; and (iii) seminars and training for bank accountants. Reporting would include the
monthly reports to be submitted to the CBR for supervisory and statistical purposes. The introduction
of these new reporting requirements will have to be carried out so as to minimize the disruption and
burden on the commercial banks, which at the same time will be in the process of modernizing their
accounting.
8.    The BAFS for banks are adopted by the CBR and will subsequently be implemented with the
objective that all banks are able to prepare their accounts according to the new presentation witiin 12
months. The new OCart ofAccounts drafted under the World Bank's TCP, will need to be finalized, and
thereupon adopted by the CBR and introduced to the commercial banks. An implementation manual will
also be prepared, describing in detail the modWities for transferring from the old to the new system. The
finalization of the chart and the preparation of the implementation manual will require extensive
disussions with the commercial banks. It will be carried out by a group of foreign experts [24 staff-
months] and Russian experts [48 staff-months) reporting to the CBR, with the objective that the new chart
should be finalized by December 1994.



Annex 5-13
Page 3 of 16
9.    The introduction of the BAFS, and subsequendy of the new chart and formats, will be supported
through the organization of seminars directed at the chief accountants and key accounting staff of
commercial banks, and will be organized in the regional branches of the CBR. The seminars will be
repeated every 2-3 months. They will be backed up by the establishment oa' hot line' services in about
20 CBR branches, to handle banks' queries on the new system. The execution of this program will be
vested with the CBR, and will receive support from three foreign training experts [90 staff-monthsl based
in Moscow, but expected to travel extensively to the regional CBRs' branches to provide support and
advice as needed, including the organization of the seminars and of training the trainers" programs, and
of the setting-up of the hot line services. The experts will need to be fluent in Russian, and will need
to have a broad knowledge of international accounting practice, acquired through extensive exposure to
both Anglo-Saxon and continental European approaches.
10.   Support and advice to the program for modernizing bank accounting will continue to be provided
by the International Advisory Board for Bank Accounting (IABBA), created under the TCP. Within the
CBR, the program will be carried out by a task force regrouping all the concerned departments, including
the bank supervision department, the bank inspection department, and the accounting department, and the
research department, assisted by the consultants supported under the project.
11.   Enterprise Accounting. Support to the MoF would include the financing of the services of
international consultants and local consultants to help the MoF to: (i) establish the Accounting Standard
Setting Body (ASSB), which will be responsible for setting accounting standards at the level of the
Russian Federation. This will include support to the hiring and training of staff through internships of
2-3 months in similar bodies abroad, as well as intensive training; (ii) further develop the chart of
accounts for enterprises, reporting formats, and implementation manuals; (iii) carry out publicity
campaigns; and (iv) provide advisory services, including the setting-up of regional "hotline" services
(under the supervision of the ASSB) and the preparation of standard software (for small and medium-size
businesses) and of additional measures to help disseminate the new standards andi chart. In parallel, the
forthcoming World Bank "Management and Finance Training Project" will support an important training
program for accountants.
12.   Auditing. The project %ould support the development of auditing through: (i) support to the
establishment of the Chamber of Auditors and to the development of local auditing firms. Ihis will
include assistance in the development of the code of ethics, auditing manuals and procedures (designed
to address sector specific requirements, e.g. on portfolio assessment for the audit of banks), and audit
tools (standard flowcharts, workpapers, audit programs, etc.); and (ii) the financing of on-the -job-training
of Russian auditors who will be supervised and coached in the Russian auditing firms by foreign experts.
13.   Study touws and other measures. The project would also support study tours and secondments
for selected staff of the MoF and of the CBR to familiarize them with accounting practices and
organization in other countries, including the role of tutelary authorities. Secondments would be for six-
month periods and would be organized in relevant foreign administrations and central banks; they would
be staggered over time so as to minimize disruptions in the conduct of work at the CBR and at the MoF.



Annex 5-13
Page 4 of 16
D. Project Costs
14.   The total costs of the accounting and auditing component of FIDP are estimated at US$8 million.
A breakdown of these costs in US$ is provided below:
Category                         Mn  o                Tt          Local     Forep
Inut',.stpw          costs      Cost        costs'.
Consultants
Foreign                           338   15,000   5,070,000     724,000  4,346,000
Local                             540    2,000   1,080,000     861,000    219,000
Travel
International                                      978,000     263,000    715,000
Local Travel & Transportation                      117,750      85,000     32,750
Training Fac,lities & Furnishings                    53,250      37,000     16,250
Study Tours, etc.                                   675,000      14,000    661,000
(excluding travel expenses)
Miscellaneous Business Expenses                      26,000      16,000     10,000
TOTAL                                              8,000,000   2,000,000   6,000,000
15.   The accounting and auditing program consists of three subcomponents. In order to have more
specialized assistance, three different sets of terms of reference have been prepared:
-     Bank Accounting
-     Accounting for Enteprises
-     Auditing
16.   The consultants of each of the subcomponent will have to work with the other two
subcomponents.
H. BANK ACCOUNTING
A. Assistance Strategy
17.   The Central Bank of Russia has already issued in August 1993 an instruction requiring that all
the commercial banks in Russia prepare quarterly financial statements in accordance with international
accounting principles. This reform was prepared under a World Bank Technical Cooperation Agreement
co-financed by the European Commission. This work has been reviewed by an International Advisory
Board for the reform of bank accounting (IABBA). The technical assistance envisaged in this loan will
provide follow-up to the previous assistance and will support implementation of the reform by all



Annex 5-13
Page S of 16
commercial banks. Training programs will be developed and 'hotline' services with specifically tramed
staff will be organized In all regions.
B. Counterpart and Implementation Arrangements
18.   The counterpart and implementation agency for the bank accounting subcomponent is the Central
Bank of Russia. Close coordination will be maintained with the MoF to ensure consistency with the
enterprise accounting reform.
19.   The foreign expert leading the team will report directly to the Deputy Governor of the Central
Bank of Russia who is responsible for commercial bank accounting. This expert also will be responsible
for coordinating with all other projects linked to accounting reform, including those in bank supervision
and examination, accounting for enterprises and auditing.
20.   To support the effective implementation of this technical assistance program, the Central Bank
of Russia will:
o     Organize the selection of the "hotline" services staff (hotline trainees) in the
different branches of the CBR and assign them to hotlines (after successful
completion of training);
*     provide for the travel, housing and subsistence of all hotline trainees;
o     provide the hotline trainees with adequate office space, telephones and secretarial
support to carry out their responsibilites effectively in all branches where
hotlines are established.
Activities and Outputs
21.   (a)    EstabUishn and Monitoring he Hodines. Three foreign experts will assist the Central
Bank of Russia in establishing and monitoring the hotlines to be established in about 10-
1S regional branches of the Central Bank. The main criteria for the selection of the
hotdine location are geographic concentration and size of enterprises. Each hotline will
be staffed by at least two people, trained according to the program mentioned in (b)
below and whose task will be to hadle queries from commercial banks. The three
foreign experts will be based in Moscow but are expected to travel extensively to the
regional branches to provide support and advice as needed by the hotline staff.
(b)    Updaing dwe BAFS  and  gldagnd Impkmexting the Chart ofAcconafsforI& 1.
A working group created within the Central Bank of Russia when the World Bank began
working -in accounting issues under the TCP will contne to pan-^ipate in the reform.
However, this working group should be strengthened and its participants allocate more
of their time to the Proje4. The working group wiUl be responsible for discussing and
testing all reforms; participatg in the training of hotline staff; and monitoring and
providing on-going advisory services to hotline staff and trainers, as needed. The foreign
consultants will lead the working group, prepare the work program and advise on all
tehical maters.



Annex 5-13
Page 6 of 16
(c)    Training of Hlodine Stff.  Training of hodine staff will continue over a three-year
period, in stages corresponding to the progress of the reform. The first stage will consist
of in-depth classroom instruction on the financial statements prepared in accordance with
international accounting principles (the so-called BAPS). This training will employ the
latest versior. of the BAFS documents. This technical training wil be complemented by
"telephone services training" and training for trainers to enable the hotline trainees to
instruct commercial bank accountants. Prior to full implementation of the new Chart of
Accounts, the hotline staff wilI be receiving training in these accounts following the same
approach as that employed for the BAFS.
The consultants should:
i)      Develop the curriculum for the classroom instruction;
ii)     prepare Russian language training materials and classroom exercises on
the preparation of the BAFS; and
iii)     prepare Russian language testing materials to evaluate the performance
of individual trainees.
(d)    Trining of Bank Accountants. A course on bank accounting will be offered to all
commercial bank accountants at both stages of the reform (the BAFS and the new Chart
of Accounts). All participants will be required to pay tuition to cover the cost of the
courses. Thus, the only costs incurred by the project will be those associated with the
development of the course material and in the training of trainers ksee above). In some
of the larger regions, such as Moscow, addidonal staff for the hotlines may be required,
as well as classroom trainers, in order to assure timely implementation. At the end of
each course, the bank accountants will take an examination and receive a certificate if the
results are satisfactory.
(e)   Internatonal Advisory Boardfor the refonn of Bank Accounting (IABBA). Support
and advice to the program will continue to be provided by the IABBA. The consultants
for the bank accounting technical assistance will be responsible for organizing the
meetings of the IABBA (generally twice a year).
D. Reporting
22.   The consultants will submit quarterly reports on the implementation of the bank accounting
technical assistance. Two copies of all reports, prepared in English, should be submitted to the World
Bank, and two copies of all reports, prepared in Russian, should be submitted to the Central Bank of
Russia. The CBR will then prepare a brief summary of the report for the use of the Ministry of Finance.
These reports should take the form of briefs and be written informally. All reports should enumerate the
inputs, activities and output of the most recent period; the contributions to the project's objectives; the
problems encountered and the remedies sought; the consultants' plans for the coming period; suggested
modifications to the plans for subsequent periods; and other issues relevant to the assistance program.
Ihe reports should include as annexes all documents developed and/or implemented during the p-riod.



Annex 5-13
Page 7 of 16
E. Consultants Qualifications
23.   At least two of the consultants participating in the technical assistance program must have
extensive experience in bank accounting. The team also should include a specialist in developing training
material for adults and a specialist in the training of trainers. The team leader should have strong
experience in coordination and human resources management. Finally, it would be highly desirable if the
team leader, and other staff, were fluent in the Russian language.
24.   The team leader in the technical assistance program should agree to remain with the program for
at least one year, and preferably for the duration of the project. The team leader must give at least four
months notice prior to his/her departure. This requirenzant is necessary to assure that the program will
have reasonable continuity. Moreover, to assure the high quality of the program over its three year
duration, no consultants originally designated to participate in the program should be replaced without
the prior written agreement of the World Bank.
F. Inputs
25.   The consulting firm's contract will cover:
-     Fees, including overhead;
-     travel accommodation and living expenses;
-     travel expenses, hotel and subsistence for the members of the IABBA;
-     project-related communications, report distribution and office supplies;
-     translation, interpretation and English-language secretarial support;
-     office equipment (computers, printers, facsimile machines, copiers, etc.); and
vehicles for direct project use by the consultants.
The Central Bank of Russia will make available to the consultants:
-     Assistance in arranging housing or hotel accommodations, visas and travel;
-     Russian language secretarial support;
-     data and legal texts requested by the consultants that are necessary to carry out
their assignments; and
-     a furnished office with telephone facilities.
G. Budget and Funding
26.   It is currently anticipated that the total technical assistance provided by the foreign consultants
will amount to approximately US$2,011,500. In addition, the Central Bank of Russia will incur certain
local costs which are estimated at US$800,000. Detailed cost estimates are given in the Attachments 1-3
to this annex.
MI. ACCOUNTING FOR ENTERPRISES
A. Assistance Strategy
27.   Since the beginning of 1993, the technical assistance program has been provided by different
donors, especially the EEC. ITis work has been discussed and reviewed by the International Advisory
Board for the retrm of Accouing for enterprises (AB). The World Bank has actively participated in



Annex 5-13
Page 8 of 16
the reviews and discussions. Recently (December 2, 1993) a cooperation agreement has been signed
between the French Treasury and the Ministry of Finance. The technical assistance envisaged under this
loan will provide follow-up to the assistance given by the EEC in 1993, coordinate the scope of the
assistance with the other donors and support the implementation of the reform.
B. Counterpart and Implementation Arrangements
28.   The counterpart agency for this accounting for enterprises program is the Ministry of Finance.
To support the effective implementation of the technical assistance, the Ministry of Finance will:
e     Organi7e the selection of the "hotline" services staff (hotlines trainees) and the setting-up
of regional "hotline" services (under the supervision of the ASSB);
*     Provide for the travel, housing and subsistence of all hotlines trainees;
*     Provide suitable training site for the conduct of the training of the hotlines trainees;
*     Provide the hotlines trainees with adequate offices space, telephones and secretarial
support to carry out their responsibilities effectively in all the regional centers selected
for having hotline-
C. Activities and Outputs
29.   (a)   E&tablishment of the Accounting Standard Settng Body (ASSB). Establish within the
MoF the Accounting Standard Setting Body (ASSB), which will be responsible for setting
accounting standards at the level of the Russian 'Federation. This will include support to
the hiring and training of staff through internships of 2-3 months in similar bodies
abroad.
As part of the cooperation agreement between the French Treasury and the Ministry of
Finance, the French siJe will provide assistance to the Russian Government with the
creation of the College for the coordination of the development of the accounting reform
in Russia. ITis assistance will comprise a number of missions of foreign experts to
Russia and one mission of Russian accounting experts to France.
(b)    KFnazation and Implementaton of the Chart of Accounts for Enteprises. The new
Chart of Accounts for enterprises will need to be finalized and implemented. Some
changes have been introduced at the end of 1991. Further amendments have been
prepared under the EEC technical assistance but still more amendments and reporting
formats are needed. 'he reporting formats and implementation manuals will have to be
further developed. The priority should be given to the timely implementation of the new
reporting formats through the development of the implementation manuals, the
preparation of standard software (for small and medium-size businesses), explanation and
publicity campaigns.
(c)    Seing-Wq of Regional Hotlines. The foreign consultants will assist and advise in the
setting-up of regional "hodine" services (under the supervision of the ASSB) to handle
enterprises' queries on the new accounting standards and policies.



Annex 5-13
Page 9 of 16
(d)    Thding of Hotines Staff. The training experts will help the newly established
Accounting Standard Setting Body (ASSB) to develop the training program for the
hotlines staff. The program development should be performed on the basis of creative
analysis and synthesis of both Russian and foreign experience. The hotlines staff will be
offered a technical training in the preparation of the reporting formats and the new Chart
of Accounts for enterprises. The technical training will be complemented with *telephone
services training." The consultants should prepare criteria for initial selection of
candidates for the inclusion into the hotines staff training program, create training
materials and classroom exercises on the preparation of the reporting formats and the
Chart of Accounts, develop testing materials to evaluate the performance of individual
trainees. In parallel, the forthcoming World Bank "Management and Finance Training
Project" will support an important training program for accountants.
(e)    Caroy t Pubciy Capatgns. The consultants will provide assistance and advisory
services in carrying out publicity campaigns and with the development of additional
measures to help promptly disseminate the new standards and chart throughout different
regions of Russia.
D. Reporting
30.   The consultants would submit quarterly reports on the implementation of the technical assistance
program on accounting for enterprises. Two copies of all reports in Russian should be submitted to the
Ministry of Finance, and two copies of all reports in English should be submitted to the Moscow Office
of the World Bank. These reports should take the form of briefs and be written in informal style. AU
reports should enumerate the inputs, activities and outputs of the last period; the contributions to the
project's objectives; the problem that were encountered and the remedies sought; the consultants' plans
for the coming period; suggested changes to the plans for subsequent periods; and other issues relevant
to the assistance program. The reports should annex all documents developed and/or implement during
the period.
E. Consutants Qualfications
31.   The consultants participating in the technical assistance program must have extensive experience
in dealing with accounting issues for enterprises, have some field experience in working in countries in
transition, specifically in East Europe. At least one consultant will have to have previous experience in
setting accounting standards and working wiih accoundng bodies.
32.   Ihe World Bank experience in the past showed that the knowledge of the language is extremely
important to establish good working relations with our counterparts. In this context it would be highly
desirable if consultants possess some knowledge of Russian language. The establishment of excellent
personal relationship is a crucial aspect of the program preparation and completion process. Consultants
will have to demorstrate excellent intersonal skills. It is necessary to gain the trust of our Russian
counterparts at an early stage of the development of the program.
33.   The team should (could) include training speciist with a proven ability to design taining
programs, to develop training materials for an in-depth training in financial issues, including inteional
accounting piciples and stndards.



Annex 5"13
Page 10 of 16
34.   The team leader in the technical assistance program should agree to remain in the program for
at least one year, and preferably longer and to give at least 4 months notice before his/her departure. The
requirement .s necessary to assure that the program will have reasonable continuity. Staff continuity on
both sides must be noted as it contributes to smooth implementation.
F. Inputs
35.   The consulting firm's contract will cover:
-     Fees, including overhead;
-     Tr vel accommodation and living expenses;
-     Project-related communications, report distribution and office supplies;
-     Translation, interpretation and English-language, secretarial support;
-     Office equipment (computers, printers, facsimile machines, copiers, etc.) and
vehicles for direct project use by the consultants.
The Ministry of Finance of Russia will make available to the consultants:
-     Assistance in arranging housing and accommodations, visas and travel;
-     Russian languages secretarial support;
-     Data and legal texts requested by the consultants that are necessary to carry out
their assignments;
-     A furnished office with telephone facilities.
G. Budget and Funding
36.   It is currently anticipated that the total technical assistance provided by the foreign consultants
will amount to approximate US$2,016,000. In addition, the Ministry of Finance of Russia will incur
certain local costs which are estimated at US$500,000.
37.   Cost estimates for the Accounting for Enterprises component are detailed in the Attachments 1-3
to this annex. The cost estimates show that the total cost of the component over 3 year-period is US$2.8
million. Of the total, local costs will encounter for 29 percent and foreign costs will total to 71
percent.
IV. AUDTING
A. Assistance Strategy
38.   The present focus of the technical assistance program in the development of auditing in Russia
is still very much at a basic level: promoting the concept of independent audits, establishing a legal basis
for auditing, retraining practicing auditors, the development of professional associations.



Annex 5-13
Page 11 of 16
B. Counterpart and Implementation Arrangements
39.   The counterpart agency for the auditing program is the Ministry of Finance of Russia. To support
the effective implementation of the technical assistance the Ministry of Finance will organize the selection
of the audit trainees for the on-the-job training program.
C. Activities and Outputs
40.   (a)    Suppore to the AuOdi Committee. The WB assistance will include support to the recently
established professional body of auditors (under the responsibility of Mr. Aleksaschenko)
in reguiating entry into the profession, setting education and examination standards,
setting and disseminating auditing standards, and establishing and enforcing standards of
professional conduct. The WB assistance will include support in the development of the
code of ethics, the criteria for certification of new professionals entering the industry, the
auditing manuals and procedures (designed to address sector specific requirements, e.g.
on portfolio assessment for the audit of banks), and the audit tools (standard flowcharts,
workpapers, zudit programs, etc.).
(b)    7raining. The WB will provide assistance in retraining and upgrading the competencies
of practicing Russian auditors through the financing of on-the-job training in Russian
audit firms by foreign experts.
(c)   International Advisory Board for the Auditng Refonn. Support and advice to the
program will continue to be provided by the TAB. IAB will also continue to be
extensively involved in advising on the draft auditing legislation with the aim of assisting
in the bringing Russian auditing industry in line with international auditing standards and
practices and the development of a local profession. The consultants for the auditing TA
will be responsible for organizing the meetings of the TAB (generally twice per year).
D. Reporting
41.   The consultants would submit quarterly reports on the implementation of the technical assistance
program on auditing. Two copies of all reports in Russian should be submitted to the Ministry of
Finance, and two copies of all reports in English should be submitted to the Mloscow Office of the World
Bank. Ti mse reports should take the form of briefs and be written in informal style. All reports should
enumerate the inputs, activities and outputs of the last period; the contributions to the project's objectives;
the problem that were encountered and the remedies sought; the consultants' plans for the coming period;
suggested changes to the plans for subsequent periods; and other issues relevant to the assistance p-ogram.
Reports should annex all documents developed and/or implemented during the period.
E. Consultants Qualifications
42.   The consultants participating in the auditing subcomponent of the technical assistance program
must have a thorough knowledge of international accounting and auditing standards and practices,
minimum of two years of field auditing experience, some experience in working in developing countries,
specifically in East Europe. At least one consultant will have to have previous experience in setting
auditing standards and working with auditing bodies.



Annex 5-13
Page 12 of 16
43.   The World Bank experience in the past showed that the knowledge of the language is extremely
important to establish good working relations with our counterparts in the countries in transition. In this
context it would be highly desirable if consultants possess some knowledge of Russian language. The
establishment of excellent personal relationship is a crucial aspect of the program preparation and
completion process. Consultants will have to demcnstrate excellent interpersonal skills.
44.   The team leader in the technical assistance program should agree to remain in the program for
at least one year, and preferably longer and to give at least 4 months notice before his/her departure. The
requirement is necessary to assure that the program will have reasonable continuity. Staff continuity on
both sides must be noted as it contributes to smooth implementation.
F. Inputs
45.   The consulting firm's contract will cover:
-     Fees, including overhead;
-     Travel accommodation and living expenses;
-     Project-related communications, report distribution and office supplies;
-     Translation, interpretation and English-language, secretarial support;
-     Office equipment (computers, printers, facsimile machines, copiers, etc.) and
vehicles for direct project use by the consultants.
The Ministry of Finance of Russia will make available to the consultants:
-     Assistance in arranging housing and accommodations, visas and travel;
-     Russian languages secretarial support;
-     Data and legal texts requested by the consultants that are necessary to carry out
their assignments;
-     A furnished office with telephone facilities.
G. Budget and Funding
46.   It is currently anticipated that the total technical assistance provided by the foreign consultants
will amount to approximately US$1.47 million. In addition, the Ministry of Finance of Russia wiil incur
certain local costs which are estimated at US$700,000. Detailed cost estimates for auditing component
are given at the Attachments 1-3 to this annex. The total cost of the Auditing component is estimated
at US$1.7 million.



Annex 5-13
Page 13 of 16
ACCOUNTING AND AUDIrTIG
Attachment 1
DErAILED COSI ESrIMATES
1. BANK ACCOUNTING
CStegory                                     ;or                                                   CO)*
Consultants
Foreign                            15,000      120           1,800,000         80,000       1,720,000
Local                              2,000       360            720,000         572,000         148,000
Travel2
Internatinal                                                   189,000         72,000         117,000
Local                                                          60,000          50,000          10,000
Training Facilities & Fumishings                                  25,000         20,000           5,000
Misc. Business Expenses                                            6,000          6,000               0
TOTAL                                                          2,800,000        800,000        2,000,000
2. ENTERPRISE ACCOUNTING
category                             a        a.tT1 as                      Lea  as        Ftj*CV
Consultants
Foreign                         15,000         120          1,800,000         97,000        1,703,000
Local                            2,000         180            360,000        289,000          71,000
Travel
iternational                                                  225,000         62,000         163,000
Local                                                          45,750         25,000          20,750
Training Facilities &                                             19,250         8 ,000          11,250
Furnishings
Intemships3                                                       45,000         14,000          31,000
(excluding travel expenses)
Misc. Business Expenses                                           5,000           5,000              0
TOTAL                                                          2,500,000        500,000       2,000,000
I Detailed travel cost estimates for each subcomonent e given in Attcment 2.
2Study toui, int_ships, etc. oost esimate are detiled in Attachment 3.



Annex 5-13
Page 14 of 16
Attachmunt 1
(continued)
DETAILED COST ESTIMATES
3. AUDITING
Categoy                    Uni Cost per   Man Month             Total Costs    LacI Costs    Foren CosA
mont,h         inat                (18)           (S             (08)
(u$)        (over 3 yrs)
Consutants
Foreign                     15,000        98                  1,470,000        547,000          923,00C
Travel
international                                                   204,000         129,000          75,000
Local                                                            12,000          10,000           2,000
Training Facilities &                                               9,000           9,000                0
Funishings
Misc. Business Expenses                                             5,000           5,000                0
TOTAL                                                            1,700,000        700,000        1,000,000
4. STUDY TOURS, SECONDMENTS, ETC.
Categoy                   Total~~~U   Costs  Loc4l Costs,   FoeIPcgnCss
(18$           (8)             (08$)'
Intemational Travel                   360,000              0          360,000
Study Tours, Secondments,             630,000              0          630,000
etc. (excluding travel
expenses)
Misc. Business Expenses                10,000              0           10,000
TOTAL                               1000,000               0         10,000



Anaex 5-13
Page 15 of 16
Atfadunent 2
DErAILED TRAVIEL COSr ESTIATES
PROJECT CO, 'PONfY CotT o
1. Bank Accountng
International                    6         3      3,500        63,000      189,000
(foreign consultants)
Local Travel & Transportation
Foreign Consultants         5         3       500          7,500       22,500
Local Consultants           5        10       250         12,500       37,S00
2. faMLLM Accounng
Intenational
Foreign Consultants          6         3     3,500        63,000       189,000
Russian Interns              2         3     2,000         12,000       36,000
Local Travel & Transportation
Foreign Consultants         6         3       500          9,000       27,000
Local Consultants           5         5       250          6,250       18,750
3. Audidn
International
Foreign Consultants          4         5     3,400        68,000       204,000
Local Travel & Transportation    4         5       200          4,000       12,000
(foreign consultans)
4. fZ Tomurs. S s.nn
'1'.
Interational                   2        30     2,000       120,000       360,000



Annex 5-13
Page 16 of 16
Attaumnent 3
DEIAHE  COST ESIMATES OF STUDY TOURS, INTERNSIPS, ETC.
(excluding travel expenses)
.,,--.     ' :   .:,No. of    Cost ofa  Yeady Coss  Total Costs
Project      neqt                 opons utuy tour                        (S)         for 3 Ys
.~~ya                        pe         . < ..;  .-...... per. .persn  . .S()
Enterprise Accounting
Internships of 2-3 months of MoF      3           2            2,500       15,000       45,000
staff in similar bodies abroad
StY& Tours. Secondments. etc.
Study Tours, !eewndments of 6
months for selected staff of MoF     30           2            3,500      210,000      630,000
and CBR in other countries



Amu S14
Page I of 3
RUSSIA
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Cost and Elnancing Plan
Detailed Project Cos
(US$ million etuivaeat)
PROJECT COMPON E.p _s   TO NT:
Commercial Banking                                                           a               36
A. ind iutioual Srat hcning                                                                   1.O               1MM
t. IntiaI Audite                                                          ..                10.00             10.00
2. T.A Preparation                                                        2.00                ..               2.00
3. T.A. Iplaemta.ion                                                                       101.00             108.00
B. Sydem Modernization and Automation                                       6.5                 L1 12
1. T.A. Spcdactiou                                                                          18.00             18.00
2. Training and Study Tours                                                                 12.00              12.00
3. Automation Equine                                                      6.50             211.90             218.40
Bank Supervision and Regulaon                                              LA                 la                ia
1. Training of Oa-&e Super,iors                                           0.40               3.30              3.70
2. Preparation of Major Documnts                                          0.05               0.10              0.15
3. Offte Supervon                                                         005                0.10              0.15
4. Legal TA                                                                                  0.50              Q0.5
Accounting and Audldng                                                      LQi
1. Bank Amounting                                                         0.80                2.00              2.80
2. Eterpriee AccountIg                                                   0.50                2.00              2.50
3. FAtabUshmait of Cha_ber of Audiom                                      0.70                1.00              1.70
4. Study Tourm, Seondma*s, Etc.                                                               1.00              1.00
Project Implementation                                                                         In0               8a
1. Projed Impiaeiantion Unt                                               0.50               4.50               5.00
2. Cozrdcts, Traini                                                                           1.50              1.50
3. Bak Review Unh                                                                             2.00              2.00
Tota Project Cost                                                                               ..-



i                      t    Wj[uI0 I il  KIz[ I'
g;       ~*   I                     iFo  :I' E-                ~~~~~~~"--
I>.                  *                            8             w6         ! 
0a1o1                                                                 i g 
3  - -----...  .    ---"i" 
8.           |      .        g,ff                                             
b   1              '      8            18        8      r8 18   F t                 g !
[   o o   1       8   8 0    18    gW          1i 12&   | j~~ ~       ~ ~~it0i
3~~~~~~~~~~N     
8     |               ':     8   o Fo   18       8        18 11 i~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
ie                                                                          I   t' t    t1 
j             o> > S 1                      8    I'     8: o 8~  IS j11 



Annex 5-14
Page 3 of3
RUSSI
FINANCIL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMET PROJECT
Detailed Finandng Plan
(US$ million equivalent)
(conijued)
2~~~~ .                                                                                                  .  ;1. * _ _Tl
A<owg I4Ul 3                                                                                    m          V=                        i . ..  gs
it                                           I M
t. A  g       O       ,    SO . .  .                         ..                                                                * .. lO ..  140       1...                  2.0
2. admpdw                                                                                                                                      1.00    2.50~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I 
1. Dank                     0.50        .          .                              1.00                  1.00*      0.50        ..        1.00       ..          1.00       2.80
3.FAbdu%mf of               0.70       ..         ..                    ..        1.00       ..          ..        0.70        ..        1.00       ..          ..         1.70
chabe or                                                              I
2i 2
4. Ie   T<...                                                                                                       ..          .. ~..  4.04..0                            1 O1
remelsaon  ! f                                                                                              In                                         4"           4 sL
1. Pr  d                    0.50        ..        ..         ..00..               ..         3.00       1.50       0.50       ..         ..        3.00         1.50       5.00
1i1i_ Wm Ui                                                    t 
2. Ceatracts                 ..        ..         ..         ..         ..         ..        1.00       0.50        ..         ..        ..         1.00        0.50       1.50
3. BtkRevwl                  .          .t                               .                              2.0D                                                    2.00       2.00
I                                          I                                           2  .
Ta1fojsct Cea                                GJt __    __                                                                        __  2;Zut



Am= 6-1
Page I of 13
RUSSIA
FINANCIAL ISTrrTIUONS DVP    PROJECT
Pir  lmpl_  Agraemes
1. Badcgound
1.    Implkmentadon arrangements for the proposed project will be administred by a Project
Impemenanon Unit (PIU) described in detail in Section II. Given their close interrelationship, the
proposed project and the forthcoming Enterprise Restructuring Project (ERP) will share the same PIU.
The chart below shows the various sections under the general ranagement of the PIU. The procurement,
disbursement, accounting and organization of auditing are core activities of the PIU relevant both to the
FIDP and the ERP. The Banking and the Technology Sections will concentrate on the administration and
support of the two commercial banking components of the FIDP, while the Credit Operations Section will
administer and promote on-lending under the ERP. The staff of the Credit Operations Section will be
financed under the ERP. The chart below illustrates the various bodies involved in the implementation
of the project, as well as their organizational and functional relationships.
PROJECT IHMLEIENTATION & SUPUVSION
OREGANIZUlON CIART
TAME FORCE
I  j~~~~~~~~~~~I
Cz2 Oprton |     Baln        Temoo        frat           Atcei|
I               .                                               .                     I~~~I 
2.    The oversight Task Force will be responsible for overseeing project implemntation and
monitoring performance and condition of the participating banks (PBs) and will be supported by the PIU
in this work. Policy decisions concerning PBs and their initial and/or continued participation in the



Annex 6-1
Page 2 of 13
project, will be taken by the Task Force in consultation with the World Bank and EBRD. A separate
body of senior bank inspectors (Bank Reviw Unit) will visit PBs regularly and will report to the Task
Force on various aspects of PB financial condition and performance, implementation of technical
assistance and automation programs and will assist the Task Force in case by case policy decisions as
requested. The continuous oversight by the Task Foxce and the BRU will also provide crucial input into
World Bank/EBRD supervision missions which will occur three times per year on average, as detailed
in Annex 6-6.
H1.    The PIU
A. General Terms of Reference
3.    The PPJ will have several distinct functions. First, to ensure timely and cost- effective
implementation of the project, the PIU will set up a sequence of agreements and funds transfers to the
Participating Banks (PBs) and provide services, guidance and advice to them regarding their development
programs. Although each PB will be responsible for the procurement of project inputs, i.e., developing
terms of references, competition lists, bidding processes, negotiation, signing and executing contracts,
the PIU will set up a system of documentation processing and have resources available to guide, assist
and advise the PBs in these areas. The PIU may also help the PBs with consolidated equipment and
technical assistance purchases.
4.    The PIU's second major focus will be to oversee installation of project accounting and reporting
systems, arranging for periodic audits of prcject activities and receiving and reviewing reports from the
PBs. Project accounting activities will inclade the installation of a system to track the incidence of PB
expenditures under Subsidiary Loans from the MOF and post them to the respective PB's loan principal.
PIU staff will also assist the MOF with initial administration of these loans, including periodic
specification of adjustable interest rates and tracking PB repayments of principal and interest to the MOP.
The PIU will also work with the PBs to establish general procedures for future on-lending, including sub-
loan criteria under the ERP. Such criteria will need to meet World Bank/EBRD requirements for project
quality, including, for example, satisfaction of pay-back and environmental soundness. Finally, the PIU
will be required to provide administrative, data and information support to the Task Force, the Bank
Review Unit, and periodic VWorld Bank/EBRD supervision missions.
5.    PIU specific duties and responsibilities can be grouped in three broad categories:
Servicing PB Activities
assistance, as requested by PBs, in the preparation of institutional strengthening and
information systems modernization packages under the FIDP;
o     assistance, as requested by PBs, in coordinating activities under these packages to ensure
t;mely and efficient implementation;
e     providing advice and guidance, as requested, to PBs and potential PBs on project
implementation, focusing on procurement activities, project accounting, reportng
requirements and preparations for periodic supervision visits (i.e. 'hot line' services);



Annex 6-1
Page 3 of 13
promoting expanded project participation by providing information to potential project
beneficiaries and potential goods and services providers regarding entry requirements and
steps for participating in the activities;
o     maintaining an information data base on procurement services, audit and accounting
services, technology services, suppliers of automation equipment, World Bank/EBRD
guidelines, standard and model bidding documents, and other resources needed by the
PBs;
assisting PBs in locating technical advisory services to help with automation
specifications, procurement services and other techn-cal needs associated with project
implementation;
c     organizing training seminars for PB staff on procurement planning and  basic
procurement procedures;
X     assisting PB staff, as requested, in obtaining information and training in World
Bank/EBRD project documentation and clearance procedures;
o     arranging for consolidated procurement on behalf of PBs in the cases of standardized and
semi-standardized automation equipment;
a     as requested, provide technical advisory services and recommend appropriate World
Bank/EBRD contacts if necessary,
Projecd AdmiOAtrtion Acdivies
0     administering loan agreements with the PBs for technical assistance, automation programs
and credit lines;
a     disbursing to and collecting funds from PBs, maintaining project accounting according
to World Bank/EBRD requirements and arranging for regular audits of project accounts;
a     arranging for transmittal of documents between the PBs and the World Bank/EBRD as
appropriate to ensure that proper and timely clearances are received;
*     arranging for simultaneous approval by World Bank and EBRD in the case of jointly
financed contracts (twinning) and, in the case of parallel financing, distribute contracts
between the World Bank and the EBRD to ensure a 2:1 contribution ratio for PB
expenditures;
e     forwarding PB reports to the BRU, and assisting this Section with its visits to PBs, as
well as to new banks seeking accreditation under the project;
o      nmanaging World Bank/EBRD cost-sharing for financing of other PB technical assistance
activities;



Annex 6-1
Page 4 of 13
o     ensuring installation of an overall accounting system and organizing periodic auditing of
project accounts by an audit contractor.
Prmej Repoeig Ac*ties
o     monitoring and reporting on overall project implementation, e.g., progress in technical
assistance/automation for PBs, procurement of goods and services purchased through the
Loans, program disbursements, audit activities;
o     assisting the Task Force and the World Bank/EBRD supervision missions in the
accreditation of the PBs by collecting and processing PBs progress reports;
o     supporting the Bank Review Unit in terms of data, administration, on-site bank
inspections, along with providing assistance to World Bank/European Bank supervision
missions.
*     monitoring and reporting .n disbursements under the Loan, including the administration
of the Special Account, and repayments of made to the PBs;
a     monitoring, accounting and reporting on the disbursement and uses of grant funds;
i     collecting monthly/quarterly bank reports and other infornation from the PBs and
preparing analyses and consolidated reports thereon;
*     monitoring project disbursements and impact indicators;
e     highlighting implementation problems as they arise and offering recommendations for
resolution; and
a     preparing the overall Project Completion Report
B.     Legal and Organizational Structure
1.    Legal Status
6.    The PIU, responsible for the overall ad tion of the FIDP and ERP, will be established
under the authority of a Task Force which operate within the framework of an agreement between the
Ministry of Finance (MoP) and the Central Bank of Russia (CBR). As the legal agent for the MoF, the
PU will act as the Task Forces secretariat and will be responsible for project administration. As such,
the PIU will carry out implemention activities on behalf of the MoF but all contracts for suppliers of
goods and senrices will be signed by the Minister of Finance, or his appointee. Similarly, subsidiary loan
agreements with PBs will be signed by the Minister of Finance, or his appointee.
7.    The PIU will consist of a management team and five functional sections, Banking, Technology,
Credit, Procurement and Accounting. It is envisioned that the functional sections will be staff by a firm



Annex 6-1
Page 5 of 13
on contract to the Ministry of Finance and supervised by the Head of the PIU. The proposed operations
concept is described in more detail in section II.D.
2.    Management.
8.    The PIU will be headed by a professional, full-time Head of the PIU with overall responsibility
for project administration. The Head of the PIU will be a civil servant of the MoF and appointed by,
and reporting directly to, the Chairman of the Task Force. The Head of the PIU will regularly liaise
with the Bank Review Unit and World Bank/EBRD supervision missions. The Head of the PIU, in
consultation with the World Bank/EBRD, will engage a consulting firm and authorize it to recruit,
manage and supervise the PIU's foreign and local staffs and execute PIU operational responsibilities. The
Head of the PIU will be assisted by a Deputy Head, who will be the consultant's expatriate Chief of
Party.  The PiU will also reserve resources to fund a legal services contract, as depicted in the
organizational chart, and contracts for procurement and project accounting and audit services.
9.    The Head of the PIU's primary focus will be to direct the overall program and supervise the
consultant group which will be responsible for operating the PIU's five functional sections: Banwing will
organize processing of PB progress reports and support the BRU through data and logistical support, and
alert the BRU when there are operational problems. The Technology Secton will help PBs with the
design and implementation of automation programs. Cedit Operations will assist PBs with their ERP
credit lines and approve withdrawal applications for below "free limit" sub-projects. The Procurement
Section will organize centralized procurement, and advise and assist PBs with their individual
procurement actions. It will also organize transmittal of documents to the IBRD/EBRD for review and
clearance and will maintain a database on all procurement activities. Accoundng will be responsible for
setting up the program accoundng system and helping PBs with project accounting and reporting.
Detailed terms of reference for each functional section are presented below.
3.    Functional Sections
10.   Banking. Tie Banking Section will have the responsibility for monitoring and reporting on the
institutional strengthening programs being provided to PBs by twinning banks under the project. To carry
out this responsibility the section will specify, install and maintain information reporting system to
monitor the performance of PBs under the program. The Banking Section will also be available to the
PBs as a resource for advice, guidance and assistance in the implementation of their technical assistance
programs. In addition, the Banking Section will support the BRU in terms of data, administration,
logistics and local travel.
11.   Specifically, the Banking Section will be required to, Inter alia:
o     disseminate instruction booklets for use by banks and sub-borrowers in implementation
of project activities;
e     assist PBs in preparing terms of reference for institutional strengthening programs and
for financial/portfolio audits;
*     assist in the selection and recruitment of audit firms;



Annex 6-1
Page 6 of 13
o     maintain regular contact with twinners and PBs to facilitate project implementation;
e     obtain quarterly statistcal reports on the financial status of PBs and progress reports on
the execution of TA, and monitor milestones in the implementation plan for the
institutional strengthening and systems modernization programs;
o     establish and maintain a data base which covers i) raw data covering PBs financial
indicators and ii) all procurement activides covered rnder the project;
*     work with contracted accounting firm to develop an 'early warning system" for use by
the Bank Review Unit in monitoring PB performance;
o     review and evaluate amendments to procurement and consulting contracts and provide
recommendations to the World BankAEBRD; and
*     prepare quarterly reports for World BankIEBRD, Task Force and the BRU on
implemen&.tn progress.
12.   The activities of the Banking Section will be carried out by foreign and local professionals and
a program assistant. Database and reporting systems will be installed and maintained by the retained
accounting contact (see below).
13.   Technol9gy. The Technology Section will have the responsibility for monitoring and reporting
on the automation component under the project. To carry out this responsibility the section will specify,
install and maintain information repordng system to monitor the implementation of the automation
component. In addition to data and other information support, the Technical Coordination Section will
support the technological staff in the BRU in terms of data, administion, logistics and local travel.
14.   Specifically, the Technology Section will be required to, hIter alia:
o     assist PBs in preparing terms of reference for automation programs;
o     assist in the selection and recruitment of automation consultants;
o     provide direct and contracted technical advice to PBs on automation equipment and
specifications;
o     establish and maintain a information resource base on contractors, suppliers and technical
advisors;
*     coordinate with the Procurement Section in pre-reviewing bid evaluations and draft
contracts for various consultants, and automation contracts;
o     coordinate with the Procurement Section in collective procurement activities on behalf
of PBs;
o     mainain regular contact with contractors and PBs to facilitate project implementation;



Annex 6-1
Page 7 of 13
*     obtain quarterly statistical repoits and progress reports on the installation of equipment,
and monitor milestones for the automation program;
e     establish and maintain a data base which covers all procurement activities covered under
the project;
a     review and evaluate amendments to procurement and consulting contracts and provide
recommendations to the World Bank/EBRD; and
o     prepare quarterly reports for World BankiEBRD, Task Force and the Bank Review Unit
on implementation progress.
15.   The activities of the Technology Section will be carried out by foreign and local professions and
a program assistants. Database and reporting systems will be installed and maintained by the retained
accounting contact (see below).
16..  Procurement. While the final beneficiaries will be responsible for the procurement of all goods
and services under the Loan , the PIU will assist in by providing procurement services to the PBs, such
as information on guidelines and procedures, assistance with document preparation and the provision of
technical support on a case by case basis. In this regard the Procurement Section will work in close
cooperation with the Technology Section. The Procurement Section should also assist the Technology
section in surveying PBs for standard and semi-standard automation equipment and arranging for
collective procurement for such items on behalf of PBs. The Procurement Section will establish a
information base on potential suppliers of goods and services which can be utilized by 'he project
beneficiaries.
17.   In addition to its role as servicing the project beneficiaries, the Procurement Section of the PIU
should support the Technology Section in developing an information and reporting system for
procurement activities and assist the Technology Section in transmitting procurement packages to the
appropriate institution for World Bank/EBRD "No Objection" letters. The procurement section will also
provide information and data as needed to the Bank Review Unit for purposes of procurement
supervision.
18.   Specifically, the Procuremeat Section will be required to, inter alia:
o     Setup project procurement system and basic operations manual, including essential steps
for different procurement modes: Local/International Shopping, LI/CB, DC, ICB
actions;
0     help project partcipants develop procurement strategies, packages and solicit for major
program purchases;
a     provide or help arrange advice or technical support, as needed, for participant banks and
major sub-borrower market searches, solicitations, procurement/contracting and/or
inspection and other logistics management actions;
o     support PBs procurement activities by establishing "hot line" for general questions and
case by case problems;



Annex 6-1
Page 8 of 13
X     carry out collective procurement activities on behalf of the PBs based on identification
by the Technology Section of standard and semi-standard equipment;
o     develop and implement training for project beneficiaries in basic procurement practices;
o     outline a procurement plan and develop documentation packages for PIU solicitations and
purchases of goods and services, (e.g., special technical services, office/operations
equipment, accounting/audit support, staffing contracts, office facilities, transport);
0     carry out Local Shopping/LCB/DCJ1CB actions for PIU purchases;
o     prepare and transmit procurement packages to World Bank/EBRD for all required "No
Objection" Letters on behalf of PBs; and
*     support BRU  in monitoring PBs goods and services procurement actions and
deliveries/receipts on a spot check basis.
19.   The Procurement Section activities will be organized and run by foreign and local professionals
with experience in World Bank procurement procedures, knowledge of banking and information
technology and familiarity with potential contractors and suppliers. In addition to the procurement
manager, the section will have two specialists capable of providing direct assistance to individual project
beneficiaries. The Procurement Section will also have a budget for technical services in the area of
automation equipment in order to assist project beneficiaries in their procurement planning. Database
and information systems will be installed and maintained by an accounting services contract.
20.   Accow/ng/Disburement. The Accounting Section of the PIU will be responsible for the
maitenance of, and reporting on project accounts, the disbursement of funds under the loan and the
Project Preparation Facility (PPF), the preparation of withdrawal applications and the collection of
documents. The Accounting Section will provide periodic reporting on disbursement performance of
the project and will arrange for regular audits of project accounts. A contract for accounting services,
supervised by the Accounting Section, will set up project accounting, information, reporting and control
systems.
21.   Specifically, the Accounting Section of the PIU will be required to inter alia:
o     Establish Special Account(s) according to World Bank/EBRD criteria and procedures;
o     contract with Accounting Firm to set up project accounts, accounting system,
documentation controls, and data bases covering financial, technical and procurement
information;
o     work with Accounting Firm in maintaining databases, implementing project accounts,
disbursement, collection and internal accounting system, records management system and
an MIS system;
o     make disbursements and payments to PBs and suppliers/contractors and arrange for
periodic replenishment of Special Account(s);



Annex 6-1
Page 9 of 13
*     collect and submit documentation for contracts above US$50,000;
a     submit Statements of Expenditures for contracts under US$50,000;
o     collect repayments of credit line, technical assistance and automation loans;
o     arrange for audit of PIU and all project accounts by acceptable audit firm; and
*     report, as required, on project disbursement and collection performance.
22.   The Acc )unting Section will be organized and run by a foreign and local professionals with
extensive experience in accounting for project management.  In addition to managing the project
accounts, disbur.ements and collections, the section will contract with an accounting firm to establish the
project accounting system, provide control and monitoring mechanisms and train PIU staff in the use of
Lfe accounting system. The section will also arrange for the project accounts to be audited on a regular
basis. The section will be assisted by a disbursement specialist and an accounting assistant.
C.    Cost Estimates
23.   Cost estimates for the PIU are in the project files.
D.    PIU Operations Concept
23.      During the first three years, the Government requires technical assistance for setting up and
running the PI1. While the PIU will have a qualified Head of the PIU, who is a civil servant of the
Ministry of Finance, it is expected that consultant assistance solicited herein will be the principal resource
for implementing PIU functions. The consultant assistance group would be lead by a project manager
who would also initially function as the PIU's Deputy Head of the PIU. The consultant team would be
comprised of several expatriate professionals, with international program experience, and a group of local
Russian counterparts who will be hired by the consultant, in collaboration with the Head of the PIU.
The selection and hiring of these local Russian staff will be subject to the approval of the Head of the
PIU. The consultant will recruit, hire, pay, manage and supervise these local professional counterparts,
assistants and support staff as part of its contract. Some equipment will also be needed to support PIU
office operations.
24.   The consultant's counterpart staff will be trained by its expatriates to perform section functions
and otherwise prepare themselves to take over lead responsibility for PIU section actions. Therefore, the
bulk of the duties and responsibilities undertaken by expatriate staff during the first two years will shift
to the local staff during the second and third years. Expatriates' roles will correspondingly evolve into
those of operational support and being advisors. Their service levels will phase down as their individual
counterparts become capable of executing daily operations. Certain units (procurement, accounting?) may
be capable of changeovers during year two. Other functions, such as banking reviews, will probably
require more time. As the program evolves, some PI credit review functions may be transferred to
one of several APEX banks that are expected to be created during the project operation period.
25.   The basic scope of consulting services therefore involves three phases: (i) establishment of the
PIU, (ii) the operations phase, when expatriate consultants are carrying out the bulk of work and training
local counterparts to assume section responsibilities, and (iii) the changeover period, when the



Annex 6-1
Page 10 of 13
consultant's local PIU staff take on the predominant share of duties and responsibilities while the
expatriates provide supporting advice and guidance. The PIU will also be supported by additional
contractual services in the areas of accounting, procurement and legal services, as needed. Financing
of PIU activities and contracts will be managed through a combination of sources, including the
multilateral and bilateral grants, World Bank/EBRD financing, and the spread of interest rates on loans
to the PBs.
Ml. Task Force
26.   The functions of the PIU will be consist of administrative, advisory and other service oriented
duties. As such, the PU will be able to maintain good functional working relationships with the PBs,
the Government -id contractors, and will not be drawn into judgmental issues concerning PB
performance and effectiveness of the technical assistance programs. These functions will be carried out
by the Task Force, assisted by the BRU
27.   A Task Force, operating within a framework defined by an agreement between the MoF and the
CBR wiUl consist of the Minister of Finance and the Governor of the CBR , or their appointees. In
addition to overseeing the implementation of the project by the PIU, the Task Force will be responsible
for overseeing project supervision. The Board will concentrate on project policy matters, principally
accreditation decisions for existing and prospective PBs as well as ruling on non-performing PBs. To
carry out this critical and sensitive aspect of project supervision, the Board will be assisted by a Bank
Review Unit, which will operate in an advisory capacity.
M. Bank Review Unit
A.    Scope of Duties
28.   The size and complexity of the project, involving close to 40 banks in different regions coupled
with individuaUy tailored technical assistance and automation programs, along with need to respect the
confidentiality and sensitivity in monitoring PB performance, means that the supervision task will be
substantial. To advise the Task Force and the World BanklEBRD supervision missions, a Bank Review
Unit, consisting of three senior bankers and two Information Technology specialists, will perform
scheduled and un-scheduled inspections of PBs.
29.   In close coordination with the World Bank/EBRI) supervision missions, the Bank Review Unit
will utilize financial data coilected by the PIU in an "early warning system" to help guide their work.
The scope of the work to be performed by the Bank Review Unit will cover i) advice on individual cases
of PB accreditation, ii) supervision of technical assistance development and implementation for PBs, and
ill) supervision of automation planning and implementation. For the ERP the Bank Review Unit will
review the sub-project portfolio to ensure that eligible, prudent, and well documented lending to sub-
project is taking place.



Annex 6-1
Page 11 of 13
30.   Specifically, the Bank Review Unit will be required to, inter alia:
Accredaion Process
o     pre-review annual audits of PBs and present evaluation reports to the World Bank/EBRD;
o     review auditors' Interim Reports and assess against accreditation criteria;
o     monitor implementation of corrective actions recommended by auditors' Reports;
o     review technical assistance plans prepared by consultants and banks and make
recommendations regarding requests for amendments and modifications; and
o     advise the Task Force on individual cases of accreditation, and in cases of unsatisfactory
PB performance, advise on corrective actions, sanctions and possible de-accreditation;
Technical Assistance Supervison
*     review and approve terms of reference, contracts for consultants and twin banks
providing technical assistance to PBs;
*     prepare and pre-review bid-evaluation and draft contracts for technical assistance to PBs;
*     carry-out periodic progress reviews of technical assistance implementation and make
recommendations on problem cases; and
*     provide quarterly reports, and if needed other occasional reports, to the Task Force and
the World Bank/EBRD on supervision activities and findings, emerging implementation
issues, and financial condition of PBs;
Auomation Development Supervion
*     review consultants' automation recommendatioa to PBs;
o     provide technical advice to PIU on particular automation issues, if needed;
*     carry-out periodic progress reviews of procurement, installation and utilization of
automation equipment; and
o     review and comment on procurement packages in advance of their submission to the
World Bank/EBRD for "No Objection' letter.



Annex 6-1
Page 12 of 13
B.    Work Load Estimates
31.   The number of days per year estimated as the supervision input for the Bank Review Unit is
shown in Table 2 below. The banker input is shown separately from the IT specialist input.
Table 2
Supervision Input by Bank Review Unit
(per person, per year)
Number        Number of      Number of     To4il Days
Number      per Mission   Days per Tas     MbSsions     iod- 2 days pea
C=CIudbig tavel               tfliof tSWI
time an analysis)                 iMe)
Bmaker (ea)
BankVisits           24              3             4               8            112
Reporting             8              1             5               8             40
WB/EB Supervision     3              1            10               3             30
Other Tasks                                                                      28
IT Specialist (ea)
Bank Visits          18              3             4               6             84
Reporting             6              1             5               6             30
WB/PW Support         6              1             5               6             30
Other Tasks                                                                      16
31.   Each banker will be responsible for one third of the PBs, with a full capacity of 12 banks each.
Scheduled visits to each PB will take place twice a year and will last for three days per PB (including
time for data analysis). At full capacity, each banker in the Inspectorate will carry out 72 days of on-site
supervision, 24 days of local travel time (I day per bank, twice per year) and 16 days of international
travel time (assuming 8 trips). Total on-site supervision input will amnount to 108 days for each of the
three bankers. Reporting will take place after each trip and will take four days for each trip. The
bankers will also be required to participate in periodic World BankJEBRD Supervision missions, for an
additional 20 days per year each. 'The total supervision input for each banker totals to 160 days per year,
assuming 36 banks.
32.   For the IT specialists, each will be responsible for 18 banks and will visit each bank once per
year for three, days. At full capacity each IT specialist in the Bank Review Unit will carry out 54 days
of on-site supervision, 18 days of local travel time and 6 days of intemnational travel time (assuming 3
trips) Total scheduled on-site supervision input will amnount to 78 days for each IT specialist. Reporting



Annex 6-1
Page 13 of 13
will take place after each trip and will take four day for each trip. The total supervision input for each
IT specialist totals to 90 days.
C.    Cost Estimates
33.   Detailed cost estimates for the Bank Review Unit are in the Project Files.



Annex 6-2
Page I of 3
RUSSIA
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms and Conditions of the Technical Assistance Loan
A.    Loan Agreement with the Government
The loan from the World Bank to the Government of Russia will be under the standard World
Bank terms and conditions which are as follows:
Loan Amount:               US$200 million equivalent
Cr;rrency:                World Bank Currency Pool, presently consisting principally of
a basket of US$l/Yenl25/2 DM family, with the 3-10 percent
remainder of the basket consisting of other member currencies.
Composition of the currency pool is reviewed every 5 years,
with the next review scheduled for 1996.
Term:                      17 years
Grace Period:             5 years
Interest Rate:            World Bank Variable Lending Rate ("VLR") less any waiver
(effective rate is presently 7.02 percent), adjusted and payable
semi-annually.
Commitment Fees:          0.75 percent per annum less any waiver (waiver is currently
50bp), payable on the undisbursed amount of the loan and
beginning to accrue 60 days after the date of signature of the
loan agreement.
Service Charges:           None
Repayment Terms:          Interest only during the grace period.  Then, semi-annual
installments of equal amounts of principal, plus interest on the
remaining principal outstanding.
Prepayment Premium:        According to standard schedule.
B.    Subsidiary Loans to Participating Commercial Banks
Commercial banks selected to participate in the Financial Institutions Development Project will
be required to meet the Accreditation Criteria described in Annex 5-3. Under such conditions, they will
be allowed to borrow to support qualifying institutional strengthening and automation programs.
Additionally, grant financing will be available to support part of the cost of the institutional strengthening



Annex 6-2
Page 2 of 3
programs. Terms and conditions for the subsidiary loans from the GOR and grant funds available to the
PBs are as follows:
1.    Institutional Strengthening Component
Amount of Grant Funding:   For each bank, 50 percent of the cost of its institutional
strengthebing program, up to US$1.5 million.
Loan Amount:              For each bank, the remaining cost of the institutional
strengthening program, not covered by grant resources, up to
US$3.0 million. Aggregate amount of subsidiary loans available
is US$54.0 million (including US$36.0 million from World Bank
Loan proceeds).
Currency:                 US dollars
Term:                     8 years
Grace Period:             3 years
Interest Rate:            Base rate2 gi 2.5 percent, rounded up to the nearest 0.5
percent interval, payable semi-annually and presently equivalent
to 9.0 percent. The base rate is adjusted semi-annually, and the
on-lending rate is adjusted as required by following the
prescribed formula.
Commitment Fees:          0.75 percent per annum, payable on the undisbursed amount of
the loan and beginning to accrue 60 days after the date of
signature of the loan agreement.
Repayment Terms:          Interest only during the grace period.  Then, semi-annual
installments of equal amounts of principal, plus interest on the
remaining principal outstanding.
PrepaymeeLt Premium:      None
2.    Systems Modernization and Automation Component
Loan Amount:              For each bank, the cost of the automation program, up to
US$11.0 million.  Aggregate amount of subsidiary loans
available is US$236.4 million (including US$159.4 million from
World Bank proceeds).
Currency:                 US dollars
2  The bse rate is callatW according to the following formula: (2/3)IWorld Bank VLR] + (113)16-month,
US$ L1BOR + 1 percent].



Annex 6-2
Page 3 of 3
Term:                      12 years
Grace Period:              4 years
Interest Rate:             Base rate3 gLs 2.5 percent, rounded up to the nearest 0.5
percent interval, payable semi-annually and presently equivalent
to 9.0 percent. The base rate is adjusted semi-annually, and the
on-lending rate is adjusted as required by following the
prescribed formula.
Commitment Fees:           0.75 percent per annum, payable on the undisbursed amount of
the loan and beginning to accrue 60 days after the date of
signature of the loan agreement.
Repayment Terms:           Interest only during the grace period.  Then, semi-annual
installments of equal amounts of principal, plus interest on the
remaining principal outstanding.
Prepayment Premium:        None
The base rate is calculatd according to the !ollowmg formula: (2/3)[World Bank VLRJ + (1/3)[6-
month, US$ LIBOR + 1 percent].



Annex 6-3
Page I of 4
lRUSSIA
FNANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPWMET PROJECT
MAIN CONTRACTS
PROCUREMENr METHODS AND SCEEDULE OF CRICAL PROCUREMEN STEPS
'C'  w,poeaa        ,     en*wc       T*uJ            Prernoed  ag Ite .  "    'f s.lf f"wwe of                                          Sgvf
..,.,Cop                                                Cos4,:'.         Bidding     .     'i ..ons for        Cenb
COMMERCIAL BANKING
Fmancial & Portfolo Audits     Consultnts    10.00   Extension of existg   contracts (EC)  6-8 eC      Deceber, 1993-          N. A.          Febay, 1994
for some buaks.                                   January, 1994
Short ist of 3-6 firms with seletion  28-30 SL    February - April,    February - May,    Aprl- June, 1994
based on technical merit for other                    1994                1994
banks (SL).
T.A. Psograms for Banks       Consulant    110.00   For consulting and twinning, short list  36            March -         April - October,   July - December,
Twinning              3-6 finms with section based on                  September, 1994          1994               1994
technical meit.
Systems Hardware & Softwae     Goods and    209.10   ICB (77.5 percent); IS (9.4 percat);   190           March -        April 1994 -July,    July, 1994 -
Savices              Diect Contating (11.7 percen);                   December, 1994           1995          December, 1995
LCB and LS (1.4 prcent)
Technology Consulting          Consultant     16.50   Short list of 3-6 firms with seloction  53          Febury-          Febrary, 1994-      July, 1994 -
basd on techna menrt.                            December, 1994        June, 1995       December, 1995
Technology Training           Consutantl    12.00   Consulants to be supplied by firms      12-15                                _               Tugh
Courses              under oombied contacts to mxnwum                                                        December 1996
extent practicable
Mielaneous Equipnt               Goods        12.00   Participatig bank finance              20       July - September,     September -      November. 1994 -
1994          Decmber, 1994        Mac, 1995
Office Equipment                 Goods         1.50   LS                                     36       ApriL 1994 - May,  April 1994- May,  Septembe, 1994 -
1995               1995          Deoember, 1995



Annex 6-3
Page 2 of 4
RUSSIA
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAIN CONTRACTS
PROCUREMENT METHODS AND SCHEDUILE OF CRITICAL PROCUREMENT STEPS
(continued)
aroncc'                                Totat          Procu. .nlp   Metho"            No. of      Prepa"ion of      Issance of             Signn Of
IType      Cost                                         Contrads'        Bidding           Inviti ensfor         Conbw
(_s$                                        _               Documnts               B_                       _
BANK SJUPERVISION                  Consulting/     2.50   Short list of 3-6 finms with selection   3          March, 1994          May, 1994          July, 1994
Training     / 2.00   based on technical merit. For
training, individual selections based on
need.
ACCOUNTING & AUDITING              Consultingl     4.00   Short list of 3-6 firms with selection   5          April, 1994         June, 1994         August, 1994
Training     1 4.00   based on technicat merit For training,
individual selections, based on need.
IMPLEMENTATION
PIU Operations                 Consultants     4.00   Sholt list of 3-6 fims with selection    I        February, 1994       March, 1994          May, 1994
based on technical merit
Contrated Serves               Consulants      1.00   Short list of 3-6 firms with selection   5        May - December,       June, t994 -      July,1994 - July,
based on technical merit                               1994            March, 1995            1995
Bank Review Unit               Consultants     2.50   Individual Consutants selected by the    5          March, 1994         April, 1994         May, 1994
Borrower
Offce Equipment                   Goods        1.00   LS                                       30      April, 1994 - May,  April, 1994 - May,  Septenber, 1994 -
1995               1995           December 1995
"N PdCd  oamt t o o c*ef ik p.  Tb e ba uber e f ctwark ad bokm e c bw boav incte_m w* be SO%  for 16 a dditkg zi& ft1o.
biib wer exprebd to> pa1c*e ih PtDP. In the beeb h yc aIrae Jm a mdkor,ti ude'a orecru  be etaaed lor the hm-1m~5adtt



Annex 6-3
Page 3 of 4
RUSSIA
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELO PMENT PROJECT
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
I    ~~~~~~~~~~Pouemet Meafhod''':
Office, hisc. Equipment              -                -               -                2.5             2.5
Computer Systems                    164.4             4.0'           38.02            12.0            221.1
Computer Systems                   (113.6)           (2.0)          (24.0)             -             (139.6)
Consutancies, Training                                              165.57                            165.5
(57.4)4                         (57.4)
Study Tours, etc.                    -               -                3.0-                             3.0
(3.0)                           (3.0)
164.4             4.0           206.5             14.5            389.4
Totals                            (113.6)            (2.0)          (84.4)            (0.0)          (200.0)
Notes: Figures in parentheses are respective amounts financed by the Bank loan. NBP: Not Bank-Fmanced.
"Goods (including some ancillary insallation services, e.g. for LANs and software) procured locally in accordance with Bank
Guidelines, Section 3.3.
'Includes proprietary mainfrne computer, peripherals and software upgrades (US$22 million); and LIB for limied-source
mainframe computer/network equipment, special software, and IS off-he-shelf items (US$8.5 million and US$5.5 million,
respectively). Also includes LS under Section 3.4 of the Guide&nes (US$2.2 million).
3tServices shall be procured in accordance with World Bank Guddelines: Use of Consultans, 1981. Includes information systems
and training services that will be "packaged", wherever possible, to reduce contracting actions.
'A Project Preparation Facility (PPF) is intended to be used to finance initial consulting activities for the PIU and initial TA
(para 6.9).
5'Study Tours for accounting, audit and information management.



Annex 6-3
Page 4 of 4
Major Bank-FSnanced Procurement Actions
(Budget Figues in US$)
| Program            Estimatod Budget       Type of          N Contracts/       Procurement
(Compoeent                                Procurement        Average Size          Period
Diagnostic Audits           lOM         DCs & Comp.           30 - 36           1/94-3/95
5OK-300Kl
PB TA-Twinning             ilOM         Tech. Comp.             36              4/94-12/96
3.OM
IT Hard/Software           205M             ICB                 80              5/94-6/96
2.1M
DC                 35                  W
630K
LIB                30-
260K
is                 45-
160K
TA & Training               22M         Tech. Comp.            12-15            6/94-12/96
1.5M



Annex 64
Page I of I
RUSSIA
FINANCIAL INSTrTUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IBRD Disbursements
Category                         Amount       Percent of Expenditures to be Financed
(US$000)
I. Consultants, training, and     58.900
study tours
A. Commercial Banking
1. Institutional              35,500       67% of expenditures
Strengthening
2. Systems Modernization       19,500      100% of expenditures
B. Bank Supervision                 600        100% of expenditures
C. Accounting& Auditing            3,300       100% of expenditures
uI. Goods                        139.600       100% of foreign expenditures
100% of local expenditures (ex-factory
costs), and 70% of expenditures for other
items procured locally (est. US$3.0 million)
M. PPF Refinancing                 1,503
Total
Estimated IBRD Disbursements
(US$ Millions)
FY95         FY96           FY97         FY98
Annual                   61.3          81.3          42.4          15.0
Cumulative               61.3         142.6         185.0         200.0



RUSSIA                                                                                     Annex 6-5
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                    Page I of 2
Commercial Bank Component
Implementation Plan
.____________________________________  1993                                                       1994                                                              1995
Q3   Q4   Ml   M2   M3   M4   MS   M6   M7    MS    M9   MIO  M11 j M12  Ql I Q2   Q3   Q4
FIRST WAVE (20 BanSs)   _________ =__ _    -                                               -                                                                 i
Diagnostic Reviews/Bank Seection    --    -     -     - -.
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _                        ~~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---- - ----  
Prepare ISP and Automation TOR's                          -
Conduct International Audits                             ___ _D-                                                 -                   -I   - -
Select On-Lenders and Design Corrective A__ion
Programs based on Audit Results                         .        _                          _ _
Invite Bids/Negotiate ISP Contracts
Implement ISPa             _          _         |_                                                           .                                                                                             Q  1 99'
Design Automation Strategy                                       ____
Invite Bids/Precurm Automation Systems
~~~__                                _  _          I  __             __    _ __________...__. ..
Intlllpemn  utmtinSstm                  ____                          _  _   _._    .__. ..........u..... ..._a     ._             .           _...o..........y......  T.  j                            Do Q3 1997
SECOND WAVE (16 Banks)                      -           .
Diagnostic Reviews/Bank Selection
Prepare ISP and Automation TORsl
Conduct Iternational Audits
Select On-Lendes and Design Corective Action
Program based on Audit Results
Invite Bids/Negotiate ISP Contracts
Implement ISPs                   =_    =--.__.                           __   ___                                _  e_ ==_  _. ~._ DQ41997
Design Automation Strategy                         _          _|-_-
Invite Bids/rocure Automsaion Systems                    ___                     ___           I_
Install/mplement Automation System                                                              _         _t1997
* ISP - Institutional Strengthening Program



RUSSIA                                                                               Annex 6-5
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                        Page 2 of 2
Bank Supervision and Accounting/Auditing Components
Implementation Plan
1994         _1                                                                  19%       _         1997
Mt    M2    M3    M4   MS   _M6    M7    MS    M9    M10    Mll    M12    Ql    Q2    Q3   Q4    Ql    Q2   Q3  'C                       QIQ2
TRAINING OF BANK XAbNERS                     _                                                                                        - S
DeveloMsTiofTmtgro=granandMartenas______ ______-____  _..... t- ---
Clasromn Instruction
PREPARATION OF EXAMINATION DO .NTS_                         __  __    _                - .          -
PROVISION OF POUCY ADVICE ON
SUPERVISON AND EXAMINATION
BANK ACCOUNTING _
Imnplemntation ofBAFS                             _
Completon ofNew Chart ofAccounts                                                                                                                                     I
Trainig Commnrciul Bank Accounts
Inplmentation of New Chat ofAcounts___                                      ___                 ___.                                                     - - E               -I
ENTERPRISE ACCOUNTING
Estabtlishme of ASC
RevmseChtrofAccounts forEnterpnscs                             -       ___                                                    -   -                                                --    t 
Publicity Canmpamr
Provide Traiinn van Advisory Servces
At   otma  Y_ _A         
l~~rAn&tces                                  _ _          __            __ _                 __              __                                     I             1t   -  --1 t    
AUDsiNG                  Accountants                                                                                                                            1 _ _
E-VblitbmadfChunba ofAuchtz                                                                                                            H+-4--    0--    
DreotqzxaofEduWCod       peaiao Maualfist=4__--tt  t
forAuditiors}                                                                                                                                              |            j     | 
Fomg htnlup forRusan mAowm                                                                                                                                                ____---t-          -  ---t -    t--  -  - 



Annex 6-6
Page I of 7
RUSSIA
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed Supervision Plan
Da  of          World       Stafflng of Supersion    Staff      Trvet &      Consul.   htvel antd
Supervison     BanidEBRD            Mission            Week      Subsience      Input     Subsistence
mssion           XC                                  Input        (US)         (SW         ($US)
Jun. 1994        World Bank   Financial Specialist
(Project Launch)   /EBRD/EC    Technologist Banker          6        14,000          2           7,000
Procurement Specialist
Sep. 1994        World Bank   Financial Specialist
/EBRD/EC    Technologist Banker           6        14,000          2           7,000
Procurement Specialist
Jan. 1995        World Bank   Financial Specialist          3         7,000          2           7,000
/EBRD/EC    Banker
May 1995         World Bank   Financial Specialist          6        14,000          2          7,000
Technologist
Banker
Procurement Specialist
Sep 1995         EBRD
Jan 1996         World Bank   Financial Specialist          3         7,000          2          7,000
/EBRD/EC    Banker
May 1996         World Bank   Financial Specialist
Technologist                6        14,000          2           7,000
Banker
Procurement Specialist
Sep 1996         EBRD
Jan 1997         World Bank   Financial Specialist          3         7,000          2           7,000
/EBRD/EC    Banker
May 1997         World Bank   Financial Specialist
Technologist                6        14,000          2           7,000
Banker
Procurement Specialist
Sep 1997         EBRD
Jan 1998         World Bank   Financial Specialist          3         7,000          2           7,000
/EBRD/EC    Banker
May 1998         World Bank   Financial Specialist
Technologist                6        14,000          2           7,000
Banker
Procurement Specialist



Russia                                                                             Annex 6-6
Financial Institutions Development Project                                                                 Page 2 of 7
Detailed Supervision Plan
Staff Input: FY95-97
(in days)
Gene: al        Dlotutional         Automation       Bank Supervision    Accounting &        Iwplementation
Development                                                 Auditingemnato
Number   Total   Number   rotal   Number   Total   Number   Total   Number   Total   Number
Total      of      Input      of      Input      of       Input      of      Input      of      Input      of    T(tdal sn)ut
Days    Actions   (days)   Actions   (days)   Actions   (days)   Actions   (days)   Actions   (days)   Actions
Review of Procurement                                679                           162     117.0      641     536.5        3        1.5      23       11.5       19         12.5
International Competitive Bidding                344                                             344      344.0
International Shopping                            21                                              42       21.0
Direct Contracts                                  38                                              38       38.0
Consultant Contracts - Firrns                    207                          162      117.0      110      80.0                                              14        10.0
Consultant Contracts-Individuals                  21                                              20       10.0        2        1.0      Is        7.5        5         2.5
Training, Study Tours                             48                                              87       43.5        1       0.5        8       4.0
Review of Quarterly Reports                           108       60      108.0
Audit Review                                          190                          92      184.0                                                                  3         6
Supervision Missions                                 200        24      200.0
TOTAL SUPERVISION  INPUT                          1,177       84      308.0      254     301.0      641     536.5        3        1.5      23       11.5       22         18.5



Russia                                                                        Annex 6-6
Financial Institutions Development Project                                                           Page 3 of 7
Detailed Supervision Plan
Staff Input: FY95-97
(in staff weeks)
lwtftudonal                            ~~~~~~~Accounting &
General                           Automation      Bank      visin
Total  Number   Total   Number   Total   Number   Total   Number   Total   Number   Toal   Number Total input
Weeks      of     Input      of      Input     of      Input     of      Input     of      Input     of      Iwecks)
Actions  (weeks)           (ks)                       Aons(weeks)  Actions  (weeks)  Actions
|Revew  of Procurement                           135.8                        162     23.4    641       107.3       3       0.3      23       2.3      19         2.5
International Competitive Bidding             68.8                                         344      68.8
Intermational Shopping                         4.2                                          42       4.2
Direct Contracts                               7.6                                          38       7.6
Consultant Contracts - Firnns                41.4                        162      23.4     110      16.0                                          14         2.0
Consultant Contracts-Individuals               4.2                                          20       2.0       2       0.2      15       1.5       5         0.5
Training, Study Tours                          9.6                                          87       8.7       1       0.1       8       0.8
Review of Quarterly Reports                       21.6      60      21.6
Audit Review                                      38.0                        92      36.8                                                              3         1.
Supervision Missions                             40.0      24      40.0
1TALSUPERVISION INPUT                           235.4      84      61.6    254       60.2    641      107.3       3       0.3      23       2.3      22         3.7



Russia                                                                         Annex 6-6
Financial Institutions Development Project                                                            Page4of 7
Detailed Supervision Plan
Percentage Share of Procurement Activity in
Total Resources Requirement
TStaff      Gnea             Insftitional                                          Accounting&
Wseta        Genera          Development        Automation      Bank Supervision      Audiing4        Impmentation
Review of Procurement                              57.7                                 38.9             100.0              100.0             100.0                67.6
International Competitive Bidding              29.2                                                   64.1
International Shopping                          1.8                                                    3.9
Direct Contracts                                3.2                                                    7.1
Consultant Contracts - Firms                   17.6                                 38.9              14.9                                                     54.1
Consultant Contracts-Individuals                1.8                                                    1.9              66.7               65.2                13.5
Training, Study Tours                           4.1                                                    8.1              33.3               34.8
Review of Quarterly Reports                         9.2              35.1
Audit Review                                       16.1                                 61.1                                                                       32.
Supervision Missions                               17.0              64.9
TOTAL SUPERVISION INPUT                           100.0              100.0             100.0             100.0              100.0             100.Cj               100.0
Percentage Share of Project Component in
Total Resources Requirement
Staff   I    General   InsituloimSirWo                                        Aouditing
Tf            G               Dev                Automation      Bank Superviston       Accounting &   Implementation
Review of Procurement                             100.0                                 17.2              79.0                0.2               1.7                  1.8
International Competitive Bidding             100.0                                                  100.0
International Shopping                        10o0                                                   100.0
Direct Contracts                              100.0                                                  100.0
Consultant Contracts - Firms                  100.0                                56.5               38.6                                                      4.8
Consultant Contractssndrviduals               100.0                                                   47.6               4.8               35.7                11.9
Training, Study Tours                         100.0                                                   90.6               1.0                8.3
Review of Quarterly Reports                     100.0              100.0
udit Review                                     100.0                                 96.8                                                                        3.2
Supervision Missions                              100.0             100.0
T(YIAL SUPERVISION INPUT                        100.0              26.2               25.6              45.6                0.1_              1.0                  1.6



Russia                                                                          Annex 6-6
Financial lnstitutions Development Project                                                              Page 5 of 7
Detailed Supervision Plan
Work Load Analysis: FY95-97
GetCral         Instiinal          Automatb          R  Suervion          Audnting         Implementation
_ .. _ ..Develo ent                       .             l     ~     110
Staff   Number   Total   Number   Total   Number   Total   Number   Total   Number   Total   Number |                   l
Input pet    of     Input     of      Input      of      Input      of      Input      of      Input     of    Total Input
Action   Actions  (days)   Abj         as    Actions   (da ys)   Actions           Actions             Actions    (days)
Renew of Procurement
International Competitive Bidding
Adverdsement I Twinning Visits                       0.5                                            86       43
Bidding Documents and Specs                          1.5                                            86       129
Evaluation Report & Award Recommendation             1.0                                            86        86
ontract Review I Data Entry                         1.0                                            86       86
ternational Shopping
Prior Review of First Two Quote Packages             0.5                                            36        18
Ex-Post Review of Sample Quote Packages              0.5                                             6         3
Direct Contracts
Specs, Contracts                                     1.0                                            38        38
Consultant Contracts - Frmsl
Short List I LOI / TOR                               1.0                         36        36       25       25                                              3           3
Advertisement & Bid Conference                       0.5                         36        18       25      12.5                                             3         1.5
id Evaluation & Award Recommendation                1.0                         36        36       25       25                                              3          3
ontract Review & Data Entry                        0.5                          36        18       25      12.5                                             3         1.5
eview of Contract Revisions                        0.5                          18         9       10         5                                    1       2          1



Russia                                                                          Annex 6-6
Financial Institutions Development Project                                                              Page 6 of 7
Detailed Supervision Plan
Work Load Analysis: FY9S-97
(continued)
Devew i              pmentIoD     Automation       Ak Supervision            tng&        Impementatlon
Develownent                               ~~~~~~~~~Audit
Staff   Number   Total   Number   Totul   Number   Total   Number   Total   Number   Total   Nurrber
Input per    of     input      of      Input     of      Input      Of      Input      of     Input      of    Total Input
Action   A                 A    sdaL    Actions   (daysc   Actions   (days)   Actions  (daysL   Actions   (days)
TOR, CV,Contract                                     0.5                                            20        10        2        1        15      7.5         5        2.5
Training, Study Tours
raining                                              0.5                                            75      37.5        1       0.5
Sudy Tours                                          0.5                                            12         6                           8        4
Review of Quarterly Reports
PIU                                                  3.0       12       36
BRU                                                  3.0       12       36
sample of PB Reports                                 1.0       36       36
Audit Review                                         2.0                         92       184                                                                 3
Supervision Missions
- Mission Preparation                            3.0        8        24
Mission                                             20.0        8      160
Post- Mission Review                                 2.0        8       16
TOTAL SUPERVISION INPUT                            1177                308                301              536.5                1.5              11.5                 18.5



Monitorable Targets and Performance Indicators                                                     Annex 6-6
Page7 of 7
_I..s.r                                                                                                                                                  -   .I:..t I~~~~~~.*.,.. *...*..
...                              ................. **...*                                                                   e* sao     May    5e tJa u 2           M a
Commerrial Bankdna Component
First Wave (20 Banks)                % of banks
Accreditatiot. Decisions                            100%
ISP Contracts Signed                                 15%      60%      100%
Strategic Plan Completed                                       5%       20%       80%      100%
Bids Invited for Core Automation Needs               15%      90%      100%
Core Equipment Purchases Begin                                 15%      90%      100%
Core Equipment Installation Completed                                                       5%       10%       15%      20%       50%      80%      100%
Implementation of ISP Automation Program                                                   10%       15%      30%       40%       70%      100%
Second Wave (16 Banks)               % of banks
Accreditation Decisions                                                 80%      100%
ISP Contracts Signed                                                    50%      100%
Strategic Plan Completed                                                          10%      80%      100%
Bids Invited for Core Automation Needs                                  15%      80%       100%
Core Equipment Purchases Begin                                                    15%      80%      100%
Core Equipment Instellation Completed                                                                          5%       10%       15%      20%       50%      80%       100%
Implementation of ISP Automation
Proarams begins                                                                                     5%       15%       35%      50%       85%      100%
Bank Supevsion Component                 % of task
Training Program & Materials Developed               80%      90%       100%
Training of 650 Bank Supervisors and
Bank Inspectors                                                        10%      22%       35%      47%       60%       74%      87%       100%
Accountina and Auditina Comoonent        % of task
Implementation of BAFS                               60%      75%      100%
Completion of New Chart of Accounts                  15%      60%      100%
Implementation of New Chart of Accounts                                                                       25%       60%      100%
Revise Chart of Accounts for Enterprises                      90%      100%
Establish Working Group on Auditing                 100%
Develop Ethical Code and Op. Manual for
Auditors                                                     10%       80%      80%       100%                                                         _
These targets have been developed for guiding the work of supervision missions. They may be reviewed and adjusted from time to time by the Bank/EBRD/EU with advice from the BRU.



IBRD 25522
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT-PROJECT
Locarions of pselected bonb' heodquorters
Oblost, krols. or republica containing brandes of preseleded bonks
Oblai, kroi, or republic boundaries
Autonomous oblosi, akrug, or republic boundaries
Intebmotional boundaries                                                    84
iusing  pvblia ofAeyo, fori-ch, Cberm and Ohniv-on
80
XH- x *) \5a4u |
-   -.~~~~~~~~~~~ ~83
RUSSIAN
FEDPtATIONO                         3
4 t '. p('t" h.'JP'                                         '   , '  -'                75                                                                                                     79
9 20,,,',,   6                               ;s,S        -''    .>'-                                       ,,                         87
10  078          6                                                                                   7 
19            23                            4                             67
16                      2       567 
a.X 32             2          5         5                                                                                           , .t8 
1721  15  22 1         47
30       ]18         28           25     56
33 1     27        426                                     66                                                 "
32                          58       5508
33        36                              '5
40     39                   57
\42~~~~~~~~(                                                              W             ',                          (                                ,                                  \:   ,, , ,
45:48            41                                                                                                                                                            78
46
82
49    31 .                                                                                                                                              69
47  43                                                                                           60  117                                      8a
The                ~~~~~4274.                                                                                                                      /    fok1         0
--_ ... ,             _0 200  400  <i00                                                This map reflects the status of the Ruion Federation and its territories os of November 1992.
Tho~o- *r5 iega-.Oc   4-- . 9. o~-                                           Mie  0                400                                                          Since thot fios, the nu,nber of eofbsts and teritones has increased to esighty-nne, and in some
=^ er''eer o   Ce'F5  2                                                   bbIssO                AsO                                                           cases the nomes of cetin terntrines may hove been modifesd. As of the date t- pubication, no
b.= J' f S                                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~officiol map rrSsetinsf themr changpes wa readily ovoilobb.
1, Ths r-op roocsThe-lorusori pmes'fsd honk; s-d h.,, b-nches nfil 1993
2. Jr use si h eir,.. oblos js ronwo.n.nrg bon*  b.esrises. te! eownd by tbn numbs' of hroerbss. ore shown in red.
1. Arkhongelskoio oblost                  1 7..    <...:.                         33. Voronezhskaic oblost              48.                                       63.                                   75. Toimyrskii (Dolgano-Nenetekiij
2. Nenetskii outonomous okrug             18. Riozonskoic oblost                  34.*                                  49.                                       64.                                         outonomous okrug
3. Republic of Korelio                     19. Smolenskaio oblost                  35. Republic of Kalmykia             50.                                       65.                                   76. Evenkiiskii autonomous okrug
4. lZ c.c5    K."  .                      20. '  *       .  .                      36. Penzenskaia oblost               51. Republic of Bashkortoston             66.                                   77, Republic of Tuvo
5.i t9u: f CfskO.o ob)0s-                 21i    ,.::: :.,                         37.                                  52.                                                                             78. Amurskoi oblost
6. Vologodskoia oblost                    22. v    - ..   .:                       38.                                  53. Kurganskoia oblost                    67.                                   79. Kamchotskoio oblost
7. S. Pe-ccscl-rg I 7                     23.       . - *  2                       39.:                                 54.              ..         .                                                   80. Kariakii autonomous akrug
8.Len.,gradsci.o;c, : cc! 1;8             24. Republic of Chuvosh                  40.                                  55            .                           68.                                   81.
9. Novgorogskoia oblost                   25. K    s.u    :   ,,  .41.                       .                          56. Komi-Permyotskoia                     69. Chitinskoia oblost                82, Jewish autonomous obles
10. Pskovskoio oblost                       26. Republic of Marii-El                42.:                                       autonomous okrug                    70. Aginskii Duryo7skii               83.
11. Brionskaio oblost                       27. ;.',.cfi r !_. cY    .              43        .                          57.                                             outonomous okrug                84. Chukotskii autonomous okrug
12. lvanovskoia oblost                      28.....>  C>                                                                  58.                                      71.                                   85.
13. Kaluzhskoio oblost                      29. Belgorodskcio oblost               44. Kobordino-Bolkor Republic        59. Altaiskii krai                        72. Ust'-Ordynskii Buryatskii         86.
14. Kostromskaio oblost                    30. Kurskaia oblost                      45.                 *                60. Republic of Altai                           autonomous okrug                87.
15, wotko,,-o .. o.u:ijsl,      :         . . 31.Lipetskoiooblost                   46.Republicof Adyeya                 61.                                       73.                                   88.
16. Moscow Ci  (30)                        32. Tombovskolo oblbst                   47. North-Osetien Republic           62.                                       74. Republic of Khokosio                                        APRIL 1994



