LOAN NUMBER 3734 RU
Loan Agreement
(Financial Institutions Development Project)
between
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated    ~J/1994


﻿LOAN NUMBER 3734 RU
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     j&CAJ   c              , 1994, between
RUSSIAN FEDERATION (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satistied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreempnt, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;
(B)   the Borrower intends to contract from other sources of
finance (the Cofinanciers) grants (the Cofinance) in an aggregate
amount equivalent to $73,400,000 to assist in financing the Project
on the terms and conditions set forth in agreements (the Cofinancing
Grant Agreements) to be entered into between the Borrower and the
Cofinanciers;
(C)   the Borrower intends to contract from the European Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) a loan (the EBRD Loan) in
an amount of $100,000,000 to assist in financing Part A of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the
EBRD Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and
EBRD;
(D)   EBRD and the Bank intend to enter into an agreement (the
Co-Lenders Agreement) providing for arrangements whereby EBRD and
the Bank would process jointly applications for withdrawal relating
to certain expenditures under the Project and the Bank would make
available certain portions of the proceeds of the Loan, together
with similar proceeds of the EBRD Loan to be made available by EBRD,
for the financing of such expenditures on a Pari passu basis, and
regulating certain other matters of common interest in connection
with such financing; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated Janup-y 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (1) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
" (k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
inconsisteri with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means any agreement which
shall have been entered into by the Borrower, pursuant to Section
3.02 (c) of this Agreement with a Participating Bank, in respect of
an   Institutional   Development   Sub-project   involving   such
Participating Bank, as the same agreement may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to such Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.
(b)   "Subsidiary  Loan" means   any  loan  provided  to a
Participating Bank for an Institutional Development Sub-project
pursuant to Section 3.02 of this Agreement.
(c)   "Participating Bank" means any banking institution in
the territory of the Borrower duly accredited in accordance with the
criteria set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, which shall have
been accepted for participation in accordance with Section 3.02 (a)
of this Agreement.


﻿- 3 -
(d)   "Institutional Development Sub-project" means a specific
program of institutional development of a Participating Bank
intended to be carried out by such Participating Bank utilizing the
proceeds of a Subsidiary Loan.
(e)   "CBR"  means  the   Central  Bank  of   the  Borrower,
established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Law on the
Russian Federation Central Bank (Bank of Russia) dated December 2,
1990, as the same may be amended from time to time.
(f)   "MOF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance.
(g)   "Bank Review Unit" means the unit referred to in Section
3.04 (b) of this Agreement.
(h)   "PIU" means the unit referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of
this Agreement.
(i)   "Project  Preparation   Advance"  means  the   project
preparation advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to
an exchange of letters dated September 30, 1993, and October 13,
1993 between the Borrower and the Bank.
(j)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of two hundred million dollars ($200,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 7 to
this Agreement.
(c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance
of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall
thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
Se--tion 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
(c)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
ending on the date immediately preceding each
date  specified  in   Section  2.06   of  this


﻿- 5 -
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
which this Agreement is signed.
(ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
as reasonably determined by the Bank and
expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
(d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month period
commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.


﻿- 6 -
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part C of the Project
through MOF, and shall carry out Part B of the Project through the
CBR under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, all with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
financial, economic and administrative practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for such Parts of the Project.
Section 3.02. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall, for
purposes of carrying out Part A of the Project, and unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree:
(a)   solicit and approve proposals from candidate banks in
accordance with the eligibility criteria and procedures for approval
of Institutional Development Sub-projects set forth or referred to
in Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(b)   cause the Participating Banks to carry out their
respective Institutional Development Sub-projects in accordance with
the same eligibility criteria and the terms of the respective
Subsidiary Loan Agreements, and shall not take or permit to be taken
any action which would prevent or interfere with the carrying out by
such Participating Banks of their respective activities under the
Institutional Development Sub-projects;
(c)   make available to each such Participating Bank the
amount of financing required for such Institutional Development Sub-
project, including the applicable portions of the proceeds of the
Loan as referred to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, under one or
more subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into between the
Borrower and such Participating Bank, under terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Bank, and which shall include,
without limitation, those set forth in Section III of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement; and


﻿-7-
(d)   exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive any such Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 3.03. For purposes of the efficient carrying out of
the Project and ensuring the effective supervision of the execution
of  the   Institutional  Development  Sub-projects,   and  without
limitation on the provisions of Sections 3.01 and 3.02 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause to an agreement to be entered
into between MOF and CBR concerning the carrying out by MOF of
responsibilities connected with supervision of the performance of
the Participating Banks in respect of their adherence to
accreditation standards applicable under the Project, as set forth
or referred to in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, in any areas which
might be concerned with banking supervision requirements generally
applicable to such banks under the laws and regulations of the
Borrower, and other matters satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.04. In order to facilitate the efficient carrying
out of the Project, the Borrower shall establish and thereafter
maintain with membership, staff and other resources and under terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank:
(a)   a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) to be responsible
for the daily coordination of the execution of the Project; and
(b)   a Bank Review Unit, reporting to the MOF and CBR, and
advising on such matters, as shall have been defined by the Borrower
acceptable to the Bank, which may be concerned with monitoring of
Participating Banks' performance and developing of administrative or
corrective measures for Participating Banks carrying out the
Institutional Development Sub-projects under Part A of the Project.
Section 3.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.06. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04. 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance


﻿- 8 -
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part A of the
Project sha.ll be carried out by the Participating Banks.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of Parts B and C of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out
the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those
for the Special Account for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end
of each such year, the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account for Parts B and C were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain  or   cause  to   be  maintained,   in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
records    and   accounts    reflecting    such
expenditures;


﻿(ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
has received the audit report for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
Account or payment out of the Special Account
was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)    enable the Bank's representatives to examine
such records; and
(iv)    ensure that such   records and accounts are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion
by said auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Participating
Banks to maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations and
financial condition of the Participating Banks.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause Participating Banks to:
(i)    have their records, accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) and the
records and accounts for the Special Account for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank;
(ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end
of each such year: (A) certified copies of their
financial statements for such year as so
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and


﻿(iii)    furnish to the Bank sucother information
concerning such records, iccounts and financial
statements and the audit thereof as the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account for Part A of the Project were made on the
basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause
Participating Banks to:
(i)    maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
this Section, records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
has received the audit report for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
Account or payment out of the Special Account
was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)    enable the Bank's representatives to examine
such records; and
(iv)    ensure  that  such  records and accounts are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion
by said auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.


﻿-11 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   (i)    Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms therefor, or
(B)   any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.
(ii)    Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such
suspension,   cancellation,   termination   or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with
the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.
(b)   the agreement referred to in Section 3.03 of this
Agreement shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the
Borrower, the Participating Banks, MOF, the PIU, or the Bank Review
Unit to carry out the Project or to perform any of their obligations
under this Agreement or the Subsidiary loan Agreements.
Section 5.02, Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in paragraph (i) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (ii) of
that Section.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of EBRD
Loan Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related to the
effectiveness of this Agreement;
(b)   Subsidiary   Loan    Agreements   for    institutional
strengthening have been concluded with at least three Participating
Banks;
(c)   the agreement referred to in Section 3.03 of this
Agreement has been concluded;
(d)   two senior bankers have been appointed to the Bank
Review Unit; and
(e)   a consultants' contract for technical services relating
to project implementation for assistance to the PIU in the carrying
out the activities referred to in Section 3.04        (a) of this
Agreement, has been concluded acceptable to the Bank.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements
referred to in Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement have been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the respective
Participating Banks and are legally binding upon the Borrower and
the respective Participating Banks in accordance with the terms
thereof.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance or the Deputy Minister
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
103097 Moscow
Ilyinka Street 9
Russian Federation
Telex:
112008
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                  248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿- 14 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
By ///Z14Lc&&& IV                  (Q
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s       i/i'e d               JL~&d
Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Part A of the Project
(i) Goods               139,400,000        100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 70%
of local expen-
ditures for other
items procured
locally
(ii) Consultants'         35,500,000        67%
services for
institutional
strengthening
programs under
Part A(i) of the
Project
(iii) Consultants'         11,500,000        100%
services for
systems
modernization
under Part A(ii)
of the Project


﻿- 16 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(iv) Training              8,000,000        100%
and study
tours
(2) Part B of the Project
(i) Consultants'          2,000,000        100%
services
(ii) Equipment               100,000        100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 70%
of local expen-
ditures for other
items procured
locally
(3) Part C of the Project
(i) Goods                   100,000        100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 70%
of local expen-
ditures for other
items procured
locally
(ii) Consultants'          1,400,000        100%
services
(iii) Study tours             500,000        100%


﻿- 17 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(4) Consultants'                       0        100%
services and
goods for Part D
of the Project
(5) Refunding of                                Amounts due
Project                                     pursuant to
Preparation                                 Section 2.02 (c)
Advance                     1,500,000       of this Agreement
TOTAL               200,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency
of the Borrower is also that of another country from the territory
of which the goods and services are supplied, expenditures in such
currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures".
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
(b)   payments for expenditures under Category (1) of this
Schedule to finance an Institutional Development Sub-project under
any Subsidiary Loan, until the Bank shall have communicated its
acceptance to the Borrower of evidence that a Subsidiary Loan


﻿- 18 -
Agreement has been duly executed on behalf of, and is legally
binding upon, the Borrower and the Participating Bank concerned in
respect of such Subsidiary Loan; and
(c)    expenditures under Category (2) of this Schedule until
the arrangements with the CBR referred to in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement have been concluded in accordance with the provisions of
said Section.
4.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
under contracts for goods and training not exceeding $50,000
equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to increase the quantity and
improve the quality of banking services, promote banking stability,
and contribute to a more efficient allocation of bank credit by
modernizing the regulatory framework and strengthening the
institutional capabilities of the Borrower's financial system.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
The financing, through the provision of loans, including
Subsidiary Loans, of specific Institutional Development Sub-projects
consisting   of:  (i)   institutional  development   programs  for
strengthening the organization, management and operations of the
Participating Banks, including the provision of staff training; and
(ii)  systems   modernization,  including   the  acquisition   and
installation of computer hardware and software in connection with
the implementation of said institutional strengthening programs.
Part B:
The carrying out by CBR of programs to develop further the
financial system, including the provision of training and technical
assistance for: (i) the development of on-site bank inspectors; (ii)
the preparation of documents relating to on-site inspection; (iii)
the reform of bank accounting practices; and (iv) development of the
legal and regulatory environment for the banking sector.
Part C:
The carrying out by the Borrower of programs to develop the
accounting and auditing practices including the provision of
training and technical assistance for: (i) the reform of enterprise
accounting practice; and (ii) the establishment of a Chamber of
Auditors and the development of the auditing profession.


﻿- 20 -
Part D:
Provision of technical assistance for the operations of the
PIU to support: (i) the establishment, maintenance and updating of
project accounting, procurement, and reporting systems; (ii) the
initial stages of its operations; and (iii) training of staff.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning September 15, 1999
through   September 15, 2010         8,335,000
On March 15, 2011                          8,295,000
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.


﻿- 22 -
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment                         Premium
The interest rate (expressed
as a percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan on
the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
Not more than three years                        0.18
before maturity
More than three years but                        0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                          0.65
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                       0.88
more than 15 years
before maturity
More than 15 years before                        1.00
maturity


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)   For  fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and
the other to the local currency component of the bid price. Such an
increase shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.
(b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part
A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank
shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project.
Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the
Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other
international recognized standards forms agreed with the Bank.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Russian Federation
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Limited-source mainframe computer/network   equipment, and
special software, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$8,500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded through limited
international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and


﻿- 24 -
comparison of bids invited from a list of at least three qualified
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with the
procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines
(excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof);
2.    Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $300,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $15,000,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three suppliers from at least three different countries
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
3.    Contracts for equipment and spare parts of a proprietary
nature, or which are required to ensure standardization and
compatibility with existing equipment and facilities, may be
procured by direct contracting with the suppliers thereof. Such
contracts shall require prior approval by the Bank and shall not
exceed an aggregate amount of $22,000,000.
4.    Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $5,000,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
5.     Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $300,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $2,500,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
L.


﻿- 25 -
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall or shall cause to employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981. For complex,
t4me-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants
under contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants'
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have
been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other
standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts,
shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting
firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b)
contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less
than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank


﻿- 26 -
review snall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for such
contracts, (b) single-source -_-lection of consulting firms, (c)
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the
Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting
firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or
(e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or
above.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
consultants to be employed by the Borrower or by a Participating
Bank to assist in the carrying out of institutional strengthening
programs (twinning) may be selected in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 5
Eligibility, Approval Procedures
and Principal Terms and Conditions of
Subsidiary Loan Agreements
Section I. Eligibility of Participating Banks
A Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall be entered into only with a
banking institution duly established and operating under the laws of
the Borrower, which shall have:
(a)   established and maintained its creditworthiness,
(b)   established  and   satisfactorily   demonstrated   its
compliance with the accreditation criteria set forth or
referred to in Schedule 6 to this Agreement,
(c)   developed specific plans for institutional development
and automation proposed to be carried out as an
Institutional Development Sub-project under Part A of
the Project, and
(d)   submitted to the PIU monthly financial returns and
quarterly progress reports,
all to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank, on the basis
of guidelines acceptable to the Bank.
Section II. Approval Procedures
1.    The candidate bank shall adopt and submit for approval by the
PIU: (i) an institutional development plan and time-table acceptable
to the Bank; (ii) an automation plan and timetable acceptable to the
Bank; and (iii) forecast financial statements for three fiscal years
prepared according to the same principles as the quarterly
statements referred to in Section I of this Schedule.
2.    Prior to approving a Subsidiary Loan, the PIU shall verify:
undergoing by the candidate bank of audit conducted by an
international auditing firm in accordance with international
accounting and auditing principles and a satisfactory report of such
auditors.


﻿- 28 -
Section III. Terms and Conditions of Subsidiary Loans
A.    Terms:
1.    The principal amount of each Subsidiary Loan       shall be
denominated in Dollars in an amount determined by the Borrower to be
the amount actually required to be made available to the
Participating Bank, to enable the Participating Bank to carry out
the Institutional Development Sub-project, calculated as the
percentage of the estimated total sub-project costs, up to a maximum
of 100% of such estimated sub-project costs.
2.    Amounts made available to a Participating Bank under a
Subsidiary Loan shall be eligible for financing out of the Loan
where, pursuant to the Co-Lenders' Agreement, the proceeds of the
Loan, combined with proceeds of the EBRD Loan which are available
for financing such amount in accordance with the EBRD Loan
Agreement, may be blended at a 2:1 ratio.
3.    Financing of an institutional strengthening program for a
Participating Bank shall be achieved through the blending of the
combined proceeds of the Loan and EBRD Loan with grant funds
available under the Cofinance in such a manner as to effect more
favorable terms, up to maximum ratio of grant funds to loan funds of
1:1.
4.    (a)   During each six-month period commencing on January I and
July 1 of each calendar year, each Subsidiary Loan shall be charged
on the principal amount thereof, withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time, interest at a floating rate equivalent to two and one-half
percent above the weighted average rate of the six-month LIBOR as
one-third of said rate and the interest rate determined in
accordance with Section 2.05 of this Agreement as two-thirds of said
rate; and
(b)   for the purposes of this paragraph, "six-month LIBOR" is
the London Inter-Bank Offered Rate of major banks for deposits in
Dollars, designated as page 3750 on the Telerate Service (or such
other page as may replace the Telerate Page 3750) for the purpose of
displaying such LIBOR rates for deposits in Dollars.
5.    Each Subsidiary Loan for system modernization shall have a
maturity of not more than 12 years, inclusive of a grace period of
4 years. Each Subsidiary Loan for institutional strengthening shall


﻿- 29 -
have a maturity of not more than 8 years, inclusive of a grace
period of 3 years.
B.    Conditions:
1.    The right of each Participating Bank to the use of the
proceeds of its respective Subsidiary Loan, shall be subject to: (a)
suspension upon failure by such party to perform any of its
obligations under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and (b)
cancellation if the right of the Participating Bank to make
withdrawals under the Subsidiary Loan shall have been suspended
pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) hereof for a continuous period of 60
days.
2.    Each Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall contain provisions
pursuant to which the Participating Bank shall undertake to:
(a)   carry out the Institutional Development Sub-project with
due diligence and efficiency and conduct its operations and affairs
in accordance with sound administrative, technical and financial
standards and appropriate practices, with qualified management and
staff, and provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose;
(b)   (i)    employ   consultants    with    qualifications,
experience and terms of reference satisfactory
to the Bank, to assist it in the carrying out of
such Institutional Development Sub-project; and
(ii)    procure the goods and consultants' services to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement, and use such goods and services
exclusively  in   the  carrying  out   of  such
Institutional Development Sub-project;
(c)   exchange views with, and furnish all such information
to, the Borrower or the Bank, as may be reasonably requested by the
Borrower or the Bank, with regard to the progress of the
Institutional Development Sub-project, the performance of its
obligations under any Subsidiary Loan Agreements, and other matters
relating to the purposes of said Institutional Development Sub-
project;


﻿- 30 -
(d)   promptly inform the Borrower and the Bank of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of its activities under the Institutional Development Sub-
project or the performance of its obligations under the respective
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(e)   (i) maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and
financial condition; (ii) have its financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank; (iii) furnish to the Borrower and the Bank,
as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months
after the end of each such year certified copies of said financial
statements and accounts for such year as so audited, and the report
of such audit by said auditors in such scope and detail as the
Borrower or the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iv)
furnish to the Borrower or the Bank such other information
concerning said records, accounts and financial statements as well
as the audit thereof as the Borrower or the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request.


﻿- 31 -
SCHEDULE 6
Accreditation Criteria
Participating Banks shall be accredited for participation in
the Institutional Development Program if they are able to meet, and
maintain conformity with, all applicable prudential standards
established by the CBR, and the following additional criteria, based
on internationally recognized norms for evaluating commercial banks:
A.    Capital Adequacy
1.    Maintaining a total capital to risk-adjusted assets ratio of
4 percent in 1994 and reaching a total capital to risk-adjusted
assets ratio of 8 percent by 1998, applying risk-weightings
satisfactory to the Bank.
2.    Maintaining minimum equity capital of $5 million equivalent.
3.    Realistically provisioning for possible loan      losses  in
accordance with CBR instructions and international standards.
B.    Profitability
Demonstrating financial solvency and profitability as measured
by net income (adjusted for inflation and loan loss provisions in
accordance with international accounting standards) providing a
positive return on assets during the previous two years.
C.    Quality of Lending Process and Loan Portfolio
1.    Limiting maximum exposure to a single borrower and its
connected parties to 50 percent of equity capital in 1994; and then
to 35 percent in 1995 and 25 percent in 1996.
2.    Limiting maximum aggregate large exposures (defined as any
credit and off-balance sheet exposures to a single party exceeding
10 percent of bank's equity capital) to 12 times equity capital in
1994; and subsequently to 10 times in 1995 and 8 times in 1996.
3.    Maintaining single loans to shareholders/directors at less
than 30 percent of capital and the aggregate total of such loans at
100 percent of capital in 1994; these percentages would subsequently
decrease to 10 percent and 20 percent by 1998.


﻿- 32 -
4.    Maintaining a loan portfolio of which (i) no more than 20
percent has been rescheduled (excluding working capital financing of
up to 90 days of sales), and (ii) less than 5 percent has been
rescheduled more than once.
5.    Actively engaging in lending.
6.    Maintaining a total collection rate (total amount of current
and overdue principal and interest collected as a percentage of
current and overdue amounts due in the year, calculated before loan
reschedulings) greater than 85 percent.
7.    Limiting the remaining principal value of loans in arrears to
8 percent of the total portfolio and the remaining principal value
of loans in arrears for a period exceeding 12 months to 2 percent of
the total portfolio.
8.    Maintaining a minimum 1:1 ratio between loan loss provisions
and the sum of doubtful and loss assets, where "doubtful assets" are
those where collection or liquidation in full is highly improbable
and "loss assets" are those considered uncollectible.
9.    Maintaining   an  interest   rate  structure  reflecting   a
satisfactory assessment and monitoring of risk and return.
10.   Demonstrating a satisfactory set of policies and practices for
assessing the environmental effects of projects it finances.
D.    Resource Mobilization and Liquidity
1.    Sourcing no more than 10 percent of loan funds from directed
credits  (credit  allocated   according  to  Government's  special
decision).
2.    Maintaining a non-inter-bank loans to non-inter-bank deposits
ratio of less than 80 percent.
E.    Managerial Autonomy
Demonstrating   substantial  managerial   autonomy  to   the
satisfaction of the World Bank, EBRD, MOF, and the CBR through: (a)
sources of funds, (b) legal and ownership structure, (c) composition
of and locus of authority for appointment of Board of Directors, (d)
management and staff selection and promotion policies and practices,
and (e) loan approval procedures (equal treatment of shareholders


﻿- 33 -
and non-shareholders and the absence of shareholders on the credit
committee).
F.    Management Effectiveness
Demonstrating adequate policies, procedures, and performance
in the following functional areas: (a) market strategy, (b)
organizational structure, (c) credit, (d) financial management (ALM,
foreign exchange, accounting), (e) planning and budgeting, (f)
internal audit, (g) management information systems, and (h)
training.
G.    Private Sector Orientation
1.    Demonstrating a significant level of lending to the private
sector.
2.    Demonstrating significant share ownership by private sector.
H.    Exemptions for Banks in Special Circumstances
Banks not meeting one or several of the above criteria may
still be accredited for participation in the Project provided that
they agree with MOF on a plan of action for addressing their
deficiencies and an explicit set of targets for monitoring their
progress in meeting the accreditation standards.


﻿- 34 -
SCHEDULE 7
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1 (i),
1 (iii), (2), (3), and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term   "Authorized Allocation" means an    amount
equivalent to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
deposits into the Special Account at such
intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the


﻿- 35 -
documents and other evidence required pursuant
to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
or payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request,
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been
shown by said documents and other evidence to
have been paid out of the Special Account for
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence shc.wing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
(b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date


﻿- 36 -
of such notice will be utilized in making payments f or eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Bark shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
VOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CER TIFICATE
I herehy certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
ihe original in the arehives of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development.
FOR SECRETARY


