Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18419
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
ISTANBUL WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(Loan No. 2888-TU)
September 22, 1998
Infrastructure Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Yearly Averages)
Currency Unit                          Turkish Lira
1987       -              855        =         US$ 1.00
1988       -            1,421        =         US$ 1.00
1989       -            2,120        =         US$ 1.00
1990       -            2,606        =         US$ 1.00
1991       -            4,168        =         US$1.00
1992       -            6,864        =         US$ 1.00
1993       -           10,965        =         US$ 1.00
1994       -           29,668        =         US$ 1.00
1995       -           45,731        =         US$ 1.00
1996       -           80,785        =         US$ 1.00
1997       -          150,000        =         US$ 1.00
1/31/98 Closing Date   218,600       =         US$ 1.00
WVEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System                      US System
1 hectare (10,000 square meters)   2.47 acres
I meter                            39.37 inches
1 square meter                     10.76 square feet
1 cubic meter                      264 US gallons
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1st to December 31st
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ISKI       -      Istanbul Water and Sewerage Administration
DSI        -      State Hydraulic Works
IB         -      Iller Bankasi
SAR        -      Staff Appraisal Report
SPO        -      State Planning Office
KHGM       -      General Directorate of Rural Services
PMU        -      Project Management Unit
PPF        -      Project Preparation Facility
Mm3               Million m3
Vice President:  Johannes F. Linn, ECA
Country Director:  Ajay Chhibber, ECCO6
Sector Director:  Ricardo A. Halperin, ECSIN
Sector Leader:  Walter A. Stottmann, ECSIN
Team Leader:  Bemardo Gomez, ECSIN



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
ISTANBUL WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(Loan No. 2888-TU)
CONTENTS
PREFACE .......................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..........................................
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE                  ........................................1
A. Introduction ........................................1
B. Project Objectives ........................................2
C. Project Financing Plan .........................................3
D. Implementation Experience ........................................4
E. Project Accomplishments                                     .7
F. Factors Affecting Outcome ......................9
G. Assessment of Outcome .......................                                                   
H. Borrower Performance                  ..................... 12
I. Bank Performance .....................                                                        12
J. Sustainability ...........13
K. Future Operations ......................                                                      13
L. Lessons Learned ......................                                                        14
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES .....................                                                15
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments .16
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits .18
Table 3:  Project Timetable .19
Table 4:      Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and ActuaL .19
Table 5A:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation .20
Table 5B:  Status of Completion and Operation .21
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation .22
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project .22
Table 8A: Project Costs.                                                                         23
Table 8B: Project Financing .23
Table 9:  Project Costs and Benefits .24
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants .25
Table 11:   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .26
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .26
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions .27
Table 14:  ISKI's Income Statements (1987-1997) .28
Table 15:    ISKI Balance Sheets (1987-1997) ...................... 29
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Table 16A:  ISKI Key Indicators for Project Performance and Operation (1987-1994) ................ 31
Table 16B:  ISKI Key Indicators for Project Performance and Operation (1994-1997) ................ 32
APPENDICES:
A. Mission's Aide-Memoire
B. Borrower Contribution to the ICR
C. Borrower Comments to the Draft ICR
D. Maps: IBRD 29702 & 29703



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
ISTANBUL WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(Loan No. 2888-TU)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Istanbul Water and
Sewerage Project in Turkey, for which Loan No. 2888-TU in the amount of US$218.0
million equivalent was approved on December 1, 1987 and made effective on February 23,
1988.
The loan was closed on January 31, 1998, compared to the original closing date of
December 31, 1995 after two extensions of one year each and a final extension of one
month. The last disbursement took place on July 31, 1998. US$215.5 million of the loan
was disbursed and US$2.5 million cancelled.
The ICR was prepared by Daniel Coyaud (ECSIN), Alptekin Orhon (ECCTR) and
Herman Nissenbaum (Consultant). It is based on material in the project file. The Borrower
contributed to the ICR by preparing its own evaluation of the project implementation, and
by commenting on the draft ICR. The Guarantor also commented on the draft ICR.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
ISTANBUL WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(Loan No. 2888-TU)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    Introduction. In the 1 980s, the Republic of Turkey set improvement targets for
water supply and sewerage, for which the Government raised sector investment from 5
percent of the total public investment program in 1984 to 9 percent over 1985-89. Water
and sewerage targets established by the Government were: (i) by 1990, the total urban
and rural population should have adequate water supplies; (ii) by 1990, the total rural
population should have satisfactory excreta disposal facilities; and (iii) by 2000, the total
urban population should have satisfactory sewerage and sewerage disposal facilities.
Accordingly, the Istanbul Water Supply and Sewerage General Directorate (ISKI)
undertook a program to meet the city's rapid growth and remedy service deficiencies.
T'he sewerage components of the Project would continue the pollution abatement program
initiated under the Istanbul Sewerage Project (Loan 2159-TU).
2.    Project Objectives. Project objectives were to: (a) improve and extend sewerage
services to 75 percent of Istanbul by 1996; (b) enhance sewage disposal in order to
protect the waters and shorelines of the Sea of Marmara and the Bosphorus; (c) reduce
unaccounted-for water; and (d) strengthen ISKI's operations, maintenance and industrial
waste management capacities. Its project components included: (a) Water distribution -
replacement of some 1,200 km of water pipes; rehabilitation of some 20 pumping
stations; installation of a supervisory control system; (b) Sewage collection and
treatment - construction/rehabilitation of pumping stations, collectors, treatment plants in
five drainage zones; construction of about 2,500 km of street sewers; and installation of
about 330,000 service connections; and (c) Technical Assistance for institutional
development.
3.    The Project, with a total cost of US$557 million, was only part of ISKI's over-
ambitious 1987-94 investment program amounting to US$3.1 billion, including physical
investments and working capital requirements. The Project was ambitious as it called for
building four sewerage treatment plants while ISKI was only building one when the
Project began (and it was also still executing the Sewerage Project (Loan 2159-TU)). In
addition, only a year after Loan 2888-TU was signed, the Project was enlarged to assume
substantial unfunded works from the previous Bank-financed project. The combination
of these investments proved to comprise an unduly heavy workload, straining ISKI's
financial and implementation capacity. Also, ISKI was then still maturing after its
establishment in 1981.



- iii -
4.    Implementation Experience. After several important components started and
proceeded satisfactorily, the works slowed after local elections and changes in ISKI's
management team in 1989. More active project execution proceeded in the next year. At
the same time, however, ISKI's finances deteriorated and it launched an aggressive policy
in 1991 to increase its customer base. This succeeded, but the new practice also triggered
deteriorating collections, illegal connections and invalid billings which began to crimp
revenues. This led to increased short term borrowings and arrears on supplier and
contractor payments and affected the availability of counterpart funding for the Project.
Severe droughts in the early 1990s also depressed water sales and increased operating
costs. In 1993, matters became even more disrupted with the imprisonment of ISKI's
General Director on corruption charges, after which most project activity stopped for
almost 1 1/2 years.
5.    In mid-1994, sewage treatment was considerably behind schedule and it was clear
that only part of the planned facilities could be completed by the scheduled end CY95
Closing Date. Unaccounted-for water had not been reduced and financial problems had
grown. Operating costs had more than doubled since 1987 and there had been significant
tumover in ISKI's Board and in its managerial and professional staff. These deteriorating
conditions led to a mid-term Bank review.
6.    This review concluded that the Project was too ambitious as ISKI was unable to
mobilize the necessary counterpart funds and also lacked implementation capacity.
Agreements were made to scale down the scope of the Project. A new action plan recast
ISKI's financial and operational performance targets, calling for phased: (a) reductions in
operation ratios and unaccounted-for water; (b) increases in tariffs, in the percentage of
completion of remaining works, and in self-financing; and (c) reductions of accounts
receivable and increases in the debt service coverage ratio. At the same time, the Loan's
Closing Date was extended to end CY96 and the Bank assumed a larger share of project
costs. After this, ISKI provided sufficient counterpart funds to carry out the scaled-down
Project scope, and project implementation generally improved.
7.    Project Accomplishments. The Project fell short of achieving its originally
intended goals for major civil works, and institutional and financial strengthening. Three
new sewage treatment plants were built out of four originally planned and partial
improvements in two drainage zones were carried out. Replacement of water supply
pipes and pumps occurred two years late with longer delays on works in three drainage
zones. Progress on other aspects is indicated in the following figures for 1987 and 1997
respectively:
* The sewerage network's length was increased some 45 percent, from 5,650 km to
8,191, slightly more than the amount estimated during appraisal. The provision of
sewerage services increased from coverage of 55 percent of the population to 65
percent, appreciably less than the targeted 75 percent. The volume of



-iv -
appropriately treated sewage disposed of increased from 57Mm3/year in 1989 to
133 Mm3/year in 1997.
* ISKI's customers increased 150 percent (from 1.0 to 2.5 million). The number of
employees/thousand water connections fell from 6.3 to 3.0. The number of firms
monitored for wastewater discharges more than doubled, rising from 3,245 to
8,341, a multiple of the SAR target. At the beginning, there were no industrial
waste discharge permits in force; at the conclusion there were 582.
8.    Relatively little was accomplished on the planned institutional development
although ISKI did successfully absorb the Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition
System (SCADA). The entity also carried out useful studies on the Yenikapi effluent
discharge, on expansion of the Istanbul sector master plan, and on alternative treatment
plants. The first mentioned responded to the reservations raised about sewage disposal
into the Bosphorus. It successfully supported the design of the outfalls (built under the
prior project) and the Bank's reluctance to finance secondary treatment facilities, due to
lack of economic justification.
9.    The Project's internal rate of return (together with ISKI's other investments during
the period) was 6.4 percent, half of the forecast 13.6 percent result. This rate of return,
however, does not take into account the full economic benefits of the project as it does
not reflect positive externalities such as property value increases, and health and
productivity gains.
10.   Factors Affecting Outcome. ISKI was intended to be fully autonomous and
administratively self-sufficient--but instead it became part of the Istanbul political
structure. It is governed by the Metropolitan Municipal Council of which, Istanbul's
Mayor is the Chairman. The Council appoints all Board members, approves ISKI's
investment plans, budgets, staffing, tariffs and borrowings, while the Board approves
operating rules and senior staff appointments. This governance structure successfully
engaged local interests into sector operations. Unfortunately, it also exposed the entity to
partisan, often short-term, political influences which stood against establishing a clear
commercial orientation for the utility and caused discontinuities in ISKI's staff and
repeated project delays.
11.   Another aspect which adversely affected the project outcome concerned ISKI's
finances, as the provisions in the project financing plan (ISKI's 1987-94 financing plan),
proved to be unduly optimistic, particularly regarding ISKI's internal cash generation. In
fact, ISKI's gross internal cash generation was less than one third the amount estimated at
appraisal (US$71 1.1 million actual vis-a-vis 2,520.0 million estimated at appraisal). This
shortfall was mainly the result of actual water sales (1.9 million m3 ) substantially below
appraisal estimates (3.4 billion m3). Other estimates were also on the "optimistic side",
although by a lesser margin; actual revenues per m3 sold: $0.84 actual vis-a-vis US$0.91
estimated at appraisal, and total operating costs during the period: US$1.0 billion actual -
vis-a-vis US$0.9 billion estimated at appraisal.



12.   Assessment of Outcome. The Project's results were mixed. The positive
outcomes were significant: increasing wastewater collection coverage; increasing the
volume of treated wastewater discharged in the Bosphorous and Sea of Marmara which
helped the environment; reducing the number of employees per water connection; and
more effectively enforcing the compliance with regulations on wastewater discharge.
However, the Project did not fully achieve its objectives as not all the works planned
were satisfactorily completed or on time. In addition, the agreed institutional
strengthening measures fell short of what was required and their poor implementation
failed to stem the problems that ISKI confronted. On balance, what was accomplished
was positive, especially under the circumstances of an over-dimensioned project and
over-estimated executing agency's implementation capacity. Ideally, the project should
be rated as "marginally satisfactory." However, since such a category does not exist in
the evaluation process, in a conservative judgement the project is rated "unsatisfactory."
13.   ISKI's limited sewerage accomplishments had some explanation, as ISKI focused
more on water supply vis-a-vis sewerage improvements in the wake of the extended
droughts through 1994, and in view of rapid population growth.
14.   Borrower Performance. The Borrower's performance under the Project was
uneven. Difficulties in project implementation during the initial years (1989-93) included
mounting operating costs, poor bill collection and undesirable project design changes.
ISKI had also poor project planning and cost accounting. After the 1994 project
restructuring, however, ISKI's performance improved. This was evident in the better
conduct and pace of project implementation, and ISKI's rigorous pursuit of stronger
finances, e.g., abolition of the free water program, temporary forgiveness on late bills'
interest, containing operating costs, substantially increased water billings and reductions
in unaccounted-for water.
15.   Bank Performance. The Bank's performance was similarly mixed. It correctly
identified the critical development requirements at the outset but failed to identify and
address adequately the main institutional issues that stood in the way of a sound
commercial operation. The overestimation of water sales was a major deficiency of the
project appraisal, as it led to the endorsement of an investment program that was not
financially sustainable. The staff made suitable judgments on location of the large
sewage interceptors and sewage treatment plants, as well as preliminary designs of
treatment processes. The mid-term mission produced valuable stocktaking and course
redirection (although its occurrence in the last year of a scheduled 8-year project
execution period was tardy). During 1988-1992, the Bank could have held more
supervision missions to address problems such as low tariffs, inadequate collection of
bills and accounting deficiencies.
16.   Sustainability. Project sustainability is uncertain. ISKI, on the one hand, has
gained significant experience in the development and operation of water and sewerage



- vi -
infrastructure. It also has shown the capability to increase water and sewerage service
coverage in a rapidly growing city like Istanbul. ISKI has also accumulated a valuable
knowledge of the environmental issues affecting the city, and of the most appropriate
solutions to these issues. ISKI, on the other hand, continues confronting serious
institutional and financial weaknesses, which raise concerns about the likelihood of the
entity being able to adequately operate and expand the existing infrastructure. A
fundamental concern relates to the continued vulnerability of ISKI to the impact of
political changes in city government. Ultimately, a sustainable sound operation will
require fundamental changes in ISKI's governance structure.
17.   Future Operations. There are no plans for a Bank-financed follow-up project.
The Bank did offer to consider a project in connection with significant institutional
changes, e.g., private participation in service operation and delivery. This did not evoke a
positive response.
18.   Lessons Learned.
(i)    Utilities that are only nominally autonomous, and are subject to partisan,
often short-term political interests are unlikely to provide good quality
services on a sustainable basis. These fundamental issues need to be fully
resolved before Bank lending is provided. Alternatives to unsatisfactory
governance should be sought and implemented. The selected alternative
should ensure that the utility's board is directly accountable to broad
segments of the society, and not only to short-term elected or appointed
officials, and that the Board and management have adequate incentives,
job security, and autonomy. Available alternatives range from full
privatization of the services to public utilities with boards of directors
selected by a variety of municipal stakeholders such as non-governmental
organizations, business associations, universities, research centers and
municipal authorities;
(ii)   Projects where the planning assumptions regarding the values of
significant variables such as revenues and costs are on the "optimistic
side" are likely not only to experience financial difficulties during
implementation but also to yield lower than expected economic and
financial rates of return. Project appraisal should ensure that the
assumptions are realistic and that contingency plans are drawn for coping
with deviations from the most likely range of outcomes. The range of
outcomes with their respective probabilities, however subjective, should
be listed in the appraisal document;
(iii)  It is highly risky to attempt to compensate for past under-investment in
and neglect of water and sewerage services by undertaking investment
programs which are overly ambitious in relation to the utility's proven
managerial and financial capabilities. Project appraisal should make sure



- vii -
that required investments are adequately staged and that Bank loans
generally finance only those investments that can be realistically
implemented during the grace period of the loan;
(iv)   The decision process regarding the design and location of sewage
treatment plants should include early consultations with affected
populations, and all issues regarding final site selection should be fully
sorted out before Board presentation; and
(v)   A timely mid-term review could have assisted in addressing some of the
major project issues and project outcomes. At the time of project
preparation, mid-term reviews were not Bank requirements and one was
not planned in the initial project design.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
ISTANBUL WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(Loan No. 2888-TU)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. INTRODUCTION
1.    In the 1980s, the Republic of Tirkey set improvorment targets for water supply
and sewerage, for which the Government raised sector investment from 5 percent of the
total public investment program in 1984 to 9 percent over 1985-89. Water and sewerage
targets established by the Government were: (i) by 1990, the total urban and rural
population should have adequate water supplies; (ii) by 1990, the total rural population
should have satisfactory excreta disposal facilities; and (iii) by 2000, the total urban
population should have satisfactory sewerage and sewerage disposal facilities.
2.    As a part of this effort, the Istanbul Water Supply and Sewerage General
Directorate (ISKI) undertook a large investment program to meet the challenges
presented by the city's rapid growth and to remedy serious service deficiencies.
Istanbul's population increase (4.3 percent per year average in 1980-85) had exceeded
new piped water connections since 1'983. ISKI's figures showed that only about 55
percent of the 5.7 million city residents was connected to public sewerage facilities. In
addition, metering of water production and usage was deficient and 50-60 percent of
estimated production was not billed (in part due to a generous program of "exemptions"
to a variety of consumers).
3.    ISKI's task moreover was complicated by the metropolis' terrain, which made it
difficult to dispose of sewage in ways protecting the waters and shorelines of the adjacent
Sea of Marmara and the Bosphorus. Istanbul's growth had overtaxed sector services,
resulting in unsatisfactory maintenance of old, frequently poorly built sewer lines and
septic tanks. Sewage was discharged into the nearest receiving waters, usually at the
shore lines, causing heavy pollution. About 90 percent of the sewage effluent still then
went untreated into the Golden Horn (a narrow inlet on the European side of Istanbul)
and the Marmara Sea; the remainder into the Bosphorus. These conditions caused such
problems as the contamination of the popular Marmara beaches which a long discussed,
repeatedly revised Istanbul Sewerage Plan sought to alleviate. It was decided to remedy
these difficulties by discharging treated sewage effluent into the Bosphorus and/or the
Sea through submarine outfalls.



-2 -
4.    This solution was however the subject of persistent popular doubts and debate in
the city, as were the design, site and output of various planned sewerage facilities. There
was then heightened environmental sensitivity in Istanbul, as evidenced by the
interventions of Turkish environmental authorities and scientists in the issues. A key,
often contentious subject was concern over whether the currents of the Bosphorus and the
Marmnara could dilute sewage effluent without environmental damage. The scientific and
engineering concept of the 1983 Istanbul Master Plan held that they would. But this was
challenged by ISKI's incoming administration after the 1989 elections on the basis of
some beliefs that the lower and upper Bosphorus currents mixed, thereby bringing
significant sewage volumes back into the Marmara. ISKI's environmental problems
moreover were worsened by the fact that its planned works sometimes affected congested
areas, often close to historic buildings.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
5.    Project objectives were to: (a) improve and extend sewerage services to 75
percent of Istanbul by 1995 from 55 percent in 1987; (b) to provide for appropriate
disposal of sewage in order to protect the waters and shorelines of the Sea of Marmara
and the Bosphorus; (c) reduce unaccounted-for water; and (d) strengthen ISKI's
operations, maintenance and industrial waste management capacities. The sewerage
components of the Project would continue the pollution abatement program initiated
under the Istanbul Sewerage Project (loan 2159-TU).
6.    The project components included:
(a)   Water distribution-replacement of some 1,200 km of water pipes in the
Asian distribution network; rehabilitation of some 20 pumping stations;
installation of a supervisory control and data acquisition system;
(b)   Sewage collection and treatment-construction/rehabilitation of pumping
stations, collectors, pre- and secondary treatment plants in five drainage
zones (Atakoy, Kucukcekmece, Tuzla, Kadikoy-Pendik and Uskudar);
construction of about 2,500 kIn of street sewers; and installation of about
330,000 service connection; and
(c)   Staff training, other technical assistance and equipment for ISKI's
institutional development.
7.    These constituted an ambitious volume of activity for ISKI, as reflected in the
Project's estimated US$557 million cost. Moreover, this was only a relatively modest
portion of the entity's overall US$3.1 billion investment program, including working
capital requirements, for the 1987-94 period. These investments were almost eight times
greater than its 1982-87 program. Similarly, Loan 2888-TU called for ISKI building four
sewage treatment plants while it was only building one when the Project began. Also, it
was still busily executing the Istanbul Sewerage Project (Loan 2159-TU), on which



-3 -
disbursements continued for almost two years after the new Loan became effective.
Moreover, only a year after Loan 2888-TU was signed, the Project was enlarged to
encompass the construction of some 15 km of sewage interceptors and tunnels from
Kabatas to Baltalimani, and a sewage treatment plant and sea outfall at the latter. (This
was a carryover from Loan 2159-TU, after a re-estimation of project costs turned out to
be erroneous, and newly added components lacked funding.) Unhappily, the combination
of these investrnents proved to comprise an unduly heavy workload, straining ISKI's
financial and implementation capacity.
8.    They also posed a formidable challenge for a relatively new, still maturing
institution. ISKI had only been established in 1981, in which process it had to merge 24
municipal systems besides Istanbul's. The appraisal team judged that its creation
successfully contributed to strengthening sector organization and commended the
institution for strengthening its management (which the SAR termed a "model" for the
Turkish sector), as well as its industrial waste control and training programs. The SAR
discussed other aspects of ISKI's operations without noting any weaknesses either,
although the project scheme did call for upgrading its operational capabilities. In keeping
with this favorable assessment, the SAR forecasts that ISKI's strength could help contain
the Project's financial risks of inadequate tariff hikes and cost overruns. The actual
project experience, however, demonstrated that these assessments were unduly favorable.
C. PROJECT FiNANCING PLAN
9.    Another aspect of project design which adversely affected the outcome concerned
ISKI's finances. The Loan was partly justified by the premise that it would reaffirm
"support for Istanbul's strong cost recovery policy for the sector." This followed from
the Government's intention (with Bank endorsement) in decentralizing water and
sewerage activity in 1980 to have locally generated funds cover an increasing part of
investments. This was founded in part on the belief that Istanbul's water sector had
substantially untapped financial capacity, which the Project would be a good vehicle for
testing. The change also reflected the concems of Central Government authorities about
containing Turkey's fiscal deficit.
10.   Consequently, ISKI's overall 1987-94 financial plan called for ISKI to internally
generate cash amounting to US$2.7 billion or 88 percent of total investments (US$3.1
billion, including working capital). To this end, the entity indicated that it intended to
maintain the average 1987 tariffs and other charges in real terms. The financial plan
called for ISKI financing 62 percent of the total cost of the Bank-financed project. The
funding plan thereby contrasted sharply with that in the Sewerage Project (Loan 2159-
TU), which originally called for ISKI's only covering operation and maintenance, and
debt service expenses. Loan 2888-TU's provisions accordingly did not involve any
Government contribution for project financing.
11.   Unfortunately, the provisions in ISKI's 1987-94 financing plan regarding internal
cash generation proved to be unduly optimistic as seen in the table below.



-4-
Actual         SAR
(1987-94)      (1987-94)
(US$ million)
Volume of Water Sold (million mi3)        1,913.0       3,426.0
Total Operating Revenues                  1,607.3       3,130.2
Total Operating Cost                        991.0        874.0
Net Income from Operations                  616.3       2,256.2
Depreciation                                 95.1        263.9
Gross Internal Cash Generation              711.4       2,520.1
Total Operating Revenue per m3 sold (US$)     0.84         0.91
Total Operating Cost per m-3 sold (US$)       0.52         0.26
12.   The shortfall in gross internal cash generation was mainly the result of actual
water sales substantially below appraisal estimates. The appraisal called for water sales
amounting to 3.4 billion m3 in 1987-94 while actual sales amounted only to 1.9 billion m3
or 56 percent of the appraisal estimate. This large difference in volume of water sold,
together with revenues per m3 sold slightly lower than expected (actual US$0.84 vis-a-vis
US$0.91 at appraisal) resulted in total operating revenues equivalent to about half of the
appraisal estimate (US$1.6 billion actual vis-a-vis US$3.1 estimated at appraisal). Actual
total operating costs (US$1.0 billion) were somewhat higher than appraisal estimates
(US$0.9 billion). The combined result of the shortfall in water sales and revenues per rn3
and the higher than expected operating cost was a reduction in ISKI's cash generation for
debt service and contribution to investments from US$2.5 billion estimated at appraisal to
US$0.7 billion actual.
D. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
13.    The implementation of the Istanbul Water Supply Project was uneven, with
substantially varied degrees of work activity. Several important components, e.g., the
Uskudar zone works and several large diameter sewers, the installation of a new
supervisory control and data acquisition systems (SCADA), started promptly on schedule
and proceeded satisfactorily. However, the works slowed after local elections and
changes in ISKI's management team in 1989. The new officials questioned the design
for disposal of pre-treated sewage in the lower current of the Bosphorus and the level of
treatmnent for the plants located on the Marmara Sea's shores (for the reasons indicated in
paras. 3-4). Fortunately though, more active project execution proceeded in the next year
when work on most of the main drainage areas resumed. This excluded the Kadikoy and
Baltalimani treatment plants whose proposed locations sparked other local disputes and
suggestions of different sites.
14.   At the same time, ISKI's financial situation became so weak that the entity's
management launched an aggressive policy starting in 1992 to increase its customer base



-5 -
and thus its revenues. The number of customers increased by 13 percent per annum
through 1993 compared to 3 percent earlier. However, the new practice also soon
triggered deteriorating bill collection, illegal connections and invalid billings which
began to crimp ISKI's revenues. This in turn led to the expediencies of increased short
term borrowings, arrears on supplier and contractor payments, and non-debt service. This
is reflected in ISKI's negative working capital (current assets minus current liabilities)
every year starting in 1990. Total current and overdue liabilities, which had increased
from US$72 million at the end of 1988 to US$207 million at the end of 1991 peaked at
US$469 million at the end of 1993. ISKI's current and overdue liabilities with Treasury
increased from US$8.5 million at the end of 1990 to US$45.4 million at the end of 1993.
The cash shortfalls also significantly weakened ISKI's ability to provide the requisite
counterpart funding for the Project, as well as increased its debt service burden.
15.  In the early 1990s, severe droughts depressed water sales and increased operating
costs. Furthermore, they lowered the levels of the raw water reservoirs on the European
side of the Bosphorus even more than usual, necessitating costly water imports and cloud
seeding. The situation caused ISKI to re-focus priorities and to allocate more resources
to water supply than sewerage.
16.   During 1990-93, the Bank and ISKI had additional disagreements on the design of
project works, which resulted in delays in project implementation. ISKI's operations
were even more disrupted in mid-1993 with the imprisonment of ISKI's General
Director, on corruption charges. The investigations which followed found improprieties
in certain contracts (none of which were related to Bank-supported procurement). During
the process, the entity's accounts were frozen for almost a year by the courts. The main
project execution activity stopped for almost a year and a half under an interim
management, while ISKI's creditworthiness also deteriorated.
17.   After several years of start-and-stop cycles and numerous deficiencies (especially
during 1989-93), the Bank classified the operation as a "problem project." Sewage
treatment was considerably behind schedule. It was clear that only part of the planned
facilities could be completed by the scheduled end CY95 Closing Date. Unaccounted-for
water had not been reduced and financial problems had grown. Operating costs had more
than doubled since 1987 (from US$0.34 to US$0.79 per m3 of water sold). For financial
reasons, the entity had terminated the contracts of the engineering firms supervising the
sewerage activities. It instead enlisted local universities to bolster ISKI's staff, which did
not provide an adequate replacement. ISKI was then only building the Tuzla sea outfall,
and the loan substantially lagged in its scheduled disbursements. All these worsening
conditions brought the Project's future course into examination, for which a late 1994
Bank mission conducted a mid-term review.
18.   The mission concluded that, as originally designed, the Project was too ambitious,
as ISKI was unable to mobilize the necessary counterpart funds and also lacked
implementation capacity to carry out the full scope of planned activity. It was agreed that
the Project should be scaled down and measures taken to improve ISKI's financial



- 6 -
situation while it reduced its debt. More realistic investment priorities were designed.
The number of sewage treatment plants to be built was cut from four to three (Uskudar,
Baltalimani and Tuzla), and all new work on two additional plants (Kadikoy and
K.Cekrmece) was eliminated. A 1994-97 Action Plan also recast ISKI's financial and
operational performance targets to bring improved functioning over the next three years.
19.   The 1994-97 Action Plan envisaged the completion of the Bank-financed project
with investments amounting to US$187.1 million, and investments outside the project
amounting to US$1.2 billion. The investment plan was to be financed largely (81
percent) through loans and to a lesser extent (19%) through internal cash generation.
Actual investments amounted to only US$483.6 million. The overall estimates of
internal cash generation were more realistic, although with substantial differences in
individual items between the Action Plan and actual results. For example, total operating
revenues were substantially overestimated, costs were also overestimated (this may, in
part, be explained by the evolution of inflation and exchange rates). The net result was
gross internal cash generation amounting to US$592.5 million vis-a-vis US$705.0 million
estimated in the Action Plan. The table below shows the comparison between the Action
Plan and actual results:
Actual     |   Action Plan
(1994-97)        (1994-97)
(US$ million)
Volume of Water Sold (million m3)          1,179.0          1,214.0
Total Operating Revenues                   1,037.6         1,602.0
Total Operating Cost                         519.1           958.0
Net Income from Operations                   518.5           644.0
Depreciation                                  74.0            61.0
Gross Intemnal Cash Generation               592.5           705.0
Total Operating Revenue per m3 sold (US$)      0.88            1.32
Total Operating Cost per m3 sold (US$)         0.44            0.79
20.   ISKI's 1994-97 investment and financing plan was accompanied by a set of
financial and operational performance parameters to bring about its improved
performance. The parameters involved items such as: (a) reductions in operation ratio, in
operating cost per m3 of water sold, and in unaccounted-for water; (b) increases in tariffs,
and in the percentage of completion of remaining works under the Bank-financed project;
and (c) increases in self-financing, collection ratio and debt service coverage ratios.
21.   An imaginative feature of the Action Plan defined rating criteria for these
parameters in terms of deviations against set goals and assigned different weights for
each parameter. ISKI and the Bank also agreed on the levels by which the resulting
scores would be considered adequate for purposes of gauging performance, against the
backdrop of pursuing 25-50 percent average improvements quarterly in the target areas.



This performance target system replaced the Loan's major financial covenants which
ISKI had been unable to fulfill (minimum self-financing of capital expenditures and
limits on accounts receivable). Table 16B includes the comparison between targets and
actual results for the parameters in the Action Plan.
22.   The Loan's Closing Date was extended to end CY96 with the possibility of a
subsequent additional year's financing with better project performance. The Bank
likewise agreed to assume a larger share of project costs. For its part, ISKI agreed to
augment the project supervision force by having the universities employ consulting firms
for complementary expertise, and they performed satisfactorily. After the restructuring,
ISKI also provided sufficient counterpart funds to carry out the reduced scope of the
Project. On the basis of the changes, project implementation generally improved
thereafter through the closing of the Loan on January 31, 1998.
E. PROJECT ACCOMPLISHMENTS
23.   The Project fell short of achieving its originally intended goals for major civil
works and for institutional and financial strengthening. Three new sewage treatment
plants were built out of four originally planned. The Atakoy works were not
implemented; the Zeytinbumu pumping station was rehabilitated outside of the Project;
Kucukcekmece was not implemented due to the substantial design and location changes
and it was agreed to exclude it from the Project since there was not enough funds
available to finance it. Kadikoy-Pendik drainage zones were only partly finished.
Replacement of water supply pipes and pumps occurred two years late, with even longer
delays on works in the Uskudar, K. Cekmece and other drainage zones. Some
components implemented (e.g., North Halic and Baltalimani zones) were added to the
original scheme while some equally new Tuzla works extended into 1998. But overall,
less was done than planned. Progress on other aspects is indicated in the following
figures on key yardsticks, which are stated with regard to 1987 and 1997 respectively
(ref. Table 6 for fuller details):
(a)   Water and Sewerage Operations
-- The sewerage network's length was increased some 45 percent, from
5,650 km to 8,191, slightly more than the amount estimated during
appraisal.
-- The number of sewerage connections rose from 521,000 (55 percent of
the populace) to 762,000 (65 percent), below the desired 75 percent.



- 8 -
-- The level of unaccounted-for water was reduced by half (60 percent to
30 percent). This fell short of the original project target of 23 percent but
surpassed the 38 percent goal set in the mid-term revisions.'
-- The volume of appropriately treated sewage disposed of in the
Bosphorus and the Sea of Marmara increased from 57/Mm3/year in 1989
to 133 Mm3/year in 1997 (no target for this objective was set at the outset).
-- ISKI's customers increased by 150 percent (from 1.0 to 2.5 million).
-- ISKI's operational and maintenance efficiency improved significantly
as the number of its employees/thousand water connections fell from 6.3
to 3.0.
-- The number of firns monitored for wastewater discharges more than
doubled, rising from 3,245 to 8,341, a multiple of the SAR target.
-- At the beginning of the project, there were no industrial waste discharge
permits in force; at the conclusion there were 582.
(b)    Finances
-- ISKI's self-financing percentage rose from 22 percent to 70 percent, in
contrast with the revised 31 percent target for 1997. But customer
contributions provided only eight percent of project financing instead of
the projected 15 percent.
-- The debt service coverage ratio rose from 1.60 to 2.38, better than the
2.27 goal set under the midterm revisions.
-- The operating margin (operating revenues per m3 sold minus operating
costs per m3 sold) rose from the equivalent of US$0.11 to US$0.78 per m3
sold, better than the target of US$0.71 for 1997.
24.    Relatively little was accomplished on the planned institutional development
although ISKI did successfully absorb the recommended supervisory control and data
acquisition system (SCADA), which now practically covers its entire water production,
1  Although some reduction in the unaccounted-for water level most likely took place during project
implementation, there is no readily available evidence to support remarkable achievements in this area.
This is particularly true for the claimed reduction between 1994 and 1997 (from 50 to 30 percent). The
substantial upward and downward variations during project implementation also suggest caution in using
these figures. A telling example of these variations is that the Staff Appraisal Report is based on 30
percent unaccounted-for water in 1987 with a target of 23 percent by the end of the Project in 1994. This
estimate was later revised to 60%, without satisfactory explanation.



- 9 -
transmission and distribution functions. Also, ISKI did avail itself of the technical
assistance resources to carry out useful studies on the Yenikapi effluent discharge,
expansion of the Istanbul sector master plan and pre-feasibility study of alternative
sewage treatment plants on the Asian side (ref. Table 7). The first mentioned study
responded to the reservations raised by ISKI's post-1989 management regarding sewage
disposal into the Bosphorus (ref. para. 13). The findings successfully confirmed the
design of the outfalls (built under the prior project) and supported the Bank's reluctance
to finance proposed secondary treatment facilities (although it was agreed to design the
Baltalimani plant for this possibility later).
25.    The internal rate of return of the Project combined with ISKI's other investments
during the project period was 6.4 percent or less than half of the forecast 13.6 percent
result. The rate of return was reestimated using the same methodology as in the SAR,
where incremental sales resulting from ISKI's overall investment program were taken as
an indicator of benefits for rate of return calculation. The methodology is weak for
several reasons. First, by relying on actual tariffs it fails to capture consumer surplus
benefits. Hence, it cannot be regarded as a measure of economic benefits. In addition,
the full economic benefits should take into account such important factors as resultant
property value increases, health improvements and productivity gains (which were not
calculated). However, all these qualifications cannot contest the finding that benefits
were significantly lower than expected, largely because sales volumes fell significantly
short of the projected level.
F. FACTORS AFFECTING OUTCOME
26.   One significant element in determining the Project's fate was ISKI's management
structure. It was created to be separate, fully autonomous and administratively self-
sufficient---but instead became enmeshed in the Istanbul political structure. It is
governed by the Metropolitan Municipal Council of which, Istanbul's Mayor is the
Chairman. The Council appoints all Board members, approves ISKI's investment plans
and budgets, staffing, tariffs and borrowings, while the Board approves operating
regulations and senior staff appointments. This management structure successfully
engaged local participatory interests into sector operations but, unfortunately, it also
exposed the company to the harmful effects of strong partisan, often short-term political
influences at the municipal level. These caused discontinuities in ISKI's staff (even
down to middle management levels) and disruption in its investment program. There
were repeated project implementation delays on the occasions of municipal elections, and
ISKI had four changes of administration during the 10-year period.
27.   Project implementation was also disrupted when ISKI's new 1989 management
team questioned the design of the planned facilities for sewage disposal, the degree of
treatment by the plant on the shores of the Marmara, and the locations of Kadikoy and K.
Cekmece sewage plants. This problem was compounded by ISKI's management's
failure during project preparation/execution to win the agreement of residents on the
location of the sewage treatment plants. There were also arguments over whether surface



- 10-
runoff sewage from the City was substantially retuniing to the Sea of Marmara, which
kindled demands for additional tests and analyses.
28.   The counterpart funding problems which plagued project execution suggest that
expecting ISKI to achieve financial self-sufficiency in a short period of time was
unrealistic, as it failed to consider social and political resistance to higher tariffs. The
Sewerage Project PPAR (Loan 2159-TU) reported on this aspect quite comprehensively,
examining ISKI's financial performance during roughly the same years as Loan 2888's.
Its conclusions are equally applicable here. It stressed that the institution early on
assumed a very large development program, and went through a rapid pace of buildup in
the 1980s. At the end of 1990, its financial statements showed growth rates in double
digits for all major components of its balance sheet and income statements in real terms
(save for share capital). However, these rates slowed markedly thereafter.
29.   Further, it may appear from statistics on ISKI's self-financing of capital
expenditures that the entity achieved the Central Government's objective of municipal
self-sufficiency. The figures are deceptive since they mask the underlying frequently low
level of investments in execution. In addition, the Central Government stepped in to
service most of ISKI's debt.
30.   Moreover, the PPAR for Loan 2159-TU demonstrated that ISKI's financial policy
in the late 1980s was to rely on borrowings to finance its investments (90.5 percent of
ISKI's 1986-90 investments were debt financed). It failed to adjust tariffs quarterly to
compensate for the large inflation at the time, and its annual hikes were generally below
the costs of services. ISKI did not make the required increases in 1987-89; managed to
do so in 1990-93 (save for 1992); but later failed to raise tariffs to the levels targeted for
1997 (both in real terms). On this, there is some belief that ISKI had no incentive to raise
its tariff levels at the same time that the Central Government was subsidizing large water
production operations in Istanbul without seeking any recovery of capital investments. It
might also have been difficult to do so simultaneously with the politically inspired free
water program that benefited a wide segment of the population and not only the poor as
originally intended. Other factors hindering cash generation included the overestimated
water sales projections and poor collections. In addition, ISKI's incomplete sewerage
improvements limited the cash contributions which would have come from real estate
developers' fees for the networks.
31.   ISKI's financial management did not progress to the same standards as its
technical side. It had persistent difficulties with billings as well as collections during the
Project's execution. Regrettably as well, its employment of a semi-private collection
agency midway through the project to improve matters was equally unsuccessful. ISKI
also was unable to achieve the covenanted confinement of accounts receivable to two
months billings.



- 11 -
32.   ISKI followed Bank's Procurement Guidelines in a satisfactory manner. ISKI,
however, was not satisfied with the Bank's requirements as it considers that the Bank is
not flexible enough in allowing the use of local procurement procedures (see ISKI's
assessment of project implementation - Appendix B). According to ISKI this lack of
flexibility results in higher contracting costs, as the contractors bid higher prices to
compensate for risks emerging from competing under a system (international bids) which
is not familiar to them. This assertion is not substantiated by ISKI.
33.   It is important to note that the Loan Agreement includes provisions for
procurement using local procedures and that these were followed for small contracts. In
those cases the Bank allowed provisions to facilitate the participation of local contractors.
These provisions include the use of Turkish in the contract when it is awarded to a local
contractor, and the use of the "discount rate system" under which the bidders quote on the
basis of a discount on the construction prices determined by ISKI.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
34.   Despite the favorable project outcomes reported in paras. 23-24, we rate the
Project as unsatisfactory. Clearly, the Project fell short of many of its original objectives;
not all the works planned were satisfactorily completed or done on time; and the financial
rate of return was lower than expected. In addition, the entity's management failed to
stem the problems that ISKI confronted during the project period. The rating does not
deny, however, that the entity did accomplish significant project goals, particularly
environmental improvements through increased volumes of sewage collection and
treatment, as well as improved monitoring of industrial waste discharges. In addition, the
Project scored some important related attainments, e.g., more than doubling ISKI's
customer base. On balance therefore, what was accomplished was quite important,
especially under the circumstances of an over-dimensioned project and over-estimated
strength of the executing agency. It also warrants noting that ISKI's efforts to develop
simultaneously water supply and sewerage (including secondary treatment facilities) was
bolder than many other developing countries' customary sector undertakings. Ideally, the
project should be rated as "marginally satisfactory." However, since such a category
does not exist in the evaluation process, in a conservative judgement the project could be
called "unsatisfactory."
35.   ISKI's partial sewerage accomplishments were not fundamentally caused by poor
performance but by a justifiable shift in priorities from sewerage to water supply to
respond to unforeseen circumstances--extended droughts, as well as higher than
anticipated population growth. After the prolongation of the droughts from the early
1990s through 1994, ISKI's management rightfully concentrated on mitigating its
perceived "water crisis." This situation also prompted the Central Government to step in
to finance large water supply production facilities (US$1.2 billion Melen scheme,
US$275 million for Yesilcay) during project execution. At the same time though, ISKI



- 12-
did err in undertaking operations for drainage rehabilitation and free water distribution,
and this may be traced to the flaws in its governance that are discussed in para. 26.
H. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
36.   The Borrower's performance was uneven. During 1989-93, its difficulties
included mounting operating costs, poor bill collection, unsatisfactory management of the
planned technical assistance, and undesirable design changes. Generally throughout as
well, ISKI had poor project planning and cost accounting. After the 1994 project
restructuring, ISKI's performance improved. This was evident in the better conduct and
pace of project implementation, e.g., the Baltalimani sewage treatment plant was built in
practically 18 months. Improvements were also notable in ISKI's relatively rigorous
effort to become more financially viable, e.g., the abolition of the free water program,
temporary forgiveness on late bills' interest, containing operating costs, substantially
increased water billings and the sharp reduction in unaccounted-for water.
I. BANK PERFORMANCE
37.   The Bank's performance was similarly of mixed quality. It correctly identified
the critical need to improve the provision of water supply and sewerage services in
Istanbul at the outset. The same applies to the judgments made on location of the large
sewage interceptors and sewage treatment plants, as well as the preliminary designs of
treatment processes.
38.   However, there were significant deficiencies too. The Bank erred during project
appraisal in accepting very unrealistic projections of water demand and consequently a
non-viable financing plan, particularly when the bulk of financing for ISKI's overall
investment plan was to be provided from internal cash generation. In addition, the
appraisal failed to realistically assess the failings in ISKI's governance, and its
vulnerability to short-term political concerns. Hence, our overall assessment of quality at
entry is poor.
39.   The optimism in the projections was debated within the Bank during project
processing but ultimately no adjustments were made to the water demand projections and
to the investment plan. The water demand projections were considered justified by the
arguments that there was substantial suppressed demand, real incomes were expected to
grow, and the proposed tariffs represented relatively modest fractions of disposable
income. In addition, the increased 1987 charges were accompanied by rate restructuring,
which was believed to ensure tariff affordability. In fact however, the project design did
not adequately provide for the contingency that eventuated: customers' refusal to pay the
higher tariffs.
40.   Another shortcoming of the appraisal included the failure to carry out public
consultations regarding the location of the wastewater treatment plant, and to ensure that
all issues related to this were fully sorted out before the start of project implementation.



- 13 -
41.   In addition, it would have been prudent to help see the sector decentralization put
into effect with suitable safeguards. Especially pertinent ones would have been greater
precautions against financial shortfalls and overtaxing the fledgling entity. In the latter
connection, the decision to add the unfulfilled components of the Istanbul Sewerage
operation to this Project reflected questionable judgment as to ISKI's absorptive capacity.
These points moreover comprise an especially sorry record considering that the Bank had
been active in Turkey's water sector since the late 1960s. A few of these weaknesses
even transpired in the prior Sewerage Project.
42.   Implementation progress and problems were appropriately reported, and the
quality, skills mix and continuity of the Bank staff were good. The mid-term mission
provided a good example of how valuable this mechanism can be for stocktaking and
course redirection (although its occurrence in the last year of a scheduled 8-year project
execution period was tardy). In addition, the Bank directly provided constructive
technical assistance by developing a spreadsheet model for project monitoring, and
assisting ISKI's staff in maintaining it as a useful tool for project implementation. The
1994 action plan's rating scale for assessing project performance was likewise valuable.
During 1988-1992, the Bank could have held more supervision missions to address
problems such as low tariffs, inadequate collection of bills and accounting deficiencies.
J. SUSTAINABILITY
43.   Project sustainability is uncertain. ISKI, on the one hand, has gained significant
experience in the development and operation of water and sewerage infrastructure. It also
has shown the capability to increase water and sewerage service coverage in a rapidly
growing city like Istanbul. ISKI has also accumulated a valuable knowledge of the
environmental issues affecting the city, and of the most appropriate solutions to these
issues. ISKI, on the other hand, continues confronting serious institutional and financial
weaknesses, which raise concerns about the likelihood of the entity being able to
adequately operate and expand the existing infrastructure. A fundamental concern relates
to the continued vulnerability of ISKI to the impact of political changes in city
government. Ultimately, a sustainable sound operation will require fundamental changes
in ISKI's governance structure.
K. FUTURE OPERATIONS
44.   There is not now any plan for a follow-up project. The Bank did advise ISKI and
local authorities that one could be considered in connection with significant changes in
the institutional structure for Istanbul's water and sewerage activity, such as private
participation in service operation and delivery. There has not been a positive response to
this proposal.



- 14-
L. LESSONS LEARNED
45. The lessons learned from this experience are:
(i)    Utilities that are only nominally autonomous and are subject to partisan,
often short-term political interests are unlikely to be able to provide good
quality services on a sustainable basis. These fundamental issues need to
be fully resolved before Bank lending is provided. Alternatives to
unsatisfactory governance arrangement should be sought and
implemented. The selected alternative should ensure that the utility's
board is directly accountable to broad segments of the society, and not
only to short-term elected or appointed officials, and that the Board and
management have adequate incentives, job security, and autonomy.
Available alternatives range from full privatization of the services to
public utilities with boards of directors selected by a variety of municipal
stakeholders such as non-governmental organizations, business
associations, universities, research centers and municipal authorities;
(ii)    Projects where the planning assumptions regarding the values of
significant variables such as revenues and costs are on the "optimistic
side" are likely not only to experience financial difficulties during
implementation but also to yield lower than expected economic and
financial rates of return. Project appraisal should ensure that the
assumptions are realistic and that contingency plans are drawn for coping
with deviations from the most likely range of outcomes. The range of
outcomes with their respective probabilities, however subjective, should
be listed in the appraisal document;
(iii)   It is highly risky to attempt to compensate for past under-investment in
and neglect of water and sewerage services by undertaking investment
programs which are overly ambitious in relation to the utility's proven
managerial and financial capabilities. Project appraisal should make sure
that required investments are adequately staged and that Bank loans
generally finance only those investments that can be realistically
implemented during the grace period of the loan;
(iv)   The decision process regarding the design and location of sewage
treatment plants should include early consultations with affected
populations, and all issues regarding site selection should be fully sorted
out before Board presentation; and mid-term reviews should be held in a
timely manner. In 1987, however, mid-term reviews were not Bank
requirement and one was not planned in the initial project design. In
September, 1994, however, a mid-term review was carried out and
assisted in restructuring the project design.
(v)    A timely mid-term review could have assisted in addressing some of the
major project issues and project outcomes. At the time of project
preparation, mid-term reviews were not Bank requirements and one was
not planned in the initial project design.



- 15 -
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments
Table 2:    Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:    Project Timetable
Table 4:    Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5A:    Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 5B:    Status of Completion and Operation
Table 6:    Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:     Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:    Project Costs
Table 8B:    Project Financing
Table 9:    Project Costs and Benefits
Table 10:    Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:    Bank Resources: Missions
Table 14:    ISKI's Income Statements (1987-1997)
Table 15:    Balance Sheets (1987-1997 as of December 31)
Table 16A:   Key Indicators for Project Performance and Operation, 1987-1994
Table 16B:   Key Indicators for Project Performance and Operation, 1994-1997



-16-
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives     Substantial  Partial  Negligible  Not applicable
()         ()         ()            ()
Macro Policies                 D          D1       D:1            x
Sector Policies                D          D         D             [}
Financial Objectives           D                    Dg            D- 
Institutional Development      D                                  E Z]
Physical Objectives                       x X                     D :
Poverty Reduction             EZ          EE El
Gender Issues                 El           l        E             [
Other Social Objectives       El          E         Cl
Environmental Objectives                  El        FII           El
Public Sector Management      E           E         E]            x
Private Sector Development    E           E         El
B.    Project Sustainability  Likely        Unlikely         Uncertain
()           ()                ()
C.   Bank Performance         Highly        Satisfactory     Deficient
satisfactory
Identification             l                             El 
Preparation                l             E               X
Appraisal                E              E l
Supervision              E                               E l



- 17 -
D.    Borrower Performance     Highly         Satisfactory     Deficient
satisfactory
Preparation                C                               D
Implementation             D              D
Covenant Compliance       D               DI               X
Operation                                F                El
E.    Assessment of Outcome     Highly      Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory   Highly
satisfactory                             satisfactory
FEl            El           Fx1        El



- 18-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title                    Purpose                       Year       Status
Preceding Operations
Credit 324-TU Istanbul Urban   To provide assistance for the       1972   Closed
Development Project            preparation of an urban development
program and urban transportation/land
model
844-TU                         Expansion of water supply system for    1972   Closed in 1981
Istanbul Water Supply          Istanbul and set up a regional water        PAR No. 4853.1983
supply & sewerage authority
2159-TU                        Expansion of sewerage system,       1982   Closed in Dec./1988
Istanbul Sewerage I            including sewerage treatment, for the old
area of Istanbul and strengthen the        PCR No 10114, Nov/91
water supply & sewerage authority
(ISKI)
2537-TU                       Preparation studies for the Cukurova  1985   Closed
Cukurova Region Urban          Urban Development Project
Engineering Project
2818-TU                        Water supply, sewerage and sewage   1987   Closed in Dec.1995
Izmir Water Supply and Sewerage  treatment facilities for Izmir            ICR No.15958,
Project                                                                    8/1996
2819-TU                       Urban infrastructure, improvement of    1987   Closed
Cukurova Urban Development    policies, institutional and financing
Project                        arrangements for the Cukurova region
Following Operations
3151-TU                       Sewerage and sewage treatment works    1989   Active
Ankara Sewerage Project       for Ankara
3565-TU                       Water supply, sewerage including     1993   Active
Bursa Water and Sanitation    sewage treatment
(Water supply and sewerage
component)
3893-TU                       Expansion of water supply, wastewater   1995   Active
Antalya Water Supply and      and drainage system, institutional
Sanitation Project            strengthening, private operator
participation, and changes in municipal
financial policies for Antalya
4315-TU                       Water supply, sewerage including     1998   Active
Cesme -Alacati Water          pre-treatment plant for
Supply and Sewerage Project    wastewater



- 19-
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle              Date Planned               Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification                               Early 1985                 Early 1985
Preparation                                     1985                    1985-1986
Appraisal                                     3/1987                     5/1987
Negotiations                                   9/1987                    10/1987
Board Presentation                           12/1/1987                  12/1/1987
Signing                                      12/10/1987                 12/10/1987
Effectiveness                                2/23/1988                  2/23/1988
Midterm Review                                                           9/1/1994
Project Completion                           12/31/1994                 3/31/1998
Loan Closing                                 12/31/1995                01/31/1998
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
Fiscal Year    Appraisal Estimate       Actual           Actual as % of Estimate
FY88              24.40                21.00                      86%
FY89              46.20                37.50                      81%
FY90              81.00                47.90                      59%
FY91             120.20                76.10                      63%
FY92             159.40               104.60                      66%
FY93             189.80               135.60                      71%
FY94             206.00               158.90                      77%
FY95             214.80               174.80                      81%
FY96             218.00               184.50                      85%
FY97             218.00               196.90                      90%
FY98             218.00               218.00                     100%
Date expected for last Disbursement:  July 31, 1998



- 20 -
Table 5A: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
I. Key Implementation Indicators in SAR
Implementation Period
Project Component                  Estimated in SAR                   Actual
TA & Training for Reduction of Water    1988-90       1993-94
Losses
Replacement of Pipes                   1988-94        1990-97
Pumping Stations                        1989-94       1992-93
SCADA                                  1987-89        1987-94
Large Diameter Sewer Pipes             1988-91        1988-97
Atakoy Drainage Zone                   1988-89        Component not implemented because of
change in design
K.Cekmece Drainage Zone                1988-92        Component started to be implemented, then
stopped. Treatment plant excluded frorm the
project after project restructuring
Kadikoy-Pendik Drainage Zone           1988-92        Component partially completed. Treatment
plant excluded from the project after project
restructuring
Tuzla Drainage Zone                    1988-93        1990-98. Estimated to be completed by end
of 1998
Uskudar Drainage Zone                  1988-90        1988-94
Street Sewers and Connections          1987-94        1988-92
Industrial Waste Management            1988-89        1991
Training
0 & M Equipment Purchase               1988-92        1990-94
II. ModifiedIndicators
Project Component                      Targeted                       Actual
Completion
North Halic and Baltalimani Drainage  By the end of 1997   Component added to the project in 1988.
Zone                                                  Completed by mid 1997
Tuzla Drainage Zones              By the end of 1997   Estimated by mid-1998



- 21 -
Table 5B: Status of Completion and Operation
Project components already completed, commissioned and satisfactorily operated:
(i) Uskudar: Sewage Collectors, Sewage Pre-treatment Plant (0.1 Mm3/day capacity) and Sea Outfall;
at North of the Golden Horn: Sewage Tunnels and Interceptors between Kabatas and Baltalimani (8.8 km long
with diameter from 3.2 to 3.6 m); the Baltalimani Sewage Pre-treatment Plant (0.4 Mm3/day capacity) and Sea
Outfall (two 1.7 m diameter, 430 m long pipes reach a depth of 70 m at the bottom of the Bosphorus);
(ii) Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) System, which covers practically the entire ISKI Water
Production, Transmission and Distribution System;
(iii) Replacement and laying of new water supply pipes of 100 mm and 150 mm diameter totaling a length of 1,380
km in the water distribution networks; and
(iv) Street sewers and customer connections to the sewerage system.
Components already completed but not commissioned because other works need first to be completed:
(i) Sea Outfall (2.2 diameter, 2.2 km long, and 46 m deep) at Tuzla which will be commissioned by September
30, 1998 once the Sewage Treatment Plant at Tuzla; and
(ii) First stage of the Dragos- Tuzla collector contract are completed.
Components still under construction:
Branch sewerage collectors North of the Golden Horn. The contract is about 95% completed and is expected to be
fully completed and operated by September 30, 1998.
(ii) Tuzla Sewage Treatment Plant (0.225 Mm3/day capacity) which is more than 97% completed and expected to
be fully completed and commissioned by September 30, 1998; and
(iii) Sewage Collectors and Tunnels at Orhantepe and Tuzla (40% completed). The first stage is expected to be
completed and operated by September 30, 1998, which would allow commissioning of the Tuzla Treatment Plant.
The second stage would be completed and operated by December 1998.
Note: The Moda Tunnel at Moda and Caddebostan-Bostanci Interceptor will be used only after the Sewage Pre-treatment Plant
at Kadikoy is financed and constructed, as agreed during restructuring of the project.



- 22 -
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
1987          1994                  1997
Key Indicators              Units                                    Estimated
Actual    Estimated  Actual  SAR  Restruc-  Actual
SAR                    turing
I. Water & Sewerage Operation
Water produced                       Mm3/y       447       693       389    789     540      570
Water sales                          Mm3/y       180       533       194    623     333      400
Unaccounted-for water percentage     %prod.     60%        23%      50%    21%      38%      30%
Water customers                      (000)       993       1,120    1,609  1,235            2,485
Water connections                     (000)      586                 776                     831
Total length sewer system             km        5650      6,100    7,038                     8,191
Total Population                      (000)     6,420     7,828     8,511  8,763             9400
Nbr.Population connected to sewerage    (000)   3,349     5,447            6,608             6110
% Population connected to sewerage     %        52%        70%      64%    75%               65%
Sewerage pre-treated                 Mm3/y        0                  75                     133 a/
Sewerage pre-treated per water sales   %         %                  39%                      33%
Year end employees                    (000)     6,217     7,200    7,078                    7,542
Employees per 1000 water customers    No         6.3       6.4       4.4                     3.0
I. Industrial Waste Management
Year end discharges permits in force   No         0        2,430     315                      582
Firms monitored                        No       3,245      2,900    5,956                    8,341
Year end employees                     No         37        85        95                      135
III. Financial Indicators
Total Operating Water & Sewerage    $/m3 sold   0.45       0.98      1.08            1.72     0.76
Average Cost                        $/m3 sold    0.34      0.32      0.56            1.01    0.30
Cost Coverage Ratio                    No        1.30      3.04      1.94            1.71    2.55
Collection Percentage                  %          61                  86             81       84
Debt Service Coverage Ratio                      1.60      6.00      0.58            2.27    2.38
Self-financing Percentage              %         324        106     (54.6)           32       70
a/ of which 89 Mm3/y are due to Yenikapi STP
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study           Purpose as defined         Status                   Impact of Study
At appraisal/redefined
Monitoring of       Not foreseen at        Implemented by        Monitoring confirmed that the
Yenikapi effluent    appraisal             Middle East Technical  assumptions used in the design of the
discharge at the                           University in 1992-93   effluents disposal system at the bottom
bottom of the                                                    of the Bosphorus were basically correct.
Bosphorus                                                                                         _
Master Plan for     Not foreseen at        Implemented by        The study assisted in defining Tuzla
Water               appraisal              International         Collectors and Connections of Sewer
Supply & Sewerage                          Consortium. Started    Collectors to North Halic Interceptors.
for Istanbul                               1993, expected to be    However, most of the benefits of the
completed by May 98  study are directed towards future
investments.
Pre-feasibility Study   Not foreseen at    Implemented by        Economical and technical comparison
for Alternative Asian  appraisal           TBP/UBM in 1990-93  of different sites to locate sewage
Side Sewage                                                      treatment plant on the Asian side, as
Treatment Plants                                                 alternative to the Kadikoy site.



- 23 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
Project      Project                      Actual
Appraisal    Amended         Actual       Overrun
Project Components               May 1987      Dec. 1988                      over
Amended
US$ million                        %
A. Water Distribution
1. Program reducing water losses             1.40          1.40          0.50         -64%
2. Replacement of pipes                     60.40         60.40         36.83         -39%
3. Pumping stations                         11.10         11.10          1.99         -82%
4. SCADA                                    13.50         13.50         25.40          88%
B. Sewerage System
Baltalimani                                               79.54         79.54          0%
Large Diameter sewer pipes                  26.40         26.40         26.62          1%
Atakoy drainage zone                         6.80          6.80          0.00         -100%
K. cekmece drainage zone                    70.90         70.90          12.01        -83%
Kadikoy-Pendik drainage zone               124.90        124.90         53.40         -57%
Tuzla drainage zone                         97.00         97.00         97.40          0%
Uskudar drainage zone                        9.20          9.20          9.91          8%
Street Sewers and Connections              118.60        118.60        201.19          70%
Land Acquisition                             2.70          2.70         20.36         654%
Local Staff and Supervision                 14.70         14.70         27.08          84%
C. Training and Equipment
Industrial waste management training         0.10          0.10          0.02         -80%
O & M Equipment purchase                    12.20         12.20         13.10          7%
Total                                   569.90        649.44         605.36         -7%
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimates          Actual/Latest Estimates
Item                     Total        Percent of        Total        Percent of
(US$ million)      Total       (US$ million)      Total
1. IBRD Loan                        218.0             38             218             36
2. ISKI Revenues from Sales         265.9             47            336              56
3. Customer Contributions            86.0             15             50               8
Total                               569.9             100            604            100



-24 -
Table 9: Project Costs and Benefits
Incremental Cost and Benefit Streams for Internal Rate of Return
Project Other            Sales   Sales   Incre-  Incremental Other          Average
Capital Capital Incremental w/o  with    mental Water      Operating Net    water    Operating
Costs  Costs  Operating  Program Program Sales  Revenues  Revenues Benefits Revenues Cost
Year $Mn   $Mn   Cost$Mn  Mm3   Mm3   Mm3  $Mn                   $Mn      $Mn   /rn3 sold $Mn
1987      2.8                                                                -2.8              56.4
1988     47.2   12.8        4.7  240    240         0                        -64.7             61.1
1989     31.4   24.4       16.3  240     268       28       11.8             -60.3    0.42     72.7
1990    100.7    3.0       93.5  234     234        0        0.0       0.0  -197.2    0.90    149.9
1991     84.2   53.1      111.1  225     297       72       81.4       2.0  -164.9    1.13    167.5
1992    118.9   72.7      135.3  216    270        54       48.1      70.0  -208.8    0.89    191.7
1993     60.8  190.8      141.4  208     266       58       69.6      42.0  -281.4    1.20    197.8
1994     16.3   73.0      37.5  194    194          0        0.0       6.0  -120.8    0.95      93.9
1995     16.8   58.6      70.5  186    256         70       53.9      57.0  -35.0    0.77    126.9
1996     38.3  118.1      73.6  179    329        150       120.0     44.0  -66.0    0.80    130.0
1997     26.3  136.2      37.9  172    400        228      152.8      37.0  -10.6    0.67       94.3
1998     46.9  197.1      69.5  165    460        295      206.5      28.0  -79.0    0.70    125.9
1999            20.0      69.5  158    460        302      241.6      28.0  180.1    0.80    125.9
2000            20.0       69.5  158    460       302      241.6      28.0  180.1    0.80    125.9
2001            20.0       69.5  158    460       302      241.6      28.0  180.1    0.80    125.9
2002            20.0       69.5  158    460       302      241.6      28.0  180.1    0.80    125.9
2003            20.0       69.5  158    460       302      241.6      28.0  180.1    0.80    125.9
2004            20.0       69.5  158    460       302      241.6      28.0  180.1    0.80    125.9
2005            20.0       69.5  158    460       302      241.6      28.0  180.1    0.80    125.9
2006            20.0       69.5  158    460       302      241.6      28.0  180.1    0.80    125.9
2007            20.0       69.5  158    460       302      241.6      28.0  180.1    0.80    125.9
2008            20.0       69.5  158    460       302      241.6      28.0  180.1    0.80    125.9
2009            20.0       69.5  158    460       302      241.6      28.0  180.1    0.80    125.9
2010            20.0       69.5  158    460       302      241.6      28.0  180.1    0.80    125.9
2011            20.0       69.5  158    460       302      241.6      28.0  180.1    0.80    125.9
2012            20.0       69.5  158    460       302      241.6      28.0  180.1    0.80    125.9
2013            20.0       69.5  158    460       302      241.6      28.0  180.1    0.80    125.9
2014            20.0       69.5  158    460       302      241.6      28.0  180.1    0.80    125.9
2015            20.0       69.5  158    460       302      241.6      28.0  180.1    0.80    125.9
Aamtn                                                  Re
Capital costs do not include:                   Rate of Return:                         0.06
(a) former projects completed in 1987-88.       Opportunity cost capital:               0.10
(b) works excecuted by DSI, not charged to ISKI  NPV of incremental costs:           1393.81   Million
After 1998 capital costs include renewal costs  Discounted volume of water:          1275.23    Mm3
to maintain the level of sales                  Average increm. cost of water:          1.09     $/m3
Incremental operating costs are cash operating cost increases
above the level of 1987.



- 25 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Turkey: Istanbul Water Supply and Sewerage Project
Agreement  Section   Covenant  Present    Original                Description of Covenant                    Comments
Type     Status   Fulfillment
D ate    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
LA      3.03 (a)      05        C    01/01/1995  Carry out an Action Plan, satisfactory to the    For the fourth quarter of
Bankfor the purpose of improving the          1997, ISKI scored a
Borrower's implementation of the Project and   weighted average of 3.3 out
its overall operational and financial        of a scale of 4 in terms of
performance.                                  achieving the agreed targets
for eight performance
parameters action plan.
LA      3.03 (b)      09        C     01/31/1995  Fumish to the Bank for review and approval,   Reports are produced on
a report on the progress achieved during said  time
quarter against the performance targets of the
Action Plan.
LA      3 (c) (d)     02       CP    01/31/1995  On the basis of forecasts review whether the    Measures are taken to
Borrower would meet the Action Plan           substantially meet all eight
performance targets for the next following   performance targets, except
quarter. Identify any measures that may be   tariff. ISKI can meet the
required to achieve these targets. Promptly   other fmancial performance
take all necessary measures (including,       targets because of
without limitation, adjustments of the        Government subsidies.
structure or levels of its rates) in order to meet Central Government is
the Action Plan performance targets.         serving most of ISKI's debt
service and is fmancing most
of investments required for
future water production
facilities.
LA      5.01 (b)      01        C     06/30/1989  Independent audit of accounts and financial    The 1996 accounts of ISKI
statements and audited financial statements    have been audited. The
with auditor's report should be sent to the   auditors were no able to
Bank.                                         express an opinion because
of deficiencies in the
accounting, commercial and
intemal control systems.
ISKI is taking action to
implement the auditors
recommendations.
LA        5.04        02        C                 Consult with the Bank prior to contracting any  None
long-term debt exceeding in the aggregate:
(a)US$5million in any fiscal year; and (b)
US$250 million after date of the Loan
-Agreement.
LA      Sched. 5      09       CP    02/28/1989  Prepare semi-annual reports on (i) financial    Reports were too succinct.
& 5.04                                   status; (ii) progress of project implementation;
(a)                                    (iii) monitoring indicators; and (iv) updated
description of future investments.
Covenant types:                                       7. = Involuntary resettlement                   Present Status:
1. = Accounts/audits                                 8. = Indigenous people
2. = Financial performance/revenue generation from    9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting           C = covenant complied with
beneficiaries                                     10. = Project implementation not covered by     CD = complied with after delay
3. = Flow and utilization of project funds                 categories 1-9                              CP = complied with partially
4. = Counterpart funding                              I1. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other  NC  not complied with
5. = Management aspects of the project or executing agency  resource allocation
6. = Environmental covenants                          12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/ regulatory/
institutional action



-26 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
There is no evidence of non-compliance.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                 Actual
Stage of Project Cycle      Weeks    US$ (000)    Weeks    US$ (000)
Preparation to Appraisal              Not available         38           78
Appraisal                             Not available         16           35
Negotiations through Board Approval   Not available         11           24
Supervision                           Not available         149         468
Completion                           16         27
Total                                                     215         526



- 27 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of Project   Month/    No. of Days in  Specializa-     Performance Rating2        Types of Problems3
Cycle           Year     Persons  Field     tion'
Implement  Development
ation     Objectives
Through appraisal                        15
Appraisal tbru   May - Dec 87    2       16    F..2E. Ec
Board approval
Supervision         Feb-88        2       5       F E          1            1                  Coll..
Supervision         Apr-88        2       5       F E          1            1                   Pcr.
Supervision          Jul-88       2       5       F E          1            1                Coll.UFW.
Supervision         Jun-89        2       6        E           2            1             Coll. UFW.Acc.
Supervision         Nov-89        2       6        E           2            1             Coll. UFW.Acc.
Supervision         Apr-90        2       6       F E         2             1           Des. Turn. Drght. Acc
Supervision         Jun-90        2       3       F E         2             1                Des. Acc
Supervision         May-91        2       6       E F          2            1            UFW . Coll.. Acc.
Supervision         Jun-92        2      14       E 2F         2            2           Tar. Coll. UFW, Acc.
Supervision         Dec-92        4      12       E F          2            2           Tar. Coll. UFW,. Acc.
Supervision         May-93        3      20     E-F-Env       2             2           Tar. Coil. UFW,. Acc.
Supervision         Nov-93        2      12       E F          3            3         UFW. Tar.Coll.Turn. Acc.
Supervision          Jul-94       2       4       E F         U             U         UFW. Tar.Coll.Turn. Acc.
Supervision         Sep-94        2      15       F E         U             U           UFW.Tar. Turn. Acc.
Supervision         Feb-95        2       7       F E          S            S           UFW. Tar. Turn. Acc.
Supervision         Feb-96        2       7       E F          S            S             UFW.Tar.. Acc.
Supervision         Sep-96        2      10       E F          S            S             UFW.Tar.. Acc.
Supervision         Sep-97        2       7       2E F         S            S                Tar.. Acc.
Completion          Mar-98        2       8       E F          S            S                Tar.. Acc.
I - Key to Specialized staff   2 - Key to Performance  3 - Key to Types of Problems:
skills:                  Ratings:                Des. = Design disagreement     Drght.= Drought, Low sales
E  =  Sanitary Engineer   I =   Minor Problems    Turn. = Turnover of Management  Acc. = Accounting Insufficiency
F  =  Financial Analyst.  2 =   Moderate Problems UFW = Too high unaccounted-for water
Env =  Environmentalist   3 =   Major Problems    CoIl .= Too low collection of bills
Ec =  Economist          S =    Satisfactory     Tar. =  Too low tariff
U=     Unsatisfactory   Pcr =  Procurement



Table 14: ISKI - Income Statements (1987-1997)
(US$ million)
_________________________________  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997
Total Operating Revenue           80.7  115.1  128.4  229.8  276.8  321.2  246.6  208.7  223.7  301.1   304.1
Water and Sewerage                  80.2  104.5  107.8  229.4  274.4    -      -       -       -      -     266.7
Other                                0.6  10.6  20.7   0.4   2.4    -          -       -       -      -      37.4
Staff Costs                         22.0  24.9  31.4  81.5  99.2  117.3  124.4   54.1   73.1   67.3    59.6
Energy Costs                          -    22.4  23.5  24.7  28.5  33.0   27.8   18.1   25.2   30.9    27.4
Raw Materials                        9.3   7.0   8.6  12.9  13.8  12.3   14.6    4.2    8.2    9.4            3.6
Depreciation                         5.6   8.7  10.1  12.9  16.4  14.1   13.4   13.9   16.6   18.4   25.1
Provision for bad and doubtful debts  -     -      -     19.2  38.6  44.4   26.1   31.3    0.3    2.2    10.0
Sub-contracted services             23.7   4.9   7.2  11.0  10.8   6.4    7.9    3.9    3.8    3.7            -
EDP services                          -     -      -      9.1   11.2  16.0   16.9    5.3    1.7    0.4
Provision for Empl. Term. Benefits                        -      -    22.3   21.6   14.1   26.8   15.0        -
Rent Expenses                         -     -      -      6.0   0.3    -       -       -       -      -       -
Other Expenses                        1.4   1.9   1.9   4.7   3.7   6.6    6.2    8.4   15.0   18.4           3.6
Total Operating Expenses          62.0  69.8  82.8  182.0  222.5  272.5  259.0  153.2  170.5  165.7   129.4
Net Income from Operations           18.7  45.4  45.7  47.8  54.2  48.7  (12.3)   55.5   53.1  135.5   174.7
Non-operating income                26.0  15.7  11.9  20.2  26.4  71.2   32.4  103.2   52.7   47.0    38.4
Non-operating expenses              37.6   3.0   2.0   8.0   5.5   8.7   61.4    8.9   62.1   71.6    55.9
Net Non-Operating income            (11.7)  12.7   9.9  12.2  21.0  62.4  (28.9)   94.3   (9.3)  (24.6)  (17.5)
Financial expenses                         30.1  63.9  45.3  49.5  57.1  111.1  105.6  106.9  104.3    21.7
Exchange Losses                             -      -      -      -    40.9   50.0  161.1  111.7  114.9        -
Net Income for the Year              7.1  27.9  (8.3)  14.8  25.7  13.1  (202.4) (116.9) (174.9) (108.3)  135.5
Extra-ordinary item                      -      -         -      -    63.8
Net Income (loss) after extraordinary item    7.1  27.9  (8.3)  14.8  25.7  76.9  (202.4) (116.9) (174.9) (108.3)  135.5
Note: 1990-1996 ISKI financial statements are audited by private independent external auditors.
1987-1989 and 1997 ISKI financial statements are unaudited.



Table 15: Balance Sheets (1987-1997 as of December 31)
(US$ million)
1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992   1993   1994   1995    1996    1997
Assets
Current assets
Cash and due from banks         2.24   2.12   4.13  19.43   9.17   0.42   20.83   13.85   16.64    10.69  9.97
Receivables from customers    43.58  63.45  70.63  99.88 113.36 140.27   87.05  139.85   74.36   102.51   111.70
Pipes and other stocks          5.67  19.59  18.40  32.14  36.20  10.47    6.80   50.38   32.91    28.99    41.80
Advances and other current assets    7.63  53.88  46.76   2.94  12.93  48.27  118.20    9.76   71.03    13.25    37.99
Total current assets  59.12 139.04 139.92 154.39 171.66 199.44  232.88  213.84  194.94   155.44   201.46
Long-term assets
Tangible assets
Fixed assets-net     117.90 173.48 234.82 311.61 361.15 304.16  269.44  283.08  374.98   472.03   378.00
Construction in progress  94.78  97.64 187.31 302.64 296.48 334.21  354.12  214.64  171.16   105.23   213.89
Investments                     -     -      -    0.24   0.24   0.14    0.08    1.28    0.81    0.72     0.44
Advances and long-term deposits   46.24   2.17   4.88   6.16   6.57  15.00    8.16    2.33    1.49  0.95  0.89
Total long-term assets   258.92 273.28 427.01 620.65 664.43 653.50  631.81  501.33  548.44   578.94   593.23
Total assets         318.04 412.32 566.93 775.04 836.09 852.94  864.70  715.17  743.39   734.38   794.69



Table 15: Balance Sheets (1987-1997 as of December 31)
(US$ million)
1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992   1993   1994   1995    1996    1997
Liabilities and Equity
Current liabilities
Current portion of long-term loans  0.00   0.00   0.00  18.67  39.92  89.18   93.06   60.08   81.38    66.24    52.37
Payables to government institutions    1.39  54.20  94.46  95.61 102.58  99.18  218.97  202.33  281.51   324.68   265.64
Payables to Contractors        0.00   0.00   0.00  31.00  25.72  57.47   81.80   23.03   12.18    15.21  6.62
Trade accounts payable         0.00  15.50   6.76  10.81  10.69   8.62   17.48    8.83   14.03  5.20    2.52
Accruals and other current liabilities  40.96   2.40   7.10  25.29  27.62  38.85   57.25   49.60   21.42    20.13    20.17
Total current liabilities  42.34  72.11 108.33 181.39 206.53 293.30  468.54  343.87  410.51   431.46   347.32
Long-term liabilities
Long-term loans               167.45 184.24 239.72 269.84 256.26 233.08  260.63  300.66  299.05   267.47   229.82
Employee termination benefits  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   7.53  32.18   35.45   21.53   31.40    29.20    33.18
Customer deposits              11.66   7.74   6.32  24.61  39.22  42.29   38.70   30.25   19.57    11.54  7.84
Long term payables to Government A  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00  0.00  0.00
Other-long term liabilities     1.56   1.87   1.88  2.18   1.27   3.69    2.93    3.53    3.28  2.77    4.36
Total long-term liabilities  180.66 193.85 247.92 296.63 304.27 311.24  337.70  355.96  353.30   310.98   275.19
Equity                        95.03 146.36 210.68 297.02 325.30 248.40   58.45   15.34  -20.43    -8.07   172.18
Total liabilities and equity  318.04 412.32 566.93 775.04 836.09 852.94  864.70  715.17  743.39   734.38   794.69
End of period FX rate(TL/$)   1,018  1,813  2,311  2,927  5,075  8,556  14,458  38,418  61,054  107,505  204,750
Note: 1990-1996 ISKI financial statements audited by private independent external auditors.
1987-1989, and 1997 ISKI financial statements unaudited.
The US$ balances are calculated on the current reported balances taking the year end exchange rates.



Table 16A: Key Indicators for Project Performance and Operation. 1987-1994
(US$ million)
1987        1988         1989         1990         1991          1992         1993         1994
SAR  Actual SAR  Actual SAR  Actual SAR  Actual SAR  Actual SAR  Actual SAR  Actual SAR  Actual
Performance Parameters
Self-financing Ratio (%)         160.0  324.6  79.0  25.7  72.0  (35.5)  73.0  52.4  79.0  52.1  83.0  22.7   93.0  (43.2) 106.0  (54.6)
Debt Service Coverage Ratio      10.20   1.60  8.10   1.35  6.20  0.74  5.70   1.68   5.80   1.60   4.90   1.18   5.40   0.28   6.00   0.58
Collection Ratio (%)                 -  61.0      -  61.0      -  85.0      -  75.0      -  61.0      -  74.0       -  75.0      -  86.0
Total Operating Revenues per m3 sold($  0.85   0.45  0.89  0.46   0.89   0.57  0.89   0.98   0.90   0.93   0.92   1.19   0.95   0.93   0.98   1.08
Total Operating Cost per m3 sold(%)  0.20   0.34  0.20   0.28  0.21   0.37  0.23   0.70   0.25   0.62   0.28   0.76   0.30   0.79   0.32   0.56
Operating Ratio (%)                 24    77    22    61    24    64    26    71    28    66    30    64    32    86    33    52
Unaccoounted-for water (%)        30.0  59.7  29.0  50.8  28.1  52.7  27.0  29.1  26.0  32.0  24.9  42.9  24.1  48.0  23.0  50.1    w
Other Operational Indicators
Water Produced (mil m3)          437.0  447.0  510.0  504.0  541.0  474.0  571.0  330.0  600.0  437.0  630.0  473.0  661.0  512.0  693.0  389.0
Water Sold (mil. m3)             306.0  180.0  362.0  248.0  389.0  224.0  417.0  234.0  444.0  297.0  473.0  270.0  502.0  266.0  533.0  194.0
Total Operating Revenues         259.3  80.7  322.9  115.1  346.1  128.4  369.6  229.8  398.7  276.8  437.0  321.2  476.2  246.6  520.4  208.7
Total Operating Cost 1/           61.5  62.0  71.6  69.8  83.0  82.8  94.9  162.8  111.0  183.9  130.1  205.8  150.6  211.2  171.3  107.8
Total Investments                120.5   2.8  305.6  60.0  351.5  55.8  359.4  103.7  361.4  137.3  360.5  191.6  357.9  251.6  351.0  89.3
1/Total operating cost figures exclude provision for bad and doubfful debts and provision for employee termination benefits.



Table 16B: Key Indicators for Project Performance and Operation, 1994-1997
(US$ million)
1994            1995            1996            1997
Performance Parameters               AP    Actual   AP    Actual   AP   Actual   AP    Actual
Physical Progress (% of completion)   48.0    46.0    69.0   69.0   88.0   82.0  100.0    86.0
Self-Financing Ratio (%)             (29.0)   (54.6)   11.0  (122.3)   25.0  (32.4)   31.0    70.0
Debt Service Coverage Ratio           0.73     0.58    1.23     0.4   1.83    0.73    2.27     2.38
Collection Ratio (%)                  77.0    86.0    79.0   88.0   80.0   85.0   81.0    84.0
Total Operating Revenues per m3 sold ($)    0.91  1.08    1.09    0.87    1.43    0.92    1.72  0.76
Total Operating Cost per m3 sold (%)  0.58     0.56    0.67    0.56    0.84    0.45    1.01    0.30
Operating Ratio (%)                     64       52      61      64      59      49     58       39
Unaccoounted-for water (%)            36.0    50.1    42.3   51.1   41.5   40.6   41.0    29.8
Other Operational Indicators
Water Produced (mil m3)              400.0   389.0   520.0  524.0  540.0  554.0  580.0   570.0
Water Sold (mil. m3)                 256.0   194.0   300.0  256.0  316.0  329.0  342.0   400.0
Total Operating Revenues             233.0   208.7   328.0  223.7  452.0  301.1   589.0   304.1
Total Operating Cost 1/              149.0   107.8  200.0   143.5  265.0   148.4  344.0   119.4
Total Investments                    145.6    89.3   304.3   75.4  410.9   156.4  576.0   162.5
AP: Action Plan agreed with ISKI in 1994.
1/ Total operating cost figures exclude provision for bad and doubfful debts and provision for employee terminaton benefits.



Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Memoire
WORLD BANK                                                           February 28, 1998
Second Water and Sewerage Project, Loan 2888-TU
Project Completion Mission
AIDE-MEMOIRE
1 This aide-memoire summarizes the results of discussions held in Istanbul between the representatives of
ISKI and the World Bank representatives Daniel Coyaud. and Alptekin Orhon on a mission from February 23
to 27, 1998. The mission thanks ISKI for the assistance provided during the mission. This aide-memoire was
presented to Treasury in Ankara.on March 3, 1998. The mission's recommendations are subject to
confirmation by the Bank's management, and a letter will be sent to ISKI after the mission returns to
Washington.
Project Implementation
i      Implementation of the project is about three years behind appraisal schedule and about one
year behind the revised schedule expected at the time of the project restructuring in
September 1994. The project components already completed, and already operated are
indicated in the operational plan, together with components already completed but not
commissioned because other works need first to be completed (Annex 5 page 1),
2 Project components still under construction are:
i      the branch sewerage collectors North of the Golden Hom. The contract is about 95%/*
completed and is expected to be fully completed by June 30, 1998;
ii    the Tuzla Sewage Treatment Plant (0.225 Mm3/day capacity) which is more than 97%
completed and expected to be fully completed by April 30 1998; and
iii    the Sewage Collectors and Tunnels at Orhantepe and Tuzla (23% completed). The first stage
is expected to be completed by April 30, 1998, which would allow commissioning of the
Tuzla Treatment Plant. The second stage would be completed by December 1998.
3 About $9.5 million of the Loan were used by a contract for ductile iron pipes financed at the level of
100% under the Loan. The pipes contracted mid-December 1997 were delivered at the end of January 1998.
4 On the whole the restructured project is about 92% completed. On February 25, 1998, the situation of
project implementation according to different criteria is summarized as follows:
Total Amount in $             As percentage
million
Contracts already a varded   $604 million     100% of total project cost $604 million
Paid or Certified            $554 million     92% of total project cost S604 million
Loan Disbursed               $210 million     96% of total Loan of $218 million



Page 2
5.    The detailed implementation follow-up table in Annex 1 shows all project contracts and for each
contract already awarded, the amounts of works certified, the disbursements from the Loan
6.    Project expenditures for priority works are shown in Annex 2, together with the graph of actual
expenditures compared with the progress mutually agreed in the Action Plan of July 1994.
7.    Master Pan   For resumption of the study, a protocol was signed in December 1997. The
completion of the study and issue of the final reports are expected by June 30, 1998.
Financial Performance in 1997.
8.    The following analysis is based on the provisional figures for 1997.
9.    Water Produced and Water Sold. Water produced increased 2.9% in 1997(570 mil. m3) compared to
1996(554.1 mil. m3) Water sold increased 22% in 1997 (400.4 mil m3) compared to 1996 (329 mil. m3).
10.   Unaccounted-for Water. For 1997, the level of UFW achieved (30%) is now quite reasonable and
well below the level of 1995 (51%) and the average target of 39%. This improvement is achieved by
continuing through replacement of pipes in high leakage areas,more control on the illegal water consumptioni,
improvement of metering, and better administration of customer services.
11.   Tariffs and Operating Revenues. The average water and sewerage charges per m3 sold in 1997
(US$0.67) which is substantially below the average target of US 1.15 for the year.
12.   In 1997, total operating revenues decreased slightly to US$304 million compared to 1996 (US$306)
due to ISKI's reluctance to increase tariffs every quarter to compensate for inflation.
13.   However, operating ratio has decreased to 43% in 1997 compared to 52% in 1996 which is also lower
than the average target of 58% for the year, because of the reduction in operating costs.
14.   Operating Costs. In 1997, operating costs has decreased to US$129.4 million compared to 1996
(157.4 million). As a result, the operating cost per m3 sold is improved in 1997 (US$0.32 per m3 sold)
compared to 1996 (US$0.48 per m3 sold). This is also much lower than the average target of US$0.78 per m3
sold. This improvement in operating cost per m3 sold is mainly due to decreasing of operating expenditures
and the increase in water sales(22%). However, it should be noted that ISKI's operating cost accounts do not
reflect adequately the depreciation. ISKI's depreciation accounting policy does not take into account the
useful lives of its fixed assets. Because of the deficiencies in ISKI's fixed asset accounting procedures, like
the absence of detailed fixed asset ledgers, and other deficiencies in the accounting system, ISKI can not
determine the net book value of the fixed assets. Amount allowed for depreciation for 1996 (US$14.7 mil.) is
low and it represents only 18% of ISKI's debt service(US$82.2 mil.) which was due in 1997.
15.   Collection Ratio. In 1996, in spite of the efforts of ISKI, the collection ratio achieved was 84%
which was lower than in 1995 (88%) and 1996(85%), but higher than the average targeted figure of 80.7% for
the year. Although ISKI's collection ratio is slightly lower than in 1996, ISKI continued to implement
measures to increase its collections.
16.   Self-Financing Ratio. In 1997, ISKI's self-financing ratio improved in 1997(66%) due to substantial
decrease in operating costs. This is also higher than the average target for 1997(20.3%).
17.   Debt Service Coverage Ratio. In 1997, based on ISKI's debt service requirements, debt service
coverage ratio was 2.3 which was higher than the target of 1.76 for the year.



Page 3
18.   Employees per Thousand Water Connections. Employees per thousand water connections improved
in 1997 (3.0) compared to 1996 (3.5).
Status of Compliance on Action Plan in 1997
19.   The compliance on the Action Plan formally agreed by the Bank through an Amendment to the Loan
Agreement is presented in Annex 3 for the fourth quarter of 1997. In 1997, ISKI achieved an average score of
3.3 above the minimum score of 2 covenanted in the Legal Agreement. The overall improvement over the
third quarter of 1994 is about 70% of the improvement targeted. In the fourth quarter of 1997, of the eight
performance indicators, ISKI has achieved the maximum score of 4 for six parameters (unaccounted-for
water, average costs per m3 billed, operating ratio,collection ratio,debt service coverage ratio, and self-
financing ratio), a score of 3 for physical progress, and a score of 0 for average water and sewerage revenues.
Details of the performance for the fourth quarter of 1997 is shown in Annex 3.
Inadequacy of ISKI Water and Sewerage Tariffs.
20.   Effective January 1, 1997 ISKI increased its water and sewerage charges about 66% in TL terms
compared to 1996 and informed the Bank that the ISKI Board is authorized to make quarterly adjustrnents in
line with inflation. However, effective August 15, 1997, ISKI only increased the first block (0-10 m3) for
domestic of about 36% in TL terms without increasing the tariffs for other blocks and categories of
customers. On average, it corresponds to an increase of about 19% lower than the inflation of about 35 % over
the first semester of 1997. Although authorized to make quarterly adjustments, ISKI management, due to
political influences, did not make other quarterly adjustments in 1997. Effective January 1, 1998, on the
average ISKI increased its tariffs by about 90% compared to January 1997 and 70% considering the increase
in August 1997 which are lower than inflation of about 100% for the whole year of 1997.
Government Subsidies in 1997.
21.   Although ISKI met the Action Plan Target for 1997, ISKI is not recovering the full cost of water
because of inadequate depreciation of its assets(para 16) and large Central Govemment subsidies. A large
part of (88%) its debt service regarding foreign loans was covered by Treasury. In addition, the Central
Government is bearing the full cost of implementing large investments like Yesilcay ($275 million), and
Melen Projects ($1.2 billion) needed to supply Istanbul in the future. In order to fully recover its costs, ISKI's
tariff should be close to the long term incremental cost of providing water and sewerage services.
Financial Projections for 1998
22.   To meet the targets agreed in the action plan, ISKI needs to improve its financial situation in the
future years. The projections for 1998 are presented in Annex 4. ISKI has to implement a tariff level which
is adjusted quarterly to compensate for inflation, and based on this the equivalent average water and
sewerage tariff should be about US$0.70 $/m3 in 1998 in order to cover debt service, and 60% of ISKI
investments. ISKI needs to generate more revenues in order to service the debt for the loans borrowed and be
able to meet the financial requirements of the large investments that ISKI plans to implement itself for future
years like Ikitelli Water Treatment Plant (US$31 million), Pasakoy Wastewater Treatmnent (US$26 million),
Kadikoy Wastewater Pretreatment Plant and Sea Outfall (US$46 million), Orhantepe-Pendik Collectors
(US$21 million), Omerli-Sihli-Darica-Gebze force main (US$21 million),and Cavusogludere-Ikitelli force
main (US$28 million).



Page 4
Audits
23.   ISKI management informed the Bank that the 1997 financial statements, project account and the
special account will be audited by ISKI's current private external auditor. ISKI management also agreed to
submit the above mentioned three audit reports no later than June 30, 1998
Preparation of the Implementation Completion Report
24.   The mission provided guidelines (Annex 5) for ISKI's own final evaluation report on the project that
ISKI is required to prepare according to the General Conditions of the Loan (Section 9.07 (c).
25.   During its visit the mission, assisted by ISKI, collected statistical data and information (Annex 6).
26.   In the views of the mission, the Project's objectives were partially achieved. Projected and actual
operating indicators listed in Table 6, show that:
a)    Unaccounted-for water was reduced from 60% in 1987 to 30% in 1997. The figure in 1997 is
lower than the 21% expected at appraisal, but higher than the target of 38% mutually agreed
in 1994 at the time of the project restructuring.
b)    Sewage treatment was extended.. Three new sewage treatment plants were built under the
project (instead of four in the original project). The volume of appropriately treated sewage
disposed in the Bosphorus and the Sea of Marmara increased from 57 Mm3/year in 1989 to
133 Mm3/year in 1997. Overall, the volume of sewage treated as a percentage of water billed
increased from 23% in 1988 to 33% in 1997.
c)    The total length of sewerage network progressed from 7200 km in 1988 to 8200 km in 1997,
i.e a progression of 1000 km, as compared to 2,500km estimated at appraisal. The number of
sewerage connections progressed from 510,000 in 1987 to 840,000 (?) in 1997. As a result,
provision of sewerage services were increased from 56% of the population in 1987 to 65% in
1997, instead of 75% as estimated at appraisal.
d)    ISKI's operation and maintenance capabilities was improved. The number of employees per
thousand water connections decreased from 6.3 in 1987 to 3.0 in 1997. The number of firms
monitored for wastewater discharges increased from 3,200 in 1987 to 8,300 in 1998. The cost
coverage ratio (operating revenues over operating costs) improved from 1.30 in 1987 to 2.33
in 1997.
27.   The actual costs of the restructured project amount to $604 million , i.e.6% higher than the appraisal
estimate of $ 570 million. However, if we adjust the appraisal estimate by adding the cost of what was added
to the project (North Halic Interceptors and Baltalimani Sewage Treatment Plant), the project actual costs are
7% lower than the adjusted appraisal estimate cost of $ 649 million (Table 8A). However, the restructured
project includes only parts of the works related to the Kadikoy and Kucukcekmece drainage areas.
28.   ISKI"s institutional capacity was very low in August 1993 when ISKI faced a major financial crisis
and subsequent demand by ISKI's creditors for repayment of dues. Since the September 1994 Agreement on
the eight performance parameters action plan, ISKI scored above the minimum acceptable, corresponding
between 25% and 50% of agreed improvements. In 1997, ISKI achieved more than 70% of the agreed
improvements.
29.   ISKI's institutional capacity continues to be limited by its institutional structure which is closely



Page 5
linked to local politics since the Mayor of Istanbul is the Chairman of ISKI and appoints all the Board
members. Any radical change in ISKI's institutional capabilities can come about only with the change in the
current institutional structure. Such change was not envisaged in the project. In March 1994 a new mayor
was elected and a new management was brought into ISKI. The new management, in its ability to contain
operating costs, to reduce unaccounted-for water and to prioritize well for new investments, is a marked
improvement over the previous management. However, the existing water and sewerage tariff level are
insufficient to cover for the full economic cost of water supply to Istanbul (para 21). 1



SECOND ISTANBUL WATER SEWERAGE PROJECT                                                     Anne 1
Implementation                                                       P4p I
$ million                     IBRD Appraisal     Contract          Contract                   Contract  Contract  Total   lB-O
Contract       Bank    Descrption        No         Company          Signature Comp!etion Contract Disburser Works
Value          Financing                                             Date     Date      Awarded ISKI    Comphred
Total           Total                                                                                   Total
A-Water Distribution        $               $                                                                     $ equiv. $ equiv. S equiv.
I Program Teductng water toSs   1.bo    1.bo    1.40 Heoduction ot Unacct TA Water tSEtIA-Austia  Apr/19/93 Jun/30/94    0.50          0.43
2 Replacemr.r.td OT pipes                                          Piping
Water mains rehabilitation    24.20   24.20    6.10
T6949     Von Roll         Dec/12/97 Jan/31/98    1.46     1.17     1.17
New Pipes + Fittings T6949  SADIP           Dec/16/97 Jan/31/98    7.93    6.34      6.34
Pipe & PS Equipment Purcha  42.10   42.10   33.80 Pipes + Fittings    T6410  PONT-A.NOUSSOt Sep/13/90              14.46   14.46     14.46
THYSSEN GUSS-A Oct/19190               8.52    8.52      8.52
INTER-IMPEX     Oct/05/90              4.46    4.46      4,46
Pumps            T5755      NIJHUIS         Jan/07/92              0.78    0.78      0.QS
T5755     KSB              Feb/08/92              1.21     0.97     05.7
3 Pumping stations                                                 Pumping
PS Rehabililation Civ. Works   4.80    4.80  1.20
4 SCADA                            13.80                          SCADA
Supply SCADA System       12.30            9.80 Supply SCADA     S1000      ABiTEKSER        Oct/08/87 Nov/14/91    20.55    11.80    20.5a.
SCADA Supn & Training      1.50            1.30 Design SCADA     S1004      SOGREAi-USEYAS Mar/24/87 Jun/31/92      2.12     2.11     2.11
Darlik Pumping    S4441    ELIOP            Oct/12/90 Jul/05/92    2.46    2.02      2.02
Darlik Design    S3047      BORTEK/SOGREA Oct/18191 Oct/3'192      0.27    0.'4      0.34
B-Sewerage system
Norlh Halic Second- K23ti;8  YUKSEL INS.AS.  May/l1696 Jan/05/98   8.84    4.6      8.37
Norlh Halic Collecto, K1070  Sez.Tur.Fev.Ak.(ST May/05/94          1.23     1.23     1.23
Kabatas-Baltalimani Tunnel                      Kabatas-Baltalimani K1l120  Sez.Tur.Fev.Ak.(ST Oct/09/87 Oct/31/93    30.99    18.03    30.99
8altalimani STP                                 Baltalimani STP    K1080    Costanzo/EmitUYont Mar/18/88 Jul/23190  0.34    014       0.34
Baltalimani Outfall                             Baltalimani Oultfall K1090  ALSIM ALARKO & F Feb/23/88 Sep/23/93   10.04    5.38      9.56
Baltalimani STP(Pre K1080/2   ALSIM ALARKO/lv Feb/09/93           20.73   15.52    20.12
Land Ext.of DischarE K2072  SIRKECIOGULLAR Nov/28/95               1.55              1.41
5.lirn.Stleam Diversi K2072  SIRKECIOGULLAR Nov128/95               1.62             1.19
B.lim.STP Energy Ti K1080/4   Akdemir Ins.  Jun/12196              0.36              0.34
B.lim.STP Area Exc K1080/3   K.Demircioglu  Aug/10/92              2.86              2.8fi
B.lim.STP By Pass F---     Prolocol(Nato&Bota May/15/96            0.39              0.39s
0 Total Battalimani                                               Baltalimani
Large Dia. Sewer Pipes C.Wi 26.40   26.40    8.50 PipeFactoryK3060 LargeSeweYUKSEL(i1O00-320May/21/87 Apr/15193    26.22             26.52.
Atakoy PSs Equip.          1 40            1.00
Atakoy PSs C. Works        3.90            1.00
Ayvulidete TfLnk Sewer     1.S0            OA0
i Total Atako/ drainage zone        6.80                    10.90 Atakoy
Kucukcekmece STP Equipmer 26.60            19.70 Kucukcakmece STP K1851      ALSIMALARKO/lHVDec/17/91 Jun/30/93    12.01     3.81    12.01
KucukcekmrceSTPCv.Woik  17.90               4.50
Kucukcakmece Outfall       21.80            8.70
Avcilar Collector          4.60            1.10
2 Total Kucukcekmece drainage zone    70.90                 34.00 K.Cekmece
Kadikoy STP Equip.        19.50           14.40
Kadikoy STP C.Works       12.50            3.20
Kadikoy STP      K3070     Costanzo/Emi/Yonl May/41/88  Feb/1/90   0.78    0.51      0.78
Kadikoy Outfall           57.40           23.00 Kadikoy Outfall    K3075    ALSIM ALAARKO & F Feb/23/88 Dec/12/90   13.75    9.83    13.74
Kadikoy-Moda Tunnel       11.40            i40 Kadpjoy-Moda Tunna K3073     Tomo & Yontas   May/26/87 May/I 9/91   20.86    9.33    20.64
Moda Fenerbache In & PS Ec   1.80          1.40
Moda Fenerbache In & PS C.  14.40          5.70
Fenerbache-Dragos Cotlecto.  7.90          3.10 Fenerbahce-Dragos K3072      AZK             Nov/3/87  Dec/31191    8.14    5.44      8.1t
F.bahce-Caddebost. K30/2/1    STFA          Nov/22/91 May/31/92    5.22              SiZt
Caddebostan-Drago K30722    BAYTUR          Jul/27/92  Jul/16/94   3.63    2.3       3.63.
Bostanci-Caddebost K3072/2A   ALKE          Jul/31/95  Dec/31/95    1.04    0.50     1,Q.
Muhurdar P.S.
3 Total Kadikoy-Pendik drainage zone   124.90               56.20 Kadikoy-Pendik
Tuzla STP Equip.          26.60           19.70 Tuzba STP        K3450      Alsim Alarko/liVA  Sep/3/90  Dec/31193   53.88   25.26    52.46
Tuzla STP C.Works         20.o0            5.20
Tuzba Ouffall             30.60           12.20 Tuzla Outfall    K3460      Alsim Aiarko/Rana Jun/17/92 May/21/94   16.58    12.97    15.17
Tuzia Collectors & PSs C.wc  19.30         4.90 Tuzla Collectors   K3620    Akoz ins.        Aug/23191 Dec/31/93    7.73              7.73
Dragos-Tuzla Coll. K3074   STFA             Apr/09197 Dec/12/98   18.94     1.92     4.35
Tuzla Land Ext.of Di K     Aksan/Beyza Ins.  Jul/01/97  Dec/.J97   0.28               .00
4 TotalTuzla drainage zone         97.00                    42.00 Tuzla



SECOND ISTANBUL WATER SEWERAGE PROJECT                                                   Annex I
Implementation                                                     Pa  2
S million                     IBRD Appraisal                                                Contract  Contract  Total   IBRO
Contract       Bank    Contract         Contract                   Signature Completion Contract Disburser Works
Value          Financing Description        No    Company          Date      Date      Awarded ISKI    Completed
Total          Total                                                                                  Total
$                                                                   S equnv. S equiv. $ equiv.
Uskudar STP Equip.         1.40            1.00
Uskudar STP C.Works       2.80            0.70
Uskudur STP    K3600      Aydiiaur iris. A.S.  Jul22/88  NovJ15/91    2.27  1.00   2.27
Uskudar Outfall           5.00             1.30  Uskudar Outfall   K3610   ALSIM ALARKO & F FebJ23188 Oct/23/92   7.64    3.56      7.64
5 Total Uskudar drainage zone      9.20                      3.00 Uskudar
ISKI Street Sewers       30.30            0.00  ISKI Street Sevvers                        Jul01/87  Dec/10/92  134.40            134.40
Customer Stroet Sewers    30.30            0.00
Constr. Superv. Street Sew.    2.30        2.10
6 Total Street sewems             62.90                      2.10
Street Sewers S Connrectons
Sewerage Service Connectiow 55.70         0.00 Customer connection                         Jul/01/87  Jul/31/97    66.80           49.12
7 Total Customer oonnections      55.70                     0.00
Land Acquisition           2.70    2.70    0.00                  Land Acquisition
Uskudar STP      K3603                                            0.11              0.D0.
K.Cekmece STP   K1852                                             8.33              7.16
Tuzla STP       K3412                                             5.67              5.47
:altalimani STP    K2501                                          6.25              2.79
Local Stafl                7.20    7.20    0.00                  Local Staff
Master Plan      $1158    IMC CONSORTIUM Dec/0392                 1.80    0.73      0.73
New Consultancy  K                                                2.20    0.00      0.00
Add.Contr.N.Halic,KCK1l10  TBP& UBM from I Jan/06/83 Dec/31/93   12.13   11.71    11.71
Audit of ISKI    Y10i64    P.W.Hause & BASA May/14/92             0.63    0.61      0.61
Audit of ISKI    Y14590    PANNELL & DENGI Jul/27/95              0.06    0.03      0.03
Consultancy Tuzla  K3414   GWE & Sistem Plat Jan/23191 Jul/23/94  9.02    8.59      8.59
Monitoring in Bcsph. K1137  METU (Phase 1)  May/W91 May/03/93    0.90    0.6tS      0.63
Feasibility B.V/Asian K3413  TBP&UBMfrom   Jan/18/91 Apr/18/93    0.35              0.31
Tolal Sewerage Const. Superv  7.S0    7.50    6.60               Supervision
Subtotal
C Training & Equipment
1 Operation & Maintenance training
2 Industrial waste managemen   0.10    0.10    0.10              tndusd waste training
3 0 & M Equipment Purchase  12.20   12.20    9.50                0 & M Equipment
Additional Computer T5567  ELTEWHoneywell Apr/15/89               3.58    3.58      3.58
Radio Equipment  T6310     ASELSAN         May/08/92              1.93    1.93      1.93
Computer Extension T9567   ELTEWBULL       Apr/11/91              0.66    0.66      0.66
Line Printers   T8842      ELTEK/BULL      Apr/11/91              0.20    0.20     0.20
Tape Control Unit  78880   ELTEK/BULL      Apr/11/91              0.15    0.15      0.15
Sewerage Clean.Eq. T6690    ISBAK          Apr/28/92              6.06    6.06      6.05
9 of needle valves  T5755  ERHARD ARMATU Jan/01/91                0.12    0.07     0.07
Hand held comp.  T10393   ITRON            Jul/22192              0.20    020       0.20
Hand held comp.  T9926    ITRON            Nov/07/91              0.21    0.21      0.21
Subtotal
Special Account                                                           0.25
GRANOTOTAL                690  569.9   218.00                                                                    604.36  210.12   554.37
-                                    Total   Tott    Total
Contract       Bank                                                                   as %    IBRD Disl.----
Value          Financing  Contract                                                    Revised ISVJ
Costs   Figures
As%do
Loan =
Nota:                                                                                        100%       96%      92%



PROGRESS OF PRIORITY WORKS
Program of Expenditures                                                               Financed or Expected To Be Financed by IBRO
CONTRACT                               1988 1989 1990 1991  1992 1993 1994 1995  1996  1997  1998  Total            1988 1989  1990  1991 1992 1993 1994 1995  1996  1997  1998
Planned                                                                      Planne Financint
DESCRIPTION                  No      Total  Total Total Total Total Total Total Total Total Total Total             Total Total Total Total Total Total Total Total Total Total Total  Total
North H-alic Second Colt.  K2068                                                   0.32   6.22    2.3   8.84                                                     0.10  3.04  1.63    4.77
KabataS-BaltalimaniTunnel   K11120    2.45 0.00 5.51 5.62  7.79 7.49  0.01  2.12                       30.99        1.84 0.00  2.40  2.70  4.56  5.15 0.00 1.29                     17.94
Baltaliman Outfall        K1090       0.26 1.29 0.24 0.29  2.46 4.60  0.41                      0.48   10.03        0.03 1.25  0.02  0.07  0.97  2.94 0.12                           5.40
Baltalimani STP(Pretreatm)    K1080/2  0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00  0.00 0.65  0.33  1.03  15.9  2.21   0.61   20.73        0.00 0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.12 0.13  0.5  12.8  1.98         15.52
Bal.Land Ext.of Discharge  K2072                                                    0.9   OA1   0.25    1.56
Tuzta STP                 K3450       0.00 0.00 1.18 2.93 10.36 8.76  4.44  1.61  13.1  9.90   1.57  53.88          0.00 0.00  0.81  1.69  1.10  6.51  4.44 1.61  5.23  3.83  0.81   26.03
Tuzla Land Acquisition    K3412                  0.37 0.42  0.97 3.49  0.08 0.14          0.00  0.20   5.67
Tuzb Outfall              K3460       0.00 0.00 t.00 0.00  2.70 3.09  1.82  7.55          0.00   1.41  16.57                               2.36  2.87 1.24  6.7                     13.13
Tuzla Collectors          K3620       0.00 0.00 00   000   4.50 3.23  0.00                              7.73
DragJs-Tuzla Collectors   K3074                                                           3.35  15.60  18.95                                                            1.27  1.69    2.96
Tuzla Land Etd.of Discharge   K3577                                                       0.00  0.28   0.28
Bostanc.-Caddebostan col.    K3072/2A                                        0.85  0.16   0.00  0.03    1.04                                                0.4  0.08  0.00          0.50
MasterPlan                Si1ss                                         0.02 0.53         0.06   1.19   1.80                                          0.02  0.5         0.06  0.71    1.32
New Consultancy           K                                                               0.00  2.20   2.20                                                             0.00         0.00
TotalPrinorty Works                    2.7  1.3  7.3  9.3  28.8 31.3  7.1  13.8  30.4  22.2  26.1  180.3             1.9  1.3   32   4.5  9.0  17.6  6.0 11.0  18.2  102   4.8   87.6
Accumulated % Progress Priority Works   0%   0%   0%   0%    0%   0%   1%  31%   31%   34%  100%
Year                                   1988 1989 1990 1991  1992 1993 1994 1995  1996  1997  1998
Actual Progress                         2%   2%   6%  11%   27%  45%  49%  56%   73%   86%  100%
AsagreedinActionPtan                    2%   2%   6%  11%   27%  45%  48%  69%   88%  100%
Progress of Priority Works                           r            Actual Progress
| _As agreed In Action Plan
0.8                                        .
0.4~~~.A
0
1   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   199B   1997   1998
Year
02                                                                              . .... __..   __..



ISTANBUL LOAN 2M88-TU
Compliance on Action Plan
Performance Parameters            1994
End       Total       Total      Total       Total    Variance Over  Targeted           Results
Qtr III     1994        1995        1996        1997      Initial Qtr.   Variance
Initial                                          (c)       (e)=(c)-(a)   Realized  Score Weight Points
(a)                                           (b)       (d) =(b)-(a)    (d)/(e)        _      _
Physical Progress          Target   4S%         48%         69%         88%         100%          55%
of Priority Works (4)    Actual   45%           46%         59%         80%         86%           41%           74%       3    30%   0.90
Unaccounted-for-water      Target   45t         44%        42.8%       40.8%       38.8%          -6%
(4 of Water Produced)      Actual   45%         so0        51.4%       40.6%       29.8%         -15%          243%       4    10%  0.40
Average Water & Sewer    Target   0.93          0.84        0.94       1.08         1.15          22%
Revenues (US$/m3 billed) Actual   0.93          0.95        0.82        0.80        0.67          -26%         -123%      0    10o   0.00
Av. Costs (US$/m3 billed) Target   0.65         0.65        0.66       0.70         0.78           13%
Actual   0.65       0.57        0.60        0.48        0.32          -33%         -256%       4    10%  0.40
Operating Ratio            Target  67.0%       64.0%       62.1%       59.8%       57.8%          _9%
Actual  67.0%       58.0o%      60.0%      51.5%        42.6%         -24%          264%       4    10%  0.40
Collection Ratio           Target  77.0%       77.0%       78.3%       79.7%       80.7%           4%
Actual  77.0%       86.0%       88.0%      85.0%        84.0%          7%           192%       4    10%   0.40
Debt Service Coverage      Target  0.52        0.56        0.98        1.44         t .76         124%
tRatio                      Actual  0.52        1.02        0.37        0.92        2.30          178%          144%       4    10%  0.40
Self-Financing Ratio       Target   -33%        -29%       -5 .3%      14.0%       20.3%          53%
_Actual   -33%        4%        -140*       -6.5%       65.9%          99%          186%       4    10%  0.40
TOTAL WEIGHTED AVERAGE SCORE                    2.9                     3.0         3.3                                         100%  3.30
Rate, of Exchange IUS$=TL                                  45738      80,785      151,239
Nota:   Score  4 if targeted improvement is above 7se
3 if targeted inprovement is between so0  and 75%
2 if targeted improvement is between 25% and so%
1 if targeted iaprovement is between 0% and 25%
0 if there is no improvement



ISTANBUL LOAN 2889-TU
Complance on Action Plan
1994       1995        1996        1997
Total      Total       Total       Total
Water produced M d3                               389        524         554          570
water sales Million m3                            194        256         329          400
Unaccounted-for                                   50%        51%         41%        29.9%
Total operating revenues                   5,634,143 11,683,316 24,682,620  45,99S,967
Water a Sewerage Revenues  TL million      S,459,096             21,158,900  40,337,209
Other Revenues                               175,047               3,523,720   5,658,758
Average Water S Sewerage Revenues TL/3        28,140           0      64,313      100,742
Average Water a Sewerage Revenues $/m3           0.95                   0.80         0.67
Operating Cost  TL million                 3,251,717  7,013,791 12,714,084  19,573,927
of which depreciation TL million             35S,995    602,713  1,191,481   3,800,000
Operating cost   TL/m3                        16,761      27,398      38,645       48,935
Operating cost   $/m3                           0.56        0.60        0.48         0.32
Collection Ratio                                  P2t                   0.85         0.84
Het Operating Income TL million            2,382,426  4,669,525 11,968,536  26,422,040
Not operating income + depreciation
operating ratio (Total cost/tot. revenue        0.60        0.60        0.52         0.43
non operating expenses                                            8,959,455   8,449,422
Rate Exchange TL/$                            29,670      4S,678      80,785     151,239
non-operating revenues                     2,714,595    644,505  3,302,627   5,807,180
not non operating income excluding inter. -1,987,316 -2,637,049 -5,656,828  -2,642,242
Sncrease in custcner deposits                617,304      33,109      45,320     550,932
Provision for EMploy Termin.                             742,871  1,222,513      472,524
Provlison for dapbtful receivablen                        11,709    180,166
Gross internal cash                        1,371,409  3,422,878  8,951,188  28,603,254
Gross intern. Cash Collected              -4,262,734  1,418,167  4,797,793  17,443,899
Debt service TL million                    3,468,272  7,629,219  9,774,278  12,434,782
Total capital expenditures Million TL      2,649,813  3,442,751 12,635,429  24,568,824
Debt service coverage ratio                     0.40        0.45        0.92        2.30
lnternal cash gene/tot debt service
XSSS  self-financing ratio                      -790       -122%         -7%          66%
ii1



Annex 4
paae 1 of 2
____________ _   __|_SISIANBUL WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT (Loan 2X8-TU)
_INCOME STATEMENTS: 1990 TO 1998 (TL Million)
X  _  .                          ~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~Actual  'Provisoa Prkecet
-_____19_ 1990     1991                                14129 19931  I  54      1996        1-7r    199t
QPE-RATING PARAMIETERS                                                            I r
Treated Water Produced (million n3      330         437         473         512         389         524         554         570          650
Water Sales Volunme (m3 millilon)       234         297         270         2661        194         256         329         400          460
Preetnt e Unaccounted-for-water        29%Y        32%         43fo;       48%         50%         51%         41%         30%         29%
Aieua  Water&_SeweragteTarlfT         2,344       4,733       6.149_   13,171        28,140      35,379      64,313     100,742     191,410
liiPiR V;;l!N(; RE i;Nl 'S         -__ _____
Water and Sewer CLe_ mhres          610,272    1,371,700   1,W0,804    2,820,056    5,459,096    9,057,024  21,158,900   40,337,209   39,0481753
Other Operating Revenue               1,031      10,042     478,92i     462,332     175,047   2,626,292    3,523,720    S,659,758   7,639,323
Total Operating Revenue (la)          611,303    1,391,742    2,359,625    3,292,389   5,634,143   11,693,316   24,682,620   45,995,967   95,639,076
Colletlion Ratio(jr. coil/yr. bills)     75%         61%         74%         75%         860         818%       XS3.0        84%         90%
Toal Operating Revenue Cellected(lb)  458,477     942,863    1,746,123    2,461,791    4,845,363   10,291,318   20,980,227  3S,636,612   S6,119,20
OmPERrTING EXPENSES                                                _
Raw Msaterial and Supplies           32,487      54,719      76,088     159,958     157,240     503,033     997,577     550.039   2,S31.128
Personnel
Blue Collar                       177,262     333,824     854,438    1,264,006    1,471,582   3,529,201    5,465,148    2,436,909   15,409,861
White collar                       31,158      61,736     139,067     231,141     358,995     763,113    1,462,237    6,591,731    5,905,400
Services Contracted                52,3117     91,671     154,107     265,566    314,491      332,703     344,938    1,513,765    2,624,000
Ene!  Costs                          64,291     111,351     226,835     305,063     531,075    1,1So,0ol   2,505,904    4,144,190    6,600,000
Miscellaneous                        28,11.5     16,550      45,457      96,424      59,33S      33,927     256,799     547,243     S14,941
Depreciation           _35,070                  263,297      3014       158,449     358,995     602,713    1,191,431    3,804,000   6,080,000
Total ()p-ratIng Expenses (2)         420,777     933,137    1,584.00-,   2,480,607    3,251,717    7,013,791   12,714,084   19,57 ,927  40,265,330
|NET INCOME FROM OPERA-P  TIONS       190,526T1 448,605       775,619     801,791    2,382,426    4,669,525   11,968,536   26,422,040   55,422,746
OPERATI    RATIO (4)(2)(1)         ___    69 T         68          67          76          58          60         52           43          42
Non-Op.raling Revenues          1    52,458t   110,381      487,462     355,676    2,714,595    644,506    3,302,622    5,807,190   10,870,300
Non-Operating Expensther than 1l    11,515       13,935     377,775     965,190    4,701,911    3,291,554    3,959,455   3,449,422  614,0M0
NET NON-OPERATING LNCOlE (5)           40,943 T    96,446     109,687    (609,514)  (1,987,316)  (2,637,049)  (5,656,833)  (2,642,242)  10,256,300
Interest Expense sand exchange 1mse~   89,225   142,676     471,404    1,412,631   2,969,878    5,446,814   8,519,080    3,280,936   17,360,7S9
Unexpected Income/Ls.             |_                       I                              73    (742,078)
PROFITLOSS FOR THE YEAR 1(3)-d    142,244         402,375 I   413,902   (1,220,364)  (2,574,695)  (4,156,415)1  (2,207,377)  20,499,962   48,318,
Change In customer deposits (6)        57,445      91,780     162,794     197,729     617,304      33,109       45320      550932     1249068
Proviion for Enmployee Termination   |       j                       I { _                                                 472524
GROSS INTEMNAL CASH (7) -(la)-(t   323,984        900,118    1,136,104    548,445 |  1,371,409   2,668,299    7,548,504   28,603,2S4   73,008,114
DEBT SERVICE (8)- t(9)-(10)1      |   123,941     198,161 |   756,473 |  1,925,658    3,468,272    7,629,219   9,774,278   12,434,732   33,422,002
Principal (9)                   |    34,716      55,485     285,069     513,027     719,442    2,182,405   6,686,618    9,153,946   17,360,759
Interest 1                           W,225      142,676     471,404    1,412,631    2,748,330    5,446,814   3,087,6C0    3,280,836   16,061,243
DEIIT ~        ~ SEVC  COERG  ____           44   ___.__.
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGIERATIO               2.61        4.54        1.50        0.28        0.40        0.35        0.77        2.30        2.13
TOTAL CAPITAL EXPENDITURE (14    270,512          572,371    1,316,821 | 2,763,945    2,649,513    3,442,751   12,635,429   24,568,824   66,437,550
Pret  (28TU)-Priority Works        17,999      37,129     191,121     305,592     210,656     755,514   3,401,255   3,2S7,749 !
Project (2883-TU) Other           246,513     317,057     617,9291   375,673      290,764      10,506     305,851     482,C4S |
Other ISKI Investments              6,000     218,185     507,870 I  2,082,690    2,14S,094    2,676,731   8,928,323   20,798,427  _
SELF-FLNANCING RATIO (l6)=(7)-(           0.741       1.231       0.291      -0.so       -0.79       -1.44       -0.13        O..|        0.
Exchange Rate (cur.TL/cur.USS)avg       260&61      4171.81     6872.41   10,94.60|     29,670      45,6783    80,7851    151,239      272,230



Annex 4
Dace 2 of 2
________________________ISTANBUL WVATER SUPPLY A-ND SEWERAGE PROJECT (LoAn 2888-TU) ____
_________                                                    [~~~~~~ctalProvisional Projection
PARAMETERS      1    ~~~~~1990    19          92 y3                14           "         196        1994       1998
Treated WIater Produced (nillilon nL3)     330        437        473        512        389        524t      554.1        570        650
Wvater Sailes Volune (mL3 nillion)         234        297 __  270           266        194        256        329       400.4        460
Percmwtge Uinaccounted-for-water          29%{       32%j       43%        48%        50%        51%        41%        30%         29%
Average Water & Sewerage TarifT (US    $0.90 i    $1.13       $0.89       $1.20      $0.95      $0.77      SO.80      SO.67  __ O$.70
Previous Wiiter & Sewerage_TariffT(USS/ni3)    __________ _____________
OPIER,ATIN(G REVENUESF
W~Ater anld Sewerage Chairges              234       329k        274        257        184        1981       262        267         323
Other Operating Revenue                      0          2         70         42          6         57         441        37          28
Total Operating Revenue (la)                 234        331        3431       299        190        256        306         304,       351
Collection Ratio(yr. coil/yr. bills-)       750/       61%/       74%1       75%        86%        88%        85%         84%        90%
Trotal Operating Rev.enue Collected(l b)     176        202,       2541       224        163        225        260         255        316
OPERATING EXPENSES____ ___
Raw. 'aterial and Supplies                12.5       13.1       11.1       14.6        5.3]       11.0       12.2        3.6       10.4
Persomn_________-__   ____   ____                                                           
Blue collar                            68.01      80.01     124.3      115.1        49.61      77.2       67.7       16.1       56.6
Wh'Iite coLlar                   I      11.91      14.8!      20.21      21.0j      12.1j      16.7        18.1       43.5       21.7
Scrviccs Contracted.                   20.11      22.01      22.41      24.21       10.6        8.4       10.5       10.01       9.6.
Energv Costs                              24.6       26.71      33.01      27.81      17.9       25.2       3.1         27.41      24.2
Mliscell'aneous                           10.8    47.0           6.61       8.81       2.0         1.8        3.2!       3.61       3.0
Depreciation (2b)                         13.4       63.11      12.81      i4.4 ~   12.1          13.2       14.71      25.1       22.3
Totlv Opera ing_Expenises (2)              161.3      223.7 f    230.5       2.        109.6       153.5      157.4      129.4      147.9
N'AET IN'COMIE FROM OPRTON   3              73.0      107.5      112.91      73.0       80.3       102.2      148.2      174.7      203.6
OPERATIGRTO(){2/1169!                                    68!        67.        76T        58         60         52         43          42
Nan-Operating Revenues             j       01         65L       7..        32.4~   91.5          14.1        40.91      38.4       39.9
N'on-Operating Expnses other than intl     4.41       3.31      55.0]      87.9]     158.5       71.81     110.91       55.9        2.3
NET NON-OPER.A.TING INCOME (5)              15.71      23.11      16.0!     -55.5!      -67.0      -57.71     -70.01     -17.5       37.7
Interest Expense              ~~~~~~~34.21  34.21    68.61     128.6      100.1      192         155         21.7       63.8
U'nexpected Income/Los                       0.0        0.01       0.01       0.0        0.0       -16.21       0.0        0.01       0.0
PROFIT/LOSS FOR TIIE YEAR 1())              5.51       9.5;       r0.2    -111.1        -86.8      -91.0      -27.3      135.5!     177.5
Change in custonmer deposits (6)     I      22.0       22.01      23.7       18.0'      20.8         0.7        0.6        3.6        4.6
GROSS IN-TER1NAL CASH (7    (a-            124.2      21.!       165.3,      49.91      46.2        58.4       941       189.1      268.
DEBT SERVICE (8)=- 1(9)+(10)1               47.5' ,       5       1.        175.3      116.9       167.0      12.1.0      82.2      122.8
Principal (9)                      F      13.31J     13. 31     41.5       40.7       24.2       47.8        82.8       60.5 ___63.8
Interest (10)                      1      34.2!      34.21      68.6~   128.6         92.6      119.2       38.2        21.7       59.0
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE RATIO (1              2.61!      4.54 V7 oF            0.28       0.40        0.35       0.771      2.30       2.18
TOTAL CAPITAL EXPENDITURE (15)             103.71    137.21    191.6"       251.6       89.3        75.4      156.4      162.5      244.0
Project (2888-TU')-Priority Works        6.9,        .        2.l        27.8        7.1       16.5       42.1        21.7        0.0
Projet t(2888-TU) Other                 94.5       76.0       89.9]      34.2        9.8        0.2        3.81        3.2        0.0
Other ISKI Ineiins2.3                              52.31      73.9~   189.6         72.4       58.6      110.5!      1317.5       0.0
SEL.F-F1. A 'CING RAT'IO (16)=f(7)-(8)f     07          L2i3!1i.2           -0.50       -0.79      -1.441     -0.18~   0.66 ____  0.601
Excha7m-ge Rict (cur.TIJcur, USS)avg       2,6091    4, 17'2V   -,87-2F    10,915,   29,670      45,6781    80,7851   151,239    272,2301



Annex S
Page 1
Guldeliness for the Project Evaluation Report to be Prepared by ISKI
* ISKI will make available to the Bank not later than April 30, 1998 its final evaluation report on the
project. ISKI will also assist the Bank in gathering the necessary information to complete the Bank's
evaluation report of the project, and will comment on the Bank's draft Implementation Completion
Report (ICR) within one month of receiving it.
* ISKI's evaluation report is expected to be ten pages or less and to be incorporated in full and unedited to
the ICR. If the report is longer than ten pages, ISKI will prepare a summary of it less than ten pages to be
incorporated to the ICR. The mission provided ISKI with guideliness for the evaluation report, and with
examples of ICRs, including the borrowers evaluation reports.
*  ISKI management informed the mission that the Deputy General Manager and project manager will be in
charge of preparing ISKI's evaluation, of providing to the Bank the information required to complete its
own report, and of preparing ISKI's comments to the draft ICR to be submitted by the Bank.
- The following issues should be addressed in the final evaluation report to be prepared by ISKL
a)    the assessment of the project objectives, design, and implementation;
b)    the evaluation of ISKI's own performance during the preparation, appraisal, and
implementation stages of the project with special  emphasis on lessons learned that
may be relevant in the future;
c)    the evaluation of the performance of the Bank during the preparation, appraisal and
implementation of the project with special emphasis on lessons learned;
d)    the plan and timetable for the completion of the project defining the indicators to be used to
monitor project implementation; and
e)    operation of the facilities constructed under the project.
Project Operational Plan
1.    The project components already completed, commissioned and satisfactorily operated are:
a)    at Uskudar: Sewage Collectors, Sewage Pre-treatment Plant ( 0.1 Mm3/day capacity) and
Sea Outfall;
b)    at North of the Golden Horn: Sewage Tunnels and Interceptors between Kabatas and
Baltalimani (8.8 km long with diameter from 3.2 to 3.6 m); the Baltalimani Sewage Pre-
treatment Plant (0.4 Mm3/day capacity) and Sea Outfall (two 1.7 m diameter, 430 m long
pipes reach a depth of 70 m at the bottom of the Bosphorus);
c)    the Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) System which covers practically the
entire ISK.I Water Production, Transmission and Distribution System; and,
d)    replacement and laying of new water supply pipes of 100 nmm and 150 mm diameter totaling
a length of 1380 kan in the water distribution networks;
e)    street sewers and customer connections to the sewerage system



Anmec 5
Page 2
2.    Project components already completed but not commissioned because other worb need first to be
completed are the Sea Outfall (2.2 diameter, 2.2 Iam long, and 46 m deep) at Tuzla which will be
commissioned by April 30, 1998 once the Sewage Treatment Plant at Tuzia and the first stage of the
Dragos- Tuzla collector contract are completed.
3.    Project components still under construction are:
a)    the branch sewerage collectors North of the Golden Hom. The contract is about 95%
completed and is expected to be fully completed and operated by June 30, 198.
b)    the Tuzla Sewage Treatment Plant (0.225 Mm3/day capacity) which is more tan 97ff.
completed and expected to be fully completed and commissioned by Apri 30, 1998; and,
c)    the Sewage Collectors and Tunnels at Orhantepe and Tuzla (23% completed). The first stage
is expected to be completed and operated by April 30, 1998, which would allow
commissioning of the Tuzla Treatment Plant. The second stage would be completed and
operated by December 1998.
4.    Sewage Tunnel at Moda and Caddebostan-Bostanci Interceptor will be used only afler the Sewage
Pre-treatment Plant at Kadikoy is financed and constructed, as agreed during restructuring of the project



Annex 6
Key Operating Indicators
1987        1994                  1997
Key Indicators           Units          Estimated              Estimated -
Actual  SA_R  | Actual   SAR  |Restrcturin4  Actual
I Water & Sewerage Operation
Water produced                    Mn3/y      447      693     389      789         540    570
Water sales                       Mm3/y       180     533     194      623         333    400
Unaccowited-for water perceatage  % prod.    60(%     23%     50%      21%         38%    30%
Length water distribution system   ;km     7200 (??)        8,805                         9,718
Water customers                    (000)     993   1,120   1,609    1,235                 2,485
Water connections                  (000)     586              776                          831
T otal length sewer system          kin    3600             7,038                         8,191
Year end sewer conuiections        (000)     521      849              999
Total Population                   (000)    6,420   7,828   8,511    8,763                 9400
Nbr. Population connected to sewerag   (000)    3,349   5,476         6,608                6110
% Population connected to sewerage  %        52%      700/o   70%      75%                 65%
Sewage pre-treated                Mm3/y         0              75                          133 a/
Sewage pre-treated per water sales  %         0%              39%                          33%
Year end employees                (000)    6,217   7,200   7,078                         7,542
Employees per 1000 water connection    No     6.3     6.4     4.4                           3.0
11 /ndustrial Waste Management
Year end discharges permits in force  No        0  2,430      315                          582
Finns monitored                     No      3,245   2,900   5,956                         8,341
Year end employees                  No         37      85      95                          135
IllFinancial Indicators
Operating Water & Sewerage Revenue $/m3 sold   0.4 5    0.81    0.95               1.30    0.67
Average Cost                     $/m3 sold   0.34    0.32    0.56                  0.78    0.32
Cost Coverage Ratio                 No       1.30    3.04    1.72                  1.73    2.33
Collection Percentage               %         61               86                   81      84
Debt Service Coverage Ratio                  3.17    6.00    0.40                  1.76    2.30
Self-financing Percentage           %         27      106       4                   20      66
Note
a/ of which 89 Mn3/y are due to Yenikapi STP



Appendix B: Borrower Contribution to the ICR
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
ISTANBUL METROPOLITAN MUNICIPALITY
isia
.  ISWANB    WTER AND SEWERAGE ADMINISTRATION
GENERAL DIRECTORATE
Mr Bemardo GOMEZ
Program Team Leader                               ..         '
Infrastructure Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
H5 -135
THE WORLD BANK
1818 H.Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 2043 
USA
Re: 2888 TU Istanbul Water Supply and Sewerage Project Loan.
Dear Mr Gomez,
Please find enclosed the comments of ISKI on the project to be  hcpoat  irdat
the project completion report.
Meanwhile we thank you for your kind cooperation and remain. n
Prof Dr. VelE      J
General Director
Encl.
A r .                      * Tolo.in                                     I WAY -



ASSESSMENT OF ISKI ON 2888-TU
ISTANBUL WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Istanbul Metropolitan area is the densest settlement in Turkey wi&
a population of over 10 million. Approximately 15 percent of Turk-Ws
population and 35-40 percent of the country's industry is located within
the boundaries of the city .The growth rate of the population of the city
calculated to be in the range of 4.9 % per year and it is estimated to
contiue until 2020 with a satutared population of about 20 million in
accordance with the assessment of the Istanbul Water Supply Sewerage
and Drainage,sewege treatnent and disposal Master Plan Study.
The rate of increase of population due to the migration to Istaubi
places a severe strain on the city's resources . In the last two decades the
city has expanded faster than inifastructure can keep up, and the failure to
impose adequate restrictions on either industrial or housing development
has led to serious problems of both water and sewage disposal.
The migration and unhealty development of the industry a
uncontrolled urbanisation urge ISKI to realize huge investnents to provide
the population with sufficient safe and hygienic water and sewerag
services and firthermore to prevent the pollution of the enviromnent
For the rehabilitation of the existing old water supply and sewerag,
system of the city and to introduce the wastewater treatment works and to
cope up with the incresing demand for water supply sewerage and disposg
needs a significant amount of investments are required to be realized in a
very limited time.
Within the frame of the above investment needs ISK  has bet)
supported by World Bank Loans of ,2159 TU and 2888 TU for the water'
supply and sewerage projects since 1982 and additionally received several
loans and credits for the same purpose witiin the economical cooperationm
between Germany ,France and Turkey since that time up today.



In the meantime ISKI have also utilized several intemational export
and commercial funds for the implementation of its investments.
In respect of these huge investment needs World Bank Loans haver
been a very important financial and technical support to ISKY in reaiZationL
of the projects.
A very cooperative and fruitfill working relation has been established
with the World Bank personnel from appraisal stage to the completion of
the projects.The approach of the World bank personnel who were directly
or indirectly involved into the project has always been positive and
constructive towards ISKI.
However ISKI have experienced that the World Bank Loans
compared to the other above mentioned intemational financings have been.
rather costly and difficult to implement due to the strict rules of the Bank
The World Bank does not give the flexibilty for the use of the local
procedures and applications.
The local contractors are not very familiar with the tendering and
bidding procedues of the Bank which is quite different from the local
tendering law.
As it is known the local tendering law is mainly based on a discount
rate system to be proposed by the bidder to be applicable to the unit
construction prices which is determined by the investing utilities in Turkey.
Since the most of the local contractors who do not have international
activities are used to participate and compete under this system we have
observed that the bids that have been received under the World Bank
tenders have been more expensive .The contractors have included very
high rate of safety factors to their prices.



Furtheimore the use of the English Language for these conticts hve
created problems iimlementaon phase and in the settlement of disputes
r fm the claims of the cas as a rewlt of
and mutual mi    sading.
Finnaly mspite of all the above issues and polical ivomet
the previous managements affecting the implementation of the project
negatively until 1994 all the components which has been realzed so far
contibuted greatly to the objectives and it has been a vey costrucive and
fiuitfil cooperaion with the World Bank.



Appendix C Borrower Comments to the Draft ICR
--      --             ,                iIsC   C 0or TUmiW?
ZTS?AMSU  NKTROPOLZTAV bU=IICIALTT 
*       *                       S.NLa:                  ICE z
*   * -; :-S;=CS=    D:z, 
Mr. Frederi T.T.mple
Chief of Alsslon
The Wod Ibnk
;   Reent Misson In Tuksy
*        211 t     Bvan
D0683 Kavakhdre
ANKAR                                                               .25 -  5
Re: 2888 TU  lrlatto Compo rpt.
D_Ulr Temple
me hnk you for your lt  of June 4, I1  regang M t OM  compgemo  p
popared by the San for the 28  TU 8 Istanbul W rsuppt y nd sewerg prob.
The sai  uo smmarkes th se and statu of to  Implmwi           of the    ms il
delails and thrs not much to add. Mowwr we wold ik to amend te fol&ki poAt.
(I) paop 7 pw&a 23 please delote KCagkelWnOe In line 4 wher tA says it is parl flnshea.
AcaIy besde  same soil stabUiition and etfling wat  a has not be
pmented at all due to the design and lcatonchages nW lie ft has ben aWeed tb
axdude it from th project snce        was not enough funds remaining to inan  it.
-( pag  6 of Pd  II. Te 5 B please rvs Vi coponets sdm u*r osue  
. The compWon da  of th Not God  Horn oach seweae collonecs k   eb
6.9.1998 
* The comms        dte of ft Tuzbd Sewrge Treamnt Plant an Me TSd Oen OiX re
expec  to be 15.09.1998.
-40 % of the sew   collector nd unnels at O  dmnp and Tuza has ben o_mpeda Du p
ft  unexptd soil cSon       and dfficults in the tu"lng wors am compea n date o
fnst k" Ig exected to be 15 oN1Wd the cmdmI oningda  of the saove Tuft S_eep
Tement plnt and  e Ou    ha ben etnded accordly.
Meanwhile wSAhw* you for your kind cooperaton a-d hmm.
*                        ~S~.
Pro.dra Dku*li
ADPJSS                   Cable:                    TdephA J
isia                     19I  - ISTANBVUL          021212 480
A5C$AY Meydaaa           TURICCY                   O(212})l3593                  501447



MAP SECTION



Nh;,    F-- b,     ROMAN IA FtY-jo           S          RUSSIAN
aNMSaaR            RMN aaa. 1                         FEDERATION
BULGARIA                                                                                                      aadMa5 aa,a 
~A~t'%'Z'~        EBULGARIA   A,. .                        GECIR1I 
. . . . . .                                                                                                            172n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  C-    ,yI
*                                _      _     ,    ,,,,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ayaa, .p,a                        It                                    AnhJ -'  TEEE.IJ
w   ;                                                                or :nL *ns rs~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aEmlEar                            MIl I,t7   RA A 
GREFL)                &ANKARA
ORERCE            ~~TURKEY                       N
ISLAM C
r s I F.Rs I A R                                                                                                                                                                              E LP -*  LA '  L;   '
-      T A N . .
WXDARK                                                            D       LRNT
V~~~~~~~~~~0
K.- Iv- --      - 1-
S .'jTA       NtNUBA
TURKEY                                             MAR~ ENMA AI
ISTANBUL WATER SUPPLY i                                                 E \  > R AglnI ATP                i
AND SEWERAGE -P-ROJECT'\ i | ._                                          Eu;abay                    FW
WATTUPLY S YS T                                                              M                        A                       LV A
F. CF-T .1    -N-EE~K/                                    aAb aNl 
ISTANBUL  WAT~WAER  TRETMNTPLYASNTAS
WATER SUPPLY ASYSTER YLAILNOEVSa4,
3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/5 EEEDa,A ND
~~ -          - ~~~ PUMPING STATIONS
n            o  ~~~~~WATER TANKS                                                                       B (J R S A 
0        *   T          CEMNTEAR OF RMEHAALATATON AREA
ISTANBUL WATER SCADA CONTROL CENTER
- -   INTERNATIONAL EROINDAR



IBRD 29703
.  ,p ,    A.__ _.   ROMANIA                                    RUS ELSI5AN
PAA,IAM |  TS r            T     ~     . n ndlDemo                    EMNtA[LFEDERAIION
lsadAc d. ,,.Ai-  d           .
BU.pLA.ITLMAMCYRU LGARA A
B.   A-CK            S   EA                                 clLN,(7RxAL
TLcko- STP                                                                          GREEE                     I Ircbn                           f
C,Ekme(.8STP ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~MAO IOAIIAcEA   SIc,                                        REP   -
TURKEY                                                          >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TRE
RYEEEDT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OF UDRo   
COLtECTORS ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~CPU                                                ARAB
LEBANO A REP?
Ali~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~leiS  }t
9         BaIBahn,~odor PTP.
TL. 
APrb,lir SIP                                                    Y.nkopsi.pclc
TURKEY                     -     I/                                                                                                      S 
ISTANBUL WATER SUPPLY                                                MARIAR
AND SEWERAGE PROJECT                                                  MARA     
SEWERAGE SYSTEM                                                         S E A                                                 KRA
irY C-WDD    UNDER
*B        Es           B   SECONDARY TRRATRMENT PLANTS                                                                                          .  PNl         Doc,b
*   U          U    PR~~~~IELIMINARY TREATMNT PLANTS                                                                                                        I
      PUJMPING STATIONS 
-          ----              TUNNELS
-    -               ~~~~~~~COLLERCTORS
MAIN LINED
SUBMRINE C)UTRALLS
......PRESSURE LINES
iSTANBUL METROPOLITAN AREA



