Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2888 TU
           (Istanbul Water Supply and Sewerage Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
        ISTANBUL SU VE KANALIZASYON IDARESI GENEL MUDURLUGU
                      Dated December 10, 1987
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2888 TU
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated December 10, 1987 between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  (the  Bank) and ISTANBUL SU VE
KANALIZASYON IDARESI GENEL MUDURLUGU (the Borrower).
     WHEREAS (A) the Republic  of  Turkey  (the Guarantor) and the
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority
of the Project described  in  Schedule  2  to this Agreement, have
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
     (B)  by an agreement (the  Guarantee  Agreement) of even date
herewith between the  Guarantor  and  the  Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations  of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake  such  other obligations as set forth in
the Guarantee Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (b)  "Municipality" means  the  Metropolitan  Municipality of
Istanbul of the Guarantor; and
     (c)  "fiscal year" means the Borrower's fiscal year, covering
the period January 1 through December 31.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth  or  referred to in the Loan Agree-
ment, an amount in  various  currencies  equivalent to two hundred
eighteen million dollars ($218,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods  and  services  required  for  the  Project  described in
Schedule 2  to  this  Agreement  and  to  be  financed  out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in the Central Bank
of the Guarantor on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out  of,  the Special Account shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  6 to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date  shall be December 31, 1995 or
such later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of  three-fourths  of  one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal  amount  of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one-
half of one  percent  (1/2  of  1%)  per  annum  above the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings for  the  last  Semester  ending prior to the
commencement of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the  Guarantor  and the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
Page  3
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall  carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and  in conformity with appropriate admi-
nistrative, financial, engineering  and  public utility practices,
and shall  provide,  promptly  as  needed,  the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and  except  as  the  Bank  and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree,  the  Borrower  shall  carry  out  the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.
     Section 3.02. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the  goods,  works  and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the  provisions  of Schedule 4 to this Agree-
ment.
                            ARTICLE IV
             Management and Operations of the Borrower
     Section 4.01. The Borrower shall  carry on its operations and
conduct  its  affairs  in  accordance  with  sound administrative,
financial, engineering  and  public  utility  practices  under the
supervision of qualified  and  experienced  management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.
     Section 4.02. The  Borrower  shall  at  all times operate and
maintain its plants, machinery,  equipment and other property, and
from time to time, promptly  as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof,  all  in  accordance with sound engineering,
financial and public utility practices.
     Section 4.03. The Borrower  shall  take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make  other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance  against  such  risks  and  in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                             ARTICLE V
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 5.01. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect  in  accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Page  4
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   and   the  records  and
               accounts for the  Special  Account  for each fiscal
               year  audited,   in   accordance  with  appropriate
               auditing principles consistently  applied, by inde-
               pendent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each  such  year,  (A)   certified  copies  of  its
               financial statements for  such  year  as so audited
               and (B) the report of  such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well as the audit thereof as the Bank
               shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain, in accordance with  paragraph (a) of this
               Section,  records  and   accounts  reflecting  such
               expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, support the related withdrawals.
     Section 5.02. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall produce in each of its fiscal years, funds from
internal sources equivalent to not less than:
          (i)  the expenditures incurred during  that year for the
               Project which are not covered by the Loan, plus
         (ii)  45% of the  total  of  the Borrower's other capital
               expenditures incurred for that year.
     (b)  Before May 1 and November 1 in each of its fiscal years,
the Borrower shall,  on  the  basis  of  forecasts prepared by the
Borrower and satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  review whether it would
meet the requirements set  forth  in  paragraph  (a) in respect of
such year and the next following  fiscal year and shall furnish to
the Bank a copy of such review upon its completion.
     (c)  If any such  review  shows  that  the Borrower would not
meet  the  requirements  set  forth   in  paragraph  (a)  for  the
Borrower's fiscal years covered by such review, the Borrower shall
promptly take all  necessary  measures (including, without limita-
Page  5
tion, adjustments of  the  structure  or  levels  of its rates) in
order to meet such requirements.
     (d)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The term "funds  from  internal  sources" means the
               difference between:
               (A) the sum of revenues from all sources related to
                   operations,  consumer   deposits  and  consumer
                   contributions in  aid  of  construction and net
                   non-operating income; and
               (B) the sum of all  expenses related to operations,
                   including administration,  adequate maintenance
                   and  taxes  and  payments   in  lieu  of  taxes
                   (excluding provision for depreciation and other
                   non-cash  operating   charges),   debt  service
                   requirements, all cash dividends and other cash
                   distributions  of   surplus,   and  other  cash
                   outflows other than capital expenditures.
         (ii)  The term "net non-operating  income" means the dif-
               ference between:
               (A) revenues  from  all  sources  other  than those
                   related to operations; and
               (B) expenses, including taxes  and payments in lieu
                   of  taxes,  incurred   in   the  generation  of
                   revenues in (A) above.
        (iii)  The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate amount  of  repayments (including sinking
               fund payments, if any)  of,  and interest and other
               charges on, debt.
         (iv)  The term "capital  expenditures" means all expendi-
               tures  incurred   on   account   of  fixed  assets,
               including interest charged to construction, related
               to operations.
          (v)  Whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
               be necessary to value, in  terms of the currency of
               the Guarantor,  debt  payable  in another currency,
               such valuation shall be  made  on  the basis of the
               prevailing lawful rate  of  exchange  at which such
               other currency is, at  the  time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
               or, in the absence of such  rate, on the basis of a
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
     Section 5.03. Except as  the  Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall, and shall take  all steps necessary to, reduce its
accounts receivable to no more  than  the equivalent of two months
of current billings by the end of its fiscal year 1988.
     Section 5.04. Except as  the  Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall until the completion  of the Project: (a) not later
than the end of February  in  each  year, furnish to the Bank, for
review and comments, a status  report on the implementation of the
Borrower's investment  program,  including current accomplishments
and an updated  description  of  future  investments and plans for
their financing; (b) consult  with  the  Bank prior to contracting
any new long-term debt  exceeding  in the aggregate the equivalent
of $5,000,000 in  any  fiscal  year;  and  (c) notwithstanding the
provisions of the preceding  paragraphs  (b), obtain the agreement
of the Bank prior to contracting  after the date of this Agreement
any long-term debt in excess  of  the total amount of $250,000,000
equivalent.
                            ARTICLE VI
Page  6
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 6.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  The Guarantor or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of the Borrower or for the suspension of its operations.
     (b)  Law No. 2560, dated November 20, 1981, as amended by Law
No. 3009, dated May 23,  1984, shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived in  such  a way as to materially and
adversely affect the  ability  of  the  Borrower  to carry out the
covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in this Agreement.
     Section 6.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
that any event specified in  Section  6.01 of this Agreement shall
occur.
                            ARTICLE VII
                            Termination
     Section 7.01. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                           ARTICLE VIII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 8.01. The General Director  of the Borrower is desig-
nated as  representative  of  the  Borrower  for  the  purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 8.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     For the Borrower:
          Istanbul Su Ve Kanalizasyon
            Idaresi Genel Mudurlugu
          Aksaray Meydani
          Aksaray Istanbul
          Turkey
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               ISKI                              31293 ISU TR
               Istanbul                          23923 ISU TR
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
Page  7
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Hans-Eberhard Kopp
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                    ISTANBUL SU VE KANALIZASYON IDARESI GENEL
                       MUDURLUGU
                    By /s/ Hikmet Ulugbay
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each  Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Works, except            86,000,000        100% of foreign
     for Parts B.6                              expenditures and
     and B.7 of the                             26% of local
     Project                                    expenditures
(2)  Goods, except           100,000,000        100% of foreign
     for Parts B.6                              expenditures,
     and B.7 of the                             100% of local
     Project                                    expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 65%
                                                of local ex-
                                                penditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally
(3)  Consultants'             10,000,000        100%
     services and
     overseas
     training
(4)  Unallocated              22,000,000
          TOTAL              218,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than that of the Guarantor for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Guarantor.
Page  8
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of  this  Agreement, except that withdrawals, in
an aggregate amount  not  exceeding  the equivalent of $6,000,000,
may be made on  account  of  payments made for expenditures before
that date but after April 1, 1987.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are: (a) to assist the Borrower
in rehabilitating its water  distribution  network and in reducing
the ratio of  unaccounted-for  water  to  the  total production of
water; (b) to improve and  extend  sewerage  service to 70% of the
population  of  the  Istanbul  Municipality;  (c)  to  provide for
suitable disposal  of  sewage  so  as  to  protect  the waters and
shorelines of the Sea  of  Marmara  and  the Bosphorus; and (d) to
strengthen the Borrower's operation and maintenance and industrial
waste management capabilities.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank  and the Borrower may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Water Distribution
1.   Carrying out of a program to reduce the ratio of unaccounted-
for water  to  the  total  production  of  water, including system
mapping,  district  metering,  repair  of  leaks,  replacement  of
deficient customer meters, and training of personnel.
2.   Replacement of about 1,200  km  of  water  pipes in the Asian
distribution network.
3.   Rehabilitation of about 20 pumping stations.
4.   Installation of a  supervisory  control  and data acquisition
(SCADA) system.
Part B:   Sewage Collection and Treatment
1.   Atakoy Drainage  Zone:  Construction  of  the  Atakoy pumping
station, the Sahil Yolu pumping  station and the Atakoy collector,
and rehabilitation of the Zeytinburnu pumping station.
2.   Kucukcekmece Drainage Zone:  Construction of the Kucukcekmece
pumping station, secondary treatment  plant and submarine outfall,
and about 14 km of collectors.
3.   Tuzla  Drainage  Zone:  Construction  of  the  Tuzla  pumping
station, secondary treatment plant,  and submarine outfall, a col-
lection pumping station, and about 27 km of collectors.
4.   Kadikoy-Pendik Drainage  Zone:  Construction  of  the Kadikoy
pretreatment plant, pumping station  and submarine outfall, the 21
km Kadikoy-Pendik interceptor, and the Dragos pumping station.
5.   Uskudar Drainage  Zone:  Construction  of  the Uskudar preli-
minary treatment plant and submarine outfall.
6.   Construction of about 2,500 km of street sewers.
7.   Installation of about 330,000 customer service connections.
Part C:   Institutional Development of Borrower
1.   Provision of technical assistance in the areas of operations,
maintenance and industrial waste management.
2.   Provision of staff training  in the operation and maintenance
of the sewage treatment  plants,  pumping  stations, and the SCADA
Page  9
system  provided  under  the  Project,  and  in  industrial  waste
management.
3.   Provision of operation  and  maintenance equipment, materials
and vehicles,  including  equipment  for  detection  and repair of
leaks.
Part D:   Consultants' Services
     Provision of consultants' services  to assist in carrying out
the Project.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 15 and October 15
     beginning April 15, 1992
     through   April 15, 2004                         8,385,000
On October 15, 2004                                   8,375,000
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
     Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                            Premium
                                           The interest  rate (ex-
                                           pressed as a percentage
                                           per  annum)  applicable
                                           to      the     balance
                                           outstanding on the Loan
                                           on the  day  of prepay-
                                           ment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                            0.18
     before maturity
More than three years but                            0.35
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                              0.65
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                           0.88
     more than 15 years
     before maturity
More than 15 years before                            1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Page  10
Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   Bidders for large or  complex  works  included in the Project
shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 2.10 of the Guide-
lines.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof,  goods manufactured in Turkey may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Items or groups of items  of operation and maintenance equip-
ment estimated to cost  less  than  the equivalent of $200,000 per
contract, up to an aggregate  amount  not to exceed the equivalent
of $3,000,000,  may  be  procured,  in  accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank, as follows:
     (a)  under contracts  awarded  on  the  basis  of competitive
bidding, advertised locally; or
     (b)  under contracts awarded  on  the  basis of comparison of
price quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines.
2.   Works to be  carried  out  under  Parts  A.2  and  A.3 of the
Project, and estimated to cost in  the aggregate not more than the
equivalent of $29,000,000, may  be  procured  on  the basis of the
Borrower's procedures for competitive bidding.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of prequalification:
     With respect to the  prequalification  of bidders as provided
in Part A.2 hereof,  the  procedures  set  forth in paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to  each  contract  for  goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of  $500,000  or  more,  and each contract for
works estimated to cost the  equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs  2  and  4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two  conformed  copies of the contract required
to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall
be furnished to the Bank prior  to the making of the first payment
out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
Page  11
shall be furnished to the Bank as  part of the evidence to be fur-
nished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 5.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
3.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the  Borrower  shall   employ  consultants  whose  qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions  of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Bank. Such  consultants shall be selected in accor-
dance with principles and  procedures  satisfactory to the Bank on
the basis of the "Guidelines  for  the Use of Consultants by World
Bank  Borrowers  and  by  The  World  Bank  as  Executing  Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                      Implementation Program
Implementation Arrangements
1.   The Borrower's Construction  and Maintenance Department shall
have   overall   responsibility    for   managing   the   Project.
Responsibility for implementing specific components of the Project
shall be assigned to  Project  Managers  from the Borrower's Water
and Sewer Construction  Departments.  A Project Coordinator, whose
qualifications and experience shall  be  satisfactory to the Bank,
shall  be  responsible,   inter   alia,   for  monitoring  project
implementation    and     expenditures,    preparing    withdrawal
applications,  and  preparing  consolidated  progress  reports  on
project implementation for submission to the Bank.
Reporting Requirements
2.   Within 60  days  of  each  semester  ending  December  31 and
June 30, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank:
     (a)  a consolidated report on  project implementation for the
preceding semester,  covering  physical  progress measured against
construction and procurement  schedules  and monitoring indicators
acceptable to the Bank; and
     (b)  a financial report on  the Borrower's operations for the
preceding semester, forecasting and identifying significant varia-
tions from planned  expenditures  and financial performance objec-
tives.
                            SCHEDULE 6
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3) set forth in  the  table  in  paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
Page  12
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $20,000,000  to  be  withdrawn  from  the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special  Account  pursuant  to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the
Special Account shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible expendi-
tures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized  Allocation,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of the
Borrower, withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit  in the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the Bank shall with-
draw from the Loan  Account  and  deposit into the Special Account
such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account
with amounts not exceeding the amount  of payments made out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall
be  withdrawn  by  the  Bank  from  the  Loan  Account  under  the
respective eligible Categories,  and  in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have  been  justified by the evidence supporting
the request for such deposit  furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, prior to or at  the time of such request, such documents
and other evidence as  the  Bank shall reasonably request, showing
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Bank  when  either  of  the following situations first
arises:
          (i)  the Bank  shall  have  determined  that all further
               withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
               from the Loan Account in accordance with the provi-
               sions of Article  V  of  the General Conditions and
               paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount  of the Loan allocated
               to the eligible Categories  minus the amount of any
               outstanding special commitment  entered into by the
               Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Condi-
               tions with respect to  the  Project, shall be equal
               to the equivalent of twice the amount of the Autho-
               rized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures  as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after  and  to  the  extent  that  the  Bank  shall have been
satisfied that  all  such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit  in the
Special Account as of the date  of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the Special  Account  (i) was made for any expendi-
ture or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Page  13
Schedule, or (ii)  was  not  justified  by  the evidence furnished
pursuant to paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall,
promptly upon  notice  from  the  Bank,  deposit  into the Special
Account (or, if the Bank shall  so request, refund to the Bank) an
amount equal to the amount of  such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. No  further deposit by the Bank into
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such
deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
