CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 403 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Fifth Telecommunications Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 25, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 403 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Fifth Telecommunications Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 25, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 25, 1973, between INDIA, acting by its President
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS the Association,has previously assisted in financing the foreign
exchange cost of four projects forming part of the programs for expansion and
development of telecommunication facilities operated by the Borrower and has
entered into development credit agreements with the Borrower Nos. 28-IN dated
September 14. 1962, 58-IN dated July 6, 1964, 153-IN dated June 18, 1969 and
241-IN dated May 3, 1971 providing for such projects;
WHEREAS the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development has
previously financed foreign exchange cost of one project forming a part of the
program for expansion and development of telecommunication facilities operated
by the Borrower and has entered into a loan agreement with the Borrower
No. 615-IN dated June 18, 1969;
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Association to assist in financing
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
WHEREAS the Association is willing to make a development credit available
for such Project on the terms and conditions hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)   Section 5.01 is deleted;
(b)   Section 6.02(h) is deleted and Section 6.02(i) becomes 6.02(h);


﻿4
(c)   Paragraph 5 of Section 2.01 is amended to read as follows:
"5. The term "Borrower" means India, acting by its President."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "P & T" means the Posts and Telegraphs Department of the Ministry
of Communications of the Borrower; and
(b)   "Branch" means the Telecommunications Branch of P & T.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to eighty million dollars ($80,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972, as revised in October 1972, and in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1976 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.


﻿5
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on June 1 and
December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each June 1 and December 1 commencing
December 1, 1983, and ending June 1, 2023, each installment to and including
the installment payable on June 1, 1993 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the Gereral
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project through P & T with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and public utility practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section  3.02.   The   Borrower   :hall  operate  and   maintain   its
telecommunications facilities, and from time to time make all necessary renewals
and repairs thereof, all in accordance with sound public utility and engineering
practices.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause P & T to retain promptly the
services of the Consultancy Division of the Administrative Staff College of
Hyderabad for a period of at least six months to assist P & T in implementing
the recommendations made by the said Consultancy Division under the provisions
of  Fourth   Telecommunications Project, (Development Credit Agreement
No. 241-IN dated May 3, 1971) for developing an effective materials management
system; for preparing a manual for the new procedures of materials management;
and for establishing training courses for the materials management staff of P & T.


﻿6
(b)   In order to develop an effective Materials Management System
recommended by the consultants referred to in sub-section (a) above, the Borrower
shall cause P & T to ensure continuity of the materials management staff of P
& T, and to that end, limit to the maximum extent possible the rapid transfer
of staff.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract documents and work and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project- (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to
examine the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all
such information as th Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or for the operation of the telecommunications facilities of the
Borrower, or any part thereof.


﻿7
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall have the commercial accounts of the Branch
for each fiscal year audited annually by the Comptroller and Auditor General of
the Borrower. The Borrower shall transmit to the Association for each fiscal year,
provisional commercial accounts (balance sheet and related statement of earnings
and expenses) of the Branch not later than four months after the close of the
fiscal year to which they relate, and, within a reasonable time thereafter, certified
copies of the audited statements (balance sheet and related statement of earnings
and expenses) and signed copies of the auditors' reports relating to the commercial
accounts.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall ensure that all funds required for the
carrying out of the Project are available to the Branch before any funds generated
by the Branch are applied to the operations of the Postal Branch of P & T or
to any use other than the operations of the Branch and the carrying out of the
Project.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall establish and maintain tariffs for telecommunications services, and
shall take all other action which may be necessary or appropriate, so as to provide
revenues sufficient to produce an annual rate of return of not less than 1 1% on
the value of the net fixed assets in operation of the Branch, computed in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(b)   Whenever appropriate, and in any case not less frequently than every
five years, the Borrower shall review, or cause to be reviewed, the value of the
net fixed assets in operation of the Branch to determine whether, because of
substantial changes in current prices, adjustments to such values are required, and
shall notify the Association of the result of any such review. Appropriate
adjustments to the value of the net fixed assets in operation of the Branch for
purposes of paragraph (a) of this Section shall then be made to the extent agreed
between the Borrower and the Association. At the same time, the minimum annual
rate of return specified in paragraph (a) of this Section and the minimum average
rate of depreciation for purposes of computing costs specified in paragraph 2(a)(ii)
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement will also be reviewed by the Borrower and the
Association in order to determine whether any adjustments are called for.
Section 4.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause P & T to continue the financial reorganization of the Branch by taking
action that will result in progressively extending the commercial accounts to the
regional level and to inform the Association every six months commencing with
January 1974 of the steps being taken.


﻿8
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, and in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part of the Project, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or the operation of the telecommunications facilities of the
Borrower to which the Project relates, or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to inspect all plants, installations, sites,
works, buildings, property and equipment of the Branch, Indian Telephone
Industries Limited, Hindustan Cables Limited, Hindustan Teleprinters Limited, any
department or agency of the Borrower which is responsible for carrying out the
Project or the operation of the telecommunication facilities of the Borrower to
which the Project relates or any part thereof, and any relevant records and


﻿9
documents and to visit any part of the territories of the Borrower for purposes
related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in it, territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and .ervice charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed tinder the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon, and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, a default shall have occured
in the performance of any covenant or agreement on the part of the Borrower
under the development credit agreement Nos. 153-IN dated June 18, 1969 and
241-IN dated May 3, 1971 granted by the Association to the Borrower for
telecommunications projects or under the loan agreement No. 615-IN dated
June 18, 1969 financed by the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development.


﻿10
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, the event specified in Section
7.02 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VIII
Termination
Section 8.01. The date September 26, 1973 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.02, 4.01,
4.02, and 4.04 of of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date 30 years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint-Secretary or
Director/Deputy Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance,
Department of Economic Affairs of the Borrower is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi


﻿For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s/ T. N. Kaul
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ I.P.M. Cargill
Regional Vice President
Asia


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                      Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
I.   Goods to be imported
by P & T:
(a)  Local telephone              16,040,000          100% of foreign
exchange systems,                               expenditures
Telex and Gentex
Equipment
(b)  Cable systems,                2,540,000          100% of foreign
and radio systems                               expenditures
and equipment
(c)  Materials, Compo-             7,180,000          100% of foreign
nents and Cable                                 expenditures
for P & T work-
shops
(d)  Equipment and in-             5,030,000          100% of foreign
struments for                                   expenditures
research, testing
and training
11.  Goods to be purchased by
P & T from the Govern-
ment telecommunication
factories:
(a)  Telephones, switch-          28,490,000         25% of total
ing and transmission                            expenditures
equipment manufac-
tured by Indian
Telephone Industries
Limited
(b)  Cable and wire               20,590,000         51% of total
manufactured by                                 expenditures
Hindustan Cables
Limited


﻿I
13
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category                     Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(c)  Teleprinters manu-             130,000        6% of total
factured by Hindus-                           expenditures
tan Teleprinters
Limited
TOTAL             80,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the  term   "foreign  expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; and
(b)   the  term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and of expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
the territories of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed directly under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount
represented by the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph
I above in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all
such taxes, such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the
Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any sub-category within either
Category I or II shall decrease, the amount of the Credit then allocated to such


﻿14
sub-category and no longer required therefor will be reallocated by the Association
(subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association) by increasing correspondingly the amount allocated to any other
sub-category within either Category I or II, or both.
(b)   If the estimate of the expenditures under any sub-category within
either Category I or II shall increase. the percentage set forth in the third column
of the table in paragraph I above in respect of such expenditures shall be applied
to the amount of such increase, and a corresponding amount will be allocated
by the Association, at the request of the Borrower, to such sub-category from
one or more of the other sub-categories within either Category I or II or both
as regards which there is a decrease in the estimate of expenditures, subject,
however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the Association,
in respect of any other expenditures;
(c)   the Association from   time to time and with the consent of the
Borrower may revise the percentages of total expenditures in one or more of the
sub-categories of Category II, so as to reflect revised estimates of the foreign
expenditure component of such sub-category or sub-categories; and
(d)   if the Association   shall have reasonably    determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿I
15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project covers the first two years (1975-76) of P & T's Fifth Five-Year
Development Program (1975-79) and comprises the following main items:
A.    Installation of about 301,000 additional exchange lines, together with
associated expansion of cable network, distribution facilities and buildings
to permit connection of about 258,000 additional direct exchange lines.
B.    Expansion of long distance facilities through provision of about 2,000 km
of coaxial cable, about 6,000 km of microwave and ultra high frequency
radio routes, about 9,000 km of very high frequency radio routes, and open
wire carrier systems together with multiplexing equipment for adding about
17,100 trunk circuits.
C.    Extension of existing trunk exchanges and installation of new automatic
trunk exchanges, at approximately 12 locations providing an additional about
22,400 lines; installation of about 1,200 manual trunk boards to handle
.'               additional traffic and to provide manual assistance to subscribers using trunk
dialing.
D.    Extension of service to rural areas by building and equipping about 2,000
additional public call offices and about 2,800 new combined postal/telegraph
offices.
E.    Expansion of existing telex exchanges and installation of approximately 16
new exchanges to permit an increase of about 6,250 Telex services.
F.    Expansion of research and training facilities, and additional staff housing.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1976.


﻿I
16
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.    With respect to any contract for goods under Category I of the allocation
of the proceeds of the Credit set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement estimated
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the reasons for the intended
award. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this
Agreement, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the conLra,t shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.
2.    With respect to any other contract for goods under Category I of the
allocation of the proceeds of the Credit set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution and
prior to the delivery to the Association of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Credit Account in respect of any such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the award of the contract is not consistent


﻿17
with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions included in the foregoing paragraphs of this
Schedule, in the interest of system standardization as determined by the Association
in agreement with the Borrower, the Borrower may place contracts for the
procurement of goods under Category I(a) of Schedule I to this Agreement up
to an aggregate amount of $12,000,000 equivalent, through negotiations with the
manufacturers of the type of equipment standardized, provided:
(a)   that the terms and conditions of negotiated contracts are acceptable
to the Association, and in particular that the prices compare reasonably with prices
which have previously been obtained for similar installations after competitive
bidding; and
(b)   that any draft contract and any other document relevant thereto which
the Association shall request will be submitted to the Association for review and
approval prior to making any award of contract or issuing any letter of intent.
4.    The goods included in Category 11 of the allocation of the proceeds of the
Credit set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement shall be procured from the Indian
companies indicated in the said Schedule in accordance with the usual procedures
of the Branch and said companies will continue to procure imported goods for
the production of the goods included in said Category II on the basis of prices
obtained through methods of international procurement as normally employed by
factories.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 4
Computation of Annual Rate of Return
1.   The annual rate of return on the value of the net fixed assets in operation
of the Branch, referred to in Section 4.04 of this Agreement, shall be computed
by relating the net operating income accruing from the telecommunications services
for the year in question to the average of the value of net fixed assets in operation
at the beginning and at the end of the year in question.
2.    For purposes of this computation:
(a)   "net operating income" shall mean the difference between:
(i)         all operating  revenues accruing  from  telecommunications
services, excluding subscriber deposits, interest income and that
portion of receipts under the "Own Your Telephone" scheme
which relates to service to be rendered in future years; and
(ii)        all operating costs of the telecommunications services, including
administrative expenses, adequate maintenance and provision for
depreciation on all depreciable assets in operation, computed in
accordance with the straight-line method at an average rate of
not less than 4-1/2% per annum of the gross value of such
depreciable assets in operation, adjusted in accordance with
Section 4.04(b) of this Agreement, but excluding interest and
other charges on debt and on the Borrower's contributions to
P & T, and
(b)   "value of net fixed assets in operation" shall mean the gross value
of such assets, less accumulated depreciation, adjusted in accordance with Section
4.04(b) of this Agreement.
3.    The above computation shall be made on the basis of P & T's commercial
accounts for the Branch, except as such accounts are inconsistent with the above
provisions.


