Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23134
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-21770; IDA-21771)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 35.80 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR THE
MULTI-MODE TRANSPORT PROJECT
December 31, 2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective September 15, 2001)
Currency Unit = YR
YR I = US$ 0.0061
US$ 1 = YR 165
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
X\ADT         =             Average Annual Daily Traffic
(AMA                         Civil Aviation and Meteorological Authority
GCMA          =              General Corporation for Marine Affairs
GCRB          =              General Corporation for Roads and Bridges
GCYP                         General Corporation for Yemen Ports
GOY           =              Government of Yemen
ICR                          Implementation Completion Report
iDA           =             Intemational Development Association
IRI                          International Roughness Index
IRR           =              Internal Rate of Retum
MOC                          Ministry of Construction
MPWUD         =             Ministry of Public Works and Urban Development
NPV           =              Net Present Value
PMU           =             Project Management Unit
RMF                         Road Maintenance Fund
ROY           =              Republic of Yemen
SAR           =              Staff Appraisal Report
SDR           =              Special Drawing Rights
SC            =              Supplemental Credit
TA                          Technical Assistance
US$           =             United States Dollars
VOC           =             Vehicle Operating Costs
YR            =             Yemeni Riyal
Vice President:  Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager/Director:   Mahmood A. Ayub
Sector Manager/Director:   Sonia Hammam
Task Manager:     Terje Wolden



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YEMEN, REPUBLIC OF
RY-MULTI-MODE TRANSPORT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  7
6. Sustainability                                                                      9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       9
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    12
9. Partner Comments                                                                   13
10. Additional Information                                                           14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 27
MAP IBRD 31626
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P005806                                       Project Name: RY-MULTI-MODE TRANSPORT
Team Leader: James A. Reichert                            TL Unit: MNSIF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: December 26, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: RY-MULTI-MODE TRANSPORT                        L/C/TFNumber: IDA-21770;
IDA-21771
Country/Department: YEMEN, REPUBLIC OF                                   Region: Middle East and North
Africa Region
Sector/subsector: TY - Other Transportation
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   02/11/1987                             Effective: 01/14/1991          03/21/1991
Appraisal:  01/17/1990                                MTR:
Approval:  09/11/1990                              Closing: 06/30/1997          06/30/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT/MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS AND URBAN
DEVELOPMENT (MPWUD)
Other Partners:  United States Agency for International Development (USAID)
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jean-Louis Sarbib                         W.A. Wapenhans
Country Manager:     Mahmood A. Ayub                            Everardus J. Stoutjesdijk
Sector Manager:       Sonia Hammam                              Michel J. L. Pommier
Team Leader at ICR:  Terje Wolden                               Luis Revuelta
ICR Primary Author:   James A. Reichert
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The key objectives of the Multi-Mode Transport Project (as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report) were to:



(a)    improve access to important agricultural areas;
(b)    address institutional, financial and strategic development needs of the Civil Aviation and
Meteorological Authority (CAMA), the General Corporation of Yemen Ports (GCYP), and the
General Corporation for Marine Affairs (GCMA); and
(c)    continue to support transport sector training.
3.2 Revised Objective:
There were no revisions to the Project's original objectives.
3.3 Original Components:
Based on the Project's objectives, four components were devised, which focused on the road, civil aviation
and port subsectors:
(1)    Harad-Huth Road
(a) Civil works, including equipment
(b) Construction supervision
(2)    Institutional Development of Highway Authority
(3)    Civil Aviation and Meteorological Authority
(a) Equipment
(b) Technical Assistance
(4)    GCYP/GCMA
(a) Equipment
(b) Technical Assistance
Since the Republic of Yemen's (ROY) primary road network was rapidly nearing completion at the time of
appraisal, the Project sought to address shortcomings in the secondary network by improving access to
areas with economic potential. As such, the Harad-Huth Road was targeted because of the potential to
create significant distance savings between key northern agricultural areas served by the road and the Port
of Hodeidah, the Tihama Plain and Saudi Arabia. Developing the Harad-Huth Road, which at the time was
a simple track, was also a high priority project for the Government of Yemen (GOY), and represented
about 12 percent of all road rehabilitation activities under GOY's Third Five-Year Plan (1987-1991). At
the same time, the Project offered timely support to the unification process in that it sought to address
institutional shortcomings in key civil aviation and port sector entities, both in terms of equipment and
human resources, and to strengthen their strategic planning capacity and processes.
3.4 Revised Components:
The Project's original components were not revised. However, there were two amendments to the Credit
Agreement. The first involved a change in construction methods to one that was more labor intensive (in
order to better accommodate Yemeni expatriates returning to Yemen as a result of the Gulf War), while the
second was for Supplemental Credit.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
This project was prepared before the Bank introduced formal performance ratings for quality at entry.
- 2 -



However, if today's standards for quality at entry were applied, it would appear that the project was not
ready for implementation. While a strategy for implementing the project was in place, additional
preparatory and analytical work was needed. This is reflected in the procurement problems that occurred
during the first year of implementation, and the lack of records documenting early financial expenditures,
especially regarding cofinancing arrangements. In addition, performance indicators were not developed
until after the project was under implementation, and more could have been done upfront in terms of
developing mechanisms for building local support and maintaining dialogue with local constituents.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project's objective (a), improve access to important agricultural areas, was largely achieved. The
project road, which passes through the northem Govemorates of Hajjah and Amran, has a direct influence
on an area that extends over some 5,000 square kms and is inhabited by more than 500,000 people. It
appears that two main groups benefited from the project, including: (i) the agricultural population living in
the area served by the project road and the Tihama, with easier access to markets (including Saudi Arabia)
and social services; and (ii) road users generally in northem Yemen.
At project launch, the Harad to Huth Road was a 157 km rudimentary track that required a minimum
eight-hour journey in a four-wheel drive vehicle. It is now possible to cover the distance between Harad
and Huth in about three hours. This represents a savings in travel time of more than 60 percent. Also,
improvements led to a reduction in vehicle operating costs (VOC). Finally, there has been significant
economic development and expansion of commercial activities at certain locations along the road, including
at the western terminus near Harad, Suk Khamis, and the eastem terminus near Huth. Much, if not all, of
this development would appear to be a direct result of improvements to the road.
While the road has been upgraded to accommodate heavy traffic, on-going tribal conflicts in the area make
safe passage unpredictable and reduce utilization of the road. As a result, use of the road by large trucks
and other commercial vehicles is diminished, and through traffic is limited. In addition, only one bus per
day makes the joumey between Harad and Huth.
Objective (b), addressing institutional, financial and strategic development of the civil aviation and port
subsectors, was substantially achieved. Four months prior to project approval, the country had initiated a
process to unify and integrate two very different political and economic systems - that of north Yemen
(formally the Yemen Arab Republic) and south Yemen (formally the People's Democratic Republic of
Yemen). Part of the integration process was to rationalize and eliminate the replication of transport
functions, which at the time, were being carried out by dual Government entities. Under the project, timely
strategic development studies for both the civil aviation and port subsectors were undertaken. These
reports proposed arrangements for better integration of road, civil aviation and port activities, appropriate
organizational and management structures for airport and maritime entities, including manpower
requirements, and commensurate levels of financial and managerial autonomy.  They also made
recommendations about investments in equipment and training to strengthen institutional capacity, many of
which were adopted by the Government.
Proceeds from the Credit were also used to purchase a significant amount of equipment under the project,
including: for airports - navigational aids and comnmunications equipment, fire fighting vehicles, spare
parts, and runway lighting and painting; and for ports - land and seaside emergency response vehicles,
marine and cargo handling equipment, and spare parts and tools. These acquisitions improved safety at
- 3 -



Yemeni airports and ports.
The goal of continuing support to training in the transport sector, objective (c), was closely related to
objective (b) and was also achieved. Under the project, local training and advisory services were provided
in a sustained and coordinated fashion to the Highway Authority, CAMA, GCPA, and GCYP.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: Harad-Huth Road
Construction of the Harad-Huth Road (as per the road's final configuration) was successfully completed,
except for remaining foundation weaknesses in the Wadi Mawr Bridge and four kms of road that were
never paved. This activity represented the project's main component, both in terms of complexity and cost.
During implementation, the project faced extreme social and technical challenges in that it passed through
areas of unrest and tribal dispute, and crossed a very difficult mountain range.
Shortly after work on the road began in November 1991, local tribes initiated hostile actions against the
project team, which persisted and eventually caused the project to fall more than a year behind schedule by
early 1994. The Government responded by providing military protection (up to 3,000 soldiers) for workers
at the site, which permitted work to proceed, albeit at slower rates. One of the reasons for the hostilities
was related to the compensation system for land, which permitted the Government to take up to 25 percent
of any property for the road. These hostilities hampered progress until the country's internal conflict began
in April 1994, when all work in the area was halted. At the conclusion of the conflict in late 1994, after a
new Government had been formed and a tribal leader from the area was placed in a prominent Government
position, hostile actions against the project team declined, but never completely disappeared. Tribal unrest
and disputes with the project team flared up with regularity and plagued work on the road throughout
implementation and up to the project's close in June 2001.
When the road was nearing finalization in 1997, severe cracks were discovered in the Al Abbaisah
escarpment. These cracks posed a threat to traffic and could have removed support for the road if a slide
had been initiated by earthquake or heavy rain. The project faced another setback in March 1998, when the
Wadi Mawr Bridge, which is also located along the same section of the Al Abbaisah escarpment, was
damaged by an exceptional flash flood. The flood caused one of the bridge's support piers to settle, and
strengthening of the foundations by piling to bedrock was required to prevent further damage. (It should be
noted that Bank supervision missions had argued strongly for a pile foundation prior to the bridge's
construction, but this was not undertaken.) To address these problems, as well as the paving of about four
km of the project road, which up until then, had not been completed due to unrest in the area, a
Supplemental Credit (SC) of SDR 4.3 million was proposed and approved by IDA Board on May 21,
1998.
While slope protection measures were successfully carried out under the SC, repairs to the Wadi Mawr
Bridge, which had settled 210 mm after the flash flood in 1998, and another 90 mm during a second flash
flood in June 2001, were not. In addition, three sections of project road between the Bridge and Huth,
totaling about four km, remain unpaved. In both instances, the reasons are due primarily to unrest in the
area. In the case of the three sections of unpaved road, there is resistance from local tribes living on either
end of the unpaved areas, who believe that if the road were paved completely, it would facilitate raids from
rival groups. In the case of the Bridge, no qualified contractor in the region was willing to prepare a bid for
the work.
-4 -



In spite of a prolonged implementation period, geologic and environmental setbacks, and the fact that four
km of project road between Wadi Mawr Bridge and Huth remain unpaved, the objectives of this component
were largely fulfilled under exceptionally difficult circumstances. However, because the damages to the
Wadi Mawr Bridge have not been repaired, this calls into question the lifespan of the Bridge, and
represents an on-going threat to the long-term viability of the road. The Government's has discussed
replacing the two affected spans with a pre-fabricated Baily-type of bridge, which would make the affected
pier redundant. However, since there are no definitive plans for doing so and because the damage remains
unrepaired, the output of this component is rated unsatisfactory.
Components 2, 3 and 4: Institutional Development of Highway Authority, Civil Aviation and
Meteorological Authority, and GCYP/GCMA:
The important objectives of addressing institutional, financial and strategic development of the civil
aviation and port subsectors, and continuing support to training in the transport sector, were achieved
under the project. The primary vehicles for doing so were through the acquisition of needed equipment and
targeted Technical Assistance, and this had positive impacts in the road, civil aviation and port subsectors.
Because of the interrelationship of these two objectives, and the fact that components 2, 3 and 4 had
comparable outputs, the evaluations of these components was consolidated.
Roads. Under the project, and as a means of distributing IDA's 57 percent financing of the Harad-Huth
Road, which was constructed through Force Account, crushing plants, asphalt plant, trucks, bull dozers,
loaders, rollers and other heavy equipment were purchased for the General Corporation for Roads and
Bridges (GCRB), which facilitated their transition to private contractor and helped to expand their ability
to undertake larger and more complex road sector activities. Technical Assistance was used to identify and
appoint a highly qualified private sector accountant to strengthen GCRB's financial operations. The
accountant was still employed by GCRB as of the project's closing date. GCRB staff also attended
regional training seminars on designing, planning and constructing roads.
Direct TA to the Highway Authority included the long-term services of six engineers to assist local
counterparts manage the construction of the project road which, according to long-time counterparts
involved in the project, was very beneficial. On the other hand, the quality of the consultants hired to
supervise road construction was less than satisfactory. The evaluation criteria for shortlisting firms was
partly to blame in that it should have assured that all shortlisted consultants had appropriate experience
(mountainous conditions). Another reason for the supervising engineer's poor performance was the unusual
contractual arrangement whereby the supervising engineer was overseeing the work of GCRB (the
Government's labor force) instead of a private contractor. As such, it was difficult for the supervising
engineer to be critical of the work undertaken by GCRB, and their ability to effect change was limited.
CAMA and GCYP/GCMA. The efficiency and level of safety at the country's airports was significantly
improved as a result of equipment purchased under the project. Navigational and communications
equipment was replaced or upgraded at Sanaa, Taiz and Hodeidah airports, and a number of back-up
power supply units were introduced to numerous other airports throughout the country. In addition, fire
trucks, ambulances and other rapid intervention vehicles were acquired, as were smaller items, such as
fire-proof clothing, respirators and associated first aid equipment.
The capacity to process import and exports at the country's principal ports was strengthened through the
acquisition of needed equipment, including equipment and machinery for port workshops, marine and cargo
handling equipment, land and seaside emergency response vehicles, and spare parts and tools.
- 5 -



Strategic Development Studies for CAMA, GCYP and GCMA were undertaken shortly after Project
Launch. These served as important first steps to identifying subsequent TA that would be more responsive
to specific needs and could be undertaken in a coordinated fashion. Generally, the studies proposed plans
of action for improving management and operational efficiency and strengthening financial management
systems, and identified training needs to build capacity. In addition to overseas training programs, short-
(up to six months) and intermediate-term (one to two years) expatriate expertise was secured to work
alongside local counterparts in Yemen. Areas targeted for these "twinning" arrangements and on-the-job
training included:
* installation and maintenance of electronic navigational and communications equipment;
* procedures for operating and maintaining emergency response vehicles;
*   performance checks for security systems;
* altemative fire fighting techniques;
* procurement of goods and services and issuance of stock items; and
*   enhancing procedures for financial planning, budgeting, revenue collection, and expenditure
control.
Seminars and study tours also formed a part of the project's TA. CAMA staff attended programs outside
of Yemen, including a seminar in Amman, Jordan on airport management. Participants from the port
sector joined a study tour to visit ports in the United States to better acquaint themselves with container
operations, procedures for handling bulk grain, state-of-the-art fire fighting methods, and processes for
managing ships crews and seamen
The combination of equipment purchases and targeted TA effectively strengthened the capacity of affected
entities to fulfill their functions. As such, these three components are rated satisfactory.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
During project appraisal, an economic evaluation was carried out on the first component, construction of
the Harad-Huth Road. No economic evaluation was carried out on the three TA components, which
comprised about five percent of total costs at appraisal, since their benefits were, for the most part, not
quantifiable in economic terms. A new economic evaluation conducted for the Implementation Completion
Report (ICR) identified an Intemal Rate of Retum (IRR) of 21 percent, which is less than the Staff
Appraisal Report's (SAR) IRR of 32 percent, but, nonetheless, represents a high investment retum.
Underlaying assumptions about capital costs, traffic counts, and vehicle operating costs are detailed in
Annex 3.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's impact on institutional development is substantial. At the start of the project, GCRB was the
force account contractor, and also acted as the Highway Authority and managed private contractors.
Through the acquisition of equipment, working with expatriate engineers on-site, and undertaking advanced
projects, many GCRB staff benefitted from "learning by doing." As a result, GCRB now has the capability
to execute far more complex road sector activities, such as building small bridges, asphalting roads, and
undertaking culvert works. The highway management functions were taken over by the Ministry of Public
Works in 1998. While it is more difficult to isolate the project's direct impacts in the aviation and port
- 6 -



subsectors, the efficiency and level of safety at the country's airports and seaports have certainly improved
since project launch. Many CAMA and port sector staff gained valuable knowledge through the process of
working with international experts to carry out surveys and analyses, and by attending seminars and
courses overseas.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
A couple of noteworthy factors, which were outside of the Government's control, contributed to an
extended (ten year) implementation period.
Local/Tribal Disturbances. It was well known by the Government that the area through which the project
road passed was subject to frequent local disturbances, which took the form of uprisings, tribal feuds, and
disputes over territory. A March 1990 Bank supervision report highlighted the security risk by identifying
the on-going split between the Zaydi and Shafii tribes, which often turned violent, and characterizing the
area as having a high level of illiteracy (98% among women), customary tribal traditions (e.g. the right to
deny outsiders passage through Zaydi territory), and large amounts of weapons in the hands of the
population. Complicating matters was the fact that some individuals in the area were unhappy with the
way Yemeni law compensates land owners for property taken for road construction purposes. Because of
the potential benefits that would accrue to land adjoining the road, the laws of Yemen permit the seizure of
up to 25 percent of privately-owned land without compensating owners. This contributed to a general
mnistrust for the Governnent-sponsored project among many locals. In spite of the risks, the Government
felt that the road's development, which was viewed as both essential and urgent, would serve as the main
vehicle for economic development and political integration of the area, and contribute to the country's
unification process, which occurred on May 22, 1990. There were, in fact, frequent disturbances in the
area, and this prolonged project implementation significantly.
The Gulf War. The onset of the Gulf War in February 1991 also affected project implementation. The
appraised construction method of the Harad-Huth Road works, which called for conventional methods
using GCRB's own labor force, was changed, at the Government's request, to construction by GCRB using
more labor-intensive operations, especially in erosion protection works. The rationale for this was the
dramatic increase in the ranks of the unemployed resulting from the Gulf Crisis, which led to large inflows
of returning migrants equivalent to nearly ten percent of the total population. This change served to delay
implementation as measures had to be taken to first hire the additional workers, and then accommodate
them on site. It is estimated that throughout its construction, approximately 2,000 returnees were hired to
work on the road.
The Civil Conflict of 1994. The internal conflict that erupted in June 1994, caused a four month delay in
implementation. Roads works did not begin again in earnest until October 1994, after a one month
remobilization period. However, works on the road had effectively been halted since April 1994, due to
armed resistance by local tribes. Combined, these disturbances caused a six month delay in project
implementation.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
IDA management accepted, on an exceptional basis, the Government's proposal to use the GCRB's labor
force to construct the Harad-Huth Road. This was due to the absence of feasible alternatives given the
risks presented by the isolation and difficulties in the area through which the road passed. It was argued
that such conditions would impede nornal execution of works by international or other Yemeni contractors
-7 -



not from the area. Given the unrest that plagued construction of the Harad-Huth Road, it would appear
that not only was the decision to undertake the road works by Force Account correct, it was also a big
factor in the team's ability to complete the road.
A second factor that was generally subject to Government control involved an Italian contractor for
protection works. As part of the activities to be financed under the Supplemental Credit, this firm was
contracted to undertake specialized slope stabilization works. In cooperation with their chosen local
sub-contractor, the firm mobilized staff and equipment to the site, but were not able to begin work because
a second local contractor in the area claimed he had exclusive rights to any local works on the project
through an understanding with the original contractor, GCRB. This caused a start-up delay of nearly a
year before the stabilization works finally began in March 2000. Once under way, work progressed
reasonably well, and the technical slope stabilization works were substantially completed in about ten
months. However, the delays in gaining safe access to the site increased the costs to the contractor, and
caused the SC's closing date, originally set at December 31, 1999, to be extended twice.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Problems related to the procurement of equipment, materials and spare parts were experienced in the early
stages of the project. Much of this was due to misunderstanding about the Bank's procedures governing
procurement, and the lack of a realistic procurement plan for the main component, construction of the
Harad-Huth Road, and the fact that the procurement plan used was not updated regularly. As a result,
procurement during the project's early years was undertaken on an ad hoc basis, rather than in a
coordinated fashion that anticipated needs. Although less disruptive, audit reports were consistently
overdue.
5.4 Costs and financing:
The estimated total cost of the project, including contingencies, at appraisal was US$43.00 million. The
US$30.00 million foreign component was to be financed from the Bank Credit and represented 70 percent
of the total cost. The remaining US$13.00 million represented the Borrower's contribution to the Project.
The Staff Appraisal Report called for an implementation period of around six and a-half years, but the
project took just over ten years to complete. The delays were due to unexpected technical difficulties,
natural disasters, and security problems.
A Supplemental Credit for US$5.80 million was signed on June 3, 1998 to finance cost overruns due to
unexpected technical problems with very weathered and fractured rock formations over an eleven kilometer
section of the Abbaisah Escarpment on the project road, and to repair damage to the Wadi Mawr Bridge
caused by an exceptional flash flood. Although the Government sought to finance the overrun from its own
budget, it was not able to do so in a timely fashion. As part of the financing arrangements for the SC, the
Government did agree to contribute an additional US$1.00 million to the cost of repairing the road. The
possibility of financing the cost of the necessary remedial measures within the original project budget
through cost savings or restructuring was also considered, but ultimately deemed not possible.
While proceeds from the Supplemental Credit were used to successfully remedy the hazardous conditions
along the affected sections of the Project Road, it did increase the Bank's overall Credit by US$5.80 million
(to US$35.80 million), or by about 16 percent. Total costs at the Project's closing date were estimated to
be US$40.92 million, or around US$8.88 million less than what was forecast at appraisal. Most of the
difference can be attributed to a large and continual depreciation of the Yemeni Riyal over the ten-year
period in which the project was implemented (from US$1/YR12 in 1992 to US$1/YR165 in 2001). Since
- 8 -



the Government was financing local costs, and because the local contractor did not receive compensation
for price escalations, the Government's contribution amounted to about US$5.0 million out of a total
estimated envelope of US$14.00 million.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The overall sustainability rating for this project is "unlikely." This is because maintaining the condition of
the Harad-Huth Road over the long-term will depend primarily upon regular and adequate routine and
periodic maintenance, as well as the security situation in the area.
While the Government demonstrated its commitment to securing a reliable, long-term source of funding to
undertake road and highway maintenance activities by establishing the Road Maintenance Fund (RMF) in
1996, the RMF does not receive its full allotment of fuel levies. If this is allowed to continue, it would
reduce the likelihood that the Harad-Huth Road will receive regular maintenance, and would also lessen the
road's lifespan. The security situation in the area, which is unpredictable, will also adversely affect the
condition of the road should work crews be prohibited from entering the area to undertake necessary
maintenance activities. Finally, while the Government has indicated its desire to undertake measures to
permanently rehabilitate the Wadi Mawr Bridge and to asphalt the remaining four km of unpaved road,
there is no indication as to how they intend to pay for these activities or when they might be undertaken. In
the end, the Credit was closed because no contractor was willing to undertake these works.
Many of the efficiency and safety improvements in the civil aviation and port subsectors, which were
achieved during the project's first two years of implementation through the purchase of equipment and
targeted TA, are on-going. These achievements are likely to be sustained.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
There are few transitional arrangements needed under the project. The road works have been substantially
completed, and maintenance activities are well within the capacity and experience of the local contractor,
assuming financing and access are routinely made available. The biggest uncertainty in terms of converting
to regular operations is how the Government intends to undertake repairs to, the Wadi Mawr Bridge and
the remaining sections of unpaved project road.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance at identification, preparation and appraisal was generally satisfactory. Although project
preparation took just over two years to complete, from the initial identification mission to Board approval,
the Bank maintained a close dialogue with the Government to design a project with objectives that were in
line with the Governments goals in the transport sector. One reason for the prolonged preparation period
can be attributed to changes in the composition of the Bank team, including two changes in Task Manager
over a three-year period. While there appeared to be effective overlap, these changes, nonetheless, slowed
the progress of preparatory activities.
Project risks identified during appraisal related to the chance that not all institutional objectives would be
achieved, and security risk of the road construction crew. While the institutional objectives were largely
achieved, the security risk materialized and grew to the point where it became a disruptive factor that
-9-



plagued the road works with regularity. The SAR surmised that by using GCRB's labor force, the risk
would be minimized. While the use of GCRB workers and local contractors may have permitted the work
to be launched, greater attention should have been given to developing a dialogue with local tribes, perhaps
through outreach programs or regular contact with designated local representatives. This is especially true
given the mistrust for Government initiatives that seemed to prevail in the area.
Key project performance and financial indicators were not identified in the SAR, but were developed later
by the project team during implementation.
7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision of the project was satisfactory. Throughout the project's lengthy implementation period,
twenty-three supervision missions were carried out between December 1990 and December 2000, which is
an average of just over two missions per year. The only substantive gap in supervision was between
December 1990 and November 1991, which corresponds to the Gulf War when travel to Yemen was
suspended.
During implementation, the Bank teamn's response to Borrower needs was admirable. When it becarne
evident that the Bank's procurement guidelines were not being followed in a consistent and suitable manner,
a procurement seminar was arranged in Yemen for policy makers and procurement officials in GCRB and
the Ministry of Construction (MOC). In addition, the Bank provided the implementing agency with outside
experts to assist in the planning and programming of works, to help develop an overall project procurement
plan, and to assist with the foundation and escarpment problems along the project road. When a massive
slide occurred in the Al Abbaisah escarpment, and a flash flood damaged the Wadi Mawr Bridge shortly
thereafter, additional financing was provided through a Supplemental Credit. Finally, the Bank agreed to
extend the project's closing date on five separate occasions (including the period of the Supplemental Credit
A weakness in the Bank's performance involves recording project-related expenditures from all sources.
While the Borrower did have a financial management system in place prior to project launch, and all works,
goods and services financed by the Bank were accounted, more emphasis should have been placed on
ensuring that non-Bank financed project expenditures were being properly recorded. Spending by the
Government and co-financiers is not well documented, if at all. This was most evident during the ICR
mission, when repeated attempts to obtain reliable expenditure data by source, category and component
yielded no results. Also, the Bank should have been more insistent that audit reports be submitted on time.
Another shortcoming was the fact that project performance and financial indicators, which were developed
after project launch, were neither monitored nor updated in status reports. This makes it more difficult to
objectively measure progress and assess whether objectives are being achieved.
Finally, the March 27 to April 13, 1995 Aide Memoire noted that there had been an accident at a storage
facilities for explosives in Hodeidah, in which about 250 tons of dynamite, procured under Bank credits,
exploded, causing widespread damage and loss of life. In spite of repeated requests from the Bank team
that a detailed report be prepared describing the security measures that were in place at the time of the
accident, no such document was ever prepared. The Bank team was right in asking the Implementing
Agency to report on the incident. It should be noted, however, that neither the explosion nor the lack of a
report, affected the project's outcome.
- 10-



7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated as satisfactory. Initial weaknesses in procuring works, goods and
services according to Bank guidelines were overcome when Bank staff worked closely with the Borrower to
identify and resolve problems and other issues. Bank staff provided sound advice and guidance on the
repairs to the damaged escarpment area, delivered quality advisors in support of the TA program for civil
aviation and ports, and secured additional funding for the project from six different trust funds totaling
nearly US$94,000. Bank staff also showed resilience in the face of a number of difficult challenges,
including touring the project road under military escort.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower preparation was satisfactory. Initially, operational difficulties were experienced with some
transport sector government entities that were not familiar with Bank procedures and policies. Overall,
there was close collaboration between the Borrower and the Bank during project preparation. Cooperation
among line agencies was also excellent and forward looking.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Borrower's performance during implementation is rated satisfactory. Throughout implementation, the
Borrower's staff was persistent and committed to the project, in spite of the difficulties caused by the Gulf
War, internal conflict of 1994, and consistent unrest in the area along the project road, and their
contributions were significant. A Project Management Unit (PMU), consisting of five members under the
chairmanship of the Minister of Construction, was established in December 1990 and performed
satisfactorily. The PMU played a big role in resolving early problems in the procurement of works, goods
and services according to Bank guidelines, and in monitoring and coordinating project activities. In
addition, a strong counterpart in the road sector, who understood the issues and was proactive in taking
decisions, made a significant difference in overcoming the numerous challenges that arose during the
construction of the Harad to Huth Road. Counterpart funds were provided in a timely manner.
However, the Borrower was lax in accounting for all project-related expenditures. While reasonable
records were maintained for purchases and acquisitions made using proceeds from the Bank Credit,
information regarding cofinanced expenditures, such as grants from donors and grain swaps involving the
United States Agency for International Development, is not available. Annual audits were conducted by
private auditors, but audit reports were rarely submitted on time.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
See section 7.5.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance was satisfactory. On more than one occasion, the Borrower provided the
contractor with enough security to create a suitable working environment and enable work to progress.
However, the Borrower could have been more proactive in supporting GCRB's efforts to finish paving the
final four km of project road, and repairing the Wadi Mawr Bridge, and these are areas of lingering
concern. The conditionalities of the Credit Agreement and subsequent amendments were substantially
complied with, and the Bank's procedures and requirements largely followed.



8. Lessons Learned
A couple of useful lessons can be taken from the Multi-Mode Transport Project.
Tribal Conflicts: Conflicts among tribes and between tribes and the Government caused significant delays
in project implementation. For those projects that may raise objections or are likely to incite opposition in
tribal areas, more emphasis should be placed on minimizing the political ramifications during project
design, and beneficiaries consulted during preparation. Appropriate mechanisms for building local support
and maintaining dialogue with local constituents should be developed, and might include: Social
Framework Agreements to provide pre-agreed structures for resolving important issues that arise during
implementation; outreach programs to communicate project objectives and progress; and regular contact
with designated local representatives to solicit community input.
Activities Undertaken by Force Account: The use of force account to build roads and other transport
infrastructure should be carefully considered, and only used under exceptional circumstances. Government
forces may lack motivation to complete the works in a timely fashion, and supervising consultants hired by
the Government may find it difficult to be critical of activities undertaken by Force Account, which can
lead to lax behavior and diminish effectiveness. To ensure that the usefulness of supervisory activities are
not diluted, supervising consultants with independence must be secured.
Inadequate Procurement Procedures: Due to a lack of understanding of Bank procurement procedures
and the need to follow them closely, the acquisition of works, goods and services suffered during the early
stages of the project. To avoid such problems, it is important to ensure that early in the project cycle, the
implementing agency is aware of Bank requirements, and that there is at least one dedicated counterpart
professional with in-depth knowledge and practical experience in procurement under Bank procedures. In
addition, a thorough procurement assessment undertaken prior to project launch could help identify
measures that would strengthen implementation.
Poor Financial Record Keeping: The lack of adequate financial records was a shortcoming of the project.
To ensure that the necessary mechanics are in place to properly document and preserve information on
project-related financial transactions, the following steps are recomnmended: (1) the appointment of a
qualified accountant should be a Condition of Effectiveness; (2) a fully functional and adequate financial
management system is operational before disbursements take place; and (3) an independent financial
auditor be selected and under contract before effectiveness.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation: Performance and financial indicators serve an important function in
that they provide an objective means for measuring the extent to which development objectives, as well as
project outputs and outcomes, have been achieved.  Unless these indicators are developed during
preparation and regularly updated during implementation, it is difficult to evaluate progress. As such,
added emphasis should be given to ensuring that these important tools are appropriately designed, regularly
monitored, and properly documented.
Involvement of Numerous Entities: Although a number of Government entities were involved over the
ten-year implementation period, the project did not suffer, primarily because project activities were
relatively straight forward and did not require excessive coordination among those entities involved. The
complexity of a project, and not the level of Government involvement, should take precedence in deciding
whether to go forward with a project.
- 12 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency.
REPUIBLIC OF Y'EMEN              W
Mnistry of Public Works
& Urban Development
_4 _   ~~'l.               .            i1               .-.. 
owe~~~~: "2_x  1ZOOJ4 '!'_ wr
Mr.   n BDna
CoasyI MIs    Yemen
M2i. Ews & N* At"ic kogie
T1e WOIe5d 1B
HOd $Sa  NO 40, Off Doweks Roe
P. 0. Box Iati2
SAn'. te-pak ot YAM=
Sub: Impseueae CapWi Reps tICRi hrMnddt.dvlcruspn?n.t
Dun Sir,
AS uaetbly yeas, 41v h.e. jorin: OEIgEe ImluwrncrsspnooRp .CR ic ^ ;llr Mubs%Ir.'ie
Torwgat PMsjct
The ICR ti Nrit( No be" prtnsed wel. iowetva, wem wod w"seyosz to cwsi 4" "eonr f two
ptngr#nMbs ta,}we   bemlow
-   Plp 4 3" pu  h. Lt S line5 JD bc dleuId stg fc4m:
"In muster Wxiets, Weld     ------- -     Disc beta esuapteA &% ofd 16*tei4fCI
s is <t,elewng Jar
Pap $, f pupvrap, Las 4 lio to bte leted ssxtaxss hs:
"Ant* races got s pow pobrwo. "---   -od ftsl abgiit tso eltesJ culsae w4s
In d2is cooxt, we Lironsg  t oc sinswn :l_srnedsUsWsnb CFtepis*3 KseJly nIts
CRR his peansy en4t in she new  wcnio wtint Ith na" hw to neblenC:RB lowok ed
inspinern Ibt Fpdeecu an Zt eeomn ani5ly. ASt sor, Tatke idow int I,R unsatm be sweetEd
end must bte ddd
Thassijog you,
(Motubrwe A Al ,  , ,,gs,,. e
DepUty Mnuti- Road SKCtuf
Mouey of Puic Wote ad Urb*a Dewlosmwo
Rep1'   ofbliC .
(b1 Cofinanciers:
None received.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
None received.
- 13 -



10. Additional Information
GOVERNMENT OF YEMEN'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
The Government's own assessment of the project is summarized in Table 10.1 - followed by a brief
description on various factors related to the implementation of the project.
Table 10.1    Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial      Partial             Negative
Financial Objectives                                 X
Institutional Development             X
Physical Objectives                   X
Social Objectives                     X
Environmental Objectives              X
B. Project Sustainability              Likely       Unlikely             Uncertain
x
C. IDA Performance                    Highly       Satisfactory          Deficient
Satisfactory
Identification                                       X
Preparation Assistance                               X
Appraisal                                            X
Supervision                           X
D. Borrower Performance               Highly       Satisfactory          Deficient
Satisfactory
Identification                                       X       Permanent measures of Wadi
Preparation Assistance                               X       Mawr Bridge remained
Appraisal                                            X       incomplete.
Supervision                                          X
E. Assessment of Outcome              Highly       Satisfactory          Deficient
Satisfactory  _
x
A. Assessment of Project Objectives, Design, Implementation and Operation
Project Objectives
The objectives of the project were to provide improved access to the areas between Huth and Tihama
Coastal Region, and to improve management of Yemen Transport Sector. The project consists of the
following parts:
Part A: Road Works
(i)    Rehabilitation strengthening and reconstruction of 157 km of the road between Harad and
Huth; and
(ii)   Supervision of road construction and maintenance equipment, spare parts and road
construction materials for Harad-Huth Road.
- 14 -



Part B: Institutional Development
(i)    Highway Sector - provision of training in modem road rehabilitation techniques and
engineering to strengthen staff capabilities within the Highway Authority (GCRB).
The project's objective has accelerated the development of the important agricultural area in north-western
Yemen. The project helped to facilitate: (a) a reduction of costs of making agricultural products by
improving vehicular accessibility; (b) a reduction in transport costs for through traffic; and (c) an
improvement in the strength of equipment for road construction.
Design
The project was designed following international standards of highway designs following AASHTO and BS
Guidelines. The amount allocated in the Credit 2177 and the Supplemental Credit for the Harad-Huth
component are given in Table 10.2 below.
Table 10.2    Procurement and Disbursement Plans
Disbursements Against Project Components (in SDR millions)
Category                    Amounts         Amounts          Percent of Expenditure
Allocated to    Allocated to          to be Financed
Original Credit  Supplemental
Credit
I.(a) Equipment/Construction Materials for  8.30            0.45       100% of foreign expenditures
GCRB (Harad-Huth Road)                  (11.0)          (0.60)     10% of local expenditures (ex-factory
cost), 80% of local expenditures for
other items procured locally.
l.(b) Equipment for CAMA                     1.20                      Same as 1(a) above.
(1.60)
L(c) Equipment for GCYP                      1.20                      Same as 1(a) above.
(1.60)
L.(d) Works under Part A of the project      8.40           2.90       80%
(11.10)         (3.90)
2.(a) Consultant Services/Training for GCRB  1.40            0.45      100% of foreign expenditures and
(1.80)          (0.60)     80% of local expenditures.
2.(b) Consultant Services/Training for CAMA  0.60                      Same as 2(a) above.
(0.80)
2.(c) Consultant Services/Training for       0.60                      Same as 2(a) above.
GCYP/GCMA                               (0.80)
3. Unallocated                               1.00            0.50
(1.30)          (0.70)
TOTALS:        22.70           4.30
(30.00)         (5.80)
Amounts in parenthesis denote US$ equivalents
The above Multi-Mode Transport Project was allocated to cover the works executed under Road Sector
and Highway Sector involves the following:
*   Construction of Harad-Huth Road (137 km)
*   Equipment for construction of Harad-Huth Road
*   Incidental measures and permanent measures for Wadi Mawr Bridge
- 15-



*   Slope stability and rock fall protection works in Abbaisah Escarpment
*   Balance works in three incomplete segments (cumulative length of 4.034 km), and additional protection
measures on Harad-Huth Road
*   Training for GCRB staff
*   Consultant Services
Implementation
For road works and highway sector, the project had a slow start and was considerably delayed. The main
factor which contributed in the delay of the execution of the project is the local disturbances by the tribal
group of people and internal disturbances in 1994. The project execution work was started in September
1991 and continued up to June 30, 2001. Initially, the project implementation responsibility was with the
Ministry of Planning and Development and later on was transferred to the Ministry of Public Works and
Urban Development (earlier named as MOCHUP).
The amendment to the Credit (as Supplemental Credit) was made to include the over expenditure in the
construction of Harad-Huth Road, and also to take adequate measures against severe rock fall problems in
the main escarpment section (Abbaisah Escarpment), a part of the Harad-Huth Road. It was observed
during the execution that adequate provisions in respect of the proper drainage and rock fall were not made
in the original design. Also, in between March 1998, due to heavy flooding, a major scouring took place on
the wadi bed at the project location resulting in severe damage to the bridge. Immediately, a rehabilitation
measure for the Wadi Mawr Bridge was considered for implementation.
In general, the pace of the project implementation was overall slow, but ultimately successfully completed
to a satisfactory percentage. The implementation of the project in respect of its completion is given below:
*   Construction of Harad-Huth Road Project            -      98%
*   Slope stability and rock fall protection works     -      97%
*   Wadi Mawr Bridge: temporary measures               -      100%
permanent measures                -      yet to commence
*   Equipment for construction of Harad-Huth Road      -      100%
*   Training for GCRB staff                            -       100%
*   Consultant services                                -      100%
*   Balance works in three incomplete segments and     -      yet to commence
additional protection measures on Harad-Huth Road
B. Borrower's Own Performance
Due to change in authority/agency responsible for project implementation from time-to-time, there was
certain lack in proper monitoring of the project. Much of the implementation delay was caused by local
tribes, which sometimes was beyond control. Despite various constraints as mentioned above, ultimately a
satisfactory progress in implementation of the project has been achieved.
The staff of GCRB and the Ministry of Public Works and Urban Development (earlier MOCHUP) has
developed its skills in the project management during the execution of this project.
The Audit Reports were submitted from time-to-time to IDA and were found to be acceptable quality. The
overall performance of the Borrower was satisfactory.
- 16 -



C. Bank's Performance
IDA assisted the Government in preparing the project. During implementation, IDA monitored and
supervised this project closely. IDA's close cooperation with the Government Agencies and the Project
Implementation Unit contributed to resolving major issues and ultimately resulted in successful completion
of this project in the extended date of Credit closure.
IDA made a decision to continue to support this project despite prolonged implementation delays, which
has received appreciation from all comers of Government of Republic of Yemen. It was done in the larger
interest of the country, which was passing through different phases after unification followed by Gulf crisis
and internal disturbances in 1994.
D. Proposed Arrangements for Continuing the Project Activities and Sustaining Their Results
With the notable implementation performance, the Government desires to complete the balance works on
permanent measures for rehabilitation of Wadi Mawr Bridge. In order to do so, the Goverrment looks
forward for cooperation in respect to providing funds from the Rural Access Program Credit for the
rehabilitation works of Wadi Mawr Bridge.
The benefits of the project are likely to sustain over a longer term with proper maintenance of the road
stretches for which road maintenance fund and GCRB are taking an active role. The cost recovery
program is formally in effect to generate financial needs required for both maintenance and capital
expenditures. The road being asphalted shall result in huge indirect savings from vehicular operating and
maintenance costs. Also, the road would encourage development of habitations and agriculture/horticulture
along the route served to spur industrial development in general. It would also bring to easier access the
essential supplies and services, such as food, health and education.
E. Performance Indicator That Will be Used by the Government to Continue to Track the Impact of
the Project Activities (Assessment of Outcome and Key Lessons Learned From the Project)
The project achieved its principle objective of providing an asphalted road to the people of Hajja and
Amran Governorates. The ease of flow of traffic and its movement shall contribute to the overall
development of the project area and its neighborhood. It would provide a better environment to the user,
minimize dust and noise pollution, contribute to the quality of life and also contribute to increase the
economic activities. The lessons that are learned while implementing the project are:
1. Good project preparation and design, as well as strong political and local support for the project
objectives are essential for the successful outcome of an operation; and
2. Adequate provisions of maintenance shall help to ensure long-term sustainability of the project
benefits.
- 17-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
IndicatorlMatrix                   Projected In last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimale
Marketing costs of agricultural produce  N/A                               Not measured.
reduced.
Road transport costs reduced for through  N/A                              Not measured.
traffic.
Road sector management is strengthened.  N/A                               Achieved.
Other transport agencies management is  NIA                                Achieved.
strengthened.                                                               _
Although statistical data is not available, anecdotal evidence indicates that access to agricultural areas
served by the project road increased significantly, as it is now possible to cover the distance between Harad
and Huth in about three hours. In addition, vehicle operating costs would have certainly declined from the
improvement in the road's IRI (from around 17.0 to 5.0).
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                   Projected In last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
Constnuct the Harad-Huth road link.  N/A                                   Substantially achieved.
Provide training and equipment to highway  N/A                             Achieved.
sector institutions.
Provide training and equipment to other  N/A                               Achieved.
transport sector agencies (the Civil Aviation
and Meteorological Authority (CAMA), the
General Corporation of Yemen Ports (GCYP)
and the General Corporation for Marine
Affairs (GCMA)).
End of project
- 18-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component             US$ million  US$ million
(1) Harad-Huth Road
- Civil works, including equipment               42.18          33.73           79.9
- Construction supervision                        1.90           1.61           84.7
(2) Institutional Development of Highway Authority   1.15           1.42         123.5
(3) Civil Aviation and Meteorological Authority
- Equipment                                       1.33           1.45          109.1
- Technical Assistance                            0.63           0.65          103.2
(4) GCYP/GCMA
- Equipment                                       1.19           1.28          107.6
- Technical Assistance                            0.76           0.78          102.6
Total Baseline Cost                                49.14           40.92
Physical Contingencies                              0.22
Price Contingencies                                 0.44
Total Project Costs             49.80          40.92
Total Financing Required             49.80          40.92
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category      ICB          NCB         Other2        N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                     15.80        0.00          5.10         13.40       34.30
(15.80)       (0.00)       (5.10)       (0.00)       (20.90)
2. Goods                     6.50         0.00          1.20         0.00         7.70
(6.50)       (0.00)        (1.20)       (0.00)      (7.70)
3. Services                  2.10         0.00          5.10         0.60         7.80
(2.10)       (0.00)        (5.10)       (0.00)      (7.20)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                     24.40         0.00         11.40        14.00        49.80
(24.40)       (0.00)      (11.40)       (0.00)       (35.80)
- 19 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category        ICB         Procurement Method                         Total Cost
NCB      ~Other:
1. Works                        19.89          0.00           0.00          4.40         24.29
(19.89)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (19.89)
2. Goods                        10.48          0.00           1.69          0.00          12.17
(10.48)        (0.00)         (1.69)        (0.00)        (12.17)
3. Services                     3.41           0.00           0.45          0.60          4.46
(3.41)         (0.00)        (0.45)         (0.00)        (3.86)
4. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                        33.78          0.00           2.14          5.00          40.92
(33.78)        (0.00)         (2.14)        (0.00)        (35.92)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
9                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Percentage of Appraisal
Component              Appraisal Estimate          Actual/Latest Estimate
IDA       Gout.     CoF.      IDA       Govt.     CoF.     IDA    Go,t.  CoF.
1. Harad-Huth Road
- Works, incl. equip.   29.44     13.40               29.33      4.40               99.6   32.8
- Constr. Supervision    1.50     0.40                 1.21      0.40               80.7   100.0
2. Inst. Dev./Hwy Auth.   1.15                          1.42                        123.5
3. CAMA
- Equipment              1.33                          1.45                        109.0
- Technical Assistance  0.53       0.10                0.55      0.10              103.8  100.0
4. GCYP/GCMA
- Equipment              1.19                          1.28                        107.6
- Technical Assistance  0.66      0.10                 0.68      0.10              103.0  100.0
-20 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
As part of the ICR process, an economic evaluation was undertaken on the road works component of the
project, which represented around 90 percent of the project's actual overall costs. The economic rates of
return were calculated on the basis of savings in vehicle operating costs plus time savings for passenger
cars, pickup trucks, buses and heavy trucks. Actual capital costs, the construction period over which the
road was built, average daily traffic counts, generated traffic, traffic growth rates, and the expected
reduction in road roughness were also incorporated in the analysis.
Actual capital costs to construct the 138 km Harad to Huth Road were almost five percent more, in 2000
terms (US$43.2 million), than estimates in the SAR (US$41.3 million). It should be pointed out that the
SAR called for the Government to fund the local costs associated with the road works, which were
anticipated to approach US$13 million. While the Government did fund local costs, the large and continual
depreciation of the Yemeni Riyal over the ten-year period in which the project was implemented (from
US$1/YR12 in 1992 to US$1/YR165 in 2001), caused the Government's contribution in US$ terms to
reach only about US$4.8 million. It also took about four years longer than anticipated to complete the road
due to technical problems and limited access to the site because of security issues.
The SAR estimated that traffic would grow at three percent per annum. However, Average Annual Daily
Traffic (AADT) on the road in 2000 was just 848 total vehicles, which represents an actual annual growth
rate in traffic of just 1.6 percent, without any generated traffic. Recent roughness measurements taken on
some segments of the road indicate an average roughness of around 5.0, which is less than the 3.5 IRI
estimated in the SAR. The higher IRI indicates rougher conditions and contributes to higher vehicle
operating costs. Combined, the lower than anticipated traffic growth rates and higher IRI adversely
affected the road's rate of return.
As a result, the Internal Rate of Return (IRR) calculated for the ICR was 21 percent, which was lower than
the SAR's estimate of 32 percent, but still represents a good investment. It should be noted that the
economic evaluation at appraisal was based on constructing 157 km of road. However, if 138 km, rather
then 157 km, had been used as the road's length, the SAR's IRR would have dropped to 29 percent.
Although not calculated in the SAR, a net present value (NPV) for the project was calculated for the ICR,
which turned out to be US$29.40 million, using a discount rate of twelve percent.
The following tables compare estimated and actual capital costs, and VOCs with and without the project,
for the Harad to Huth Road.
Capital Costs                     SAR                           ICR
(US$ rnillion)             (in 2000 US$ terms)          (in 2000 US$ terms)
1992                          2.89                          6.98
1993                          10.33                         6.81
1994                         14.44                          6.68
1995                          5.37                          5.49
1996                          4.13                          4.39
1997                          2.89                          3.29
1998                          1.24                          1.62
1999                                                        2.22
2000                                                        3.39
2001                                                        2.36
Totals:                        41.3                         43.23
- 21 -



VOC/s                        Without                         With
(US$/vehicle kin)               Project (est.)                  Project
Passenger Cars                    0.411                         0.194
Pickup Trucks                     0.591                         0.277
Buses                         0.620                         0.395
Heavy Trucks                      1.462                         0.840
To determine which of three variables, increased capital costs, a higher IRI, or lower traffic growth rates,
had the single largest impact on the road's actual IRR, a switching analysis was undertaken in which each
of the three variables was substituted with those utilized in the SAR's original IRR calculation, while the
other two were kept constant. When capital costs were increased by five percent, keeping the original
figures for IRI and growth in traffic constant, the projected IRR for the SAR would have declined from 32
percent to 28 percent. Substituting an IRI of 5.0, rather than 3.5, would have reduced the SAR's IRR to 27
percent, while utilizing a traffic growth rate of 1.6 percent, instead of 3.0 percent, would also have resulted
in a projected IRR of around 27 percent. The results of this analysis indicate that of the three variables, the
higher IRI and lower traffic volumes had the greatest adverse impacts on the project's rate of retum.
Variable          Estimated in SAR    Utilizing Actual Results SAR's IRR Would Have
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _B e e n
Capital Costs             US$41.3 million       US$43.2 million             28%
IRI                            3.5                    5.0                   27%
Growth in Traffic             3.0%                   1.6%                   27%
- 22 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                      Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
June 1988                   2    Transport Engineer, Port Advisor
September 1988              2    Transport Engineers (2)
March 1989                  2    Transport Engineers (2)
June 1989                   2    Financial Analyst, Consultant
Appraisal/Negotiation
February 1990               2    Transport Engineer,
Economist
July 1990                   6    Transport Engineer, Economist,
Country Officer, Lawyer,
Disbursement Officer, Financial
Analyst
Supervision
December 1990                1   Transport Engineer                 S             S
November 1991                1   Transport Engineer                 S             S
June 1993                    2   Transport Engineers (2)            S             S
September 1993               6   Transport Engineer, Transport      S             S
Planner, Bridge Specialist,
Hydrologist, Consultants (2)
January 1994                 2   Transport Engineer, Consultant     S             S
November 1994                1   Transport Engineer                 S             S
April 1995                   3   Transport Engineer, Transport      S             S
Planner, Consultant
November 1995                3   Transport Engineer, Consultants    S             S
(2)
March 1996                   2   Transport Engineer, Transport      S             S
Planner
July 1996                    1   Transport Engineer                 S             S
September 1996               2   Transport Engineer, Transport      S             S
Planner
March 1997                   1   Transport Engineer                 S             S
June 1997                    1   Transport Engineer                 S             S
November 1997                2   Transport Engineer, Consultant     S             S
March 1998                   2   Transport Engineer, Procurement    S             S
Specialist
July 1998                    1   Transport Engineer                 S             S
October 1998                 1   Transport Engineer                 S             S
March 1999                   3   Transport Engineer, Transport      S             S
Planner, Operations Officer
June 1999                    1   Transport Engineer                 S             S
September 1999               2   Transport Engineer, Operations     S             S
Officer
2   Transport Engineer, Operations     S             S
- 23 -



March 2000
Officer
September 2000               1   Transport Engineer                 S             S
December 2000                2   Transport Engineer, Operations     S             S
Officer
ICR
June 2001                   3     Transport Engineer,               S             S
Operations Officer,
Financial Analyst
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               N/A                        272.6
Appraisal/Negotiation                    N/A
Supervision                              N/A                        526.0
ICR                                      N/A
Total                                    N/A                        798.6
- 24 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                             O H   OSUOM       O N   * NA
E Sector Policies                            O H   *SUOM       O N   O NA
a Physical                                   O H *SUOM O N O NA
lz Financial                                 OH OSUOM ON *NA
O- Institutional Development                 0 H   * SU 0 M    0 N   0 NA
O Environmental                              O H   OSUOM       O N   * NA
Social
Ol Poverty Reduction                  O H   O SU * M    O N   O NA
O Gender                              OH OSUOM ON *NA
O Other (Please specify)              O H   OSUOM       O N   * NA
O Private sector development                0 H    O SU O M    0 N   * NA
O Public sector management                   0 H   * SU O M    0 N   0 NA
L Other (Please specify)                    O H    OSUOM       O N   * NA
While the reduction of poverty was not specifically identified as a project objective, approximately 600
jobs were created during the initial three-year construction period of the Harad-Huth Road. There is also
anecdotal evidence that the road has created quicker and easier access to agricultural areas and social
services for inhabitants living along the project road.
- 25 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                Rating
O Lending                                           OHS OS Ou OHU
CJ Supervision                                      OHS O S      O  U  O HU
O Overall                                           OHS OS O u O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
O Preparation                                       OHS OS       O  U  O HU
LI Government implementation performance            O HS O S     0 U   0 HU
LI Implementation agency performance                O HS O S     O U   0 HU
Fa Overall                                          OHS OS       O U   O HU
- 26 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
The following documents and information pertaining to the Multi-Mode Project are available:
*   Staff Appraisal Report
*   Agreed Minutes of Negotiations
*   Memorandum and Recommendation to the President
*   Development Credit Agreement
*   Agreement Amending Development Credit Agreement
*   Back-to-Office and Project Supervision Reports
*   Various Project Progress Reports
*   Annual Audit Reports
*   Report entitled "Slope Stability and Rockfall Protection - Remedial Works" (Harad-Huth Road)
*   Report entitled "Reconstruction of Harad Bridge - Bridge Reconstruction Recommendations"
*   Report entitled "Port Sector Strategy Development Study - Economic/Financial Study"
*   Report entitled "Construction and Completion of Harad-Huth Road Project - Final Report"
- 27 -






MAP SECTION






IBRD 31626
MULTI-MODE TRANSPORT PROJECT       S A U G I A   R A  B 4   _  
TiR?N3PORT,ATIN NETWVORK          ,;                                     OMA
,  --,,,,--     /                                            A
o                _  ............. L \ - - ' oAAdARA ,,/,,..
7 H! _-2                  -- -           . -? - 
tt I ~~~~--          .9              !                              S
\1 _;-  *   47   S  !AL
C              -                    -     -   ,vi~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~AHARA -  .
_' X > 5 X , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G U/. 
x            w    ~~~~~-  ,         ,  ,:  .E'-Ful :  I  I-           _ _;Z4r;
E  T HQ I O   P I   '-                             . ...,     ,.  !I       ,  I
U'  '*.14A .  -                                                , F
cC'I     O rl.                            .-      .   ' . -       . 5fi".                  ';''   .
,~~~~                         ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~~~ ,  ,   ,  ,'.-   I  I N
DjiB- -C' l j.I'
F--  --  -.  LI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  c.  - - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  --  G ut;  A~~~~~~~~~~~~~OTOE 20



