Page  1
                                                     CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2177 ROY
                  (Multi-Mode Transport Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                     Dated September 12, 1990
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2177 ROY
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated September 12, 1990, between REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
Page  2
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
      (a)   "CAMA" means the Civil Aviation and Meteorological
Authority, a semi-autonomous governmental authority established and
operating under the Borrower's Law No. 1969 of 1976, and any
successor thereto;
      (b)   "HA" means the Highway Authority of the Borrower, a
semi-autonomous governmental authority established and operating
under the Borrower's Decree No. 16 of 1972, and any successor
thereto;
      (c)   "PMAC" means the Ports and Marine Affairs Corporation,
a semi-autonomous governmental authority established and operating
under the Borrower's Law No. 47 of 1976, and any successor thereto;
      (d)   "MOC" means the Borrower's Ministry of Construction;
      (e)   "MOT" means the Borrower's Ministry of Transport; and
      (f)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twenty-two million seven hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 22,700,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the
Central Bank of Yemen on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
Page  3
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each February 15 and August 15
commencing February 15, 2001 and ending August 15, 2030. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on August 15,
2010 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due considera-
tion by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A and B (1) of
the Project through HA, Part B (2) of the Project through CAMA and
Part B (3) of the Project through PMAC with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate engineering, financial
and administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
Page  4
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)  The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, including those
                  for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than six months after
                  the end of each such year, a certified copy of
                  the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                  such scope and in such detail as the Association
                  shall have reasonably requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning such records, accounts, and the audit
                  thereof as the Association shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
                  this Section, records and accounts reflecting
                  such expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until one year after the Association has
                  received the audit report for the fiscal year in
                  which the last disbursement from the Credit
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii) enable the Association's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are includ-
                  ed in the annual audit referred to in paragraph
                  (b) of this Section and that the report of such
                  audit contains a separate opinion by said audi-
                  tors as to whether the statements of expenditure
                  submitted during such fiscal year, together with
                  the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support
Page  5
                  the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                          Other Covenants
      Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause HA, CAMA and PMAC:
      (a)   to carry on their operations and conduct their affairs
in accordance with sound administrative, financial and engineering
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; and
      (b)   at all times to operate and to maintain their plants,
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, to make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, administrative
and financial practices.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Project Management Unit referred to in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement shall have been
established in accordance with the provisions thereof.
      Section 6.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Planning and Development of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Planning and Development
            P.O. Box 175
            Sana'a
            Republic of Yemen
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  CENPLAN                    2266 CENPLAN YE
                  Sana'a
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
Page  6
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
                  By /s/ Mohsin A. Alaini
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Ram Kumar Chopra
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                         Credit Allocated          % of
                           (Expressed in         Expenditures
      Category            SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) (a)  Equipment            16,700,000        100% of foreign
         and road                               expenditures,
         construction                           100% of local
         materials                              expenditures
         under Part A                           (ex-factory
         of the                                 cost) and 80%
         Project                                of local ex-
                                                penditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally
    (b)  Equipment             1,200,000        100% of foreign
         under Part B                           expenditures,
         (2) (c) of                             100% of local
         the Project                            expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 80%
                                                of local ex-
                                                penditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally
                           Amount of the
                         Credit Allocated          % of
                           (Expressed in         Expenditures
    Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
    (c)  Equipment             1,200,000        100% of foreign
         under Part B                           expenditures,
         (3) (c) of                             100% of local
         the Project                            expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 80%
                                                of local ex-
                                                penditures for
Page  7
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally
(2) (a)  Consultants'          1,400,000        100% of foreign
         services                               expenditures and
         and training                       80% of local
         under Parts A                          expenditures
         (1) and B (1)
         of the Project
    (b)  Consultants'            600,000        100% of foreign
         services and                           expenditures and
         training under                         80% of local
         Part B (2) (a)                         expenditures
         and (b) of the
         Project
    (c)  Consultants'            600,000        100% of foreign
         services and                           expenditures and
         training under                         80% of local
         Part B (3) (a),                        expenditures
         (b) and (d)
         of the Project
(3) Unallocated                1,000,000
                              __________
         TOTAL                22,700,000
                              ==========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to improve access to areas
between Huth and the Tihama coastal region and to improve management
of the Borrower's transport sector.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Road Works
1.    Rehabilitation, strengthening and reconstruction of approxi-
mately 157 km of the road between Harad and Huth.
2.    Provision of road construction and maintenance equipment,
spare parts and road construction materials for the Harad-Huth Road.
Part B:     Institutional Development
1.    Highway Sector. Provision of training in modern road rehabili-
tation techniques and engineering to strengthen staff capabilities
within HA.
Page  8
2.    Civil Aviation. (a) Development and carrying out of a
strategic development plan to enable CAMA to manage civil aviation,
establish an efficient financial management system, analyze user
charges and improve airport efficiency.
      (b)   Provision of training in airport operations, safety
procedures, air traffic control, air navigation, electronics
maintenance, mechanics and other specialized technical subjects,
financial control, and the English language to strengthen staff
capabilities within CAMA.
      (c)   Provision of emergency airport equipment, meteorological
equipment and aviation equipment and spare parts.
3.    Port and Marine Sectors. (a) Development and carrying out of
a strategic development plan to enable PMAC to manage the port
sector, improve port maintenance policies and operations, improve
cost accounting, and review land transport requirements for port
traffic.
      (b)   Provision of training in port operations and main-
tenance, cost accounting, and financial control to strengthen staff
capabilities within PMAC.
      (c)   Provision of equipment for port improvement, including
loading equipment, cranes, fire fighting equipment, and equipment
for renovation of workshops.
      (d)   Provision of training in safety of navigation and
management of the marine environment to strengthen staff capabili-
ties within PMAC.
                           *     *     *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:  International Competitive Bidding
      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:  Preference of Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in the Republic of
Yemen may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:  Other Procurement Procedures
      International shopping:
      Contracts for goods or groups of goods under Part A (2), Part
B (2) (c) and Part B (3) (c) of the Project estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of $100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed the equivalent of $1,600,000 may be awarded on
the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from at least
three suppliers from at least two different countries eligible under
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
Page  9
Part D:  Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfac-
tory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Con-
sultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
1.    For the purpose of ensuring the proper coordination and
execution of the Project, the Borrower shall establish a Project
Management Unit within the MOC to be chaired by the Minister of
Construction. The MOT and Ministry of Planning and Development shall
appoint duly qualified and experienced individuals as members of the
Project Management Unit. The Project Management Unit shall have
responsibility for monitoring the progress of the Project, coor-
dinating its components, reviewing bidding documents and procurement
under the Project, and preparing quarterly progress reports referred
to in Section 9.06 of the General Conditions. The Borrower shall
continue during the Project implementation period to maintain the
Project Management Unit with organization, staffing and terms of
reference satisfactory to the Association.
2.    The Borrower shall cause HA to provide to the Association for
its review and comments by June 30 of each year until completion of
the Project, the annual work plan for road maintenance operations.
Each year thereafter, the Borrower shall carry out said annual work
plan, taking into account the Association's comments thereon.
3.    The Borrower shall cause HA to provide to the Association by
March 31, 1992, an analysis of the type of cargo and trucking
organizations in which overloading of vehicles frequently occurs and
shall discuss with the Association recommendations for a pro-  gram
Page  10
to enforce axle-load limits. The Borrower shall implement by June
30, 1992, or such later date as the Association shall establish, a
program satisfactory to the Association to enforce axle-load limits.
4.    The Borrower shall exchange views with the Association by
December 31, 1991 on a plan for gradual reduction of restrictive
practices in the road-freight transport industry. Thereafter, on the
basis of said exchange of views, the Borrower shall implement such
plan in accordance with a schedule agreed to by the Borrower and the
Association.
5.    The Borrower shall, by January 1, 1991, employ consultants in
accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement to assist supervision of construction works under Part A
of the Project.
6.   (a) The Borrower shall, by June 30, 1991, employ consultants
in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement to assist in developing the civil aviation and port
sector plans referred to in Part B (2) (a) and Part B (3) (a) of the
Project.
      (b)   The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure
that the plans referred to in sub-paragraph (a) above shall be
completed and copies thereof furnished to the Association by
January 1, 1994.  The Borrower and the Association shall exchange
views thereon, and the Borrower shall carry out by January 1, 1995
such civil aviation and port sector plans as shall have been agreed
by the Borrower and the Association.
                        SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association re-
                  quests for deposits into the Special Account at
                  such intervals as the Association shall specify.
Page  11
           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested.  On the basis of each such request,
                  the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                  the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                  by said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated
to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expendi-
tures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
Page  12
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
