Document of
The World Bank   Report No.:         19958
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(Core ICR)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDRs 10.1 MILLION (US$14.1 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
FOR A NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PROJECT ID: P000 106
L/C NUMBER: 23440
December 17, 1999
Rural Development II
Country Department 13
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipient only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective CFAF 480 (on average))
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
Average in CFAF per US dollar
1992             241
1993             285
1994             568
1995             484
1996             513
1997             606
1998             594
1999             633
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
CFAF 1= US$ 0.002
US$ 1 = CFAF 480 (on average)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFD              Agency Francaise de Developpement                            INRAB           Institut National de Recherche Agricole au Benin
CARDER           Centre d'Action Regionale et de Ddveloppement Rural                          (National Agricultural Research institute of Benin)
CCCE             Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique                    KfW             Kreditanstalt Fur Wiederaufbau
(Central Economic Cooperation Fund)                                          (Federal Republic of Germany Aid Agency)
CENAGREF          Centre National de Gestion des Reserves de Faune            MDR             Ministere du Developpement Rural
(National Center for Wildlife Management)                                   (Ministry of Rural Development)
CENATEL           Centre National de Teledetection                            NEAP            National Environmental Action Plan
(National Remote Sensing Center)                            NGO             Non-governmental Organization
CLUSA             Cooperative League for USA                                  NRM             Natural Resources Management
DFRN             Direction des Forets et des Ressources Naturelles            ONAB            Office National du Bois
(Regional Forest and Natural Resources Directorate)         PAFP             Participatory forest Management Plan
DPP              Direction de la Programmation et de la Prospective           PGRN            Projet de Gestion des Ressources Naturelles
(Directorate of Planning and prospective)                                   (National Resources Management Project)
EU               European Union                                               PIU             Project Implementation Unit
GEF              Global Environmental Facility                                PNGTER          Projet National de Gestion des Terroirs et
GERAM            Groupe d'Expertise et d'lngenierie Rural pour                                 d'Equipement Rural(Rural Land Management
L'Auto Promotion du Monde Rural                                              and Community Infrastrucutre Development Project)
(Rural Engineer and Expert Group for                        PSR             Project Sector Report
Rural Auto Promotion)                                       SAR              Staff Appraisal Report
GTZ              German Technical Cooperation Agency                          UNDP            United Nations Development Program
IDA              Intemational Development Association                         UNSO            United Nations Sudano-Sahelian Office
Vice President:    Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager/Director:    Theodore 0. Ahlers
Sector Manager/Director:   Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Nicolas Ahouissoussi



FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No
1. Project Data                                                                   1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                  1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry       2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                           5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                             13
6. Sustainability                                                                 15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                  17
8. Lessons Learned                                                                19
9. Partner Comments                                                               20
10. Additional Information                                                       21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                              23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                              25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                              26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                             30
Annex 8. Mission Aide-Memoire                                                     35
Annex 9. Borrower's Contribution                                                  55
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P000 106                                      Project Name: MGT OF NAT RESOURCES
Team Leader: Nicolas Ahouissoussi                         TL Unit: AFMBJ
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: 12/16/99 03:13:38 PM
December 2, 1999
1. Project Data
Name: MGT OF NAT RESOURCES                              L/C Number: 23440
Country/Department: BENIN                                                Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: VM - Natural Resources Management
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  07/01/88                                Effective: 10/08/92           11/25/92
Appraisal:  05/27/91                                  MTR: 11/30/95              01/15/96
Approval: 03/24/92                                 Closing: 12/31/97            06/30/99
Borrower/lImplementing Agency. Republic of Benin/Ministry of Rural Development (MDR)
Other Partners: German Technical Cooperation Agency (GTZ); French Agency for Development
(AFD) - formerly Central French Agency for Economic Cooperation (CCCE);
United Nations Development Program (UNDP).
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jean-Louis Sarbib                         Edward Jaycox
Country Manager:     Theodore 0. Ahlers                        Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager:      Joseph Baah-Dwomoh                        Theodore Nkodo
Team Leader at ICR:   Nicolas Ahouissoussi                     Adolfo Brizzi
ICR Primary Author:   Talib B. K. Esmail; Nicolas
Ahouissoussi
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(S= Satisfactory, HS=Highly Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely,
HUN=Highly Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development M
Impact:
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)                   ICR
Quality at Entry:                                                S
Project at Risk at Any Time:



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) of this project (Programme de Gestion des Ressources Naturelles -
PGRN) articulates two objectives which were to be pursued concurrently:
(1) institution-building including the review, enactment and enforcement of legislation, policy design,
strengthening of the planning, monitoring and evaluation capacity, and
(2) pilot actions that promote sustainable uses of agro-sylvo-pastoral resources and help stem the
degradation of renewable natural resources.
While not explicitly articulated as part of the objectives as stated in the SAR, the institution-building
objectives, in effect, related to the Forestry and Natural Resources Directorate (Direction des Forets et des
Ressources Naturelles - DFRN) that had responsibility for management of gazetted forests, national parks
and natural resources in general. (The DFRN is under the Ministry of Rural Development (MDR) and the
Director of the DFRN reports to the Minister of Rural Development).
The development objectives as stated in the SAR were too broadly defined. (This was not unusual for a
project designed in the early 1990s prior to the mandatory use of logical framework analyses).
Implementation was to be facilitated by a project implementation unit which is somewhat at odds with the
project's institution building objectives.
3.2 Revised Objective:
A year after the mid-term review of February 1996, the PSR (dated 04/30/97) articulates the following set
of better-defined objectives:
(I) The Forestry and Natural Resources Departrnent (DFRN) is strengthened and able to: (a) fornulate and
implement better legislation and policies, (b) design forests and natural resource management operations
jointly with rural communities, and (c) better monitor and evaluate activities in the rural sector; and
(2) New participatory approaches to natural resources management are successfully tested and adopted by
rural communities and beneficiaries' level of ownership is improved;
(3) The process of environmental degradation is reversed in the project area through the implementation of
pilot actions and approaches/technologies that, if successful and expanded, would promote the sustainable
use of agro-sylvo-pastoral resources and curb the degradation of renewable resources;
(4) National institutions: Centre d'Action R6gionale et de D6veloppement Rural (CARDER), Institut
National de Recherche Agricole au Benin (INRAB), Centre National de Gestion des Reserves de Faune
(CENAGREF), Centre National de T6led6tection (CENATEL) are strengthened to support new
participatory approach and transfer a number of key activities to private sector operations (local
communities, NGOs, local entrepreneurs, etc.).
The articulation of the better-defined objectives was formulated when a logical framework for the project
was produced as part of an overall "retro-fitting" of rural development projects in the Africa region. It was
conducted with the teams responsible for implementation of each of the components of the project. The
logical framework articulates specific objectives for each component and also performance indicators with
quantifiable targets. The logical framework no doubt improved the clarity of the project objectives and also
the objectives of each component.
In practice, the overall objectives of the project were not significantly altered from those stated in the SAR
and the Government's final evaluation report (dated August 11, 1999).
-2 -



3.3 Original Components:
The original components as stated in the SAR are well defined. However, a number of them relate to the
same objective and should have been grouped for greater clarity. According to the SAR the project had 10
components:
(1) Planning and Management. This component consisted of strengthening the planning, management,
monitoring and evaluation capability of DFRN. This component provided for support to policy
formulation and preparation of a national forestry program. In reality this was focused on strengthening
the project implementation unit capacities rather than the whole of DFRN.
(2) Monitoring and Evaluation. This consisted of strengthening the capability of CENATEL for all aspects
of environmental monitoring including mapping, forestry inventory, production of land use maps,
identification of watershed locations, erosion, transhumance, migration of populations, etc.
(3) Poaching Control. This component was intricately linked to the wildlife management component and
partially to the forest management component. It was designed to strengthen seven of the most sensitive
poaching control posts within the Pendjari national park, the Atakora hunting zone and the W national
park.
(4) Training. This component was designed to supplement the training that it was assumed would be
provided under the bank-supported restructuring of MDR (Agricultural Services Restructuring project -
Cr. 2285-BEN). It was supposed to train project personnel, villagers, local communities, polyvalent agents,
technical specialists and planners in environmental management and participatory approaches to
management of natural resources.
(5) Studies. This component was supposed to finance a series of studies associated with the preparation of
a master plan for the natural resource development of the Borgou region.
(6) Forest Management. This was designed to support pilot operations in three gazetted forests to test
participatory approaches to the evolution and implementation of collaborative forest management plans
involving the communities, forestry administration and private sector.
(7) Watershed Management. Four watersheds representative of different agro-ecological zones were
identified to test the participatory approach to terroir management.
(8) Land Tenure Operations. This was intrinsically linked to the watershed management component and
targeted at the same four pilot sites. It was aimed at evolving approaches to the fornulation of rural land
plans with the participation of local communities in order to articulate and clarify the relations between
holders of land tenure rights.
(9) Research and Development. This component was designed to complement the Bank-financed
Agricultural Services Restructuring project (Cr. 2285-BEN). The aim was to establish field centers staffed
by multi-disciplinary researchers in each of the four agro-ecological zones and also the three gazetted
forests to support field experimentation to improve resource management techniques.
(10) Wildlife Management. Two of the most sensitive buffer zones providing access to the Pnedjari and W
national parks were identified to pilot initiatives to promote socioeconomic development, conservation of
nature, wildlife management, agro-silvo-pastoral equilibrium, small livestock or game farming, and tourism
possibilities.
Components linked well with objectives, although they did not rely on appropriate mechanisms for
implementation. For example, poaching control was, in effect, part of the wildlife and forest management
components. It would, therefore, have been better considered as an activity of the respective management
components. Similarly, a number of the components could conceivably have been combined to reduce
complexity and add greater clarity on how to implement them.
- 3 -



The project did not have a component explicitly focused on organizational reform of the forestry
administration. In retrospect, it might have been advantageous to articulate the process of reforming the
organizational structure of DFRN in order to implement the new forestry code and also to allocate
resources to such an end. However, it needs to be recognized that in order to determine how DFRN should
be reorganized it was first necessary to evolve and test a workable approach to organize communities and
to formulate collaborative resource management plans. Hence the pilot operations were required before any
recommendations on how to reorganize DFRN could be reasonably made.
The project drew upon lessons learned from a previous forestry project in Benin (Cr. 1505-BEN/SF
024-BEN) and also from similar "Gestion des Terroirs" projects initiated in Burkina Faso and Mali. The
previous forestry project had recommended that future projects should pay greater attention to the reform
of forestry institutions and also adopt a community-based approach to management of natural resources.
Both these aspects were reflected in the project design. However, the process, time, and commitment
required to reform the forestry institutions was not fully appreciated in the project design.
3.3 Revised Components:
The components were revised during implementation to reduce the project's complexity and facilitate
implementation. The 10 original components were grouped into six:
(I) Participatory forest management
(2) Watershed development
(3) Land tenure operations
(4) Capacity building and training
(5) Wildlife management
(6) Adaptive research
This revision of components did not amount to restructuring since the objectives and activities were
regrouped but remained unchanged from those originally envisaged in the SAR. The institution-building
objectives were subsumed under the capacity building and training component. Planning, environmental
monitoring and evaluation were also incorporated under the same capacity building component. The
revision of components enabled the formulation of project implementation teams with well-defined goals
and work plans.
3.4 Quality at Entry:
No official assessment has been carried out by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG). The ICR team,
however, assesses the quality at entry of the project as "satisfactory". The project objectives and
components were consistent with the national policies and medium-term action plans as stated in the 1993
National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP). (The preparation of the environmental action plan was
initiated by the Government in 1991 in collaboration with the United Nations Soudano-Sahelian Office
(UNSO), Germany, France and IDA). The project design was consistent with the need to address the
growing problem of the deterioration of the natural resource base in Benin. The NEAP had identified the
underlying causes of natural resource degradation. It noted that demand for arable land caused by
population growth had reduced the duration of the fallow period, led to cropping of land usually reserved
for grazing and undermined the tree cover. In addition, uncontrolled bush fires, uncontrolled herd
movements and land tenure insecurity had thwarted the establishment of sustainable production systems.
The project design addressed all these issues in a coherent and logical approach. It was particularly
innovative for its time in that it utilized the emerging paradigm of participatory development which views
- 4 -



communities as the solution, rather than the problem, to the sustainable management of natural resources.
A final testament to the quality of design is the fact that the project was co-financed by Germany, France,
and the United Nations Development Program, each of whom conducted its own quality control.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Despite some short-comings in building institutional capacity, overall, the project outcome is considered to
be "satisfactory". Considerable progress was made in building an enabling institutional environment with
the promulgation of new laws and policies governing the use of forests and wildlife reserves. Moreover, the
project successfully tested innovative participatory approaches to the management of forest, watershed and
wildlife resources in all the major agro-ecological zones of Benin. The participatory approaches used to
motivate and organize communities in the different zones were varied and specifically adapted to the
resources requiring collective management. All the approaches have demonstrated the willingness of
population to take over responsibility for the management of natural resources and this has yielded
positives results in terms of reduced poaching, reduction in uncontrolled bush fires, reduction in soil
erosion, increase in forest cover, and adoption of environmentally sustainable economic enterprises. The
approaches tested in each of the agro-ecological zones are now being expanded under new projects financed
by a range of bilateral and multi-lateral institutions including GTZ, AFD, EU, IDA and GEF.
A new policy enabling collaborative management of forests has been designed and tested successfully. A
new forestry law (No. 93-009) was adopted and issued by the National Assembly on July 2, 1993 and the
presidential decree (Decree No. 96-271) affecting the application of the law was passed on July 2, 1996. A
new forestry policy was adopted by the Government on November 17th, 1994 along with a series of
priority actions. The policy process was remarkably transparent with translation of the law and decree into
12 local languages. Dissemination was also aided by the use of local radio and a communications campaign
targeted at the piloted villages of PGRN. The law (No. 87-014) concerning the collaborative management
of wildlife by communities and Government was only validated by a workshop in April 1998 and is still
awaiting approval of the National Assembly. Responsibility for follow-up of this has passed from the
Coordinator of PGRN to the Coordinator of CENAGREF in July 1998. (CENAGREF is the agency that
took over responsibility for management of the wildlife areas under a separately financed project).
The pilot activities have all been largely successful. Two out of the three targeted gazetted forests have
management plans that have been evolved through a long participatory process involving all communities
living within and on the periphery of the forests. The management plan for Tchaourou Toui-Kilibo was
signed by the Minister for Rural Development in 1996 and the one for l'Oueme Superieur has just been
signed in October 1999. The watershed management component exceeded targets with a participatory
diagnostic being conducted in 229 villages in five target areas representative of the different agro-ecological
zones of the country. The pilot actions in the wildlife areas have also been largely successful with poaching
having been largely stopped in participation with local communities.
The project was less successful in building the capacity of the forestry administration (DFRN and DFPRN)
and other national institutions (CARDER, CENATEL, and NRAB) to implement and enforce the laws in
the areas targeted by PGRN, as well as those that were not targeted. The project did manage to build some
capacity for planning, although this was largely restricted to the activities of PGRN and were not
transferred into the mainstream activities of DFRN. With regards to environmental monitoring and
evaluation, CENATEL was equipped with the relevant technology to conduct remote-sensing, production
-5 -



of vegetation maps, and environmental impact monitoring. Unfortunately, apart from the production of
vegetation maps, they were not able to conduct any objective assessment of environmental impact.
4.2 Outputs by components.
The original 10 components of the SAR were grouped into six components to facilitate implementation and
supervision of the project. Each of the 10 original components remained valid and the project's financial
management team assigned expenditures according to those components (see Annex 2). Given the pilot
nature of the project, performance indicators for judging the achievement of outputs were not quantified in
the SAR. In order to maintain consistency with the project costs and financing presented in Annex 2, this
section will provide an assessment of the achievement of outputs using the original 10 components as
specified in the SAR.
Watershed Management
At appraisal it was envisaged that four areas (Alpahoue, Ouesse, Boukoumbe and Ouake) representative of
different agro-ecological zones, would be targeted to test the participatory approach of micro-watershed
management. During implementation in 1994 it was decided to expand the component to include an
additional site at Dekanme. After considerable experimentation during the first few years, the participatory
approach evolved to consist of a number of defined steps: (a) an information and awareness raising
campaign using local radio, posters, and also visits to communities; (b) a diagnostic (4 to 5 days) to
identify hierarchy of problems and opportunities, and to evolve an inventory and map of the natural
resources; (c) a participatory dialogue to evolve a matrix of peoples' priorities; (d) studies to assess the
feasibility of proposed interventions; (e) establishing a calendar and budget for participatory planning of
interventions; (e) establishment of a village committee for implementation and management; (f)
mobilization of financial and human resources; (g) implementation of micro-project; (h) participatory
evaluation of the process. The types of micro-projects co-financed by the project varied by region. They
generally included: gully control, protection of village lands and houses against erosion, soil and fertility
conservation measures; tree nurseries, linear plantations along field boundaries; water storage facilities,
control of bush fires; contour planting of vetiver grass and pineapple; mulching and use of manure; and
small-scale domestic animal husbandry.
This component was able to conduct a participatory diagnostic in 229 village in the five target zones.
Approximately 500 micro-projects were co-financed by the project covering about 12,000 ha of private and
village lands. The approach relied on multi-disciplinary teams consisting of contracted staff to carry-out
the diagnostic and assist the communities in the technical design of interventions. In one area (Ouesse), a
national NGO was contracted to motivate and organize the communities. The component was co-financed
by Government and AFD. At closure, actual expenditure was 106 percent of estimate at appraisal (see
Annex 2).
This component fulfilled most of its objectives and even exceeded expectations in some regions. Through
the participatory process of identifying priorities and defining village terroirs, some groups of village
committees decided to establish supra-village organizations in order to manage inter-village disputes
concerning terroir boundaries and rights over resources. In Ouesse, the supra-village organization is in the
process of registering itself with the Ministry of Interior. It raises its own revenues through levying a
membership fee on each village committee that is a member. In addition, there has been considerable
unanticipated diffusion of technologies such as organic manuring and use of vetiver grass to control
erosion. The extension of these technologies have occurred without direct involvement of the project's
multi-disciplinary teams.
-6 -



This component is now financed under a new Management of Natural Resources project (Programme de
Gestion des Terroirs et des Ressources Naturelles - PGTRN) that is co-financed by GTZ and AFD. The
new project has a budget of approximately US$ 10 million (over five years) and is seeking to gradually
scale-up the watershed and land tenure operations to include more villages.
Land Tenure Operations
Land tenure operations were conducted in the same five sites as the watershed management component.
The component was designed to evolve approaches to the formulation of rural land plans with local
communities and to articulate and clarify the relations between holders of land tenure rights. It was aimed
at facilitating the exercise of all tenure rights, whether traditional or modem, provided that they were
recognized as valid and unchallenged by the local communities concerned. The objective was not to issue
land titles, but instead, to demonstrate the technical, social and economic feasibility of rural land
clarification schemes that would ultimate reduce the extent to which the poor are disadvantaged in asserting
their claims to land.
The approach that was evolved in the five sites consisted of: (a) an information dissemination campaign to
raise awareness about the objectives of the component; (b) social and economic studies to identify the
nature and underlying causes of land tenure conflicts; (c) a participatory diagnostic to determine ownership
of land (collective and private) and conditions of acquisition; (d) delimitation of land rights through a
mediated process of negotiation involving all groups within the village and formulation of a map depicting
the result; (e) public notification of recorded rights and right holders for community feedback/questioning
or endorsement. Dissemination of the resultant land tenure plan (Plan Foncier Rural) to ensure that all
members of the community are aware and have access to the agreed allocation of tenure rights.
The project carried out an information dissemination campaign in 111 villages. There was subsequently a
demand from 51 villages for the project to assist them in developing a land tenure plan. The project began
social and economic studies in 26 villages; a participatory diagnostic in 36 villages and initiated the
delimitation of land rights in 23 villages. At closure of the project, seven land tenure plans covering an area
of 26,034 ha were elaborated and five village committees had been established. The estimated current cost
per hectare of producing the land tenure documents is between US$7 to US$15 per hectare. This cost
indicates acceptable levels of technical efficiency and good prospects for replicability. The land tenure
component was financed by Government and AFD. It kept largely to budget with the actual expenditure
being 106 percent of appraisal estimate.
The demand for land tenure operations from communities far exceeded the capacity of the project to
respond to those needs. Furthermore, the process of evolving a land tenure plan was much more
complicated and took much longer than originally anticipated. This is partly because the project had to
evolve a methodology that was feasible and transparent in order to command credibility with village
communities. It was also partly because land tenure is a particularly sensitive subject and conflicts are
common, particularly in the more densely populated south of the country. During implementation it became
apparent that there is a requirement to clarify the legal statutes concerning land and property rights in order
to lend greater credence and validity to the land tenure plans evolved out of the project's participatory
process. Implementation of the land tenure operations are continuing since 1998 with financing provided
under the Management of Natural Resources project (PGTRN) that is co-financed by GTZ and AFD.
- 7-



Forest Management
This component piloted operations in three areas (Tchaourou Toui-Kilibo, L'Oueme Superieur-N'Dali and
Dogo-Ketou). The actual number of gazetted forests was larger than envisaged at appraisal because
adjoining forests were also taken up as they were part of the same ecological complex. The component was
designed to test the applicability of the approach in forests with different levels of encroachment by
farmers. The three target forests were selected based on these criteria and important lessons were learnt
regarding the applicability of the participatory approach to collaborative forest management. An
international NGO (CLUSA) was contracted to mobilize, organize and train the communities and forest
rangers. The approach consisted of formulating a management plan involving all communities that were
already living in the forest, as well as those living on the periphery of the forest who regularly used forest
resources, or forest land. The task was more complex than that for watershed management, because the
participatory dialogue and evolution of management plans had to commence with each ethnic group at the
sub-village level. Subsequently, all the villages within and on the periphery of the forest were required to
form village management committees. These committees were grouped into management blocks, and then
ultimately the management plan for the whole forest was evolved. The management plan is implemented by
a Council whose members are the village management committees. In this way the plans were evolved from
the bottom-up, along with a series of nested organizational structures to? implement the plan. Complexity
was further increased because the slow growing nature of trees meant that management plans had to span
25 years.
The management plan specifies zones of management together with detailed information on tree harvesting
rotations, hunting quotas, maintenance of fire-breaks, replanting, weeding, coppicing areas for exploitation
for charcoal, honey production, etc. Areas that had already been encroached by agriculturists were
delimited and included into the management plans. Community agreements comparable to rental contracts
were established. Farmers would commit to stop any further encroachment in return for the right to
continue to occupy and crop land within the gazetted forest boundaries, and have access to revenues from
sustainable forest based enterprises such as wood and charcoal production, honey production, cashew
production, etc. A management fund to implement aspects of the management plan requiring collective
action or purchase of inputs was established and augmented by taxing enterprises that generate revenues
through utilization of forest resources.
The project produced management plans for two out of the three targeted forests - Tchaourou Toui-Kilibo
and L'Oueme Superieur-N'Dali. These forests cover a total area of 273,423 ha, corresponding to 9.7
percent of the total area of Benin's relatively well conserved forests. About 14,000 ha of gazetted forest
were enriched; 20,000 ha of encroached forest land were delimited and classified as zones of cultivation
with agreements by communities not to expand the boundaries; 200 bee-keepers were trained; and 45
group-based commercial enterprises were initiated in 1997. The component was wholly financed by the
Bank and the Government. Actual expenditure was 118 percent of the appraisal estimate. The
over-expenditure can be attributed to the larger area targeted than envisaged at appraisal. In the case of the
most encroached forest (Dogou-Ketou - 60 percent encroached) the project was unable to produce a
participatory forest management plan that would convince cotton farmers to convert part of the agricultural
land back into forest. This was because cotton cultivation was too widespread and the potential returns
from forestry could not match those from cash crop cultivation.
While one of the originally targeted forests could not be covered, the total area of forest that was managed
exceeded the original objective. The component is considered to have produced satisfactory outputs. The
project also began working in Tchaourou Toui-Kilibo in 1993. This forest was only partially encroached
(about 10 percent) and agriculture was predominantly based on a subsistence yam-maize-manioc-fallow
- 8 -



farming system (i.e. no cash crop cultivation). The management plan covering 27 villages for Tchaourou
Toui-Kilibo was elaborated and finally signed by the Minister of Rural Development in November 1996.
L'Oueme Superieur-N'Dali is the least encroached of the three target forests. After experimenting and
fine-tuning the participatory approach in Tchaourou Toui-Kilibo, the project was able to facilitate the
preparation of a management plan in two years and covering 82 villages. The plan was prepared in 1998
and signed in October 1999 (after closure of PGRN). The most innovative aspects of these management
plans are: (a)
bringing to the local-forester the authority to approve activities that are in line with the management plans
(which contributes to community empowerment and downward accountability); (b) helping establish
forest-based enterprises as part of the management plan formulation and implementation; and (c) involving
all vested parties in the legal or illegal use of forest land, including herders and hunters.
Wildlife Management
This component was implemented in Batia and Alfakoara - two of the most sensitive buffer zones providing
access to the Pnedjari and W national parks. The areas were identified to pilot initiatives to promote
socioeconomic development, conservation of nature, wildlife management, agro-silvo-pastoral equilibrium,
small livestock or game farming, and tourism possibilities. The approach used was very similar to that used
by the watershed component involving a phase of information and awareness-raising, followed by studies to
identify the types of fauna present, carrying capacity of the land, and participatory dialogues to evolve a
workable management plan agreeable to all ethnic groups including the semi-nomadic pastoralists (Peulh).
The project conducted an information and communication campaign and participatory diagnostic in 27
villages and 15 camps of Peulh. The project promoted exchange visits of Peulh and other ethnic groups to
other areas within Benin and to neighboring Burkina Faso in order to help motivate them and demonstrate
the potential income benefits from improved management of wildlife resources. Following the diagnostic,
37 Village Associations for the Management of Wildlife Reserves were established. The project trained
about 500 people in alternative income generating activities, 20 tourist guides, 30 supervisors, 5 ticket
attendants and 2 taxidermists. An elephant observation post was constructed in Alfakoara for which
tourists pay a fee to use. In addition, after some difficulties in canceling existing licenses, new hunting
licenses have been issued to tour companies based in France. The management plan specifies the timing for
hunting, the eligible species and the number of animals that can be hunted. The local communities provide
guides and they also receive the meat from the hunt. The component was co-financed by IDA and the
Government. Costs were dramatically under-estimated with actual expenditure 220 percent the appraisal
estimate. Part of the reason for this was the remoteness of the sites which meant that accommodation for
project staff had to be constructed near the sites.
The outputs of this component are considered to be satisfactory. The component is now supported under a
new GEF, AFD, The Netherlands, KFW, GTZ, and EU co-financed project called the Program for the
Conservation and Management of National Parks. An autonomous agency under the Ministry of Rural
Development has been established - National Center for the Management of Wildlife Reserves
(CENAGREF) staffed mainly by people who were responsible for implementation of this component within
DFRN.
Poaching Control
This component was, in effect, an activity linked to the wildlife management and forest management
components (see above). The project sought to control poaching through the participatory evolution of
management plans involving all ethnic groups within the forests and wildlife reserves. The component was
-9-



co-financed by IDA and the Government with actual expenditures being 165 percent of the appraisal
estimate. The over-expenditure is largely because 16 forest posts were constructed as opposed to the
original plan of seven.
Based upon interviews with beneficiaries and also with forest rangers of DFRN, the general impression is
that poaching has been dramatically reduced and is judged to be satisfactory. As part of the management
plans, local communities take on a responsibility to monitor the enforcement of anti-poaching policy. As a
result of the success of this component and the willingness of communities to enforce an anti-poaching
policy a contradiction has arisen wherein the traditional role of forest rangers to enforce a no-poaching
policy is longer applicable.
There are undoubtedly still some instances of poaching, for example, in the wildlife area of Alfakoara and
in the forest of Tchaourou Toui-Kilibo. It appears the main culprits for continued poaching are individuals
who were not part of the formulation and implementation of the management plans. In effect, these
individuals are free-riding on the activities of the village associations that were involved in formulation of
the management plans. Nevertheless, in comparison to the situation before project implementation,
poaching has been reduced and the benefits are visible to the local communities.
Monitoring and Evaluation of Environmental Impact
This component was primarily concerned with strengthening the capability of the Remote Sensing Center
(CENATEL) to monitor environmental impact including the production of vegetation maps, forestry
inventory, land use maps, location of watersheds, erosion, transhumance, migration of populations, and so
on. This component was co-financed by IDA, the Government and GTZ. The assistance of GTZ was
largely in terms of expatriate technical assistance and some equipment. The actual expenditure of the
component was 118 percent of appraisal estimate. CENATEL was fully equipped, staff were trained and
technical assistance provided to carry-out its functions. Furthermore, it was also given substantial financial
autonomy at the insistence of supervision missions in order to help it to become more commercially
orientated and to adopt private sector principles.
CENATEL was, unfortunately, not able to fulfill its objectives and is therefore judged as "unsatisfactory".
It has produced 85% of targeted outputs (39 1:100,000 vegetation map sheets out of targeted 46).
CENATEL was also unable to provide meaningful data on the environmental impact of the project, nor
was there much technical assistance provided to the implementation teams for the forestry, wildlife, land
tenure or watershed components. Initially there were problems with the technical quality of maps produced,
however, these were ultimately resolved. The primary reason for poor performance appears to be the lack
of leadership (e.g., lack of a good human resources management) within the agency and also lack of
accountability. This was further compounded by the increased financial autonomy that was accorded
CENATEL.
CENATEL was part of DFRN and supposedly accountable to the Minister of Rural Development. It was
established under an FAO/UNDP project that preceded PGRN but did not have much capacity. Under the
National Environmental Action Plan (1993), a number of agencies were assigned responsibilities for
providing environmental information and maps. Apart from CENATEL, these include: Ministry of
Environment, Housing and Urban Planning (MEHU), National Environment Agency (NEA), National
Geographic Institute (IGN), the Directorate of Hydrology, the Institute for Agricultural Research, the
National University, the Urban Planning and Housing Research Agency (SERHAU), and the Air
Navigation Control Agency (ASCENA). The relative roles and responsibilities for environmental data
gathering and monitoring are unclear. The is also a need for improved coordination amongst the various
- 10 -



agencies. In retrospect, the design decision to strengthen another agency to produce small scale maps in a
field with too many competing agencies needs to be questioned. However, DFRN was apparently insistent
that it needed its own monitoring agency specifically catering to needs of its staff who were concerned with
management of natural resources and forests.
Planning and Management
This component was co-financed by IDA, the Government, AFD and GTZ. It was designed to strengthen
the planning, management, monitoring and evaluation capability of DFRN. It also provided support to
policy formulation and institutional reform. At closure, actual expenditure was 137 percent of appraisal
estimate.
The outputs of this component are judged as being satisfactory. A Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation
unit was established in 1993 to train the staff of the various implementation teams to use instruments for
planning, monitoring and evaluation. It was also required to collect information to improve project
management and implementation. The unit functioned effectively and the project was able to provide
regular work plans, and monitoring of physical progress. However, there was no objective and rigorous
monitoring of social and economic impact of the project on beneficiaries. A number of case studies were
conducted during the last year of implementation. Nonetheless, these were only able to provide data on
physical progress and some anecdotal evidence of social, environmental and economic impact.
The systems for financial management and accounting were found to be highly satisfactory. Audit reports
were received on time, and for the last three years, no significant concerns were found by the Bank. The
only issues raised by the Bank concerned the over centralization of financial controls at the level of the
financial controller, despite the availability of competent accountants and other staff at local levels. This
was corrected after mid-term review. Nevertheless, the potential of utilizing financial management tools to
assist in the implementation of the project was not fully realized.
Training
This component provided training to project personnel, local communities, polyvalent agents, technical
specialists and planners. It also financed information, education and communication activities that were
essential first phases of the pilot activities. Training programs were integrated into the activities of each of
the pilot components. Furthermore, the component also financed the translation of key legal texts such as
the revised forestry law and policy into all 12 local languages and their broad dissemination. In addition,
an occasional newsletter entitled "NATURE INFO" was produced to raise awareness amongst literate
populations about environmental and natural resources management (NRM) issues. The component was
co-financed by all parties and expended 104 percent of the appraisal estimate. It is judged to have been
satisfactorily implemented. Nevertheless, the lack of pedagogic modules for the targeted groups regarding
the developed technologies was a weakness of this component.
Studies
At appraisal it was envisaged that this component would finance the production of a master plan for the
management of Borgou region's natural resources. This would include: (i) a basic inventory of natural
resources produced by CENATEL on a 1:100,000 scale; (ii) identification of uniform development zones
and zones at risk; (iii) transhumance patterns and development potential; (iv) short-term natural resource
development program including zones to be protected within new boundaries; and (v) medium and
long-term natural resource development program.
- 11 -



After effectiveness, it was decided to abandon this component. The proposal to produce a management plan
for the Borgou was no longer viable since a number of the resources to be managed were not restricted to
the Borgou region. Furthermore, it became apparent that NRM interventions would be more appropriately
designed if directed toward a particular type of resource (e.g. wildlife reserves or gazetted forests) requiring
a particular management approach, rather than on the basis of geographical area. Consequently, the actual
expenditure under this component is zero percent of appraisal estimate.
A total of 48 other studies were conducted by short-term national and international consultants. These were
concerned with specific aspects of project management, watershed management, land tenure operations,
management of forests, or management of wildlife areas. They were therefore financed under the respective
component. (Annex 7 provides a list of all studies conducted under PGRN, their costs, and their authors).
Research and Development
During implementation, the National Institute for Agricultural Research (INRAB) was supposed to provide
research and development support to implementation teams responsible for management of watersheds. The
aim was for INRAB to develop practical solutions to technical problems encountered during
implementation. This component was co-financed by IDA and the Government. At completion, it's actual
expenditure was only 49 percent of the appraisal estimate.
This component is judged unsatisfactory. Initially the problem was a lack of coordination between INRAB,
PGRN and the field implementation teams. For example, it was only three years after effectiveness that
(GERAM) (an NGO responsible for implementing watershed management in Ouesse) began to actively
collaborate with INRAB in the area of research and development. This required PGRN signing a service
contract with INRAB and (GERAM) with detailed terms of reference. Another problem was that many of
the technologies used by the implementation teams were already available "off the shelf'. For example, the
technical aspects of using vetiver grass to control erosion had already been tested and the technology was
known and available to the implementation teams. Therefore, the added value of having a dedicated agency
for research and development was not immediately apparent to implementation teams. Despite the
availability of tested technologies, INRAB was able to make a few advances in terms of developing new
technologies that were adopted by implementation teams. For instance, they developed the use of
leguminous trees to control soil erosion, use of vetiver grass by livestock, and improved techniques for
agro-forestry. A final problem with the research and development component was that it was designed to be
supply-driven rather than demand-driven. For this reason, much of INRAB's initial work was not targeted
to the needs of the implementation teams.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Neither an NPV nor ERR was not calculated for the project. Furthermore, given that the project was
experimental in nature and seeking to pilot participatory management activities in different agro-ecological
zones, it was not meaningful to calculate cost-effectiveness in terms of cost per unit of input or cost per
unit of output. However, several studies were conducted for certain specific activities such as charcoal and
timber production, beekeeping, etc. to measure their economic/financial profitability to ensure their
sustainability after the project closes. Although most of these studies were mostly qualitative, results
showed that these activities are generally profitable to the local populations. Moreover, the preparation of
the new forestry project puts a lot of attention on the economic and financial analysis aspects of the
activities to be implemented under the collaborative forest management plans. Currently, an economic and
financial analysis is being conducted along with a social impact assessment of the project.
- 12 -



4.4 Financial rate of return:
Financial rates of return were not calculated for the project at appraisal.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional impact of the project relates to the changes in the forestry law (No. 93-009) and the
forestry policy of 1994. These institutional changes provide the enabling environment to promote
community-based management of gazetted forests and adjacent lands. The pilot activities in the three
gazetted forests have demonstrated that, in those forests which have not been overly encroached by farmers,
it is possible to promote long-term sustainable management of the natural forest resource. While the project
was able to create the policy and legal environment for such activities, it was not able to restructure DFRN
to implement the new forestry policy in all the forests in Benin. The project design did not adequately take
into account the process, timing and commitment required to reform the organizational structure of DFRN.
Therefore the potential benefits of the approach remained restricted to the two forests where management
plans were evolved.
The project did have another positive institutional impact in terms of strengthening the capacity of NGOs.
Most of the multi-disciplinary teams used by PGRN in the watershed management and land tenure
components were staffed with employees on fixed term contracts. These teams have now registered
themselves as local NGOs which have then been contracted by the new PGTRN (financed by GTZ and
AFD) to continue implementation activities of the components.
During implementation of the wildlife component it became evident that the law governing the management
of wildlife (No. 87-014) would need revision to facilitate sharing of revenues between the Government and
local communities. This law was revised during 1998, but is still awaiting approval by the National
Assembly. The component has been operating outside of the law during the interim with CENAGREF
sharing revenues from tourism unofficially with the village associations.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5. 1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The major event with a potential to affect the achievement of the project objectives and outputs was the
devaluation of the Franc CFA in 1994. The original budget of the project (as calculated at appraisal) was
580 million FCFA. However, at completion and following devaluation, the effective disbursement was 790
million FCFA. Apart from some delays in implementation caused by the uncertainties concerning
procurement and the time that was needed for local prices to re-equilibrate, devaluation did not unduly
affect achievement of objectives and outputs.
Performance of the co-financiers including IDA was satisfactory overall, but coordination was patchy and
some divergence of views surfaced frequently. Each financier adopted different procedures for
disbursement and procurement, and had different perceptions of the use of TA. Tracking of donor funds
was easy because either a co-financier funded a whole component with the Government (e.g. only AFD
co-financed the land tenure operations with government, except for the Dekame site financed by GTZ). Or,
where components were co-financed by a number of donors (e.g. the watershed component), each donor
financed a distinct geographical area with its own field implementation team. This enabled each
- 13 -



co-financier to monitor the use of its funds more closely and therefore fulfill its fiduciary responsibilities
without over-complicating the task of project implementation.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Disbursements of the Bank and co-financiers were respectively 100.3 percent and 117.9 percent of
appraisal estimates. Provision of government counterpart funds was adequate in local currency terms
(given the 1994 devaluation, it was 64 percent of appraisal estimates in US Dollar terms). Because of the
gains made by devaluation, the reduced provision of counter-part funds in Dollar terms had only a limited
impact on implementation.
A committee for monitoring the implementation of the forestry policy was established in April 1995. This
committee was charged with the responsibility for reviewing the organizational structure of the whole
forestry administration and making recommendations for restructuring the forestry agencies in order to
implement the new policy and enforce the law. Unfortunately, the government commitment towards the
restructuring was not sufficient to ensure achievement of objectives. The committee was chaired by the
Director of the Programming and Planning (DPP) unit of the Ministry of Rural Development, although he
rarely attended meetings. Other members included the Director of DFRN, Coordinator of PGRN,
Representative of Office National du Bois (ONAB), DFPRN and the Ministry of Planning. The committee
was unable to reach consensus on how to proceed and, following the national elections in March 1996 and
the appointment of a new Minister for Rural Development and DPP in August 1996, it stopped meeting. In
addition to this, government commitment to the privatization of ONAB was insufficient. Despite the efforts
of KFW and GTZ and also agreements at the Ministerial level to privatize the plantations, commercial and
industrial arms of ONAB, to date, have not yet been privatized fully.
Following the appointment of a new Minister for Rural Development in August 1996, the Minister
appointed a new Coordinator for the project. This was part of an overall policy of the new government to
replace all the coordinators of projects funded by the Bank and other donors. Bank supervision missions
were particularly concerned about the negative impact this would have on the performance of project
implementation which was at the critical stage of mid-term review. Despite Bank requests to maintain
continuity in the leadership of PGRN, the government refused to alter its policy. In retrospect, the project
was only partially affected by the change in Coordinator. Achievement of outputs does not seem to have
been unduly affected. However, one could speculate that, had the original project Coordinator remained in
place, the project may have been able to achieve more of the institutional reform objectives.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Project management was, in general, satisfactory. Financial management was assessed as being good by all
supervision missions. Be that as it may, the missions also found that financial management was overly
centralized in Cotonou. All payments were paid from Cotonou despite the fact that there was financial
management capacity in the field implementation teams. After the mid-term review recommended greater
decentralization of decision-making and financial management responsibilities to the field teams, each field
region was given a sub-account from which to make small payments. This eased day-to-day project
implementation dramatically and helped to improve the ability of the project to achieve its outputs.
The monitoring of implementation activities, annual plan of operations, and semiannual activity report were
all provided regularly and on time. The simple field monitoring covering technical, institutional and
budgetary aspects functioned reasonably with the field implementation teams submitting activity reports
every six months. However, external monitoring and evaluation of economic impact of the project was to be
- 14-



provided by MDR Sectoral Analysis Directorate (based on information provided by the project and from
CARDER monitoring and evaluation departments) and by CENATEL (for monitoring the environmental
impact). Both these external monitoring systems did not function as planned. The cooperation between the
project and the CARDERs in the departments where pilot operations were being implemented was limited.
Therefore information from the CARDERs regarding the project's impact was not collected. Furthermore,
because the implementation of the component to strengthen CENATEL was unsatisfactory, the project did
not have any access to objective analyses of its environmental impact.
Because of the lack of quantifiable impact data, the implementing agency contracted external consultants to
conduct a series of impact assessments of each component of the project. These case studies were used to
prepare this ICR and also the project completion report prepared by PGRN. The case studies provide some
useful insights into beneficiary participation and project impact. However, they are unable to provide much
more than anecdotal assessments of environmental impact or impact upon beneficiary household income
and welfare as a result of participation in the project.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
There were no significant cost changes in the project. Some reallocation of financial resources amongst
budget line items were made. However, the overall budget remained the same.
Over-expenditure in wildlife management component is attributed to the fact that, at appraisal, it was
assumed that the coordinator for the implementation of this component would be based in Parakou. After
effectiveness, it was decided that the coordinator and implementation team needed to be closer to the field
site. Therefore a building was constructed, two additional vehicles and some equipment were purchased.
Furthermore, in Alpakoara a water storage tank was constructed for the implementation team. Overall, the
travel costs associated with this component were underestimated because more activities were planned such
as the exposure of inhabitants to neighboring countries and other communities implementing similar
collaborative management approaches. The poaching control component was administered by the
coordinator responsible for institutional support, although the activities were related to the forest
management and wildlife management components. The over-expenditure of this component was related to
the fact that (a) 16 forest posts were constructed rather than the seven which were envisaged at appraisal;
and (b) a monitoring post was constructed near the Niger border. Furthermore, the component
underestimated the operating costs of vehicles and motorcycles used for poaching control.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The changes in the forestry policy and law supported by the project and which enable
community-involvement in the management of gazetted forests is likely to be sustainable. The policy and
legal environment now provides for the community-based management of gazetted forests and also the
retention of revenues generated from sustainable commercial management of forest-based resources by
local communities. Furthermore, all income earning enterprises and groups must pay a tax to a locally
managed fund which finances the implementation of the management plan and also to a national forest fund
established by the Government. It is likely that tax revenues generated from sustainable forest management
enterprises will provide some incentive for the forestry administration to continue supporting the
implementation of the management approach. It should also provide an incentive for the replication of the
approach to include all other gazetted forests as originally envisaged when the policy and law were revised.
- 15-



The sustainability of the community-managed enterprises themselves is likely but will be dependent upon
their profitability and the number of days of employment that they provide. There is a requirement for more
training to be provided to local entrepreneurs in financial management, book-keeping, marketing and also
use of improved techniques for the given enterprise. For example, keeping bees for honey production or
cashew production are potentially very profitable enterprises with a high market demand. Unfortunately,
most of the current enterprises are not realizing the full potential of the market because of inadequate
knowledge and training on how to maximize yields and profits. Furthermore, a number of enterprises
initiated under the forest management component were abandoned because they were not able to generate a
critical mass of income and/or employment opportunities.
Before the collaborative forest management policy and participatory approach can be replicated throughout
the country, however, the forestry administration will need to be reorganized and their technical and human
resource capacity strengthened in order to fulfill their new roles and responsibilities. This will likely take
place under a follow-up "Program for the Management of Forests and Adjacent Lands" that is currently
under preparation at the request of the Government and that will probably be co-financed by IDA and GEF.
The new project will also continue to support field forestry services and the implementation of the forest
management plans in two of the pilot forests while also financing the replication of the approach to other
gazetted forests not currently supported by other donor projects. In this way, the new project will aim to
support the sustainable management of all the remaining gazetted forests and adjacent terroirs in Benin.
Most of the other achievements under the watershed, wildlife and land tenure components are likely to be
sustainable for at least the next five years. Services provided under the wildlife management component are
already continuing under a new project (Program for the Conservation and Management of National Parks)
approved in 1998 and co-financed by GEF, AFD, The Netherlands, KFW, GTZ, and the EU. The land
tenure operations and watershed management activities are now supported under the PGTRN that was
approved in 1998 and is co-financed by GTZ and AFD.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
As indicated above, the watershed, land tenure and wildlife management operations are being continued
under financing from other donors. The transition arrangements for the these aspects of the project is
dependent upon the approach pursued by the respective donors of those projects. The forestry operations,
on the other hand, are likely to be continued under a new project currently under preparation by the Bank.
The project under preparation (Program for the Management of Forests and Adjacent Lands) is being
specifically designed with a view to making the transition from the project to regular operations. An
institutional audit of the whole forestry administration should be conducted. This should be designed to
determine the respective roles and responsibilities of each level of the forestry administration, of each
employee, and also of complementary agencies such as the CARDERs. As part of the new project,
performance indicators should be established by which the project can be monitored and evaluated in the
future. Possible indicators of success of the transition to regular operation should be the extent to which the
participatory collaborative forest management approach is replicated to the remaining gazetted forests and
their adjacent lands and also the overall reduction in encroachment of gazetted forests and an improvement
in the vegetative cover. The environmental impact of the new project will only be possible to assess if the
new project is able to find an alternative means of fulfilling the same functions that CENATEL was unable
to achieve under PGRN.
- 16 -



7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance at identification is satisfactory. At the time of identification (1991) there was no
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) available. However, a possible Natural Resources/Environment Project
had been mooted in March 1989 with the assistance of a number of donors, including the Bank and an
NGO. The identification of this project emerged during the implementation of a previous forestry project
(Cr. 1501-BEN/SF 024-BEN) which closed in June 1991. It was specifically recommended in the ICR of
that project which noted that the need for a broader reflection on the rational management of natural
resources. The policy dialogue between the Government and donors ultimately led to the identification of
the PGRN. The preparation work was completed by FAO/CP in November 1990, and the project was
appraised by IDA in May 1991.
The performance at appraisal is satisfactory. The appraisal consisted of nine individuals with skills
covering all the major components of the project. Two members of the appraisal team were appointed by
AFD and GTZ to examine training and land management, and cartography and remote sensing. The
appraisal took account of experiences of previous forestry projects, as well as of other "Gestion des
Terroirs" experiences in the region. The assessment of implementing capacity including financial and
procurement capacity proved to be accurate. The assessment of risks was adequate and the measures to
mitigate those risks were realistic. Some of the mitigation measures should have been part of project
design, for example, using contractual arrangements to increase collaboration between the CARDERs and
the project. The project design was more complex than was necessary with over 10 components. This was
possibly because the appraisal team did not adequately consider the modalities and mechanisms for
implementation. Once effective however, the complexity was reduced by grouping some of the
components.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance in supervision was fully satisfactory. The frequency of supervision missions (two
per year on average) was adequate for the tasks and for the modest risk ratings. Moreover, the
decentralization of the task management responsibilities to the Resident Mission staff helped to encourage
very close monitoring of the project consisting of regular field visits in-between formal supervision
missions. This was very much appreciated by the Borrower. The supervision missions and intermediate
field visits focused on all aspects of execution problems encountered during project implementation, and
appropriate recommendations were made to the PIU. The cooperation between the PIU and all involved
actors including the other donors was satisfactory and the collaboration fruitful. The missions' professional
mix was adequate and well balanced between the key components. IDA undertook 13 full supervision
missions, and these missions were generally carried out timely and efficiently. A number of the missions
were carried out with local representatives from GTZ and AFD. The mid-term evaluation comprised a
multi-disciplinary team including full participation of GTZ and AFD. The supervision missions provided
useful advice for the resolution of implementation problems.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the Bank performance was satisfactory, both during project preparation and appraisal, as well as
throughout project supervision.
- 17-



Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance during the preparation was satisfactory as the national staff involved in the
preparation played a key role in providing guidance and useful information to the national and international
consultants in charge of project studies and documents preparation. However, the Borrower's contribution
was limited because the preparation process was not fully participatory.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government implementation performance is rated satisfactory. The reduced involvement of the
Ministry of Finance in the procurement process greatly contributed to the achievement of major project
objectives, especially regarding the acquisition of project equipment and contracting with firms for
conducting activities and carrying out studies. Counterpart funds were made available as necessary.
However, timeliness in actual disbursement of the counterpart funds was a problem each year.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The Government of Benin was the Borrower, and the Directorate of Forests and Natural Resources was
responsible for implementation within which a Project Implementation Unit consisting of civil servants and
contractual personnel was located. The implementation was overseen by a National Monitoring Committee
(NMC) including representatives from key ministries involved in the forest sector and also by other donors.
The PIUs performance is rated satisfactory given its efficiency in facilitating activity implementation. The
PIU followed up adequately on the recommendations from Bank and co-financiers supervision missions.
Regarding the financial management, no major issues were raised during implementation by the audit
missions, and auditors' recommendations for improving the financial management were systematically
followed.
The NMC's performance is rated unsatisfactory as its contribution to the implementation was very weak.
The performance of the Directorate of Forests and Natural Resources is rated unsatisfactory. While the
Directorate was supportive of the project, it considered the project as an external entity, and made little
attempt to help expand the practices tested by the project.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower performance was marginally satisfactory. The reorganization of the forestry sector was not
achieved because of insufficient commitment to support implementation sector reforms. The committee in
charge of proposing reforms did not enjoy a high level political backing and was unable to outline a
strategic vision for the sector.
-18 -



8. Lessons Learned
Lessons which have been learned during project implementation are:
*   The project demonstrated that participatory management of state-owned forests resources is
technically, socially and economically feasible. It also demonstrated that sustainability of management
practices depend upon some key factors: (i) existence of a minimum threshold of natural resource
endowment; (ii) bringing to the local level the authority to approve activities that are in line with the
management plans (this reduces authority interference and enhances downward accountability); (iii)
establishing forest-based enterprises as part of the management plan formulation and implementation;
(iv) providing for low-cost local technical assistance schemes to facilitate community organization,
basic training, adult literacy, and conflict resolution; (v) involving all parties (traditional and
non-traditional) involved in the legal or illegal use of forest land, including herders and hunters, and;
(vi) combining enterprise support with the creation of functional local management entities in charge of
making and enacting strategic community choices.
* When encroachment by agriculturists has gone beyond a certain level (50 to 60 percent), the project's
approach to formulation of collaborative management plans is not viable. This is because the incentives
offered by the project approach are not sufficient to encourage individual farmers to convert a portion
of the land from cash crop production (e.g. cotton cultivation) back into forest.
   Management plans that only rely upon promotion of sustainable forest-based income generating
activities do not take into account the full extent of the existing sources of livelihood of local people.
Future management plans need to take a more holistic view of peoples' sources of income and not just
from the perspective of the resource being managed. For example, many of the people living on the
periphery of forests continue to derive the majority of their income from agriculture. Therefore, a
collaborative forest management plan must also seek to improve incomes from existing agricultural
land holdings in order to take advantage of potential synergies and provide sufficient employment
generating opportunities to resource users. In other words, forest based income should not necessarily
replace but rather supplement other sources of income.
*   Government commitment is variable on two fronts: (i) planning and budgeting, and (ii) commitment to
institutional reform. A future project may find it difficult to sustain commitment to reform, especially
since governments and their respective policies invariably change as part of the democratic processes.
However, future projects can improve collaboration between agricultural services agencies
(CARDERs) and teams in charge of facilitating NRM planning, by ensuring that their respective work
programs reflect collaborative activities and that budgets are allocated accordingly. This would take
advantage of potential synergies in adopting a holistic approach to development of local peoples
livelihoods (as mentioned above) and avoid conflicting messages to farmers.
*   There are important trade-offs between building government capacity to monitor impact and the need
for projects to obtain objective data on impact in order to learn lessons and justify investments.
Monitoring physical and financial progress is essential for project implementation and projects should
ensure that sufficient capacity is built within implementation agencies to enable this. However, the
project's experience suggests that it might be more appropriate to out-source environmental impact
monitoring to the private sector, while contracting social and economic impact monitoring to academic
institutions or consultant firms. While this would not build government capacity, it would ensure that
- 19 -



objective data is made available to assess impact. Furthermore, it may also build private sector
capacity that could then be available to other projects.
*   There are many tested technologies for natural resource management that are available "off the shelf'.
Therefore, research should not be supply driven but rather demand driven. Only if existing
technologies are not appropriate to local conditions, or if fine-tuning of technologies is required, should
the implementing agency seek further assistance from research services. Whenever research advise is
required, service contracts with detailed terms of reference should be prepared between the
implementing agency and research service.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower's comments are positive overall. According to the Borrower, the Bank's performance was
satisfactory, the supervision missions were very use-ful and carried out in a timely manner. The
decentralization of the task management responsibilities to Resident Missions demonstrated the will of the
Bank to get closer to the clients and to better serve them. However, one major issue that concerned the
Borrower and disturbed the implementation of the project was the recovery of the initial advance. The
request for slow recovery of the initial advance in order to allow the implementation of the remaining
planned activities for a smooth project closure was not accepted.
(b) Cofinanciers:
AFD, GTZ and UNDP co-financed selected components of the project. Comments on the project
performance were only received by AFD and GTZ. Both these agencies felt that the project was overly
ambitious in terms of its objectives and also in terms of the number of components. They therefore find
project performance unsatisfactory. In their views, the following weaknesses are worth mentioning: (i) the
project did not achieve objectives fully for some components; (ii) it lasted longer than planned; (iii)
objectives were too ambitious, planning and monitoring were weak; and, (iv) the implementing unit was
too centralized and unable to solve field problems quickly. (All of these criticisms are also reflected in the
earlier sections of this ICR). However, it is worthwhile to note that the NGO GERAM achieved some good
results. Despite the poor performance rating of the project by the co-financiers, they continue to finance the
watershed and land tenure components under a separately financed FGTRN project, which was approved in
early 1998. This new project is essentially based upon national NGOs to ensure an operational dynamism
to the project's activities. The wildlife management component is also continuing under a new project
(Program for the Conservation and Management of National Parks) approved in 1998 and which is
co-financed by AFD, GTZ and other donors.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
The other partners involved in the implementation of the project included the regional Centers of Action for
Rural Development (CARDERs), the National Agricultural Research Institute (iNRAB) and two NGOs
(GERAM and CLUSA). Their comments on the project performance were positive overall. The CARDER
lamented limited collaboration between them and the implementing unit. The NGOs involved in project
implementation rated the project performance satisfactory.
- 20 -



10. Additional Information
None
- 21 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
New Forest Policy adopted and forest  A new forest policy is adopted, but forest    CENAGREF is fully established; ONAB and
institutions (DFRN, ONAB, CENATEL and  institutions not reorganized         CENATEL situation still not cdanfied, but an
CENAGREF) reorganized accordingly and a                                     institutional audit is underway
plan to strengthen them is adopted
DFRN & PGRN staff trained in participatory  100% of PGRN and DFRN staff were trained 100% of PGRN and DFRN staff were trained
management techniques
Rurai ecodevelopment actions tested in the  90 beekeepers trained; 10 nurserymen  497 households are using improved stoves;
villages adjacent to parks           trained; 300 women trained for improved  beekeeping generalized and more than 1181
stoves                                liters of honey were produced
Control of bush fires                 Bush fires are significantly reduced  Bush fires are reduced, about 40%
compared to the situation prior project
Output Indicators:
Approach/methods of natural resources  94 villages out of 11 7 villages have  94 villages have operational committees
management put in place in the villages  operational committees for natural resources
management
Model of participatory management in the    41 village associations established for park  The 41 associations are fully operational
parks tested and put in place         parbdcpatory managernent
Participatory Forest Management Plan  One plan was signed and under         A second plan has just been signed; so there
(PAFP) prepared and signed            implementation                        are two management plans signed and are
being implementation
End of project
- 22 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)   . _ ___                    _
.ppr.sa       ActualLest .Percentage of
-;  Estma       Estrmate       Appraiwl
Proipot cst Py comp                    _                  U$lrn         _____
1. Planning and Management                                5.00             6.86            137
2. Monitoring and Evaluation                              2.70             3.18            118
3. Poaching Control                                       0.80             1.32            165
4. Training                                               1.60             1.66            104
5. Studies                                                0.80             0.00              0
6. Management of Natural Forests                          2.90             3.44            118
7. Watershed Development                                  4.70             5.13            109
8. Land Tenure Operations                                 1.10             1.17            106
9. Research and Development                               1.50             0.74             49
10. Wildlife Management                                   0.70             1.54           220
Total Baseline Cost                                      21.80            25.04
Physical Contingencies                                   1.50
Price Contingencies                                      1.10
Total Project Costs                24.40            25.04
Total Financing Required                 24.40            25.04
roject Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate (US$ million equivalent)
iProcurement Mtv       ~
Ex      paed: ,tte  t6x    [Cs            6             ,,                    _, ,o ........
EXPfld~~~tW  CStO9O~~~~y  ICB                  N$.F.       To~~~tal Cost
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NM                                     .. . ^S...
1. Works                                    1.80          1.90          1.50          5.20
()_________ _  o(1.80)   (1.90)        (0.00)        (3.70)
2. Goods                      2.40          0.30          0.10          1.40          4.20
(2.40)        (0.30)       (0.10)        (0.00)        (2.80)
3. Services                                               4.00          4.00          8.00
()_____________________  o) o(4.00)    (0.00)        (4.00)
4. Service Contracts          0.30                        0.50          0.20          1.00
.________ _  (0.30)     0           (0.50)        (0.00)        (0.80)
5. Incremental Operating                                  2.00          3.20          5.20
Costs                          0             0           (2.00)          0           (2.00)
6. Refunding of PPF                                       0.80                        0.80
o)           ()          (0.80)          (           (0.80)
Total                      2.70           2.10         9.30          10.30        24.40
(2.70)        (2.10)       (9.30)        (0.00)       (14.10)
- 23 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ActuallLatest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
t~~~~~
1. Works                               0.00               1.91             3.58              1.55              7.04
(0.00)            (1.91)           (3.58)            (0.00)            (5.49)
2. Goods                               1.50               0.67             0.36              1.33              3.86
(1.50)            (0.67)           (0.36)            (0.00)            (2.53)
3. Services                            0.00               0.13             3.71              5.40              9.24
(0.00)            (0.13)           (3.71)_           (0.00)            (3.84)
4. Service Contracts                   0.08               0.00             0.23              0.00              0.31
(0.08)            (0.00)           (0.23)            (0.00)            (0.31)
5. Incremental Operating               0.00               0.00             1.23              2.62              3.85
Costs                                 (0.00)            (0.00)            (1.23)            (0.00)            (1.23)
6. Refunding of PPF                    0.00              0.00              0.74              0.00              0.74
(0.00)            (0.00)           (0.74)            (0.00)            (0.74)
Total                               1.58              2.71              9.85             10.90             25.04
l______________________               (1.58)            (2.71)            (9.85)            (0.00)           (14.14)
/ ICB = Intemational Competitive Bidding
NCB = Nabonal Competitive Bidding
Other = Other methods of Procurement
NBF = Non-Bank Financed (including cofinancing by GTZ, CCCE)
/ Other Methods of Procurement including:
(a) shopping (national and international) for inputs and minor small works, small items of equipment
(b) limited international bidding for aeral photography, mapping and satellite images
(c) consultant services including studies and training.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component                  Ap raisal Estimate                 Actual/Latest Estimate
Bank        Govt.       CoF.        Bank         Govt.       CoF.      Bank   Govt.   CoF.
Planning and Mgt.              3.20        0.20         1.90       3.32         0.31        3.23      103.7   155.0   170.0
M&E                            1.20        0.20         1.60        1.17        0.11        1.90       97.5    55.0    118.7
Poaching Control               0.70        0.20                     1.12        0.20        0.00      160.0   100.0    0.0
Training                       0.80        0.00        0.90        0.89         0.00        0.77      111.2    0.0      85.6
Studies                        0.90                                0.00         0.00        0.00       0.0      0.0      0.0
Mgt. of Natural Forests        3.00        0.40                    3.18         0.26        0.00      106.0    65.0      0.0
Watershed Develop.             2.40        0.50        2.60        2.40         0.29        2.44      100.0    58.0    93.8
Land Tenure Ops.                           0.20         1.00       0.00         0.08        1.09       0.0     40.0    109.0
R&D                            1.30        0.40                    0.72         0.02        0.00       55.4     5.0      0.0
Wildlife Management            0.60        0.20                     1.34        0.20        0.00      223.3   100.0    0.0
TOTAL                      14.10        2.30        8.00        14.14        1.47        9.43      100.3    63.9    117.9
- 24 -



Annex 3: Economics Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable.
- 25 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Pret  ycle                              4pNo ofPersons and Seil                        Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economiss =MS-t.                    fimlem.entation    D0         o e 9pment
Month/Year        Count:    S'al                                        Progess               Objective
Identification/Preparation
07/88                         4     lAG, IFO, lID, INRM                          S                     S
04/90                         2    2 AG                                          S                     S
Appraisal/Negotiation
05/91                         6    2AE, IFO, IFA, IOT,                           S                     S
INRM
12/91
Supervision
05/92                         2     1 AE, I FO                                  HS                    HS
12/92                         1     1AE                                         HS                    HS
03/93                         2     1AE, IAG                                    HS                    HS
10/93                         3     IAE, lAG, IFO                               HS                    HS
04/94                         4     1AE, lAG, lFO, IRS                           S                     S
04/95                         3     INRM, lAG, IGS                               S                     S
01/96                         7    INRM, LOT, IFA, GTZ                           S                     S
10/96                         3    2AE, 1NRM                                     S                     S
03/97                         5    2 AE, I NRM, I EC, lAS                        S                     S
01/98                         6     IAE, lAS, IGS, IFA, 1NRM,                    S                     S
lop
01/99                         4     IAE, IAS, IFA, IDA                           S                     S
06/99                         3     IAE, IAS, IFA                                S                     S
ICR
08/99                         3     1AE, IFA, IRD                                S                     S
AG - agriculturalist, agronomist
AE - agricultural economist/economist
AS - agricultural services specialist
DA - disbursement assistant
EC - ecologist
FA - financial analyst
FO - forestry specialist
GS - geographical information specialist
GTZ - GTZ specialists
ID - institutional development specialist
NRM - natural resources management, ecologist
OP - operations officer
OT - other: watershed management, adaptive research, land dev. specialist, training specialist
RD - rural development specialist
RS - remote sensing specialist
-26 -



(b) Staff.
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             USS (00)
Identification/Preparation              77.7                       186.4
Appraisal/Negotiation                   32.8                        67.5
Supervision                            134.2                       348.1
ICR                                     10.6                        30.5
Total                                  255.3                       632.5
- 27 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
D Macro policies
OSector Policies                           OH  *SUOM  ON  ONA
O Physical                                 OH  OSUOM  ON  ONA
El Financial
? Institutional Development                O H  O SU O M  O N  O NA
O Environmental                            OH  OSUOM  ON  ONA
Social
IPoverty Reduction                  OH  OSU*M  ON  ONA
OGender                             OH OSUOM ON ONA
OI Other (Please specify)
OI Private sector development
O Public sector management
O Other (Please specify)
- 28 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformace                                   Rating
Z Lending                                             OHS OS OU OHU
Z Supervision                                         OHSOS   OU  OHU
Z Overall                                             OHS OS OU O HU
6.2 Borrower performace                              Rating
Z Preparation                                        OHS OS   O  U  O HU
I Government implementation performance               O HS OS   * U  0 HU
X Implementation agency performance                   O HS OS  O  U  0 HU
Z Overall                                             OHS OS OU 0 HU
- 29 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Basic documentation
1. Benin Republic: Evaluation report of Natural Resources Management Project (report No 9982-BEN),
February 1992.
2. Benin republic: Appraisal Report of Natural Resources Management Project (Report No.
P-9982-BEN)
3. Benin Republic: Evaluation report of Natural Resources Management Project (August 1992)
4. Environment and Natural Resources Management Project - five-year provisional action plan of the
natural Forests Lay-Out section (March 1990)
5. Evaluation report of the Agriculture Services Restructuring Project (April 1991)
6. Completion report of Forestry Development Project (BEN 1505/SF-24): government contribution draft.
7. Report of the first workshop of the Natural Resources Management Project (March 8 to 18, 1993),
April 1993
8. Natural Resources Management Project: half-way summary report for 1993-1995 (December 1995).
9. Notes of the half-way evaluation mission of the Natural Resources Management Project (March 1996).
10. Notes of various supervision and support missions of the natural resources management project.
11. Activities report for 1992-1998 of the Institutional support of the Natural Resources Management
project. (January 1999).
12. Natural Resources Management Project: general report for the pilot operation of the rural estate
planning (November 1998).
13. Natural Resources Management Project: summary of the activities reports of the Sloped Basins
Management section. (February 1999).
14. Activities report from September 1992 to December 1998 of the Forestry Management Section of the
Natural Resources Management Project (February 1999).
15. Natural Resources Management Project: final activities report of the Fauna and Rural Economic
Development (February 1999).
16. Natural Resources Management Project: activities' impact evaluation of the Sloped Basins
Management section (November 1998).
17. Actions' impact report of the Institutional Support section of the Natural Resources Management
Project (December 1998).
18. Natural Resources Management Project: final report of the activities evaluation mission of the Fauna
and Rural Economic Development section (December 1998).
19. Impacts studies of the Forestry Management section of Natural Resources Management Project on the
villages bordering classified forests of Tchaourou and Toui -Kilibo (January 1999).
20. Benin forestry policy: essential document (July 1994).
21. Suggestions for the active phase of the Natural Resources Management Project (February 1997).
22. Rural Sector round table: essential report (September 1995).
23. Elaboration and application of Benin forestry policy (February 1998).
24. Natural resources management basic principles: case of Benin Natural Resources Management Project
(June 1997).
25. Administrative and personnel management's consultation report of the Natural Resources Management
Project (March 1999).
26. Mission report for the functional relations of sections and sites of the Natural Resources Management
with state-controlled institutions and other structures of the regional professional group (October
1995).
27. Suggestions for the application of the national forestry policy in Benin Republic: Institutionalization of
the forestry policy (Annexe II of GTZ mission report), May 1995.
- 30 -



28. Feasibility study of the consolidation phase of Natural Resources Management Project (provisory
version), November 1998.
29. Notes on CFD and GTZ position on eventual pursuit of Natural Resources Management Project
interventions concerning territories and rural estate management (April 1997).
30. Dialogue and identification notes of Forests and Bordering Territories Management Program (March
1999).
31. Diverse presentation notes of the Natural Resources Management Project and its diverse activities on
different sites.
32. Rapport d'Achevement du projet de Gestion des Ressources Naturelles: Contribution du
Gouvernement du Benin (Credit IDA 2344-BEN) (juin 1999).
List of Studies
Date    Object                                                Amount          Observation
06/07/93    Installed a forestry policy concerning Benin forestry  1.040.250  Aitchedji Richard
resources management                                     (50 days)
06/07/93  Installed a forestry policy concerning Benin forestry  1.040.250    Degbey Vincent
resources management                                                   (50 days)
06/10/93  Put in place a forestry policy concerning forestry  7.315.000  +    Gerald Grosenick
revenues management                                  2.080.500    (Local Consultants)
08/09/93  Conducted statistical studies (*) on property registration  1.034.660 Albert Houngnon and Angele
disputes in view of the constitution of a commented                   Bio-Jacques
estate collection that will be published in a final report             (I month)
04/05/94  Prepared a strategy of conservation and management of    CFA            UICN
protected areas and a detailed action plan          85.956.200         (02 mois)
USD 156.284
06/10/94  Collected studies conducted in the Atlantic Department  750.000     Sodegla / Kpakpo
(15 days)
07/01/94  Conducted a study on the exploitation, carbonization  1.370.000     Bernatte Dossou
and commercialization of wood fire in the F.C of TTK
07/08/94  Elaborated and installed human resources management  4.950.000       Agbota Gerard
tools at CENATEL                                                       (66 days)
07/08/94  Established a management manual of forestry positions  5.847.000     Agbota Gerard
(62 days)
08/10/94  Collected physical and socio-economic data of the entire  6.700.000  Agbo Valentin
Ouake region and its pre-identified slope bassins, in                (04 months)
particular
10/03/94  Conducted sivicultural and commercial study of some  4,984.000      Houngnon Paul
forestry essences of edible fruits on the intervention                 (90 days)
sites of PGRN
12/21/94  Installed an accounting and finance management      2.900.000       Fudiciary Africa
package (Tompro)                                                       (01 week)
01/03/95  Elaborated a specialized documents collection system  1.770.000  Theodore Sossouhounto and
that correspond to the needs expressed by responsible of             Denis Agbessi
different PGRN sections and who respect mission                       (3 months)
profiles and PGRN's objectives
02/15/95  Studied the possibility of forestry sector restructuring, to  1.080.000  Otchoun Barth
better distribute tasks and functions among the actors of              (20 days)
the mentioned sector
02/23/95  Conducted morpho-pedologic studies of slope basins   7.265.000          Cenap
constituting Dekanmey site                                            (6 months)
- 31 -



03/20/95  Conducted a socio-economic study, preliminary to    2.011.000       Gauthier Biaou
property operations in Koukona, Koumagou B.,                          (49 days)
Kouwonatongou, Koucointiegou and Takonanta
(Boukombe site)
03/27/95  Conducted a study of transhumance management and    2.255.000          Geram
settlers' agricultural soils in sloped basins of Beffa                (60 days)
(Ouesse)
05/02/95  Supported the BOPA-SCETAGRI team in the             4.033.000     Charles Koukponou
framework of the study on the retructuring and                        (31 days)
reorientation of the rural promotion center of Savalou
for its auto-financing in the short run
05/23/95  Conducted a study of the opportunities for innovation  2.400.000  Angele Bio Jacques
and improvement regarding generating activities                       (45 days)
profiting women on the sloped basins of PGRN
05/24/95  Conducted a study the restructuring and the        15.795.200      Bopa - Scetagri
reorientation of the Rural Promotion Center of Savalou                (44 days)
for its auto-financing in the short run
07/13/95  Conducted a study pertaining to the elaboration of a  1.936.000    Etienne Domingo
schema for the planning of the sloped basins of Lomon                 (40 days)
and lanhoum
07/13/95  Conducted a study pertaining to the elaboration of a  1.936.000    A. H. Azontonde
schema for the planning of the sloped basins of Lomon                 (40 days)
and lanhoum
07/17/95  Conducted a study pertaining to the elaboration of a  2.736.000     J. Laurent Oke
schema for the planning of the sloped basins of Lomon                 (50 days)
and lanhoum
08/16/95  Evaluated pertinent experiences concerning the      3.290.000      Paul Kindohoue
protection and improvement of natural resources by                    (108 days)
diverse actors of the Alpha Ouake and Boutomb6 sites
as well as on recommendations
08/31/95  * promotion and constraints for the "participative"  2.049.600       Bruce Sinsin
management of hunting zones of Pendjari and Djona                     (28 days)
08/31/95  Conducted a study on the advancement of forestry    2.975.500       Barth Otchoun
design and of the institutional support of forests and                (35 days)
natural resources                            ____        _
08/31/95  Evaluated the functional relationships of the parts and  3.488.000  Laurent Worou
sites of PGRN and which state-controlled structures in                (40 days)
regional professional environment
09/15/95  Provided support of the writing of an auto-evaluation  2.550.000    T.K.B. Atihou
report of PGRN's financial management                                 (35 days)
08/22/95  Conducted a study on the customary property regime in  1.945.750  Placide Prodjinonto
the Borgou department                                                 (45 days)
10/11/95  Evaluated PGRN's sections and their respective sites  3.850.000    Edouard Zougan
(45 days)
07/17/96  Conducted eco-ethological study of the elephants of  2.115.000      Aristide Tehou
Alfakoara's site                                                     (9 months)
04/26/96  Conducted morphopedological study of the sloped     5.537.000          Cenap
basins constituting Ouake' site                                       (6 months)
04/02/96  Conducted fauna count in the hunting zone of Djona  5.613.750    Guedegbe Bonaventure
(park W)                                                              (20 days)
04/03/96  Conducted strategic programming and activities'     8.049.000       Alain Monfort
planning for faunal planning of buffer and hunting                    (30 days)
zones
- 32 -



04/03/96  Conducted a fauna count in the hunting zone of      6.559.110        Brice Sinsin
Pendjari                                                             (30 jours)
01/26/96  Studied fishing management in the classified forests of  6.603.250  H. Totah et A.F. D'almeida
superior Oueme and Wani Maro                                          (140 days)
08/27/96  Conducted research: development on the restructuring  4.035.000     Anne Floquet
of soil fertility with various options based on Gliricidia          (12 months)
sepium, senna (cassie) siamea, and other leguminous
atmospheric nitrogen fixative plants
04/11/96  Studied of the real estate regime in the Oueme      2.081.000       Gauthier Biaou
department                                                            (45 days)
11/07/96  Conducted ormtological study on Bitia, Alfakaora and  2.486.000    Jacques Adjakpa
04/19/96  Karimama sites and surrounding regions              3.730.000         (66 days)
08/05/97                                                      2.658.000
02/17/97  Study of the possibility of managing the low land of  2.923.000   Bienvenu Adeossi
Dekandji on Aplahoue site                                             (40 days)
02/18/97  Determined the state of concluding activities of the  3.658.500     Barth Otchoun
restructuring parts of the sloped basins and forestry lay             (45 days)
out of PGRN
02/18/97  Deternined causes and rernedies of half-completed   4.102.000       Alain Monfort
activities by the fauna and rural eco-development                     (15 days)
management team and the possibility of integrating
activities of the mentioned section into the other forestry
projects
03/14/97  Realized forestry inventory within the framework of the  5.205.000   Noel Fonton
classified forests management of Superior Oueme and                   (45 days)
N'dali
04/08/97  Socio-economic study of the classified forest of    6.820.000          Geram
Dogou-Ketou                                                           (35 days)
04/18/97  Conducted Fauna count in the Atacora hunting zone   5.750.000      Vincent Tchabi
(30 days)
08/26/97  Elaborated a local forestry species identification  6.063.000     Zenabou Yacoubou
catalogue of Borgou                                                   (4 months)
02/28/99  Conducted morpho-pedologic studies of slope basins  8.600.000          Cenap
constituting Boukombe site                                           (6 months)
-     PPut in place a global strategy of forestry policy of Benin  -     Edouard Zoungan
- 33 -



- 34 -



Annex 9
REPUBLIQUE DU BENIN
MISSION D'ACHEVEMENT DU PROJET DE GESTION DES
RESSOURCES NATURELLES (PGRN - Credit 2344-BEN)
du 20 septembre au 1 octobre 1999
AIDE-MEMOIRE
I. INTRODUCTION
1.   Une mission de 1'IDA comprenant Messieurs Nicolas Ahouissoussi (Economiste
Agricole et chef de Mission), Talib Esmail (Specialiste du Developpement Rural) et
Hugues Agossou (Analyste Financier) s'est d6roul6e du 20 septembre au ler octobre
1999 pour preparer le rapport d'achevement du Projet de Gestion des Ressources
Naturelles (PGRN) qui a ete cl6ture le 30 juin 1999. La mission a travaille avec l'equipe
du PGRN et la Direction des Forets et Ressources Naturelles ainsi que les structures du
Ministfre du Developpement Rural impliquees dans la mise en ceuvre du projet et plus
particulierement, les Centres d'Action Kegionale de Developpement Rural (CARDERs),
l'Institut National pour la Recherche Agricole du Benin (INRAB) et les beneficiaires
directs dudit projet. Les partenaires au developpement, cofinanciers du projet A savoir
l 'Agence Fran aise pour le DIveloppement (AFD) et la GTZ ont egalement participe aux
travaux de la mission.
A. Objectif et deroulement de la mission
2.   L'objectif principal de la mission etait de: (i) discuter aussi bien avec les
partenaires ayant mis en ceuvre le projet que les beneficiaires directs des impacts du
projet et les differentes lecons a tirer de cette exp6rience et, (ii) collecter les informations
necessaires pour la redaction du rapport d'achevement.
3.   La mission a dans le cadre de ses travaux, effectue des visites sur les differents sites
du projet dans tous les d6partements. La mission a aussi eu des seances de travail avec les
responsables des volets ainsi que les services techniques du MDR et a presente ses
principales conclusions aux responsables du MDR le 30 septembre 1999.
4.   Les membres de la mission expriment toute leur gratitude aux autorites du MDR, A
l'equipe du PGRN pour une bonne organisation de la mission, et aux communautes
locales beneficiaires pour leur collaboration franche et cordiale qui a permis le bon
deroulement et la reussite de la mission.
35



B. Rappel des principales caracteristiques du projet
5.   Le cout global du Projet de Gestion des ressources Naturelles avait et estime a
24,4 millions de dollars avec le financement de cinq (5) partenaires a savoir le
Gouvernement du Benin (9%)o), la Republique Federale d'Allemagne (21%), le
Programme des Nations Unies pour le Developpement (3%), I 'Agence Franqaise pour le
Developpement (9%), et l 'Association Internationale pour le Developpement (5 8%).
6.   Le credit 2344-BEN de l'IDA qui a finance le PGRN, d'un montant initial de 14,1
millions de dollars a et signe entre le Gouvemement du Benin et la Banque mondiale le
9 avril 1992 et entre en vigueur le 8 octobre 1992, soit six mois apres la date de signature
(retard essentiellement dfi aux delais de ratification de 1'Accord de Credit et la
satisfaction des conditions de mise en vigueur, notamment l'adoption d'un nouveau code
forestier).
7.   Le PGRN a et con,u A la fin de la periode du marxisme leninisme qui a caracterise
la gestion de l'economie du pays pendant pres de quinze ans. Ainsi, le Projet de
Restructuration des Services Agricoles (PRSA) et le PGRN avaient e  con,us pour servir
de base A la reorganisation du monde rural. En particulier, le PGRN devait tester des
approches participatives de gestion: (a) des terres des paysans a travers le volet
amenagement des bassins versants ; (b) les forets classees A travers le volet amenagement
des forets et; (c) les reserves de faune par le biais du volet gestion de la faune et
ecodeveloppement rural.
8.   Le montage du projet est maintenant totalement depasse au regard des nouvelles
approches actuelles de la Banque. En effet, le projet avait eu une cellule de coordination
qui etait completement deconnectee du reste de la Direction des Forets et Ressources
Naturelles (DFRN) qui est la tutelle du projet. Ceci avait amen6 la DFRN de ne pas se
sentir vraiment concemre par le projet et de ne pas etre en charge de son execution.
Cependant, ce montage a au moins permis au projet de repondre promptement et de tester
facilement et rapidement les nouvelles approches proposees.
9.   Objectifs du projet. Le projet vise essentiellement deux objectifs : (i) le
renforcement institutionnel y compris la revision, la promulgation et l'application des
textes 1egislatifs, l'elaboration des politiques, et le renforcement des capacites de
planification et de suivi; (ii) l'identification et la mise en muvre d'actions pilotes
capables de promouvoir l'utilisation durable des ressources agro-sylvo-pastorales et
contribuer a endiguer la degradation des ressources naturelles renouvelables. Les activites
prevues dans le cadre de ce projet constitueraient la premiere phase d'un programme a
long terme, et les exp6riences acquises seraient progressivement integrees dans les autres
programmes de developpement rural.
10. Composantes du projet. La poursuite des objectifs s'est faite a travers deux grands
types d'activites: (a) des activites de renforcement institutionnel d'une portde
nationaleet; (b) des activites specifiques A des sites pilotes de trois ordres: (i)
amenagement de trois forets class6es; (ii) la mise en valeur de bassins versants sur quatre
sites pilotes, incluant des operations foncieres et des activites de recherche-
36



d6veloppement et; (iii) la gestion de la faune sauvage sur deux sites pilotes, en bordure
des parcs nationaux et des zones cynegetiques.
11. Gestion du projet. Le montage retenu pour la mise en ceuvre du projet comprend:
(i) un Comite Interministe'riel de Suivi pour la coordination et la supervision du projet et
constitue de la plupart des minist&es et partenaires au developpement impliques dans le
secteur forestier et; (ii) une Unite de Gestion de Projet (UGP) comprenant aussi bien des
cadres agents permanents de l'Etat que de contractuels. L' UGP travaille sous la
supervision directe du Directeur des Forets et Ressources Naturelles.
II. APPRECIATION DES RESULTATS.
A. Realisation des objectifs.
12. Les objectifs immediats du projet ont et globalement atteints et les r6alisations
obtenues sont jugees satisfaisantes par l'emprunteur, les partenaires et les beneficiaires
directs.
13. Un bon taux de dcaissement. Bien que le taux de decaissement seul ne suffise pas
pour apprecier l'atteinte des objectifs d'un projet, il indique tout au moins la bonne
performance sur le plan quantitatif. Le taux de decaissement est de 98,16%. Cette
performance tranche nettement avec le faible taux de consommation de credit qui
caract6rise l'ensemble du portefeuille de l'IDA au B6nin. II est a remarquer que le taux
de decaissement est particulierement eleve au niveau de tous les autres cofinanciers en
l'occurrence le Gouvernement du Benin avec un taux de 145%'.
14.  Un d!but de changement au niveau du secteur forestier. Dans le domaine de
l'appui institutionnel, le renforcement du secteur a ete amorce par: (i) la mise a jour d'un
certain nombre de textes legislatifs (revision, adoption et vulgarisation de la loi portant
regime des forets en Republique du Benin; l'elaboration du projet de loi avec les decrets
d'application sur le regime de la faune); (ii) la clarification du r6le et la creation avec
autonomie du Centre National pour la Gestion des Reserves de Faune (CENAGREF);
(iii) l'elaboration d'une politique forestiere qui n'est cependant pas encore en
application; (iv) le renforcement des postes forestiers (16 postes forestiers construits sur
7 prevus); (v) les multiples formations donnees aux agents forestiers, aux partenaires
impliques dans l'approche et aux populations riveraines et ; (vi) la mise en place de
moyens materiels de travail.
15.  La loi portant regime des forets et son decret d'application devront permettre
l'integration effective des populations locales dans la gestion des ressources forestieres.
Cependant, en ce qui conceme la cogestion des ressources de la faune, afin de legaliser
les principes strategiques et corriger les insuffisances prejudiciables a ladite cogestion, il
s'avere necessaire que la loi sur la faune soit rapidement adoptee; le projet de loi vient
d'8tre d'ailleurs transmis a l'Assemblee Nationale. Par ailleurs, malgre l'elaboration
' Ce taux de decaissement a 6te calcule en rapportant le montant effectivement decaisse (790 millions de
francs CFA) au montant initialement prevu (580 millions de francs CFA). II est a remarquer qu'entre-
temps, le franc CFA a et devalue.
37



d'une politique forestiere, la r6organisation de l'administration forestiere n'est pas encore
effective par manque de consensus sur le devenir du cadre institutionnel du secteur
forestier. De ce fait un certain nombre de questions 6pineuses en l'occurrence la
privatisation de l'Office National du Bois (ONAB), restent a resoudre. Ceci s'explique en
partie par le fait que le Comite en charge de faire les propositions avait manque de vision
strategique globale du secteur forestier. Les dysfonctionnements persistant devront etre
corriges dans le cadre de I'audit du secteur forestier actuellement en cours de realisation.
16. Un regain de confiance de la part des populations riveraines. L'un des principaux
acquis du PGRN reside dans le d6but de collaboration entre les agents forestiers et les
populations riveraines. En effet, 1'experience menee au niveau de l'amenagement
forestier et la gestion de la faune a permis un changement positif dans le comportement
des deux partenaires. Desormais, les populations locales comprennent que la sauvegarde
des ressources des forets classees et des aires protegees n'incombe pas seulement aux
agents forestiers. Tout en sauvegardant lesdites ressources, elles peuvent mieux tirer de
revenus: il s'agit de la gestion durable des ressources.
17. Des actions de sensibilisation, d'information et d'education (SIE) sur la gestion
participative des forets ont ete entreprises dans trois types forets en fonction de leur taux
de degradation. Deux plans d'amenagement avec un programme d'activites soutenues ont
W  prepares et signes notamment dans les forets moyennement et peu degradees. Ces
actions de SIE continuent dans la foret la plus degradee. Les activites testees dans le
cadre de la mise en ceuvre du premier plan elabore ont permis de reorienter la preparation
du second plan qui vient d'etre d'ailleurs signd.
18.  Une contribution socio-6conomique appr6ciable. Les interventions dans le cadre
de la mise en ouvre du plan d'amenagement ont permis de satisfaire de fa,on notable les
besoins vitaux des populations riveraines tout en assurant la perennite des ressources
naturelles. En effet, plus de 1200 emplois permanents ou saisonniers avec une trentaine
d'entreprises agricoles ou prestataires de services ont ete crees avec une diversification
des sources de revenus. On note plus de dix (10) types d'activites generatrices de revenus
contre moins de cinq (5) avant l'intervention du proj et dans les zones du projet.
19. Un debut d'impact ecologique positif: Bien que l'impact ecologique ne soit pas
encore mesurable, il a commence par etre perceptible dans toutes les forets oiu le projet
est intervenu. En effet, avec les nombreux groupements de pepinieristes formes et
installes, plus de 8400 ha ont et enrichis avec environ 900,000 plants dans les trois forets
pilotes du projet. I1 a ete fait remarquer la reconstitution de la faune dans les forets
couvertes. Ce retour de la faune est principalement dfu a la diminution sensible des feux
de brousse et du braconnage. La reconstitution de la biodiversite dans les parcs et les
zones cyneg6tiques a commence par etre perceptible.
20. Des acquis dans le domaine d'amntnagement des bassins versants. En ce qui
conceme le volet amenagement des bassins versants, on note des acquis techniques
interessants (billonnage en courbe de niveau, amenagement de foret galerie et de bas-
fonds, lutte anti-erosive dans les villages, protection des berges, foyers ameliores,
reboisement, apiculture, etc.) avec la prise de conscience de l'importance de l'implication
croissante des populations dans la gestion de leurs terroirs. Ces techniques semblent
38



suffisamment appropriables pour qu'elles puissent se diffuser sans accompagnement
important. C'est ainsi que plus de 12,000 ha appartenant aux populations locales ont e
amenages sur l'ensemble des sites pilotes du projet avec la mise en place d'une centaine
d'organisations villageoises ou supra-villageoises dans le but de disposer d'organe
representatif, destine a recenser les demandes d'amenagement emanant des villageois, a
les examiner et A mettre en meuvre les operations retenues. 11 est A noter que certains de
ces amenagements portent sur de vastes etendues contigues indiquant une adoption
collective des nouvelles pratiques par l'ensemble des populations concemres. Des
infrastructures, notamment des citernes pour le captage des eaux de pluie ont e  aussi
mises en place et permettent d' assurer la disponibilite et la bonne qualite de 1' eau dans
certains sites du projet.
21. Une demarche innovante sur le PFR. Sur le plan foncier rural (PFR), Ia demarche
adoptee par le PGRN repose sur une clarification des pratiques foncieres actuelles et sur
la materialisation dans le cadre de PFR des usages fonciers principaux. Cette d6marche
suppose une participation active des populations concernees. Par rapport a d'autres
experiences dans la sous-region, le PGRN a innove en essayant de favoriser les synergies
avec la gestion des ressources naturelles et en cherchant A regler les conflits fonciers
urgents. Au total 23 villages ont ete touches avec 7 PFR etablis et 5 comites villageois de
gestion du PFR installes. Certains sites ont pu atteindre la phase de publicite qui permnet
de faire emerger les eventuelles contestations sur les droits identifies et de les infirmer ou
confirmer. Il est A faire remarquer qu'avant la fin du projet, aucun des villages n'est alle
jusqu'au bout de la demarche, c'est-A-dire l'6laboration et gestion des documents finaux.
22. Une bonne gestion du projet. Le montage institutionnel du projet bas6 sur une
unite de gestion autonome sous la supervision du Directeur des Forets et Ressources
naturelles, s'est revele satisfaisant. Bien qu'il y ait deux categories de staff, a savoir le
personnel contractuel pay6 par le Projet (volet sur financement de la GTZ) et les agents
permanents de l'Etat dont les salaires sont payes par la Fonction Publique beninoise,
l'quipe dirigeante du Projet a su mener A bien son execution malgre quelques
frustrations relatives A 1'ecart sur les salaires.
B. Points de faiblesse dans la realisation des objectifs.
23. La non fonctionnalite du systeme de suivi et planification. Une faiblesse
fondamentale dans la mise en ceuvre du PGRN est la non fonctionnalite du systeme de
suivi et planification au sein de la DFRN. L'importance de cet outil n'est plus A demonter.
Malheureusement, bien que ce systeme soit mis en place, il n'a pu effectivement
fonctionner avant la cl6ture du proj et. En effet, les bases conceptuelles du systeme existent
mais les outils ne sont pas operationnalises, faute de donnees sur le suivi environnemental,
de procedures intemes de collecte et de remontee d'informations, et surtout par manque
d'une appropriation reelle des outils par les cadres doublee de manque de moyens
materiels. Toutefois, il est A noter que le systeme de suivi et d'evaluation mis en place au
sein du projet meme a assez bien fonctionn6 A tel enseigne que le projet dispose
aujourd'hui de donnees de base exploitable pour les actions futures.
24.   Gestion comptable et financiere du projet. Dune maniere generale, la gestion
comptable et financiere du projet s'est deroulee de maniere satisfaisante. Les differents
39



rapports d'audit ont e  recus dans les delais et l'examen desdits rapports par les services
competents de la Banque ces trois demi&eres annees, n'a revel de faits significatifs mettant
en cause la bonne gestion comptable et financiere du projet. Toutefois, lors des differentes
supervisions, il a et deplore la centralisation excessive des taches comptables
elementaires au niveau du chef comptable malgre la disponibilite d'un nombre suffisant de
comptables, et l'incompatibilite de certaines fonctions. Cette situation qui rend difficile la
production d'etats financiers intermediaires entraine un retard dans l'elaboration des
comptes et une mauvaise gestion du personnel comptable. Dans ces conditions, la
comptabilite en tant qu'outil de gestion et de decision a perdu son interet majeur. I1 est
donc important de tirer lecon de cette faiblesse pour faire face aux nouveaux defis de
gestion lies au nouveau contexte ofi les projets seront astreints a produire des etats
financiers trimestriels.
25. Retard dans le paiement desfonds de contrepartie. Le retard dans la mobilisation
des fonds de contrepartie a quelque peu ete prejudiciable a la bonne mise en euvre du
projet.
26. Une faible contribution de la recherche-developpement (R-D). Dans l'execution
du PGRN, /'Institut National des Recherches Agricoles du Benin devait conduire des
activites/essais de R-D pour apporter des solutions techniques directement utilisables
dans les sites du volet am6nagement des bassins versants. Etant donne que les activites de
ce volet ont demarre au meme moment que celles de la R-D, les deux equipes avaient
mend pratiquement les memes activites/essais qui etaient des solutions techniques d6ja
connues. Pendant plus de trois ans de collaboration, la R-D ne pouvait en consequence
rien apporter au projet. Ce n'est que par la suite que la situation a ete quelque peu
corrigee et desormais le PGRN signe avec la R-D des contrats de service avec des termes
de reference bien precis. C'est ainsi que des resultats de quelques exp6rimentations sont
actuellement disponibles et pourront etre utilises dans un projet futur.
27.  Unefaible collaboration avec les CARDERs. Les Centres d 'Action Regionale pour
le Developpement Rural sont des partenaires privilegies du Projet et devraient pouvoir
assurer la releve du PGRN en vulgarisant les technologies apprises. Malheureusement,
dans beaucoup de cas cette collaboration n'a pas ete fructueuse parce que les CARDER
avaient souvent des progranmmes de travail annuels qui ne prenaient pas en compte les
preoccupations du PGRN; le manque de motivation de la part du PGRN pour les agents
des CARDERs a et aussi souvent evoque comme raison de ce manque de collaboration.
I1 est aussi a noter que sur au moins un site oui les activites du PGRN ont ete en parfaite
harmonie avec celles du CARDER, la collaboration a e  possible et fructueuse. Malgre
ce manque de collaboration qui a marque les premieres annees d'execution du projet,
beaucoup d'efforts ont e deployes vers la fin du projet a tel enseigne que les services de
vulgarisation ont commence par utiliser les technologies testees par le PGRN. C'est ainsi
que les travaux de conservation des sols sur de larges domaines ont ete rendus possibles a
cause de la collaboration entre le PGRN et le PRSA.
28. Des acquis fragiles au niveau du CENATEL. A travers le volet renforcement
institutionnel, le Centre National de Thlhdetection a et financierement et materiellement
soutenu par le PGRN. C'est ainsi que plusieurs acquis interessants sont a son actif
notamment, un equipement perfornant, des investissements importants en formation, une
40



autonomie financiere facilitant sa gestion. Le CENATEL avait pour mandat l'elaboration
de la carte de vegetation, le suivi environnemental, et la mise A jour des informnations
disponibles sur les ressources naturelles et l'environnement. Malgre tous les moyens dont
il a beneficies aupres du projet, la carte de vegetation n'est toujours pas disponible dans
son integralit6, le suivi environnemental n'en est qu'au stade de la definition des
indicateurs. La qualite de ses prestations aussi a fait l'objet de plusieurs critiques
notamment, le retard dans les livraisons et leurs cofits eleves. Par ailleurs, le CENATEL
n'a pu sortir et s'imposer sur le marche deja trop restreint. I1 a connu d'enormes
problemes quant A l'organisation du travail et A la gestion de ses ressources humaines. Sa
situation devra etre serieusement revue quant a sa mission et son envergure dans le cadre
de l'audit institutionnel du secteur forestier en cours.
29. Le probleme des AGR et AGRN. Le fait que sur certains sites du volet
amenagement des bassins versants, les activites generatrices de revenus (AGR) n'aient
pas ete coupkes avec celles de gestion des ressources naturelles (GRN) a quelque peu
demotive les populations locales. En effet, bien que l'objectif premier du PGRN ne soit
pas le developpement des AGR, les populations locales sont surtout interessees a ces
activites leur procurant de revenus A court terme. La complementarite entre le PGRN et
d'autres projets de promotion d'AGR auraient pu corriger cette insuffisance.
30. Un faible transfert de competence des ONG. Dans la mise en auvre du PGRN,
deux ONG nationale et internationale ont ete utilisees. Tout en reconnaissant le travail
accompli par ces ONG, on a note un faible transfert de competences de leur part vers les
equipes de terrain et surtout les populations locales qui continuent toujours de reclamer
leur assistance technique parce qu'elles se sentent incapables de se prendre en charge.
31. La fragiliti des structures mises en place. Les structures d'organisation
villageoises mises en place sont encore tres fragiles et certaines entreprises cre6es
eprouvent de difficultes tant d'ordre technique, organisationnel financier que sur le plan
de l'evolution des comportements. Ceci est prejudiciable A une bonne mise en couvre des
plans d'amenagement.
III. PERENNISATION DES ACQUIS DU PROJET.
A. Mesures pour perenniser les acquis.
32. D'une maniere globale, on peut affirmer que le PGRN a et6 effectivement un projet
pilote au cours duquel des actions tests ont e  menees avec une assurance de leur
r6plicabilite. En effet, comme convenu A l'origine du projet, les differents volets ont pu
trouver une suite pour leur continuite au moins pour les quelques prochaines annees.
C'est ainsi que le volet amenagement des bassins versants a ete repris par la GTZ et
l'AFD pour une phase de consolidation a travers un projet de gestion des terroirs et
ressources naturelles ; le volet de gestion de la faune et de l'ecodeveloppement repris
dans un programme plus elargi de conservation et gestion de la faune avec la creation du
Centre National de Gestion des Reserves de Faune (CENAGREF) avec le financement de
la GTZ, la KJW, I'Union Europeene, I'AFD, les Pays-Bas et le GEF ; les volets
amrnagement forestier et appui institutionnel seront developpes dans un programme de
gestion des forets et terroirs riverains avec le financement de la Banque mondiale. Par
41



ailleurs la mise en execution du PGRN et le projet de plantation de bois de feu a donne
naissance au projet de d'amenagement de trois massifs forestiers avec le financement
conjoint de la Banque Africaine de Developpement (BAD) et la Banque Arabe de
Developpement Economique pour l'Afrique (BADEA). Toutefois, afin de perenniser les
acquis de la phase pilote, il conviendrait de corriger les faiblesses relev6es et prendre
certaines mesures necessaires.
33.  La nicessaire revision d'un certain nombre de textes. Afin de ne pas penaliser les
forets sous amenagement au profit des exploitants libres qui operent en dehors de ces
forets sans contrainte et contr6le, il convient de reviser les textes relatifs aux fiscalites
liees A l'exploitation forestiere. Une taxation differentielle qui favoriserait par exemple la
comnmercialisation du bois de plantation ou de foret naturelle sous amenagement et qui
p6naliserait les prelevements anarchiques sur les terroirs libres est recommandable. Dans
le domaine des aires protegees, pour une mise en ceuvre effective de la cogestion, les
textes sur la faune doivent etre rapidement actualises. Enfin dans le domaine du foncier, il
est necessaire de prevoir des a present l'instrument juridique devant pernettre la
validation des plans fonciers ruraux en preparation.
34. La nicessaire poursuite des actions de sensibilisation. L'approche participative
developpee au niveau des forets et des aires protegees au cours de cette phase pilote etant
une approche nouvelle, il convient de poursuivre les actions de formation, de
sensibilisation et d' education tant au niveau des populations riveraines que des agents
forestiers. II convient donc de pouvoir mettre en iuvre le projet de gestion des forets et
terroirs riverains et le programme de conservation et gestion des parcs nationaux qui
s'emploieront entre autre de poursuivre les activit6s d'IEC pendant encore un certain
temps.
35.  L'ilaboration d'un guide pour l'etablissement des plans d'amenagement. En
dehors du PGRN, divers projets forestiers ont conduit a 1'elaboration et I' adoption de
plans d'amenagement forestier. Tous ces plans ont utilise l'approche participative. Afin
de tirer lecons de toutes ces experiences et rechercher la synergie, il conviendrait de faire
le point et d'elaborer un guide devant servir de cadre de reference pour l'laboration des
plans d'amenagement.
36. Capitalisation des acquis au niveau du volet amenagement des bassins versants.
Afin de capitaliser ces acquis interessants, il est important de r6diger des fiches
techniques completes sur les acquis et de definir de strategies convaincantes de diffusion
plus large dans une optique de gestion de terroir et de developpement local. I1 est
n6cessaire de replacer les efforts de gestion des ressources naturelles et d'amenagement
dans le cadre d'une gestion de terroirs coherente grace A l'elaboration de plans
d'amenagement villageois et intervillageois s'articulant avec les schemas directeurs des
communes, et de lier dans la mesure du possible les efforts d'elaboration de plan
d'amenagement et de plans fonciers ruraux.
37. En matiere de PFR. Afin de sauvegarder les acquis, il conviendrait: (i) d'achever
l'experimentation en cours au niveau des villages pilotes pour faire valider l'ensemble
des techniques y afferentes; (ii) evaluer les cofits de realisation et de maintenance des
PFR afin de preparer son systeme de financement; (iii) de definir les modalites de
42



realisation future et de maintenance, c'est-a-dire la validation institutionnelle. Enfin, il est
necessaire d'avoir une strategie d'extension
B. Risques et difficultes de perennisation.
38. Les principaux risques pouvant limiter la portee des mesures de perennisation
peuvent se resumer comme suit:
(a) la non mise en ceuvre effective d'un ou des projets en cours de preparation serait tres
prejudiciable 'a la durabilit6 des acquis du projet. En effet, la gestion des ressources
naturelles etant une ceuvre de longue haleine, la poursuite des actions entreprises est
indispensable au moins sur une certaine periode;
(b) le manque de definition d'une strategie d'extension du PFR est un risque majeur qui
limiterait les resultats du PFR. Une phase de consolidation consistant A travailler
encore uniquement sur les memes sites ne suffirait pour garantir la durabilite des
acquis;
(c) les lenteurs tant au niveau de l'administration que de l'Assemblee Nationale pour
l'elaboration, la soumission et le vote des lois devant r6gir la gestion de la faune, les
fiscalites et autres textes necessaires relatives A la gestion participative retarderaient la
mise en oeuvre des actions prevues et decourageraient les populations riveraines;
(d) la non mise en application effective des resolutions et recommandations de la
reorganisation  de  l'administration  forestiere  qui seraient issues  de  l'audit
institutionnel en cours porterait une atteinte serieuse a la poursuite de l'approche
participative initiee dans le cadre de ce projet.
IV. LES LEQONS A RETENIR DE CETTE EXPERIENCE PILOTE.
39. L'approche participative a ete un succis. Dans le domaine de l'approche
participative qui a ete testde, les lecons importantes A tirer de cette phase pilote sont que
(a) l'approche participative de gestion des forets est bien faisable; (b) amener le niveau
de prise de decision dans la gestion des plans d'amenagement au niveau des populations
locales apres 1' approbation du Gouvernement est instrumental pour donner le pouvoir aux
populations locales; (c) le ddveloppement des institutions locales incluant les
organisations de gestion et le support pour la creation des entreprises d'exploitation est
essentiel et; (d) I'assistance technique A long terme et A moindre cofit telle que celle de
CLUSA est faisable et essentielle pour soutenir, developper et reussir cette approche.
40. Conditions de reussite de l'approche participative. La rdussite de l'approche
participative est conditionnee par l'adhdsion reelle des communautds A la gestion durable
et participative des ressources naturelles. Cependant, cette adhesion parait encore trop
fragile, sous l'influence de plusieurs facteurs que sont: (a) l'implication parfois limit6e
de certains acteurs, notarnment les autorites traditionnelles, dans I'elaboration du plan
d'amenagement ou du plan de gestion des terroirs; (b) une ldgitimite insuffisante des
structures mises en place, en partie parce que ces structures ont souvent ete creees pour le
besoin du PGRN sans assise sur les mdcanismes rdels de pouvoir au sein des
communautds; (c) une adhdsion sous-tendue par une strategie de captage d'une rente
exterieure, amenant A une adhesion de fa9ade aux objectifs du projet; (d) une difficulte
43



de repondre aux attentes prioritaires des communautes rurales en termes d'education, de
sante ou d'infrastructures.
41.  Mesures d'accompagnement dans la realisation des infrastructures. I1 a e
constate que la plupart des citernes construites pour le captage des eaux de pluie sont en
bon etat de fonctionnalite au niveau de certains villages en l'occurrence les villages sous
financement IDA, tandis que c'est exactement le contraire dans d'autres villages oui la
quasi-totalite sont non operationnelle et pire certaines citemes n'ont jamais retenu une
goutte d'eau depuis leur construction. Cette difference fondamentale s'explique par le
manque de suivi technique et un montage technique faible a l'origine dans le second cas.
Au niveau des villages sous financement IDA toutes les dispositions necessaires avaient
ete prises tandis qu'au niveau des autres bailleurs afin de minimiser les couits de
realisation aucune mesure n'avait ete prise afin de garantir la bonne realisation desdites
infrastructures. La le9on a tirer est que pour eviter de fabriquer des infrastructures
pratiquement inutilisables au niveau des villages il est absolument indispensable de
s'assurer d'un bon montage technique et de commettre une entreprise independante pour
assurer le suivi technique ou tout au moins faire assurer ce suivi par l'equipe du projet
surtout pour les infrastructures d'une certaine envergure.
42. Activitesfinancables sur un projet de type PGRN. Les activites qui peuvent etre
financees sur le PGRN avaient fait l'objet de controverse au sein des partenaires au
developpement cofinanciers du projet, notamment dans le cadre de la composante
amenagement des bassins versants pour ce qui concerne les activites generatrices de
revenus et les infrastructures de base necessaires aux communautes impliquees dans la
mise en ceuvre du projet. L'experience du PGRN a demontre qu'il est necessaire
d'associer des activites generatrices de revenus aux activites pures de gestion des
ressources naturelles, parce que les diagnostics participatifs montrent bien que les
populations aient d'autres pr6occupations plus prioritaires (de leur point de vue) que la
gestion des ressources naturelles. Afin de s'assurer de la pleine adhesion de ces
populations rurales, leurs preoccupations doivent etre prises en compte dans les objectifs
du projet. Au cas oui les fonds du projet seraient vraiment limites pour servir de
complement aux contributions des populations, le projet de GRN devrait rechercher ce
complement aupres d'autres projets qui s'occupent prioritairement des AGR: c'est la
synergie entre les projets. En ce qui concerne les infrastructures de base qui s'ecartent de
la gestion des ressources naturelles telle que la construction d'un centre de sant6, d'une
ecole, etc., la logique de tenir compte des pr6occupations des villageois s'applique, sauf
que ces infrastructures cofutent plus cher et ne sont pas tout a fait compatibles avec un
projet de GRN, et il n'est donc pas recommandable de financer ces infrastructures a partir
des fonds du projet de GRN, autrement on s'6carterait trop des objectifs reels du projet.
Toutefois, la synergie avec d'autres projets d'infrastructures pourrait etre recommand6e
aux populations concernees. S'agissant enfin des travaux collectifs ou des activites d'une
seule famille, il est recommandable que seuls les travaux ou activites collectifs soient
finances, d'autant plus qu'il s'agit d'un projet communautaire.
43. Plan de transfert de compdtences. A la cloture du projet on a l'impression que les
deux ONG qui ont encadre les populations, CLUSA et GERAM, ont travaiIle dans
l'optique de se rendre infiniment indispensables. Le manque de definition d'un plan de
transfert de competences a l'origine explique cette situation. I1 conviendrait desormais
44



d'integrer un plan de transfert dans les termes de reference ou contrats des ONG et de
mettre en place un mecanisme de transfert progressif des competences et des activites aux
structures perennes et aux populations pour en assurer la durabilite.
44. Utilisation du personnel contractuel dans les projets. Avec le gel du recrutement
dans la fonction publique, et pour des raisons d'efficacite, bon nombre de projets utilisent
de plus en plus du personnel contractuel pour leur mise en aeuvre. Bien que jusqu'a
present il n'y ait pas eu un bilan exhaustif comparatif de cette approche, force est de
constater qu'elle a eu des resultats positifs par rapport A la situation d'avant ou seuls les
fonctionnaires de I'Etat executaient les projets. L'experience du PGRN confirme ces
resultats positifs. Cependant, il est A remarquer qu'il est tres difficile de mobiliser le
personnel contractuel ayant occupe des postes cles A la fin des projets. A l'heure du bilan,
seul le personnel permanent de la DFRN a pu aider a obtenir les informations. Avec leur
statut prive, le personnel contractuel ayant cofite cher est tres mobile et ne saurait assurer
la continuite du projet. L'utilisation du personnel contractuel doit donc viser avant tout la
poursuite du renforcement des institutions de 1'etat.
45. Le suivi comptable et financier par les organisations des communautes. Bien que
I'experience ne soit pas encore elargie A tous les groupements dans les communautes, un
des acquis essentiels du PGRN est la volonte des communautes de s'organiser pour un
meilleur suivi de la gestion des ressources financieres generees par les activites ou
mobilis6es A titre de subvention. Si dans la plupart des cas, la tenue des documents de
gestion et le contr6le de la gestion des ressources financieres sont realises avec
l'assistance des techniciens du projet, dans d'autres cas, les communautes ont mis sur
pieds leurs propres structures de contr6le.
46. Diffeirence de salaire au niveau des personnels contractuel et permanent. La trop
grande difference de salaires au niveau des deux types de personnel a cree beaucoup de
frustrations dans la mise en cuvre du projet. I1 s'agit malheureusement d'un probleme
generique dans tous les projets finances par les bailleurs de fonds etrangers. II convient
de corriger ce probleme et surtout s'assurer que des partenaires au d6veloppement
cofinances d'un meme projet ou une meme famille de projet ne paient pas de differents
salaires pour le meme travail. I1 est indique qu'une grille de salaires soit elaboree et
discut6e au depart.
45



Point des RWalisations Physiques du Volet Amenagement des Bassins Versants (VABV)
APLAHOUE (1993*)   BOUKOUMBE (1994*)    DEKANME (1994*)                         OUAKE (1995*)            OUESSE (1993*)
ACTIONS
Suiperficie   Nombre de   Superficie   Nombre de  Superficie   Nombre de   Superficie   Nombre de   Superficie   Nombre de
Villages/be              Villages/be               Villages/be               Villages/be                Villages/be
neficiaires               neficiaires               neficiaires               neficiaires               neficiaires
Amenagement   de   sous-bassins
versants / billonnage en courbe de  37 ha       4 villages    608 ha                                                                       3047 ha      1.489
niveau                                                                                                                                                  beneficiaire
S
Traitement de  ravines dans  les  39            13 villages         _                               8 villages                3 villages    59          12 villages
agglomerations
Reboisement:
- plants forestiers               115 ha      23.383  be.  37 ha                     105 ha       12 villages   77 ha                    1.005 ha    170 ind. +
- plants fruitiers               54 ha        133.953 be.                                                                                100.500      5 grpts
- palmiers selectionnes          61 ha        6.862 be..                                                                                 plants
1.644 ha
CN      Amenagement        de     reliques  78 ha       2 villages                                                                                  -
forestieres
Amenagement galerie forestiere                                                                                                             83 ha        357 ruches
______________________________   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                       123  ben.~~~12 3     b dn
Amrnagement bas-fonds                                                                                                                       14 ha       80 ben.
Brigades de lutte contre les feux de  II        II villages   I           I village                              4                         22
brousse
Greniers amrlior6s                  19    _
Foyers ameliores                                                                                                                           28           4 grpts de
femmes
Restauration de la fertilite des sols           1.248        8 ha                      6 ha                                                5 ha         5 ben.
___s_agit_de_I_anu_e_de_mise_en_ _plac _de1__ benef. _plrdsipiar  sur_chaque_site.
* 11 s'agit de l'annee de mise en place de l'equipe pluridisciplinaire sur chaque site.



Bilan des Realisations du VABV (1994 - 1998) (Suite)
APLAHOUE (1993*)    BOUKOUMBE (1994*)    DEKANME (1994*)                       OUAKE (1995*)             OUESSE (1993*)
Superficie    Nombre de    Suiperficie   Nombre de   Superficie   Nombre de   Superficie   Nombre de   Superficie   Nombre de
vilJages/benef             villages/be              villages/be               villages/be               villages/be
iciaires                 neficiaires              neficiaires               neficiaires               neficiaires
Restauration de la fertilite des sols    8 ha  I village                                                                      -            550 sacs    15 ben.
avec defections animales
Pepinieres villageoises privees    8           7 villages     3            3 grpts      3           3 villages    4           4 villages    10          20 villages
Pdrim6tres maralchers                                          I           I grpt de  I             I grpt de                              5            5 grpts de
femmes                   femmes                                              femmes
Elevage (porcs, pondeuses, ovins,    12        12 villages    4           4 villages    3           3 grpts                                17 atel.     17 ben.
caprins)
Appui a la Gestion de magasin de
pesticide                                                                                                                                  I            I village
Culture attelee pour exploitation                             4            4                                                               8 exploitat  8    agric.
agro-sylvo-pastorale                                                       agriculteurs                                                                 modernes
Atelier de transformation de manioc  2         2 grpts.                                                                                     I           I  grt.  de
de femmes                                                                                               femmes
<    Apiculture (nombre de ruches        23          23 paysans                                                                                  390          125 ben.
installees)
Retenue d'eau                                                 2            3  villages                            I           I village et
et riverains                                       riverains
Foncage puits a grand diametre         -             -        2           2 villages        -                                               10          7 villages
Captage des eaux de toiture        18          8 villages                               9           5 villages
(citerne)
Construction de pont               -           -                                                    I   village                            3            3  villages
riverain                                           et riverains
Refection de piste                 9,3 km      3 villages et                                                      1,5 km      usagers      7 km         usagers
riverains
Protection tete de source          I           4 villages



Point des Realisations Physiques du Volet Amenagement Forestier (VAF)
LOCALISATION           SIEGE DU VAF  Foret Classee       Foret Class&e    Forkt Classee     Foret Class&e     TOTAL               OBSREVATIONS
NATURE                                  Toui Tchaorou    Oueme            Dogo Ketou        Oueme Bokou       VAF
REALISATIONS                            Kilibo           Superieur
N'dali
Construction           1                4                6                3                 1                  15
bureau/poste forestier
Construction siege chef                 I                I + cloture      I                                   3
site
Refection vieux        1                4                2               -                  -                 7
batiments
Pepinieres creees par                   5                6               3                  3                 17
villageois
Plants produits                         483 220          339 895         70 000                               893 115
Superficie forets                       3 710            3 630           447             -                    7 999
naturelle enrichie                      + 212 Rh6nier
Plan d'Amdnagement                      I                I                                                    2/3
forestier participatif
signe
Structures villageoises                 27 CVGF          I BE /AVIGEF  3 Comites de         -
de gestion de la foret                  4 CGUA           6 BS/AVIGEF   gestion de la foret
I CCUA       __________
Entreprises villageoises                33               1               Non encore
+ des informels  organisees
Inventaire forestier                    I                I                                                    2/3
Constitution de fonds                   + de 17 M       + de 9 MO
de gestion de la foret
Villageois alphabetises                 337
Membres de structures                   207 dont 50
villageoises formes                     femmes
Formateurs villageois                   143 dont 33
des entrepreneurs                       femmes
formes                                                                        _



LOCALISATION          SIEGE DU VAF  Fordt Classee       Foret Classee    Fordt Classee   Foret Classee     TOTAL              OBSREVATIONS
NATURE                                 Toui Tchaorou   Ouem6           Dogo Ketou        Oueme Bokou       VAF
REALISATIONS                           Kilibo           Superieur
N'dali
Nombre de facilitateurs                                 391 dont 100    187 dont 15
villageois fonnes                                       femmes         femmes
Ateliers et AG de                                       16 ateliers et
reflexions villageoises                                 261 AG
realisees
Formation des agents et 20             18              22              10                7                 77                 Formation en gestion
cadres forestiers                                                                                                             participative des forWts
naturelles
Production de support                  I pamphlet et un  I pamphlet
pedagogique                            documentaire sur
la gestion de la
. _______________   foret



Point des Realisations Physiques du Volet Gestion de la Faune et Ecod6veloppement Rural
.nfficiaires                                               observations
Description des activites
Site d'Alfakoara                                Site (le Baltiu
Sensibilisation                            87                                            40
Diagnostic rapide                      12 VILLAGES                                   09 VILLAGES
Mise en place des AVIGREF                        22                                             19
Gestion de la viande de chasse           .                                 22, 38 T  de viande ont ete distribuees aux
populations
Surveillance des aires   Les membres des AVIGREF participent a la Les membres des AVIGREF participent A la
protegees           surveillance des aires protegees             surveillance des aires protegees
Service de guides touristiques                                            Vingt (20) guides touristiques conduisent dans les
et de delivreurs de tickets                                             Parcs, 5 jeunes descolarises delivrent les tickets A
1'entree des Parcs, 02 aides taxidermistes aident au
preconditionnement des trophees.



Point des Realisations Physiques du Volet Gestion de la Faune et Ecodeveloppenment Rural
Bkn6ficiaircs
Description des activitks                                                                                                    observations
Site d'AIfaikoaria                             Site tie Batia
Service d'auxiliaires                                               Formation de 30 pisteurs
Construction                                                     Construction de 02 bureaux logements A Batia et
au poste de contr6le d'Arly, d'une buvette
polyvalente A Batia, confection de 3 panneaux
publicitaires.
Denombrement de la faune   Denombrement de la faune sauvage dans la zone Denornbrement de la faune sauvage dans les zones
_                 sauvage            cyneg6tique de la Djona                     cynegetiques de la Pendjari et de I'Atacora
Etude sur les grandes   Suivi dcoethologique des elephants           Suivi des especes animales frequentant la source
mammiferes                                                       aux eilphants
Etude sur la faune aviaire    Etude sur la faune aviaire A Alfakoara  Etude sur la faune aviaire a Batia
Etude d'impact       Evaluation des impacts des activites du Volet sur Evaluation des impacts des activites du Volet sur
I'environnement naturel, economique et social 1'environnement naturel, economique et social des
des partenaires locaux                      partenaires locaux



Point des Realisations Physiques du Volet Gestion de la Faune et Ecodeveloppement Rural
Bknrflciaires
Description des activit*s                                                                                                    observations
Site d'Alfakoara                               Site de Batia
Realisation d'un documentaire  Realisation d'un documentaire sur la faune  Realisation  d'un  documentaire  sur la  faune
sauvage.                                    sauvage
Materialisation des limites des  Des arbres ont e  plant6s sur 135,50 ha; 20  109.781 plants ont ete mis en terre 24 plaques
zones cynegetiques     plaques  indicatrices  ont ete plantees  pour indicatrices ont egalement permis de delimiter ia
delimiter la zone cyneg6tique               zone cynegetique de la Pendjari
LA
Amenagement de la mare (244 > La mare <<24 )> est amenag6e
Amenagement du Site des    Construction de mirador, forage d'un puits A petit
elephants          diametre, installation  de panneaux  solaires,
construction de chateau d'eau, de routier.
Amenagement de la source aux                                             Construction d'un mirador, d'une piste  pedestre
elephants                                                      et surcreusement d'un bassin de stockage d'eau.
Amenagement de la mare                                                 La mare Sangou est amenagee.
Sangou



Point des Realisations Physiques du Volet Gestion de la Faune et Ecodeveloppement Rural
IB3nkficiaires
Description des activites                                                                                                     observations
Site d'Alfakoara                               Site de Batia
Rehabilitation du chenal                                              Le chenal est debouche
alimentant la mare Bori
Installation de l'arboretum    Installation d'un arboretum             Rehabilitation de I'arboretum existant.
Production de pintades   Production de volaille                      Production de 1248 pintades en 4 ans
Apiculture          Production de 857 1 de miel en 2 ans        Production de 224,5 1 de miel en 2 ans.
Foyers economiques      52 menages utilisent des foyers economiques  445 menages utilisent des foyers economiques
Production de plants    57.200 plants ont et produits dans 03 pepinieres 40.000 plants ont ete produits dans 02 pepinieres
villageoises                                villageoises.
Reboisement          87.000 plants ont ete mis en terre en 4 ans  12.000 plants ont ete mis en terre en 4 ans.
Maraichage          02 groupements feminins ont dt6 encadres pour 02  groupements  ont  Wte  encadr6s  pour  le
le maralchage                               marakchage.
53



Point des Realisations Physiques Du Volet Gestion de la Faune et Ecodeveloppement Rural
BWnfficiaires
Description des activites
Site d'Alfakoara                                  Site de Batia                        observations
Restauration de la fertilite des  Introduction du mucuna                       Introduction du pois d'angol pour ameliorer la
sols                                                                fertilite des sols
Visite d'echanges      -  5 membres des AVIGREF ont visit6 les sites de -   5 membres des AVIGREF ont visite les sites
TTK et la FC de I'OSN et de Ouesse                de TTK et la FC de l'OSN et de Ouesse
-  20 membres des AVIGREF ont visite le PN de la -   19 membres des AVIGREF ont visite les GV
Pendjari et la zone cynegetique du meme zone      de Tiele et Mamoussa sur la gestion des
terroirs
-   le President de l'U/AVIGREF de la Djona s'est
impregne  de  1'experience  du  GEPRENAF -   le President de l'U/AVIGREF de la Pendjari
(Burkina Faso) en matiere de gestion des R.N.     s'est  impregne   de   1'experience   du
avec les populations riveraines                   GEPRENAF en matiere de gestion des R.N.
avec les populations riveraines
-   1 8 Chefs pool et Representants de GV du site
d'Alfakoara   ont   pris   connaissance   de 5 membres des AVIGREF de la Pendjari ont vJsite
I'organisation des populations de Koke et de TTK. la region de Pama et de Fada-N'Gourma (BF).



Annex 8
X  i  l  f                           Ii  I  I"|I    - S1Xiff   
JUIN 1999
55



SIGLES ET ABREVIATIONS
MDR:        Ministere du Developpement Rural
DFRN:       Direction des Forets et des Ressources Naturelles
DFPRN:    Direction des Forets et de la Protection des Ressources Naturelles
CARDER:  Centre d'Action Regional pour le Developpement Rural
DPP:        Direction de la Programmation et de la Prospective
DIFOV:    Direction de la Formation Operationnelle et de la Vulgarisation Agricole
AFD:        Agence Fran,aise de Developpement
PFR:        Plan Foncier Rural
TTK:        Tchaourou - Toui - Kilibo
OSN':       Oueme Superieur et N'Dali
DK:         Dogo Ketou
IDA:        Association Intemationale pour le Developpement
APV:        Agent Polyvalent de Vulgarisation
TS:         Technicien Specialise
RDR:        Responsable du Developpement Rural
SLGRN:    Structure Locale de Gestion des Ressources Naturelles
PGRN:       Projet de Gestion des Ressources Naturelles
PGTRN       Projet de Gestion des Terroirs et des Ressources Naturelles
PGFTR:    Programme de Gestion des Forets et Terroirs Riverains
CLUSA:    Ligue des Cooperatives des Etats-Unis d'Amerique
ONAB:       Office National du Bois
CENATEL: Centre National de Teledetection et de Surveillance du Couvert Forestier
TAOP:       Technicien d'Appui aux Organisations Paysannes
VAP:        Village Agricole Pilote
AVC:        Association Villageoise de Chasse
AVIGREF:  Association Villageoise de Gestion des Reserves de Faune
VABV:       Volet Amenagement des Bassins Versants
VAF:        Volet Amenagement Forestier
VGFER:    Volet Gestion Faune et Ecodeveloppement Rural
VFIC:       Volet Formation, Information et Communication
UPSE:       Unite de Planification, Suivi Evaluation
SNAFOR:   Societe Nationale pour le Developpement Forestier
PDF:        Projet Developpement Forestier
CCCE:       Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CFD:        Caisse Fran,aise de Developpement
PAE:        Plan d'Action Environnemental
PNUD:       Programme des Nations Unies pour le Developpement
CENAGEF: Centre National de Gestion des Reserves de Faune
PRSA:       Projet de Restructuration des Services Agricoles
PCGPN:    Programme de Conservation et de Gestion des Parcs Nationaux
56



RESUME
Conform6ment a la lettre de Declaration de Politique de Developpement Rural du Gouvemement
du Benin, d<le Projet de Gestion des Ressources Naturelles vise a assurer 1'execution de la
premiere phase d'un programme a long terme et ses objectifs seront aussi pris en compte dans les
projets futurs de developpement regional)>.
Cette premiere phase pilote qui a demarre en Octobre 1992 arrive a terme le 30 Juin 1999 apr&s
deux prorogations successives. Les differentes missions de supervision et la revue a mi-parcours
ont apprecie favorablement les resultats satisfaisants auxquels les acteurs sont parvenus avec
l'assistance de l1'quipe de pilotage du projet.
Au niveau de I'appui institutionnel, la politique forestiere nationale a e  elaboree, assortie d'un
programme d'actions prioritaires. D'importantes r6fornes ont e  operees sur le plan de la
legislation et du dispositif de surveillance du domaine classe de l'Etat. La reorganisation de
l'administration forestiere qui est un long processus n'est pas achevee bien qu'ayant demarre
avec la creation du CENAGREF en 1996.
Le CENATEL, fortement appuye en equipement de production et en formation, n'a pas reussi a
assurer le suivi environnemental qui lui a ete confie et n'a pas non plus convaincu comme
prestataire de service pour s'autofinancer des la fin du PGRN.
Le processus de formation, information et communication a contribue a ameliorer le niveau
technique du personnel et des paysans. 11 reste que ses acquis soient consolides.
Au niveau de I'amenagement forestier, I'administration forestiere a conce&d une partie de ses
prerogatives aux communautes rurales riveraines des forets classees couvertes par le projet. Un
plan d'amenagement participatif a et elabore et adopte pour les forets classees de Tchaourou et
Toui-Kilibo et sa mise en oeuvre par les structures villageoises est en cours.
Le plan d'amenagement des forets classees de l'Oueme Superieur et de N'Dali a et elabore et
adopte par le Gouvernement, ce qui permet de demarrer sa mise en oeuvre.
Les actions sont encore a leurs debuts dans la foret classee de Ketou-Dogo oui il faut reprendre
l'animation pour le secteur d'Adakplame.
Au niveau de l'amrnagement des bassins versants, des experiences positives ont et developpees
en matiere de techniques d'amelioration des systemes de production agricole, de methodes
simplifiees de montage et de financement des micro-projets villageois ainsi que d'etablissement
de plans fonciers ruraux.
Au niveau de la faune et de l'ecodeveloppement rural, d'importants efforts ont et consentis en
matiere de lutte anti-braconnage et de co-gestion des reserves de faune avec les structures
villageoises riveraines des aires protegees.
57



Au regard de l'approche participative developpee et du caractere particulier que revet la gestion
des ressources naturelles, on peut estimer que le niveau d'atteinte des objectifs est largement au-
dessus de la moyenne. Malgre tout, la degradation des ressources naturelles reste encore
perceptible et les acquis du projet fragiles vu leur faible niveau de mise en cuvre et de transfert
aux structures p6rennes publiques et/ou privees.
11 ressort de l'exp6rience de mise en ceuvre du projet que l'approche participative peut etre une
demarche methodologique generalisee et que tous les programmes d'appui au monde rural
devraient etre bases sur les communautes beneficiaires elles-memes.
I1 est egalement apparu que, contrairement a l'opinion qui fait de lui un agent <<repressif), l'agent
forestier est capable de mutation positive pour devenir un v6ritable animateur du monde rural,
voire un facilitateur villageois au sein de la societe.
Les principaux facteurs ayant affecte le projet ont et pass6s en revue dans les details (voir
rubrique 5.1) avec des recommandations consequentes.
Enfin, les actions a envisager dans un souci de durabilite a long terme ont et proposees au point
5.2. Quelques unes des recommandations les plus importantes sont reprises comme suit:
I ) A 1'endroit des bailleurs de fonds:
-  eviter a tout prix de faire du vote d'une loi par le parlement une condition de mise en vigueur
d'un credit ou meme d'une subvention
-  pour des programmes qui demarrent presqu'au meme moment, eviter de faire des premiers
resultats de l'un, la conditionnalite de mise en vigueur de l'autre, etant donne qu'il s'agit de
cr6dits differents (cas PRSA et PGRN par exemple)
-  organiser, avant le demarrage effectif des activites, un large atelier pour s'assurer que tous les
acteurs impliques ont la meme comprehension du contenu du rapport d'evaluation qui est le
document de reference du projet
-  alleger les procedures d'approbation/d'autorisation des depenses
-  limiter le nombre de bailleurs associes par program.me a deux ou trois et degager en leur sein
un coordonnateur/chef de file dont les procedures de decaissement et de passation des
marches seront retenues comme celles de l'ensemble du projet. Toujours dans le cadre des
financements associes, prevoir que chaque composante soit entierement financee par une
source donn6e
-  faire en sorte que, lorsqu'un projet ben6ficie d'une prolongation de la date de cl6ture des
comptes, les points de l'accord de credit relatifs au recouvrement de l'avance speciale soient
egalement revus de maniere a ce que les recouvrements de cette avance tiennent compte des
activites minima qui sont necessairement programmees en raison de cette prolongation.
58



2)    A 1'endroit de la partie nationale
- engager et/ou finaliser les r6formes l6gislatives et fiscales deja programmees et mettre en
place les instruments de validation juridique des plans fonciers ruraux
assurer la diffusion A grande echelle et I' application de textes existants ou a venir
- revoir la procedure d'execution des etudes/consultations et de gestion des rapports qui en
decoulent
- redynamiser le Comite de Suivi de la Mise en CTuvre de la Politique Forestiere, recentrer ses
missions et repreciser ses taches prioritaires suivant un chronogramme determine
- 6laborer un guide pour l'implication des populations riveraines dans la gestion des ressources
forestieres
- dynamiser et encadrer les structures villageoises de manire soutenue et revoir le contenu des
messages d'animation
sous-traiter la mise en =uvre des programmes de formation avec les structures competentes et
se concentrer sur leur conception et leur coordination
- le benevolat des fonctions dans les structures villageoises n'etant pas realiste, aider les
interesses A trouver une fonnule de remuneration de ces fonctions
- le systeme de planification, suivi-evaluation mis en place a la Direction des Forets et des
Ressources Naturelles n'etant pas fonctionnel, en rechercher les causes et le rendre
operationnel.
3)    A 1'endroit des deux parties
-  dans le domaine des ressources naturelles, operer suivant des programmes et non des projets
pour esperer des resultats durables
-  inscrire un Volet Appui Institutionnel bien elabore dans tout programme de developpement et
y inclure l'objectif de formation d'un noyau de competences au niveau des administrations
- capitaliser les etudes et tentatives sur le fonds forestier national puis engager le processus de
sa creation formelle
-  poursuivre la construction des bureaux-logements pour les postes forestiers
- prevoir une operation Plan Foncier Rural dans tous les programmes d'appui au monde rural et
surtout de promotion du developpement agricole et de gestion durable des ressources
naturelles
59



-  effectuer un audit operationnel du CENATEL en vue de le rendre performant et competitif, ce
qui lui permettrait de jouir d'une autonomie reelle et fonctionnelle
-  harmoniser le traitement salarial des Agents Permanents de l'Etat et des Contractuels
travaillant dans le meme programme ou projet, de maniere a eviter les inegalites, voire les
injustices, connues lors de la mise en euvre du Projet de Gestion des Ressources Naturelles
-  assortir toute sollicitation de l'appui d'une ONG, de l'assistance technique, etc., des
modalites pratiques de transfert de competences aux nationaux en general et aux structures
perennes en particulier. Une experience comme celle vecue avec CLUSA par exemple n'est
pas recommandable.
D'autres programmes en cours (PGTRN, PCGPN) ou en preparation (PGFTR) prendront en
compte les acquis du Projet de Gestion des Ressources Naturelles pour les perenniser. La
Direction des Forets et des Ressources Naturelles et la Direction de la Programmation et de la
Prospective du Ministere du Developpement Rural devraient y veiller absolument en vue de
l'appropriation et de la consolidation des acquis.
Le comite de coordination du Projet de Gestion des Ressources Naturelles devrait se reunir et
etudier l'ensemble des recommandations et propositions d'actions, hierarchiser les priorites,
etablir un planning de leur mise en aeuvre et responsabiliser les structures qui seront chargees de
leur execution et de leur suivi-evaluation.
60



