'                            ~~~~~~~~~~Docrgt of
The World Bank
FMOa o   UL uSE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 9982-BEN Type: (SAR)
ASSEO, M. / X34920 / J8118/ AFlAG )Rb" v   9982-BEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
FEBRUARY 18, 1992
Agriculture Operations
Occidental and Central Africa Department
*            ibtion and may be n e  byree     I   t        *   o



ffts  -   -  * 5 bett**  
CU E4CY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1 - CFAF 2831
WEIGHTS AND MEASURFS
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31,  1991
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APV            Agent polyvalont de vulgarisation
Polyvalent extension agent
ADS            African Development Bank
CARDER         Contre d action r6gionale et do d4voloppo.mnt rural
Regional Action and Rural Development Center
CCCE            Caiss  central- de coopfration Aconomiquo (France)
CENAP           Centre national d'agro-p6dalogie
National Agro-Solls Center
CENATEL        Contre national do tl6d&tection
National Rmote Sensing Center
CLCAM          Cals., locale de cr6dit agricole mutuol
Local Agricultural Savings Bank
CRCAM          Caisse r6gionale do cr4dit agricole mutuol
Regional Agricultural Savings Bank
DEFC           Direction des evux, for&ts et chasses
Directorate of Water, Forestry and Hunting
DFRN           Direction dos for6ts *t des ressourees naturellea
Directorate of Forest* and Natural Resources
DRA            Direction de Is recherche agronomique
Directorate of Agricultural Research
FAC            Fonds d'uide I Is coop6ration (Frane*)
FAO            Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
EDF            European Development Fund
CTZ            German Technical Cooperation Agency
IDA            International Development Agency
INC            Institut national de cartographli
National Institute of Cortography
MDR            Minist4re du d6voloppoment. rural
Ministry of Rural Development
"GO            Nongovernmental organization
PAE            Plan d'action environnmmental
Environmental action plan
UNDP           United Nations Development Programme
PRSA           Pro30t do rostructuration des services agricoles
Agricultural Services Restructuring Project
RAMR           Recherche appllqu6, en milieu r6el
On-farm adaptive research
ROR            Responsable do d4v-loppoment rural
Rural devolopment manager
SGSA           Second Generation Special Accounts
SEMP           Sites d'exp4rimentation en milieu rural
Test sites in the rural environment
TS             Technician sp6cialls6
Subject Matter Specialist
UNSO           United Nations Sudano-Sahellan Offico
URF            Unlt6 de rechorch- foresti4re
Forestry Research Unit
1/     Exchange rate as of December 1991.   The parity of the CFAF with the
French franc is fixed at 50/1.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paze
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE ................................. (iii)
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ..............................................  (v)
I.   INTRODUCTION
A.    Physical characteristics ..............................    1
B.    Socioeconomic situation ...............................    1
C.    Project origin ........................................    2
II.  THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR AND NATURAL RESOURCES
A. Agricultural production.                                     2
B.   Land occupation and the land tenure system.                3
C.   The degradation of renewable natural resources.            4
D.  Agricultural institutions.                                  5
E.    Policy for natural resources and environmental
management.                                               7
F. Role of IDA.                                                 8
G.    Previous IDA experience in the sector.                    8
H.    The proposed local community land management approach.    9
C,
This report is based on the conclusions of the appraisal mission carried out in
Benin in May/June 1991, consisting of Mr. Brizzi (mission chief), Mr. Grut
(forestry),   Mr.   Versteeg   (research-development/watershed   development),
Mr. Heymans (ecologist), Mr. Ahouanginou (training), Mr. Hounkpodote (land tenure
specialist), Mr. Bakayoko (financial analyst), Mr. Barrier, CCCE (training and
land management) and Mr. Komp, GTZ (cartography and remote sensing). Secretarial
support was provided by Ms. A.Vasquez. The project advisor has been Mr.J.English
of the Environmental Policy Research Division. Messrs. M. J. Gillette and T.
Nkodo are Department Director and Agriculture Division Chief, respectively.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
III.  THE PROJECT
A.    Justification ...........................................      11
B.    Objectives ..............................................      11
C.    Brief description of the project .12
D.  Detailed description    ..13
1. Institution-building .13
2. Site-specific activities .16
IV.   PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Organization .21
B.   Monitoring and evaluation ....................... ........      22
V.   PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Cost estimate .23
B. Financing .24
C. Procurement .25
D. Disbursement .28
E.    Accounting, auditing and reporting .29
VI.   BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.  Project justification .30
B. Expected benefits .30
C.  Impact on the State budget .31
D. Risks ...                                                  . 32
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS .32
ANNEXES
1.    Pilot operation for the rural land tenure plan
2.   Management of gazetted forests
3.    Description of some possible actions of the terroir management plans and
research-development
4.    Basic cartographic needs
5.    Resident Technical Assistance - Summary Terms of Reference
6.    Project costs
Table 1:    Project cost summary
Table 2:    Summary accounts by project component
Table 3:    Summary accounts by year
Table 4:    Project components by year
7.    Disbursement schedule
8.    Implementation schedule
9.    Supervision schedule
MAPS: IBRD No. 23346
IBRD No. 23347R



( iii)
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Documents in the Proiect File
Working Documents
1.    Development/Management of Watersheds; Strengthening Research-Development Teams
(Versteeg 1991)
Identification of Main Watersheds in Benin (Karemangingo 1990)
Basic Data for Development of the Lomon (Mono) and Beffa (Zou) Watersheds.
(Karemangingo, Agbo 1990)
2.    Participatory Development of Gazetted Forests (Grut 1991)
Development of Natural Forests (Hermans, Otchoun 1990)
3.    Remote Sensing Component - Appraisal Mission (Komp 1991)
Strengthening of CENATEL, National Remote Sensing Center (Fofana 1990)
Remote Sensing and Soils Utilization Study (Komp 1990)
4.    Land Tenure Policy in Benin (Janz 1990)
The Land Tenure System in Benin (Gastaldi 1990)
Pilot Operation for the Rural Land Tenure Plan in Benin (Hounkpodot6 1991)
5.    Appraisal Report on the Training Component (Ahouanginou 1991)
6.    National Parks and Management of Peripheral Zones (Heymans 1991)
Study on Transhumance in Benin (Bourgeot 1990)
7.    Institutional Review (Perrault 1990)
8.    Preparation Report (FAO/CP 1991)
9.    Detailed Project Costs



(v)
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT1 SUMMARY
Borrower:         Republic of Benin
Beneficiaries:    Local rural communities, Ministry of Rural Development (MDR)
Amount:            SDR 10.1 millions (US$14.1 million)
Terms:            Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
Project
Description:      Over a period of five years, the project would support the
development of a national capacity for the planning,
management and monitoring of natural resources, including the
strengthening of supporting legislation. The project would
also test, in representative zones, a model for rural
development  that  would  promote  more  sustainable  and
responsible management of renewable natural resources (land,
forests, water, wildlife) by organized rural communities.
These  communities  would  be  assisted  by  decentralized
government and nongovernmental agencies.
The project would be implemented in conjunction with the
preparation of an Environmental Action Plan and with the
restructuring of agricultural services, which would provide a
strategic and institutional foundation.
Project-financed  investments  would  comprise:        (a) the
strengthening of (i) the planning, and monitoring capacity of
the reorganized Directorate of Forests and Natural Resources
(DFRN) and of the National Remote Sensing Center (CENATEL);
and (ii) the establishment of poaching control posts in the
national parks; (b) the training and education of farmers and
public servants, partly through technical assistance;
(c) studies, including the preparation of a natural resources
management master plan for the Borgou Department; (d) the
preparation and implementation of integrated development plans
for three natural forests, iith local participation; (e) the
development of watersheds in four test sites as part of land
management operations by local communities; (f) land right
surveys on the same watersheds leading to mapping and
recording  ir.dividual  and  community   rights;   (g)  the
implementation of research and development operations on the
watersheds and in farmer fields; and (h) wildlife management
operations, with the participation of the population, in two
areas adjacent to the national parks.



(vi)
T  Foreign   1
Local .   Exchange  I Iotal
2 of
Cost Estimates               ------ US$ million ------        Base Costs
Planning and management                1.9         3.1         5.0          23
Monitoring and evaluation              0.8         1.9         2.7          12
Poaching control                       0.3         0.5         0.8           4
Training                               0.9         0.7         1.6           7
Studies                                0.2         0.6         0.8           4
Managt. of natural forests             1.8         1.1         2.9          13
Watershed development                  2.4         2.3         4.7          22
Land tenure operations                 0.6         0.5         1.1           5
Research and development               1.0         0.5         1.5           7
Wildlife management                    0.4         0.3         0.7           3
Total base                            10.3        11.5        21.8         100
Physical contingencies               0.7         0.8         1.5           7
Financial contingencies              0.7         0.4         1.1           5
TOTAL COST                            11.7        12.7        24.4         112
e;nancing Plan
Local   Foreign   Total        Z of Base Costs
…US$ ruillion…
Government                         2.0        0.3      2.3              9
IDA                                6.3       7.8      14.1             58
German aid                         2.1       3.0       5.1             21
CCCE                               1.1       1.2       2.3              9
UNDP                               0.2        0.4      0.6              3
dTotal                            13.7       12.7      24.4           100
Estimated disbursements of IDA Credit
IDA Fiscal Year
92     93      94     95      96      97     98      99
______-_____-__---- US$ million -------------------
Annual                1.5    1.7    2.0    2.4    2.4    2.1    1.5    0.5
Cumulative           1.5    3.2    5.2    7.6   10.0   12.1   13.6   14.1



(vii)
Benefits and Risks:
The principal benefits of the project are that it would: (a) help
develop (i) a system to gather and process information on natural
resources; and (ii) a planning capacity, based on appropriate legislation,
that takes account of natural balances; (b) help introduce sustainable
agricultural systems through the preparation and implementation, in
collaboratior. with the local population, of community land development
plans seeking the most appropriate forms of managing water, land, plant
and animal resources; (c) encourage the development of private and
community grass-roots initiatives; and (d) help protect national parks by
reducing poaching and increasing State revenues from fuelwood and hunting.
The main risks could stem from: (a) inadequate Government commitment
to decentralized management of natural resources by local communities and
private entities; (b) a shortage of qualified local personnel capable of
a participatory approach with rural communities and lack of experience in
interministerial natural resources management coordination; and (c) a
delay in the implementation of the restructuring of agricultural services.
These risks will be reduced by the project's emphasis on the introduction
of legislation favoring participatory management and the implementation of
natural resources management by rural communities themselves and private
sector,    Careful  selection  of  local  team  members,  training  and
environmental sensitization at all levels would be another advantage.
Moreover, satisfactory initiation of the restructuring of agriculture
services wot:ld se required for project start-up.
Internal Rate of Return: not applicable
Maps: No. IBRD 23346
No. IBRD 23347R



REPUBLIC OF BENIN
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PPOJECT
APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
A.          Physical characteristics
1.01        Benin has an area of 113,000 km2 and a population of 4.6 million, 65S
of whom live in rural areas. The population is increasing at an average annual
rate of about 3.2Z. Its geographical distribution is very uneven. Population
density varies from 340 inhabitants/km2 in the DUpartement of Atlantique to about
14 inhabitants/km2 in Borgou. As a result, 63Z of the population is concentrated
on 12Z of the land area.  The urban population accounts for 30? of the total and
is increasing at 4Z a year (8Z in Cotonou).  Benin is divided into three main
climatic zones, sub-equatorial in the south, with rainfall between 900 mm and
1,500 mm annually; Guinean-Sudanese in the center, with marked temperature
variations and an average rainfall between 1,000 mm and 1,200 mm/year;  and
semiarid Sudanese in the north, with rainfall of 900 mm to 1,100 mm/year and high
evapo-transpiration (see Map). Plant cover is relatively uniform, in the form
of a very degraded savannah woodland extending from the north of the country to
some 50 km from the coast. This savannah is interspersed in places with gazetted
forests. Further south are residual forests, small areas of deciduous and semi-
deciduous forest, oil palms on the sedimentary zones and coconut trees along the
coast. Soils are generally poor, mainly ferruginous. Bottom-lands have a higher
agricultural potential, but are generally hard to work.
B.          Socioeconomic situation
1.02        The annual per capita income was about US$380 in 1989.   Benin's
principal resource is its arable land, which makes it self-sufficient in food in
overall terms and enables it to produce cash crops such as cotton and to a much
lesser degree, palm oil as a source of foreign exchange.  The primary sector
accounts for about 40Z of GDP, more than 5OZ of export receipts and 752 of
employment. The average annual rate of growth of agricultural production in the
1980-1988 period was 4.2Z, which is remarkable but was largely achieved through
more extensive utilization of available land. The geographical configuration of
Benin together with the deep-water port of Cotonou and its relatively good road
and rail network, allows it to provide transit services for landlocked countries
to its north. The secondary sector accounts for about 8Z of GDP, essentially in
the form of manufacturing, cement production and limited offshore oil resources.
The tertiary sector basically consists of informal but vigorous trading
activities.
1.03        Between 1983 and 1987 Aenin's economy grew only slowly, partly as a
result of a decline in trade and a collapse of the regional transit traffic, but
more particularly as a consequence of the inefficiency and poor management of the
product've sectors dominated by the State. In 1989 the Government introduced a
program of economic reforms prepared with the assistance of the Bank and IMF.
This program reflected a change in Benin's economic policies, the reduction of
the State's role in the economy and promotion of private sector activities, a
balanced management of public funds, an improved balance of payments situation,
and concern for the country's natural environment. The strategic choices adopted
by the Ministry of Rural Development (MDR) during the seminar on the strategy of
the rural sector held at Cotonou in July 1990 are in line with these objectives.



-2-
C.          Proiect oriain
1.04        A Natural Resources/Environment Project was identified in March 19&9
with the assistance of a number of donors, the Bank and an NGO. In November 1989
IDA approved a Project Preparation Fund (PPF) of US$750,000 to finance
preparatory activities and launch preliminary stuaies.   In March 1990. the
Government and donors agreed on the principal project components.  Preparation
work was comnleted by FAO/CP in November 1990, and the project was appraised by
IDA in Mav 1;91. IDA, the United Nations Soudano-Sahelian Office (UNSO), Germany
and Prance h&ve been assisting the government since the beginning of 1991 in
preparing ar -r.vironmental Action Plan (EAP) that will define national policies
and propose _. action plan over the medium and long term.
II. THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR AND NATURAL RESOURCES
A.          Agricultural production
2.01        Food production is relatively diversified, meets Benin's food needs,
and much of it is traded with neighboring countries, especially Nigeria. Maize
is predominant in the southern departments and is the most widely-planted crop
overall (about 450,000 ha), followed by sorghum in the north (130,000 ha),
cassava (115,000 ha), yams (90,000 ha), beans (85,000 ha) and peanuts (100,000
ha). In most cases food crops are growr, in association, and yield: are low. The
areas devoted to yams, sorghum and maize are increasing significantly as a result
of population growth and the availability of land in the north of Benin. Rice
production is marginal, although its consumption is steadily increasing, being
met by imports.
2.02        Cotton cultivation has also expanded rapidly in recent years to cover
about 120,000 ha in 1990-91, for a total production of about 146.000 tons of seed
cotton and 59.000 tons of fiber.  Yields are satisfactory (C,200 kg of seed
cotton/ha), and the areas planted are still increasing. Cotton constitutes a
well-organized subsector guaranteeing a floor price to producers, supplies of
inputs, credit, and processing and marketing of the final product. The decline
in palm oil production continues as a result of the aging of the plantations, a
water deficit that limits yields, declining profitability Ln relation to other
crops and very low prices in an international market dominated by production from
Asia.
2.03        Stockraising, with about 1 million cattle, 2 million small ruminants
and half a million hogs, represents one fifth of agricultural production (9Z of
GDP).  About 7 million ha of available pasture are only partially utilizable in
the absence of watering points. Three quarters of this area is in the northern
provinces, where the low utilization of space gives rise to traditional extensive
stockraising. Total meat production is about 30,000 tons per year, along with
some 43 million liters of milk, about 200 million eggs and 20,000 tons of game.
Animal traction has expanded rapidly, particularly in the cotton production
zones; it has contributed to the growth of cultivated areas, sometimes to the
detriment of the rational exploitation of natural resources. Potential animal
production in northern Benin is high in terms of pastures, but is limited by poor
management of surface water resources, archaic production systems and increasing
competition from crops. Benin's fishing activities, with a production of about
40,000 tons per year, provide some 50Z of animal protein requirements. Lagoon
catch accounts for two thirds of production. Per capita consumption has fallen
by half in the last 25 years; production is still declining as a result of
problems of lagoon salinity, siltation resulting from the deforestation of
watersheds, and over-exploitation.



- 3 -
2.04        Fuelvood consumption, currently estimated at 5.2 rtillion tons, is
increasing in line with the growth of the rural population; this has led to
significant pockets of deforestation in some areas and to all-around uncontrolled
exploitation.   Wood is the principal source c; fuel for at least 80% of the
population. Currently, the cutting of forest timber is prohibited except from
old state-managed teak plantations (around 46,C00 m3?, which do not meet national
needs.   The supply of construction poles (about 86,000 m3) from thinning and
clearing exceeds demand.
2.05        There are four main agricultural production systems. In terms of the
number of producers involved, the most important is the agro-pastoral system,
with crop fatming predominant. These producers earn most of tneir income from
crops, while stockraising, although present, is hardly integrated at all into
farming practices, except as regards animal traction. The second most widespread
system is the agro-pastoral. with pastoral dominating. The system is typically
fcund among those Peuls who are becoming more sedentary and for whom stockraising
ensures self-suffici'ncy in milk and meat and provides the bulk of their income,
with crops completing their basic subsistence. Third is the pastoral system in
the form of exclusive stockraising by nromadic Peul herders practicing
transhumance along well-established routes. Feed and water problems often result
in overgrazing and rapid environmental degradation.   The fourth, pure crop
farming systum, is rare, as in modern commercial farming.
B.          Land_occupation and the land tenure system
2.06        Although some form of tree cover is found on about 65Z of Benin's
territory, most of this vegetation is greatly degraded. Its deterioration is
continuing, as a result of the pressure from shifting agriculture, overgrazing
and bush fires. Only some 200,000 ha are still covered with species of economic
value, while the bulk of the cover (60Z of t:... country) consists of the most open
stands, '.aamely woodland and bush savannah. Some 2.6 million ha (19Z of Benin's
land a:ea) are A±ficially protected as gazetted forests (1.3 million ha),
national parks (750,000 ha), hunting zones (580,000 ha) and reforestation areas
(4,000 ha).   However,  areas of significant but unknown size within these
protected areas have been cleared for farming, hunting or stockraising. There
is a serious lack of basic information on Benin's plant cover and soil
characteristics, which underscores some significant cartographic needs.
2.07         Smallholdings predominate everywhere, along with traditional methods
of land conveyance and allocation.  Average farm size is about 1.7 ha for a
seven-person family, the average ranging from 0.4 ha in the soutb, where only 5%
of farms exceed 5 ha, to 12.7 ha in the north, with 20% of farms over 5 ha.
Access to land is extremely difficult in the south, where it is increasingly
common for land to be sold and demographic pressure has led to overexploitation
of agr4cultural resources.   There has been no real improvement in production
methods that would lead to a sustained increase in productivity. In the north,
traditional systems predominate; land is often negotiated and allocated in
symbolic terms but the concession remains precarious.
2.08         The  State  recognizes  both  traditional  forms  of  ownership  and
i±dividual ownership. Unless a deed is registered (law of 8/14/65), there is no
legal  framework  for  the  recognition  of  land  ownership.    The  absence  of
legislation or even of a rural land register means that the land tenure system
fails to generate security, and, in the absence of a transparent market, does not
make for optimum use of the land. The current land ownership situation features
complex rules and customs that govern rights to land and water points. Codified
systems embodying the right to exclusive ownership have been superimposed on the
traditional system deriving from collective ownership. The approp:iation of land
by the State for production purposes is now a thing of the past. Unregistered
individual appropriations are rapidly increasing, some for speculative purposes.
The heavy pressure on land gives rise to frequent litigation among neighbors.
On the other hand, in the north, newcomers move into previously uncultivated



-4-
areas, sometimes in un ontrolled fashion, and are being fairly willingly accepted
by the existing population, with or without the sanction of the land chief, to
the extent of land availability. There is a need to adapt Benin's land tenure
policy to the various prevailing situations, without imposing a system alien to
local procedures, which are still partly effective.
C.          The degradation of renewable natural resources
2.09        The competition between farming,  stockraising and forestry,  the
spread of bush fires, the disappearance of the forest cover as a sotirce of
fuelwood, the decrease of soil fertility, possible climatic changes, the silting-
up of lagoons and the consequent disappearance of fish resources, are all being
exacerbated by increasing  demographic  pressure.    Shifting  slash and burn
cultivation is still the most common practice, to the detriment of tE. natural
savannah,  Increasingly, fallow land is subject to bush fires or ove.grazed.
Constant clearing is leading to the disappearance of gallery forests and bush.
Low watershed seepage and heavy runoff result in soil losses which. togethe- with
riverbank erosion, lead to the silting-up of watercourses and village wells.
Farming is penetrating further and further, including into wetter and more
fertile but more distant bottom-lands. Declining soil fertility is the cballenge
for tomorrow's agriculture, in en economic context in which access to chemical
fertilizers is still limited (basically to cotton). Mineral exports in the form
of cereals and root crops are six times higher than eventual restitutions through
fertilizers.   Further mineral  losses  result from erosion and bush fires.
Agriculture is therefore a "mining" activity, and the land is being exhausted in
the absence of sufficiently long fallow periods. Given that at present rates the
population of Benin will double in 20 years, the time has come to address the
rapid exhaustion of the stock of uncultivated land resulting from shifting
cultivation, and to propose researched and tested alternatives while further
expanding research into the subject (Annex 3).
2.10        The gazetted forests, along with the parks in the savannah region,
are in theory protected by the authorities. In practice they are suffering from
poaching, grazing, bush fires and encroachment by farmers.  Furthermore, the
farmers do not understand the reasons for gazetting forests, and the
administration's  protection policy has often been ineffective.   The early
(precautionary) burning policy in the parks is not always properly understood and
well applied by the forestry authorities.   As a result, uncontrolled late
secondary fires attributable to hunters and poachers are common, with disastrous
consequences for the fertility of soils and their capacity to regenerate the tree
cover.
2.11        The growing need for fuelwood is leading to deforestation all around
the towns,  incipient desertification  (Malanville,  Boukoumb4,  Ouake)  and a
shortage of free fuelwood. In southern areas, the problem is further amplified
by the density of the population and the near-complete occupation of the land by
crops. Currently, there is a real scramble for fuelwood, and the sources of
supply are shifting toward the last gazetted forests in the Oueme valley. There
is also considerable laxity in the checking of export permits, particularly in
the Malanville region, from which significant amounts of wood are taken to Niger
and Nigeria.
2.12        The insecurity of the land tenure system, combined with the absence
of cultivation practices designed to promote a sustai..able agriculture, has
resulted in farmers and stockraisers losing interest in maintaining and managing
their land assets. In the north, fires are responsible for the destruction of
50,000 ha/year, and land is cleared for cotton and yams at an annual rate of
around 100,000 ha. The Karimama district in northern Borgou is showing clear
signs of desertification, and the adjacent Kandi and Banikoara districts to the
south are showing the same symptoms as Karimama a few years ago. In the south,
demographic pressure has led to excessive fragmentation and a significant



reduction in fallow periods, which, with no improvements in crop practices, have
negative effects on soil fertility.
2.13        Transhumant stockraising puts an increasingly heavier burden on the
natural pastures.   During the dry season it leads to bushfires and to tree
lopping and pollarding, to allow the herds to browse among the new shoots. The
straying of animals into crops also gives rise to conflicts with farmers and
makes planting of forest species a hazardous operation.   Controlling herd
movements is a prerequisite for the integration of forestry into farming systems.
While domestic transhumance is relatively well integrated in the national land
use patterns, large-scale cross-border transhumance is difficult to control. It
is extending further and further into the south of the country, where it is
responsible for severe degradation and conflicts. Cross-border transhumance is
in principle governed by the Livestock and Meat Economic Community (CEBV)
regulations, which allow the free movement of herds between Niger, Mali, Burl,ina
Fasso, Togo and Benin. However, the articles of the agreement are not suited to
the ecological and economic context of cross-border transhumance.
D.          Agricultural institutions
2.14        The Ministry of Rural Development (MDR) is responsible for assistance
to and regulation of crop farming, stockraising, fisheries, forestry and hunting
activities, as well as agricultural research. The structures of MDR are in the
process of reorganization. The envirormental activities proposed in this report
for public sector implementatior. are expected to be administered within the new
structures of MDR.
2.15        Field  level  dissemination  and  implementation  of  agricultural
development policies are the responsibility of the Regional Action and Rural
Development Centers (CARDER) extending the MDR to each department.  Prior to the
ongoing reorganization, the CARDERs had expanded their activities to a number of
commercial operations, which diverted them from their principal mission of
providing support and technical assistance for producers.   Each CARDER has
received, to greater or lesser effect, foreign assistance to finance most of its
capital and operating expenditures.
2.16        Significant institutional reforms are under way in MDR and the
CARDERs with the assistance of IDA and other donors. The objective is to develop
a vital central tool for planning, monitoring and regulation, and to concentrate
the activities of the CARDERs on tasks normally carried out by the public
administration in areas such as extension, monitoring and evaluation, supervision
of rural works and legislation.   In addition, regional projects bringing the
public and private sectors together would help strengthen rural producer
organizations and enterprises and promote the development efforts of rural
communities.
2.17        The Directorate of Forestry and Natural Resources  (DFRN), which
replaces the old Directorate of Water, Forestry and Hunting (DEFC) of MDR has
authority over forest and wildlife management (protection, reforestation,
enforcement, training). The old directorate had 45 staff in Cotonou divided into
10 services and 20 divisions. This resulted in a separation of disciplines that
created overlapping responsibilities and paralyzed operations. To these central
units must be added the decentralized structures which, as part of the CARDERs,
consisted of a service in each department, a district-level unit and a
representative in each commune. In addition, the national parks, hunting zones
and certain gazetted forests had their own specialized brigades. There was no
clear indication as to who had responsibility over field DEFC agents and, as a
result, there was a weakening of the esprit de corps of DEFC personnel. The same
agents were responsible both for law enforcement and for the provision of
assistance to farmers.   Furthermore,  the  lack of resources and effective
supervision made it impossible to achieve DEFC objectives; frequently it
performed nothing but enforcement tasks.



2.18        The current restructuring is designed to reduce the number of DFRN
services to three and to separa'e clearly in the field the support and advisory
functions, from supervision and enforcement functions to be performed by the
forestry agents. The DFRN will also supervise the National Remote Sensing Center
(CENATEL), which is responsible for continuous surveillance of ecosystems, using
remote sensing and thematic mapping to help define rural land use policies.
Technical complementarity would be sought between CENATEL, the National Institute
of Cartography (INC) as regards the supply of basic maps and the geometric
network, the National Agro-Pedology Center (CENAP) as regards the printing of
thematic maps, and capacity available in Abidjan for data support conversion.
2.19        A new Ministry of the Environment, Housing and Urban Development was
created in August 1991 as part of the reorganization of Government structures.
While it is intended to play a coordinating role in the environmental sector,
including leadership in the EAP process, the new ministry would deal mainly with
urban environmental aspects and not impinge on the present responsibilities of
MDR. The Ministry of Justice, which incorporates the Interministerial Committee
for Land Tenure Affairs, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of the Interior
would also play important roles as regards the legislative and regulatory aspects
of land tenure policies.
2.20        The Forestry Research Unit (URF) which reports to the Directorate of
Agricultural Research (DRA), is the only entity established to research some
aspects of the management of renewable resources.   However, it only has one
researcher in forestry and none of its further research staff has an appropriate
level of training. Furthermore, the technical assistance it was receiving from
French cooperation has just ended. A Master Plan for Agricultural Research is
being prepared and should produce recommendations for a strategic reorientation
of the national research effort,  including forestry research.   Within that
reorientation, the URF's original function (to test the growth of different
species from the standpoint of their integration into industrial plantation
programs) needs to be redesigned in favor of research into the implication for
the rural population of the association of agro-silvo-pastoral activities.
2.21        Village groups (GV) are very active in the cotton zones.   Their
success is explained by the clear economic advantages for group initiatives in
that context. Insofar as the villagers are convinced of the advantages to them
of the proposed land use plans, they can be expected to collaborate within
similar groups.
2.22        The provision and administration of agricultural credit has faced
serious difficulties in Benin.  The bankruptcy and liquidation of the National
Agricultural Credit Bank (CNCA) left a considerable void, which has been only
partially offset by the ongoing rehabilitation of the mutualistic Regional and
Local Agricultural Savings Cooperatives (CLCAMs and CRCAMs). These constitute a
national network which has kept the confidence of the farmers, although their
activities are mostly concentrated in cotton growing areas.
2.23        A number of non-governmental organizations (NGOs) are involved in the
promotion and support of village groups or grass-roots initiatives and in
development assistance to the poorest segments of the rural population. So far,
the preponderant role has been played by foreign NGOs; however, the recent
political changes and resulting enkcouragement for private initiative have led to
a remarkable sprouting of local development associations that are destined to
play an expanding role in providing support for the rural sector.
2.24        Various projects financed by foreign donors have forestry or rural
environment objectives.   They are:  (a) the development of national  parks
(European Development Fund--FED), the first phase of which has been completed;
(b) the development of watersheds and campaign against bushfires (UNDP/FAO),
which closes in October 1991; (c) multipurpose tree plantations (UNSO), whose



second  phase  has  just  started;  (d) fuelwood  (African  Development  Fund--
ADF/OPEC/WFP), whose current phase extends from 1986 to 1992; (e) forestry
development (the IDA component has been disbursed but the project is continuing
with KfW assistance for a new planting program of 3,000 ha of teak); (f) the
survey, study and development of bottom-lands (UNDP/FAO), whose current phase
extends from 1986 to 1992; (g) a sensitization program for the coastal population
of West Africa to the protection of natural resources (EDF), whose activities in
Benin have not yet started; (h) cattle farming development in Borgou (EDF), whose
current phase concludes at the end of 1991; (i) promotion of stockraising in
Atacora (German Technical Cooperation--GTZ), whose current phase extends from
1989 to 1994; (j) stockraising development in Eastern Borgou (UNDP/UNEF/FAO),
whose current phase extends from 1990 to 1995; (k) lagoon fisheries (GTZ), whose
current phase extends from 1986 to 1996; and (1) ecology of natural pastures in
Northern Benin and introduction of agro-silvo-pastoral units (Belgium/ISF through
the National University of Benin), planned through 1996.   Numerous smaller
operations are being carried out by NGOs throughout Benin.
E.          Policy for natural resource and environmental management
2,25        The seminar on agricultural policy held at Cotonou in July 1990
defined the major goals of Benin's rural development, which are part of the new
national policy framework. These goals are: (a) to increase export receipts and
improve the competitiveness of national production while reducing public
expenditure; (b) to improve rural living standards by raising individual incomes
and upgrading services and infrastructures; (c) to ensure food security; and
(d) to ensure rational management of natural resources in a spirit of solidarity
among generations.
2.26        Benin's economic growth will depend on its agriculture for a long
time to come.   The country's principal current concern is to protect its
productive potential and develop a sustainable agriculture. The national seminar
on the campaign against drought and desertification held at Parakou in April 1985
adopted a number of resolutions identifying sector objectives, but it did not
define either action plans or the resources to implement them. Hence, despite
the Government's recognition of the critical importance of sound management of
resources, corresponding policy issues have always been discussed in the
abstract.   In terms of legislation,  a public hygiene and water code and
regulations for the protection of nature and control of hunting activities are
dated of l9d7. These laws still do not meet Benin's real needs and have had only
a limited application. A new forestry code has recently been prepared in the
context of the proposed natural resources management activities. It includes the
definition and recognition of rights held by rural populations on forest
resources under management plans and the possibility of rehabilitating natural
forests with local participation in the context of management plans and possible
revenue sharing between local communities and the Administration. It is vital
that the Government promote a proper rural development strategy that reconciles,
as far as possible, the various imperatives of agro-silvo-pastoral development
for the benefit of the inhabitants concerned. Furthermore, if their security of
tenure is strengthened, it is hoped that farmers can be dissuaded from exploiting
the soil simply to make a quick profit.
2.27        The overall response of Benin to the environmental challenge would
be built around an Environmental Action Plan (EAP) initiated with UNSO, German,
French and IDA assistance.  The EAP would define the overall objectives, the
means to improve national implementation capability and the policy and
institutional framework.   The pilot actions to be implemented through this
project would develop hands-on experience and help formulate the EAP.
Environmental action programs benefiting from the experience of pilot operations
would thereafter be initiated.



-8-
F.          Role of IDA
2.28        The recent reorientation of Benin's development strategy entails
requests from its government for IDA to provide assistance keyed to the strong
points and main issues of the country's economy. The assistance strategy will
tie in with the Government's adjustment efforts under its structural adjustment
program.  IDA's assistance in the years ahead, in the rural sector, is planned
to include support for agricultural services, private sector promotion,
agricultural credit, improvement of food security and management of natural
resources and of the environment.
2.29        The rural sector of Benin is in the process of an extensive, step-by-
step review, financed by IDA and French assistance.  The objective of the review
is to analyze needs and problems in the sector and identify development actions.
The July 1990 seminar (para. 2.25) led to the preparation of a rural development
policy letter which served as the basis for negotiations of the Agricultural
Services Restructuring Project in May 1991.  The drafting of a sector review
report is in its final stages. The conclusions of these studies, the experience
derived from earlier projects and the recommendations of various IDA missions
have made it possible to sustain a fruitful dialogue with the Government and
other donors and to propose policy actions, institutional changes and specific
investments designed to address the main rural development and environmental
issues.
2.30        Future IDA financed operations in the agriculture sector will be
geared to Benin's strategic policy and investment options. The Environmental
Action Plan, the restructuring of agricultural services and natural resources
management will help address the principal issues in the strategy and action
programs for the environment, the institutional framework, support services for
the rural population, and the rational management of renewable natural resources.
These activities will at the same time promote legislation and initiate an action
program, whose main planks will be the development of local capacity for natural
resources planning, the introduction of a monitoring system and the initiation
of remedial actions.
G.          Previous IDA experience in the sector
2.31         The policy dialogue which is being conducted between the government,
IDA and interested donors regarding a rational approach to environmental problems
and the conservation of natural resources has evolved from the Forestry Sector
Development Project which IDA has confinanced with KfW. That credit financed
institutional strengthening of the Forestry Department and the planting of 3,800
ha of teak under public sector management. At the same time, it led to broader
reflection on the rational management of natural resources within a more
comprehensive approach that would involve the rural population and other private
operators and could promote the development of a sustainable production base.
2.32        Rural development has often been planned and implemented within a
sectoral and regional frame, along objectives elaborated without involving the
local inhabitants in the decision-making process. Village communities were not
made responsible for the sustainable management of the natural resources on which
their long-term development would rely. The emphasis has been on reforestation
and ambitious protection measures which have often been inapplicable or
unsustainable.
2.33        The recent strategy of reducing State involvement in the production
and marketing process and favoring a more decentralized approach and community
development is conducive to a more ample farmer participation. It will encourage
the development of sustainable production systems by allowing farmers and



- 9 -
stockraisers to identify in conjunction with MDR staff, ways of altering
production practices that have become unsuitable, and to ensure the villagers'
willing participation in managing natural resources for long-term economic gains.
2.34        Although this approach ie  still experimental  (para.2.35),  pilot
operations of this nature in Sahel countries, and to a limited extent in Benin,
show preliminary results. Community response is generally positive and Village
Committees prove active in solving land related conflicts and in organizing the
community for better and sustainable management of their common resources.
Although activities of this type are expanding rapidly and increasingly being
adopted by Government services, NGOs and donor agencies, some potential
constraints have to be highlighted: (a) empowerment of local communities in the
management of natural resources implies the clarification of rights over the
utilization of those resources and the enactment of supporting legislation (land,
forest, wildlife); (b) the institutional organization varies considerably in the
implementation of natural resources management; however a consensus emerges that
the planning and management of field operations should be as decentralizad as
possible, with proper articulation between various Government services and with
NGOs for overall coherence and long term development impact; (c) the
participatory approach requires considerable sensitization and training of
technicians and planners; it also requires flexibility in adapting the pace of
preparation and implementation of management plans to the local community's
capacity and willingness.
H.          The proposed local community land management approach
2.35        The local community land (terroir) approach is community-based,
participatory and holistic. The key element in this approach is the preparation
of a land development plan by the community with the assistance of a
multidisciplinary team of technicians. The plan would include rules govcrning
access to and utilization of natural resources, including the necessary land
improvement works.  These improvements must start with and be accompanied by
awareness-building measures and specific diagnostics, and should be based on the
villagers' acceptance of the resulting management responsibilities. The plan
would be implemented with technical and financial assistance from governmental
and non-governmental sources. The approach, which is in line with the objectives
stated in MDR's letter on rural development policy of May 1991, has a number of
corollaries, namely:
(a)   Policy reforms.   The most important issue to be reso4ved is the
definition  of  clear  land  tenure  policies.    This  requires  an
experimental, pragmatic and gradual approach. Land tenure problems
must be tackled at:   (i) the local level, by terroir,  to take
account of traditional customs and organizations; (ii) the regional
level--monitoring local actions; (iii) the national level--gathering
the data to prepare government policy on land tenure. The approach
must take account of the specific features of local land tenure
conditions and must enjoy the largest possible political support.
Environmental legislation must provide a basis for policies and
actions in the sectors concerned (forests, hunting, water,
transhumance...).    The  Environmental  Action  Plan  would  help
elaborate environmental policies and legislation.
(b)   Strengthening the planning and monitoring/evaluation capacity of the
central services. This requires a data gathering program on (i) the
changing condition of natural resources; (ii) the dynamics of land
occupation and productivity; (iii) the demographic carrying capacity
of the land and the identification of zones at risk; (iv) the
production/consumption balance for fuelwood; and (v) climatic
changes.   This will facilitate the preparation, at national and
regional level, of sector policies and plans for natural resource
management.



- 10 -
(c)   The  empowerment  of  local  communities  must  be  accompanied  by
delegation and decentralization of management of field activities.
Local management units should bring together villager and support
technicians under a local manager who would assist and oversee the
preparation and implementation of land use management plans on a
partnership basis between the technicians and the community.
Programs and budgets would be agreed between the management unit and
the central authorities on an annual basis. The units must ensure
coordination with local public services, NGOs, private entrepreneurs
and credit agencies. The local management units would benefit from
government support services in terms of training, information and
monitoring from the central level.
(ti)  Training must be provided to villagers, technicians, extensionists
and local and central public servants. The training of producers
along with extension agents should create a convergence between
traditional practices and knowledge and the possibilities for
acceptable technical improvements. In addition to the training on
the   terroir  approach  received  on  recruitment,   the  teams
participating in the pilot operations and the extension agents and
technicians working with these teams should be trained in the new
methods of working with the rural inhabitants (joint analvsis and
testing) and in agricultural techniques, in the context of natural
resource development and management. By involving both the pilot
operations teams and the extension agents, this training would help
to build a national capacity ensuring the expansion and
replicability of the approach.
Ce)   The  promotion  of new  farming  systems  and  agro-silvo-pastoral
production methods will be essential to the improvement of
traditional agriculture. Under the terroir approach, the promotion
of new farming systems and production methods must ensure
compatibility between the collective interest and individual
interests.    The  approach  will  comprise:  (i) actions  at  the
individual farm level (anti-erosion measures, rotation improvements,
use of organic fertilizers, crop and forage diversification,
integration and intensification of stockraising); (ii) actions
requiring the active involvement of all members of the community
(anti-erosion works, development and management of forestry, pasture
resources, bottom-lands and water points); and (iii) other actions
at the village level to improve the community infrastructure and
services (water supply, access roads, input purchases, agricultural
credit, marketing and maintenance). The approach will have to take
into account the specific situations of different groups within the
community with particular emphasis on women and young farmers.
(f)   The  approach  adopted  for  research  and  development  under  the
reorganization  of MDR  fits  the  requirement  of  community  land
management. It allows researchers, extension agents and producers
to work together at all stages of the planning, execution and
evaluation of the tests undertaken. Research activities would be
refocused on the fields of rural producers working in conjunction
with the pilot operation teams. The aim would be to better identify
constraints, generate a technology better suited to local needs,
improve technology transfer by encouraging closer collaboration
among all parties and ensure management by the rural producers
themselves.



- 11 -
(g)   Coordination with other ongoing activities should lead to exchan3es
of experience and the transter of available technologies, and should
enable technicians to be given practical training. This would help
ensure more balanced rural development and provide the information
required to improve the management of natural resources, via the
sensitization and empowerment of local communities.
III. THE PROJECT
A.           Justification
3.01        Agricultural development in Benin ls increasingly hampered by the
deterioration of natural resources. The demand for arable land, resulting from
population growth, has reduced the duration of the fallow period, led to the
cropping of land normally reserved for grazing and undermined the tree cover.
In addition, uncontrolled bush fires, uncontrolled herd movements and land tenure
insecurity have thwarted the establishment of sustainable production systems.
The result is (a) a loss of production potential, due to decreased soil fertility
(para 2.09) and significant erosion on cultivated hillsides; and (b) growing
pressure on protected land.
3.02        There is at present in Benin an overall balance between food supply
and demand.   This balance is however achieved at the expense of a gradual
depletion of natural resources and decrease of soil fertility, which endangers
its sustainability. The proposed natural resources management actions therefore
seek neither a substantial short term increase in agricultural production (other
than in areas where food security is at risk) nor a protection of renewable
resources at the expense of more immediate production levels. They seek methods
to increase productivity with lesser pressure on natural resources. Villagers
would be made aware of the long term benefits of resource sustainability, of the
short term advantages of increased food security in risk areas and of more
appropriate and less costly production methods.
3.03        Sustainable balance between food supply and demand requires the
improvement of land (including rangeland) assets and management, sedentarization
and intensification of agriculture, improved growing methods, and hence
protection of natural resources. The proposed project is intended t6 assist the
government in implementing its stated policy of making the short term objectives
of villagers compatible with their long-term interests, making the rural
communities and stockraisers responsible for the management of their assets; and
to develop appropriate and replicable technology for that purpose, acceptable to
the local inhabitants. Sensitization campaigns undertaken would highlight prior
and free consent of local populations, based on their understanding of the
expected short and long term advantages. Improvement of the economic context as
regards outlets, trade, inputs and infrastructure in both rural and urban areas
would be sought through other programs.
B.           Objectives
3.04        Two basic objectives are pursued:  (a) institution-building including
the review, enactment and enforcement of legislation, policy design,
strengthening of the planning, monitoring and evaluation capacity; and (b) pilot
actions that promote sustainable uses of agro-sylvo-pastoral resources and help
stem the degradation of renewable natural resources. Activities would proceed
in tandem with the preparation of an Environmental Action Plan, which would
eventually help establish national expertise on environmental issues in the
various sectors of the economy.
3.05        The pilot operations would test:  (a) the use of techniques conducive
to sustained production, without undermining the production potential, by giving



- 12 -
priority to improving locally known techniques, while also testing other
promising techniques; (b) a better agro-silvo-pastoral integration as part of
village land management; (c) the empowerment and involvement of the communities
and individuals in the management of natural resources; and (d) linkages with
other agricultural servicee and sectoral programs to improve the operations'
sustainability.
3.06        This five-year operation would constitute the first phase of a long-
term program. Its experience would be gradually integrated into the other rural,
forestry and livestock development programs, and would provide support to CARDER
activities and those of other rural support entities.
C.          Brief description of the project
3.07        The project would combine (a) institution-building activities, which
are national in scope; with (b) site-specific field activities of three types:
(i) management of three gazetted forests; (ii) watershed development at four
pilot sites including land tenure operations and research-development activities;
and (iii) wildlife management at two pilot sites on the border of the national
parks and hunting areas. The main components of the project would be:
1.    Institution-building
(a)   Institutional support, comprising strengthening of the planning,
management   and   monitoring/evaluation   capability,   including
formulation o' a national forestry program, review of present
legislation and enforcement of poaching control in the national
parks.
(b)   Training  of  farmers  and  local  communities,  multidisciplinary
extension agents, specialized technicians, land management teams and
planners.
(c)   Various studies.
2.    Site-specific activities
(a)   Management  of  forestry  resources:  Development  plans would  be
formulated for better management and protection of three pilot
natural forest sites by the local inhabitants.
(b)   Watershed development/management:  Activities would be carried out
at four priority test zones that are representative of the diverse
ecological and rural socioeconomic situations in the country.
(c)   Land tenure operations:  Land tenure surveys would be carried out,
with the assistance of the communities, on the same watersheds
comprising the registration of land rights (land tenure plans), with
a view to the eventual formulation of a national land legislation.
(d)   Research and development:  The research and development network now
being established by the DRA would be strengthened in the four
watersheds so that trials could be carried out with and by the
farmers in agro-silvo-pastoral activities with the assistance of
researchers and extension agents.
(e)   Wildlife management:  Wildlife management would be promoted on two
sites of the Pendjari and Djona hunting areas, with farmer
involvement.



- 13 -
D.          Detailed description
1.          Institution-buildinR
(a)   Strengthening of the planning, management, monitoring and evaluation
capability
3.08        The new Directorate of Forests and Natural Resources (DFRN) would
play a key role in information management, policy preparation and planning. It
would in particular prepare a national forestry resource utilization
program for an optimal combination of conservation of protected zones and parks
and satisfaction of the needs of the inhabitants. The forestry policy would be
based on prior studies involving the evaluation of national forestry resources
(para.3.11)  and an understanding of the wood subsector  (para.3.19).    The
Directorate would formulate the strategy and means of exploiting presently E   q-
owned industrial forests (fuelwood project, the Lama plantation, etc.) in *  _r
to transfer forestry concessions to private operators through competitive biduing
and in accordance with preset specifications. DFRN would further identify the
means of encouraging private forestry plantations and processing.   Further
support to policy formulation and preparation of a forestry program would be
provided by FAQ under UNDP  .ofinancing.   Assurances were  obtained during
negotiations that the forestry program would be finalized by June 30, 1993. A
new forestry code has been prepared by DFRN and submitted to Parliament. Its
adoption would be a condition of credit effectiveness.  The Government, jointly
with donors, would evaluate progress in the implementation of the forestry policy
and new forestry code during the mid-term review of the project (para. 4.11).
3.09        Policy formulation and reforms would have to involve all the actors
or participants who make the policy operate, including farmers communities, the
general  public,   interest  groups,   the  legislative  apparatus  and  the
Administration.   The cox sultation process is being carried out within the
Environmental Action Plan activities through regional and national workshops.
MDR would maintain close linkages between the entities involved in the
preparation of the EAP, the Interministerial Commission for Land Tenure Affairs
responsible for the preparation of land legislation, and the DRA, which would
coordinate the research and development network.
3.10        The project would finance the few necessary building renovations and
incremental office space, office and transport equipment, training, technical
assistance and incremental operating costs.
3.11        CENATEL  would,  under  DFRN,  be  responsible  for  environmental
monitoring and would update available information on natural resources and the
environment (mapping, forestry inventory, land use maps, location of watersheds,
erosion, transhumance, migration of populations, etc.) through remote sensing.
This capacity would be used to determine the causes of resource degradation, help
in rural planning and decision-making, permit the monitoring of the impact of
development policies, propose remedial measures and guide sectoral investments.
CENATEL would produce nationwide coverage maps on a scale of 1:100,000 of current
land use and plant cover. It would also provide, on request, ad hoc information
and cartographic services to private agents or enterprises.  The Center would
become the national archive for baseline satellite data. It would have a certain
amount of management autonomy.   Technical complementaritv with the National
Cartographic Institute (INC) (establishment of the metric network) and the
National Agropedology Center (CENAP) (map printing) would be sought. A detailed
list of studies and monitoring operations to be carried out is given in their
order of priority in Working Document no. 3.  The project would finance the
purchase of aerial photos for the pilot sites, a national coverage of satellite
images, equipment for, inter alia, setting up a geodetic reference system,
teleanalysis, thematic photo-mapping, and baseline map production (Annex 4),
minimum transportation resources, initial technical assistance and outside
consultations or subcontracting as well as incremental operating costs.



- 14 -
3.12        To control poaching, seven of the most sensitive control posts
within the Pendjari national park, the Atakora hunLing zone and the W national
park would be strengthened.  Greater poaching control, would help ensure the
survival of the natural heritage of Benin in the national parks of the north,
which are subject to strong human pressures. The proposed actions would provide
continuity between earlier activities financed by EDF and a regional national
park program under preparation, also for EDF financing. The project would finance
the means of transportation and communications for the forestry posts, their
rehabilitation and incremental operating costs.
(b)   Training
3.13        Training would be provided to villagers and local communities,
polyvalent extension agents, technical specialists and planners since in many
cases attitudes and practices regarding environmental management must be
drastically changed. It would supplement the training to be provided under the
ongoing restructuring of MDR and draw upon existing structures and local
expertise. The main task would be to organize training for project personnel and
subsequently to permit, through the local management teams and agricultural
service  agencies,  the  transfer  of  the  necessary  know-how  to  the  rural
populations.    The component would make  the terroir management procedures
understood by Beninese officials and entities which are as yet unfamiliar with
such an approach.
3.14        Training of villagers.  The village communities would be made aware
of the risks associated with the degradation of natural resources and of the
activities  proposed  as  palliatives.    Villagers  would  be  trained  on  the
objectives, means and procedures of resource management (terroir management
committee, conditions for access to financing, land tenure plans), and on
corresponding techniques (land improvement, intensification of production, forest
management, diversification of economic activities). Villager training would
rely on experimentation and acquisition of know-how through contact with the
extension agents, technical specialists, researchers and other service providers.
Some 120,000 people would be reached in the rural areas.
3.15        The Savalou (Zou) rural promotion center, to be built and managed by
the Mani-Tese NGO and modeled after the Tempdgr4 center, would train out-of-
school rural youth in natural resource management. The project would finance
training costs of the center during two-years, after which the center would
achieve financial autonomy. A one-year resident program would be offered to some
20 youth every year. These youth would then provide contact points for rural
development activities and services.
3.16        The training of the local management units, research and development
staff and rural extension agents would enable them (a) to carry out a diagnostic
study of agricultural and farming systems; (b) help the community set its
priorities, appraise investments and negotiate the necessary financial and
technical support; and (c) advise and counsel their communities in proceeding
with the investments.   These staff would be selected on the basis of their
motivation and ability to follow a participatory approach (capacity for dialogue,
knowledge of the local language). Basic training for the local management teams
and CARDER extension agents, RDRs and subject matter specialists working with
them would be provided by MDR with the assistance of a specialized institution,
which would provide methodological support missions one month a year to ensure
the appropriate focusing of the training. If necessary, seminars and field trips
in West 4frica would be organized for team personnel.   Overall,  some 34
specialists from the local management and R-D teams, 37 extension, outreach and
research agents, 14 RDRs, and 12 forestry agents would be trained. In addition,
training for CARDER agents is to be provided as part of the restructuring
operations.



- 15 -
3.17        Central level staff (para.4.03) responsible for the planning and
coordination of the activities financed by the project (coordinator, trainer,
rural works and forestry specialists and the head of land tenure operations)
would receive training either before project start-up, to the extent that the
people have already been identified, or immediately afterwards, in the form of
intensive short-term internships on the terroir management approach, provided by
specialized institutions, possibly abroad, supplemented by visits to similar
activities in the West Africa region. The financial controller of DFRN would
receive sJmilar periodic training in financial control, management and monitoring
prior to project start-up. Specialized short-term training would be given abroad
by remote sensing specialists to CENATEL technical personnel in photographic
processing, satellite imaging techniques and the use of specialized software.
CARDER and ministry managers. local authorities, local management units and NGOs,
would attend national seminars organized by the central level staff each year and
courses nt the local faculty of agronomy, and would participate in study trips
to provide broad-based awareness-raising in the terroir approach and facilitate
its understanding.
3.18        At the start of activities, specialized consultancy would be sought
to help the training specialist establish the details of the training programs
and modules for the first year as well as the curricula for seminars and
workshops. Further technical assistance, lasting one year, would be provided to
the training specialist in the implementation of the programs.
(c)   Studies
3.19        The project would finance:
(a)  a master plan for Borgou natural resource development, to include:
(i) an inventory of available natural resources; (ii) an evaluation
of carrying -Apacity; (iii) the delimitation of homogeneous
development areas and zones at risk; (iv) the determination of
priorities for lanid use and main transhumance routes; (v) a new
delimitation of protected zones; (vi) the formulation of development
models for rural areas; and (vii) the location of livestock water
points. The plan could also propose a terroir development program
for the short, medium and long run, in accordance with environmental
protection  regulatioids.    The  study  should draw  from previous
experience and ongoing experiments of the various parties already
involved in the area such as CARDERs, teams or NCOs. It would not
begin until the necessary base maps on soil su.titability, plant
cover,  etc.,  which  are  already  planned  to b   produced  using
satellite imagery, are available;
(b)   a study (possibly by an NGO) of wood subsectors to identify overall
and local needs for ligneous material, the main production areas and
commercial channels, in order to calculate proje:ted supply and
demand over the next 10 to 20 years and help define the forestry
program;
(c)   the means of establishing, managing and funding a Natural Resource
Management Fund to facilitate the sustainability ard expansion of
activities beyond the pilot areas and the duratien of project
funding;
(d)   an analysis of the causes and economic impact of the degradation of
natural resources in Benin; and
(e)   other studies as necessary.



- 16 -
2.          Site-specific activities
(a)   Management of natural forests
3.20        The gazetting of forests during the colonial period with a view to
overall protection was often not understood by the local inhabitants.
Legislation, severely limiting community usage rights, was not enforced owing to
a lack of means.  Today, natural forests are shrinking at an alarming rate as
they are increasingly cleared by farmers and stockraisers.  The protection of
such forests requires the establishment of conservation and management plans
which, while wa ntaining the gazetting, allow for local community involvement in
reforestation, and for profit-sharing on permitted utilizations. The management
plans would be formulated by the communities with the assistance of local
management units, in close cooperation with the Forestry Administration, which
would oversee implementation.
3.21        Three pilot forestry operations would test participatory management
methods for different types of natural stands, involving the communities and
forestry associations, in the gazetted forest of (a) the Oueme Superieur
(southern Borgou and Atacora), supplying fuelwood for Parakou and Djougou with
142,500 ha still relatively untouched by agricultural clearings; (b) Toui Kilibo
(northern Zou), covering 49,000 ha, with villages established within the forest
and subject to recent uiicontrolled encroachments; and (c) Dogo-Ketou (north of
the Oueme), covering 43,000 ha already largely settled and subject to fairly
strong demographic pressure, with half of the forest apparently cleared and the
rest largely degraded. Preparatory assistance for the eventual management of the
Mont Kouff6 forest is also being envisaged by FAO under UNDP financing.
3.22        Prerequisites   for  the  forestry  management  operations  are:
(a) mapping and inventory; (b) a sociological survey to determine pertinent
village structures, forestry user groups, land tenure aspects, current
utilization of the forest (water, grazing, hunting, gathering, crops, wood,
etc.); and (c) identification and extension of techniques for limiting pressure
on   forested   areas   (agro-silvo-pastoral   intensification,   improvement
of infrastructure,  villager plantations,  pasture management).   After  such
preparatory activities lasting about six to twelve months, a forest management
plan would be established, defining the possibilities for natural and artificial
regeneration, the regulations governing the utilization of wood and byproducts,
necessary human resources and a timetable. Operational guidelines would define
the role of village groups in the multi-purpose forestry management plans.
3.23        The forestry management plans would propose targets and actions to
improve forestry protection as part of the new participatory approach (a) in the
forest: control of fire, grazing and hunting, thinnings, natural regeneration,
enrichment of deteriorated existing forests and planting in already cleared
areas;   (b) outside  the  forest:       improvement  in  farming  techniques,
sedentarization and stabilization of agriculture; and (c) along the peripheries:
demarcation, delimitation, firebreaks, and buffer plantations where the forest
has been destroyed (see Annex 2).
3.24        Participatory management operations would be possible only where
villages exist on the periphery, and forestry activities would be limited to
authorized sustainable uses within pre-agreed management plans. For each forest,
the management plan should clearly identify the areas to be protected in full,
and buffer zones where a rational management system can be established with a
sharing of revenue between the Government and the local communities or forestry
groups.  That revenue could be generated from several sources:   thinnings,
selective cuttings for biological improvement, fuelwood, charcoal, honey, meat
from hunting, fishing, hay, karite nut butter, fruits and other products of
gathering, as well as the fees paid by users outside the community (grazing,
hunting and other).  Protection and replantation works would also provide an
income to employed workers. Regulations would specify how revenues would be



- 17 -
distributed, as well as the conditionA governing the agricultural activities
coupled with replanting methods in the buffer zone. A revenue sharing formula
for each management plan to ensure farmer participation would be agreed between
the government and the communities.
3.25        Buffer zones would be located on already cleared areas within the
gazetted forests. A participatory replanting system would enable the farmers to
continue producing their crops on state land, interspersed with young forest
plantations which they would establish and maintain during some three years,
after which the height of the trees would preclude cropping and another
deforested tract would be assigned to the farmers in the buffer zone.   The
government would encourage this participation through compensation for the
seedlings and their maintenance (see Annex 2).  The local management teams and
the Forestry Administration would provide monitoring and regular support.
3.26        Project activities would not entail any involuntary resettlement but
take into account both the interests of indigenous populations and protection
criteria. Nor would the project require in semi-dry partially degraded forests
the kind of intensive development that would be needed in moist tropical forests.
3.27        At each pilot site, a team consisting of a forestry development
specialist, a sociologist specialized in rural groups, an agronomist with
expertise in herding and an accountant would provide support to the communities
involved in this component.   Topographical support would be needed for the
formulation of the development plans on the basis of aerial photos and field
demarcation. The CARDER polyvalent extension agent would work with the team in
accordance with an agreement to be concluded between the project coordinator and
the CARDER.   Forestry agents would also be involved within their respective
duties. Preparatory activities and subsequent preparation and implementation of
management plans would begin at the Toui Kilibo site first to ensure
complementarity with the activities planned by the watershed team based in nearby
Ouesse (para 3.28). Activities at the Ouemd Superieur and Dogo-Ketou sites would
begin respectively in the second and third years of the project. An expatriate
forestry specialist would help in start-up operations at the three sites. He
would first be based in Parakou and later in Sav4 or Cotonou. The project would
finance the construction of offices and sheds for the forestry associations at
each site, means of transportation and equipment for the support teams,
strengthening of the forestry posts around the pilot sites, improvement works,
consulting services and incremental operating costs.
(b)   Watershed development
3.28        Pilot development plans would be undertaken in four watersheds
representative of different agro-ecological zones and located at: (a) Aplahoud
in Mono, with a high population density and extensive soil degradation, requiring
erosion control, biological measures to improve soil fertility, development of
bottom-lands and agro-forestry; (b) Ouesse in Zou, still potentially rich in land
but subject to uncontrolled settlement, bush fires and conflicts between
stockraisers and farmers; (c) Boukoumbe in Atacora, characterized by total
deforestation, strong human and animal pressure, lack of available land, and
production on steep slopes associated with significant erosion; and (d) Ouakd in
Atacora, suffering from severe bush fire problems, poor and degraded soils and
heavy emigration, requiring the sedentarization and intensification of
agriculture, development of agro-forestry and protection of land.  Watershed
development activities, following the two phased approach described below, would
be gradually initiated, starting with the two watersheds of Ouesse (Zou) and
Aplahoue (Mono), where socioeconomic studies and preliminary development plans
have already been prepared. After similar preparatory studies, activities would
begin at Boukoumbe during the second year of the project and finally at Ouak4
during the third year.



- 18 -
3.29        On each site, in a first phase lasting about one year:  (a) the local
communities would be made more aware of their responsibilities and of the forms
of support that would be offered them under the terroir management operation; (b)
the first villages to be assisted would be identified; (c) interested inhabitants
would, with outside technical support, work on a diagnostic of the natural
resource management problems in their area on the basis of their knowledge of the
situation and its causes; (d) research and development operations would begin
with the local inhabitants in conjunction with the extension service to develop
solutions to the problems diagnosed; (e) the first land tenure surveys and
delimitation of property would begin with a view to establishing a land registry;
(f) the community would appoint representatives (Terroir Management Committee)
who, together with the techn4:al support team, would identify and prepare
priority actions under a mul.-year plan for the sustainable management of
natural resources; and (g) the same people would seek financing and technical
support  for the  implementation  of those  actions.    They would present  a
development brief as a basis for contracts with providers of services oL
complementary funds (NGOs, government, financial institutions). The multi-year
plans would reflect the various problems facing community members, including the
most disadvantaged groups.   In this regard, the position of women is often
delicate and would be given particular attention so that they can participate in
the committee and benefit on an equal footing from the development process, with
particular attention to land tenure, water and fuelwood chores, and technical
assistance. Research and development activities would further test how the
interests of women would be best served.
3.30        The second phase would see the implementation of the management plan
and continuation of research and development operations and land registration.
It is impossible to anticipate the type and size of investments envisaged by the
management plans. For costing purposes of the watershed development action, a
number of models have been produced (Annex 3) and lump sums of about US$50,000
have been tentatively allocated to each of about 40 villages (10 per site)
concerned. Experience from similar pilot actions in Benin and elsewhere suggests
a number of possible activities: (a) seed beds and village or private fuelwood
and timber plantations, land improvement, conservation and reclamation; (b) the
rational management of wooded savanna to enhance forestry potential and
protection; (c) improvement and intensification of traditional agro-livestock-
forestry farming systems, inputs in organic matter from improved fallow or agro-
forestry systems, contour ridging, alternate rows of fallow land and crops, etc.;
(d) erosion control techniques (filtering hedges, low stone walls, ravine
correction); (e) development of bottom-lands; (f) management of pasture land and
transhumance zones; and (g) improvement of local infrastructure and services of
communal interest (roads, storage, wells, associative eniterprises for input
supply, access to agricultural credit, marketing and maintenance, etc.). Urgent
action for which the benefits are clear could begin without waiting for the
management plans, so as to stimulate the local communities and respond to an
expressed need that is consistent with the overall approach. In each watershed
and throughout the period, the activities would expand gradually from 2 to 10
villages, while remaining flexible as regards requests from other villages.
3.31         Each pilot zone woull be assisted by a local management unit based
in Azove (Mono), Ouesse (Zou), Djougou and Boukoumbe (Atacora). The unit would
be composed of an agronomist specialized in rural works, two technicians (agro-
forestry and agro-pastoralist),  a sociologist and an accourtant.   In the
villages, the team would seek an agreement with the CARDER to provide extension
agents capable of working with the multidisciplinary team on an equal footing.
The CARDER subject matter specialist and sector chief would also work with the
team, providing monitoring on behalf of the CARDER. The team would provide the
communities with assistance for the preparation and implementation of the
management plans. An expatriate agronomist specialized in rural work would be
recruited to assist in start-up, coordination and monitoring. For each pilot
site, in supplement to resources available to the villages, the project would
finance preliminary studies, offices and limited storehouse space, transportation



- 19 -
resources for the team, equipment, land improvement works under the management
plan, consulting services and incremental operating costs.
(c)   Land tenure operations
3.32        The pilot operations would introduce an experimental, pragmatic and
gradual approach for each terroir, leading to the formulation of a rural l'd
plan describing the relations between holders of land tenure rights. At the same
time, a legal document, which could be used as collateral and as a basis for
transaction, would be established. Over the short run, at the watershed sites,
the nature and severity of land tenure problems would be assessed.  Eventually,
a national polic, would be formulated on the basis of field data and technical,
sociological, legal and political analyses. as a prelude to land legislation and
to a national renewable resource management policy.
3.33        The project would finance investments and operating costs for land
tenure  surveys at the four watershed pilot sites  to:   (a) determine  the
demographic, geographic, economic, land tenure, legal and sociological features
of the area; (b) identify corresponding land rights (nature, origin, duration,
conditions of acquisition, nature of identified conflicts); and (c) delimit those
rights. The resulting land tenure plan would include (i) a map on a scale of
1:10,000 (from photos at 1:30,000) showing the terroir borders and communal or
individual plots; and (ii) a register of the rightholders and of the nature of
rights they exercise. The rural land tenure plan would indicate the rights as
they are perceived and recognized by the villagers and as resulting from
agreements between individuals, neighbors, families and villages, declared to the
survey team and not contested by third parties (see Annex 1). The survey teams
would not be empowered to either change the declarations received or settle any
conflicts.  Contested rights would not be registered until the conflicts are
resolved.
3.34        An information and awareness-raising campaign and a demographic
survey would be carried out at the pilot sites before the field works proper.
The topographical surveys would have the same value as those carried out by the
prefecture. All operations, from the demographic survey through the registration
of rights would carry legal status. For that purpose, an official order of the
Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Rural Development would be issued
before the start of the land tenure operations. Survey results could be appealed
within some three months of their publication. Recognized right owners would be
given a receipt and a plat that could be used to obtain provisional or definitive
title under the future land legislation.
3.35        The  land  tenure  component would  be  implemented  by  the  local
management  team assisted by topographers  contracted from INC.   The Rural
Legislation and Promotion Directorate of MDR would maintain and operate the rural
land tenure registry. The Ministry of the Interior, through the prefects and
subprefects, would be responsible for the information campaign and the
publication of the land tenure plan before the start of the appeal period. The
subprefecture and prefecture land offices would monitor and maintain the land
tenure plan in their localities. The Terroir Management Committees would do the
same at the village level. The Ministry of Justice would be responsible for the
eventual preparation of the land tenure code.
(d)   Research and Development (R-D)
3.36        This component would require coordination and close liaison with the
R-D activities proposed under the ongoing restructuring of MDR and the
restructuring of agronomic research to be soon elaborated. MDR's R-D activities
would be focused on on-site adaptive research, overseen by the farmers with the
participation and monitoring of researchers and extension agents. Moreover, R-D
centers would be established, under the restructuring of agricultural services,
in each of the four main agro-ecological regions to support field experimentation



- 20 -
and staffed with a multidisciplinary team of researchers. The pilot watershed
development sites of Aplahoue, Ouesse, Boukoumbe and Ouake are part of the R-D
network. Natural resources management activities planned by the local management
teams would be c.rried out in close collaboration with R-D programs and build
upon their results. MDR's R-D operations would take into account the calendar
proposed for the natural resources pilot activities in the different sites.
3.37        R-D activities on the pilot sites would take into account the
farmers'constraints in soil protection, improvement of fallow, establishment of
crops,  agro-forestry and the management of the terroir to generate better
technology.      Liaison with  rural  exter.sion  shoulIdensure  the  subsequent
dissemination of the innovations introduced on the farmers' fields. Contacts
with national and international researchers on specific subjects could generate
ideas for subsequent experimentation in the field or at the research stations.
3.38        The planned strengthening of the research and development teams in
forestry matters would compensate for certain gaps in knowledge as regards:
(a) the management of natural forests and natural and artificial regeneration
techniques;  (b) the management  of  fires  end clearing  techniques;  (c) the
management of pasture land; and (d) agro-fcrestry and regeneration techniques in
savanna areas. The reorientation of forestry research from its current focus on
state forest plantations to the above objectives would be achieved as part of the
reorganization of agronomic research.
3.39         A   watershed   development   specialist   would   assist   each
multidisciplinary research team in Mono, Zou and Atacora. A forestry engineer
would be added to the Zou team for the operations slated in Toui, and one in
Borgou (Ina) for Oueme Superieur. A research technician would provide support
to the R-D teams at each watershed site.   The project would finance the
establishment, equipment and incremental operating costs of these specialists.
3.40        The Toui Forestry Research Unit (URF) would serve as a base for the
R-D teams. To that end, the project would finance the establishment, equipment
and operating costs of a research technician. The URF lacks appropriate funding
and suffers from a lack of expertise and from poor skills mix. In order not to
lose the experience of URF, the project would also finance ongoing experiments
for two years, pending the formulation of the agronomic research master plan.
(e)   Wildlife management
3.41        Wildlife management would be initiated at the sites of Batia and
Alphakouara, located on the border of the Pendjari and rjona hunting areas.
These are the two most sensitive buffer areas providing access to the Pendjari
and W national parks. Grass-roots involvement by the villagers would be sought
in the various renewable natural resource utilization and site development plans
(socioeconomic development, conservation of nature, wildlife management, agro-
silvo-pastoral  equilibrium,   small  livestock  or  game  farming,   tourism
possibilities). The rational use of a buffer area between the hunting zone and
human settlements would be conceived under the management of a village committee.
Moreover, as part of the development of the Batia site, the organization of
hunting in the "free hunting" area would be entrusted to the local inhabitants
under the supervision of forest rangers. Tracking, food, beverage and other
services would be privatized. The community, through a management committee,
would also share with government in income from hunting permits or bagging fees,
in accordance with a formula to be negotiated among the two parties. The project
would finance the cost of an agronomist with a background in ecology, a
zootechnician (specialized in wildlife) and an accountant, as well as limited
infrastructure,  the  necessary  rural  works,  and    equipment,  means  of
transportation and incremental operating costs for staff.



- 21 -
IV. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A.    Organization
4.01        The natural resources management project would focus on supporting
and strengthening the rural entities involved in the sector, regardless of their
status (public, associative or private), with a view to sustainable development
through the participation of local inhabitants. Sufficient authority would be
delegated to local management teams (para.4.06) in support of community
development. The responsibilities of each entity participating in the operations
would be the subject of annual formal understandings between the project
coordinator and those entities defining work programs and budgets.  Components
of a public sector nature would be implemented by existing line agencies.
4.02        Central level.  Central oversight of the project would rest with the
Ministry of Rural Development (MDR). Its coordination would be entrusted to an
official of the Directorate of Forests and Natural Resources  (DFRN).   The
coordinator would be responsible for all programming, budget planning,
contracting and monitoring and evaluation of central and field activities. He
would supervise the field work and coordinate the activities of the various
participating institutions and departments. Aspects related to the formulation
of a forestry policy, support for the forestry services and poaching control
activities would be managed directly within the DFRN. The land tenure component
would be implemented in conjunction with the other ministries involved and in
particular the Interministerial Commission for Land Tenure Affairs (Ministry of
Justice), the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Finance and INC. The
activities associated with environmental monitoring, forest cover inventory and
thematic mapping would be carried out by CENATEL in conjunction with INC and
CENAP. The research and development component would be carried out through the
DRA in cooperation with the CARDERs and the local management teams.
4.03        The  project  coordinator  would  be  assisted  by  a  rural  works
specialist, a forestry specialist and a financial controller (all available at
DFRN), and a chief accountant, a training specialist, and a head of land tenure
operations. Technical assistance, which would need to be contracted, comprising
specialists in watershed development, natural forest management, training, land
tenure and overall development strategy, would be provided to help launch the
main activities. Four United Nations volunteers would also provide support to
the field operations.   The coordinator would also help the DFRN and CARDERs
implement  the national policy for the sector.   He would maintain regular
communications with the Environmental Action Plan preparation unit.
4.04        The project coordinator has been appointed and has participated in
credit negotiations. Central level national coordination staff have also been
appointed. The selection of the technical assistance staff is a condition of
credit effectiveness.
4.05        Given the intersectoral nature of the project and the number of
parties involved, a Coordinating Committee chaired by the Minister of Rural
Development or his delegate has been established.   It brings together the
technical departments of MDR dealing with natural resources management and the
pilot field activities, the project coordinator, other ministries as may be
involved and representatives of the donors. Its goal are to keep informed of
progress in implementing the program, to discuss its results and examine proposed
activity lines and budgets. Specific problems exceeding the ambit o.f the project
coordinator could also be discussed. The coordinator would provide the technical
and administrative secretariat for the Committee and help prepare the
documentation to be examined by it (programs and budgets, balance sheets,
monitoring reports, etc.). The Committee would meet at least twice a year. In
order to ensure institutional coherence with the on-going agricultural services
reform, the nomination and start of duty of the professional staff in DFRN and
in the forestry Directorate of the CARDERs would be a condition of credit



- 22 -
effectiveness. In order to avoid duplication of efforts, the project coordinator
could eventually contract some of the field activities out to other regional
entities financed by other donors, to be implemented under his authority through
a formal agreement.
4.06        Pilot  oDerations  would  be  managed  by  local  multidisciplinary
management teams, the composition of each of which, depending on the specifics
of each site, has been defined in paras. 3.27, 3.31 and 3.41. Activity lines and
individual budgets would be prepared and agreed annually between each local
management team and the project coordinator at the central level. The head of
each local management team assisted by an accountant, would be responsible for
payments against the budgeted amounts (para.5.14). Local management team members
would be selected (if civil servants) or otherwise contracted (NGOs, the
university, or the private sector) following personal interviews and according
to criteria acceptable to IDA. CARDER extension agents would collaborate in the
pilot operations with the teams in accordance with formal agreements concluded
between the project coordinator and the CARDERs. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that competent staff with qualifications, experience, terms and
conditions of employment satisfactory to IDA would be appointed and maintained.
IDA would not finance salary supplements to civil servants working under the
proposed activities.
4.07        The local management teams would help raise community awareness,
assess issues involved in the management of local natural resources and prepare
and implement the terroir management plans. Oversight of the pilot operations
would be provided by CARDERs and Forestry Inspectorates on behalf of MDR. The
functions of control and law enforcement incumbent on the public sector in the
national forests and preserves would not be exercised by those responsible for
providing support to the rural communities in the pilot zones. The management
plans would be presented to the local authorities, CARDERs, village
representatives and interested parties in the zone (NGOs, managers of other
projects) to ensure the optimal use of existing human and financial resources and
to coordinate approaches.
4.08        At the community level, a Terroir Management Committee would be
established by each community interested in the management of its land.  The
Committee would represent the community and would be the main partner of the
local management teams in the preparation and implementation of the management
plan. Once the plan has been approved, project funds would be made available to
the local teams for implementation. Some improvements could be carried out by
the communities either individually or in association, the larger-scale works
being contracted out to existing public or private operators. Certain NGOs or
projects could also be interested in participating. As a rural community becomes
increasingly organized and accountable, the staff of the local management teams
could be gradually recruited by the community itself, to the extent that it
expresses a demand, or by other agencies providing assistance to the rural areas.
B.          Monitoring and evaluation
4.09        The project coordinator and financial controller would be responsible
for monitoring the proper implementation of activities and achievement of project
objectives. They would prepare a semiannual activity report, to be submitted to
the MDR and IDA, indic4ting the implementation progress and institutional and
budget status of the project in relation to previously approved annual plan of
operations and objectives. To that end, the coordinator would present an annual
work and training activities plan to the Coordinating Committee, the plan for the
first year being discussed in the three months following credit effectiveness.
The coordinator would also produce a project completion report (PCR) in the six
months following the closing date of the credit.  Assurances in this regard were
obtained during negotiations.



- 23 -
4.10        A simple central and field monitoring and evaluation system would
cover technical (achievements and impact), in.titutional (training) and budgetary
aspects.  The local management teams would submit activity reports every six
months.   External monitoring and evaluation would be provided by the MDR's
Sectoral Analysis Directorate on the basis of information provided by the project
controller and evaluation reports from the CARDER monitoring and evaluation
departments on the pilot operations in their jurisdiction. Outside assistance
in setting up a monitoring system would be provided at the start of the project
(para. 5.18) with periodic annual support. The resident technical assistant on
rural development would specifically cover monitoring and evaluation
responsibilities. Monitoring of the project environmental impact would largely
be the responsibility of CENATEL. Implementation of site-specific activities
will have to be flexible.   Because of the in-built participatory approach,
details on locations, type and number of investments are difficult to foresee
beforehand. The timetables would have to be adjusted annually to respond to the
demand of the communities (see Annex 8). Main indicators to be monitored, apart
from staffing and procurement, are the implementation and impact of policy
reforms, the preparation of terroir and forest management plans, their
discussion, agreement and implementation, the progress and impact of the
research-development and training components against the work programs presented
and approved annually.
4.11        Supervision missions would be fielded jointly or in a concerted
manner with the cofinanciers involved. A supervision schedule is proposed in
Annex 9. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that a mid-term review
would be carried out at the latest three years after the credit becomes
effective, by an outside team of experts. Its recommendations, once approved by
the Government and IDA, would be implemented as soon as possible.  The review
would cover inter alia: (a) project management; (b) progress made in
environmental monitoring; (c) implementation of the new forestry policy and of
the forestry code; (d) performance of the local management units in the various
pilot sites, in carrying out the preparation and implementation of the natural
resources management plans; (e) financing of new studies and programs identified
during project implementation; (f) progress in carrying out R-D and training
activities; and (g) cooperation with governmental and non-governmental
institutions and donors.
V. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A.          Cost estimate
5.01        Project base costs are estimated at some CFAF 6.2 billion over five
years, i.e. about US$21.8 million at the exchange rate prevailing in December
1991 (US$1 = CFAF 283), of which about 522 in foreign exchange. Physical and
financial contingencies could raise the total cost to some CFAF 6.9 billion, i.e.
US$24.4 million net of taxes and import duties. Villager contribution (mainly
labour) has not been estimated. The breakdown of costs is given below.



- 24 -
Summary of Project Costs
Local    Foreign | Total        Z of
Exchange               Base
Cost
_-___  SS Million -----
Planning and management                  1.9        3.1       5.0        23
Monitoring and evaluation                0.8        1.9       2.7        12
Poaching control                         0.3        0.5       0.8         4
Training                                 0.9        0.7       1.6         7
Studies                                  0.2        0.6       0.8         4
Natural forest management                1.8        1.1       2.9        13
Watershed development                    2.4        2.3       4.7        22
Land tenure operations                   0.6        0.5       1.1         5
Research and development                 1.0        0.5       1.5         7
Wildlife management                      0.4        0.3       0.7         3
Total base cost                         10.3       11.5      21.8       100
Physical contingencies                 0.7        0.8       1.5         7
Financial contingencies                0.7        0.4       1.1         5
TOTAL COST                              11.7       12.7      24.4       112
5.02         Financial contingencies reflect Bank projections for world inflation
for foreign supplies and services (1.1 for 1992, 0.4Z for 1993, 1.6Z for 1994,
3.8Z for 1995, 4.OZ for 1996) and estimated inflation in Benin for costs in local
currency (2.62 for 1992, 2.52 for 1993 and 2.42 from 1994 to 1996). Physical
contingencies range from 15Z for construction and rural works to 10Z for
vehicles, equipment and operating expenses and 02 for technical assistance,
salaries and the US$750,000 PPF already financed. A cost summary is given in
Annex 6.
B.           Financing
5.03         Investment costs, including a share of project operating costs, would
be financed by IDA, Germany, CCCE and UNDP.   The IDA share would be US$14.1
million (582), Germany US$5.1 million (21X), CCCE US$2.3 million (9Z), UNDP
US$0.6 (32), the Government shouldering the remaining US$2.3 million (92). This
latter amount would essentially cover incremental salaries and a gradually
increasing share of operating expenses (para 5.17). The Government would also
be responsible for taxes on imported goods. IDA financing, would be accorded on
the usual conditions of the Association and would be granted for a period of 40
years.



- 25 -
Financing Plan by Proiect Component
(US$ million)
IDA    RFA   CCCE   UNDP   GVT   TOTAL
Planning & Management    3.2    1.4             0.5    0.2      5.3
Monitoring & Evaluat.     1.2    1.6                   0.2      3.0
Poaching Control          0.7                          0.2      0.9
Training                  0.8    0.9                            1.7
Studies                   0.9                                   0.9
Forest Management         3.0                          0.4      3.4
Watershed Development    2.4    1.2    1.3    0.1    0.5        5.5
Land Tenure Operations                   1.0           0.2      1.2
Research & Development   1.3                           0.4      1.7
Wildlife Management       0.6        _ ___             0.2       0.8
Total                    14.1    5.1    2.3    0.6    2.3    24.4
Financing share (Z)    58      21       9      3      9      100
Financina Plan by Disbursement Category
(US$ million)
________________   IDA    RFA    CCCE  UNDP   GVT    TOTAL
Buildings and Works           3.7    0.7    0.8                   5.2
Vehicles and Equipment        2.8    0.7    0.7                   4.2
Resident Techn. Assistance   0.9    1.3                           2.2
Consult.Services & Studies   3.3    0.9    0.6   0.6              5.4
Training                      0.6    0.8                          1.4
Incr. Operating Costs        2.0    0.7    0.2             2.3    5.2
PPF                           0.8                                 0.8
TOTAL                         14.1_ 5.1    2.3   0.6    2.3    24.4
C.          Procurement
5.04        T: , table below summarizes the project elements and their estimated
costs and proposed methods of procurement.



- 26 -
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrancements
(USS mllion equivalent)
Procurement Method
Project Ele"ont                                           ICB      LCB      Other    N.I.F.      Total
Cost
1. Works
1.1. Buildings                                                  1.0                0,3'!       1.a
(1.0)                         (1.6)
0.8      1.9       1.2s/      3.9
1.2. Rural Works                                               (0.8)    (1.9)                 (2.7)
2. Goods
2.1 Equipment/Vehicles                                  2.4     0.3      0.1       1.4*/       4.2
(2.4)   (0.3)    (0.1)                 (2.8)
3. Service Contracts
8.1. Aorial photo, mapping,
satellite images                                  0.3               0.6       0.2k/      i.e
(0.3)            (0.6)                 (0.8)
4. Consultancios
4.1. Consultant services A studies                                       2.5       1.9c/       4.4
(2.6)-/              (2.6)
4.2. Technical Assistance                                                0.9       1.3b/       2.2
(0.9)-/              (0.9)
4.83  Training                                                           0.6       0.8b/       1.4
S. Miscellaneous                                                            (0.6)2/              (0.6)
6.1. Incremental Operating Costs                                         2.0       3.2O/       5.2
(2.0)                (2.0)
5.2. Refunding of the PPF                                                0.8                   0.8
(0.8)                (0.8)
2.7      2.1     9.3       10.3       24.4
TOTAL                                             (2.7)    (2.1)   (9.3)                (14.1)
Note   Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA credit.
N.I.F.: Not IDA-Financed
*/ To be cofinanced by CCCE and CTZ with their own procurement arrangements
6/ To be cofinanced by GTZ with their own procurement arrangements
c  To be cotinancod by CCCE, GTZ and UNDP with their own procurement arrngements
Y/ Includes Government, CCCE and GTZ contribution
.1 Services should procured in accordance with World Bank Guidelines
5.05           A1l  goods  and  services  financed  under  the  IDA  credit  would  be
procured  in  accordance with  IDA  guidelines.    The  Forestry  Department  of  the
Ministry of Rural Development is the principal implementing agency responsible
for carrying out project activities, including all procurement. The same staff
has been managing the previous IDA-financed Forestry Development Project for the
last seven years and it has benefitted from technical assistance and procurement
and disbursement seminars, gaining much experience in goods procurement.



- 27 -
5.06         Civil  Works  involving  building  construction,  owing  to  their
dispersed and modest nature, would be awarded on the basis of local competitive
bidding, which have been reviewed and found satisfactory to IDA.  No single
contLact would exceed the equivalent of US$150,000 and total IDA financing is
estimated at the equivalent of US$1.0 million.  Contracts for rural and land
development works include a wide spectrum of operations to be undertaken with
direct community participation. Individually, each contract should be less than
the equivalent of US$20,000. Works and purchases would however be regrouped to
the extent possible and contracts in excess of US$20,000 would be awarded on the
basis of local competitive bidding up to a total of US$ 800.000.  The majority
of the rural works under the watershed and forestry development program would
consist in small contracts to undertake reforestation and replanting and/or land
improvement works (see Annexes 2 and 3).  Contracts for the inputs and minor
works estimated to cost the equivalent of less than US$20,000, up to a maximum
of US$1.9 million would be awarded on the basis of estimates sought from at least
three contractors whenever practicable or on the basis of standard unitary costs
with procedures acceptable to IDA for works to be undertaken directly by the
rural communities concerned.
5.07        Contracts for vehicles and equipment would be grouped into lots to
the extent possible and those in excess of US$150,000 would be awarded on the
basis  of  international  competitive  bidding  (ICB).    For  such  ICB,  local
manufacturers would enjoy a preference margin of 15Z or applicable custom duties,
whichever is lower. Local competitive bidding (LCB), using procedures acceptable
to IDA, would be used for procurement involving contracts less than US$150,000
but greater than US$50,000, up to a total of US$0.3 million over the life of the
project. Contracts for small items of equipment under US$50,000, up to a total
of US$l00.000, that cannot be grouped may be procured by local and international
shopping (minimum three quotations).
5.08        Service contracts for the provision of satellite images, aerial
photography, mapping and other similar services would be awarded by ICB or
Limited International Bidding (LIB) given their specific nature and the limited
number of contractors. Part of the mapping requirements would be carried out by
the established CENATEL in the Forestry Department. Consultants and technical
assistance personnel financed by IDA will be selected in accordance with IDA
guidelines for the use of consultants. Studies and audits are included in that
category. Given the specific nature of the training activities, the training
contracts would be awarded directly to institutions or consultants satisfactory
to IDA on the basis of work programs or pre-established terms of reference.
5.09        Incremental operating costs, including additional salaries, staff
travel allowances, vehicle operation and maintenance, equipment and office costs,
given their individual nature, would not be subject to competitive bidding.
5.10        Local competitive bidding would include local advertising of clearly
defined evaluation criteria communicated to all possible bidders, eligibility of
foreign bidders, public opening of bids and award to the lowest bidder.  IDA-
financed works and goods contracts and bidding packages estimated to cost over
US$150,000, purchases of computer hardware and technical assistance would be
subject to prior review by IDA, as would the award of the contract.  All ICB
procurement will be subject to prior review. All LCB procurement for works would
also be subjected to prior review.   This would cover about 65Z of the total
estimated value of civil works and goods contracts to be awarded for funding by
IDA. Random post review for contracts below threshold levels would be made by
IDA staff and during annual audits and based on certified Statements of
Expenditures (SOE) .



- 28 -
5.11        A Country Procurement Assessment Review has not yet been completed.
However, procurement actions have overall performed satisfactorily for IDA-
financed agricultural projects. Sample bidding documents are being established
for Benin, in addition to a new procurement code, to be reviewed by IDA in 1992.
Local firms have already participated in ICB and there is an adequate number of
small and medium size contractors who meet the appropriate standards of
responsibility. The Project Implementation Schedule is given in Annex 8.
5.12        Procurement information would be collected and included in the
semiannual progress reports to be prepared by project management so as to revise
cost estimates and timing of procurement actions. Prompt reporting of contract
award information would also be realized and a completion report would be
prepared within six months of the credit's closing date.
D.          Disbursement
5.13        Given  the Government's  limited ability  to pre-finance  project
expenditures, a special account denominated in CFAF would be opened at a
commercial bank in Cotonou, acceptable to IDA. IDA would make an initial deposit
of US$ 700.000 equivalent into the special account, covering 4 months of IDA-
financed eligible expenditures, once the credit becomes effective. The special
account would be replenished monthly, provided that requests are in excess of US$
100.000 equivalent. The project coordinator would be responsible for managing
the special account and would be its signatory.
5.14        In order to take into account the remoteness of project sites and to
facilitate project implementation, up to seven second generation special accounts
(SGSAs) would be opened at the same commercial bank in Parakou, with an initial
deposit of FCFA 10 million for each of the pilot site management teams.  Parakou
and Cotonou being the only two places with banking services, northern sites would
have SGSAs in Parakou, and sites near Cotonou would be funded directly from the
Special Account. It is understood that (a) close supervision would be maintained
by project management; (b) the personnel responsible for the SGSAs would have the
administrative capacity to manage the financial aspects of the project, and (c)
detailed accounting records would be maintained for each SGSA.   Moreover
replenishments will only be made from the special account to SGSAs upon receipt
of all supporting documentation and all accounts will be subject to annual
auditing (para.5.19).
5.15        The disbursement profile for agricultural credits in Benin suggests
that the credit would be disbursed over a period of seven and one half years (see
disbursement profile in Annex 7). Replenishments of the special account must be
fully documented except ina the case of expenditures of US$ 20.000 equivalent or
less which may be submitted on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs)
which must be certified by the project coordinator and the financial controller.
All relating documents must be maintained on location in Cotonou for review by
IDA's supervision missions and the external auditors.
5.16        With  a  view  to  facilitating  minor  disbursements  against
geographically dispersed expenditures and ensuring that credit and counterpart
funds are available on time to local operators, the Government would deposit into
a project account an initial total amount of CFAF 30 million (US$105,000
equivalent) as working capital. This deposit will be a condition of disbursement
against the buildings and works, vehicles and equipment and operating costs
categories of the IDA credit.



- 29 -
5.17        Disbursements against incremental operating costs financed by IDA
would decrease gradually over the duration of the project, starting with 902
until the end of 1993, 60Z until the end of 1995 and 302 thereafter, up to a
limit of US$ 2.0 million. The IDA credit would be disbursed as follows:
ALLOCATION AND DISBURSEMENT OF THE IDA CREDIT
Amount            Z Financed by IDA
(USS million)
Buildings and works                        3.0                     100
Vehicles and equipment                     2.6                     100
Resident techn. assistance                 0.9                     100
Consult.services & studies                 3.0                     100
Training                                   0.4                     100
Incremental operating costs                1.8                  variable
PPF                                        0.8                     100
Unallocated                                1.6                     100
Total                                     14.1                                _
E.          Accounting, auditing and reporting
5.18        The financial controller would be responsible for consolidating
project accounts, preparing disbursement requests and keeping the books.  He
would ensure that project expenditures conform to the regulations and budgeting
authorizations, and oversee general and cost accounting. He would be assisted
by a chief accountant and an assistant accountant recruited from the market. In
order to ensure rapid and efficient establishment of the accounting and financial
system, an internationally known firm would be contracted as a condition of
effectiveness of the credit for a period of two or three months to train the
financial controller and chief accountant in preparing regular financial reports
and monitoring field activities.   Together, they would set up a computerized
accounting and budget system based on the system already in use by the Zou and
Borgou CARDERs. Further periodic support of about one month per year could be
provided by the same firm.
5.19        Project accounts would be audited by competent independent external
auditors, whose appointment would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
Audited accounts and reports would be submitted to IDA not later than six months
after the end of each fiscal year. The auditor's report on project expenditures
would include an examination of the documentation substantiating expenditures and
a verification that: (a) goods and services had been procured in countries
accepted by IDA as suppliers; (b) goods had been received or work performed; (c)
payments had been made; (d) all expenditures had been legitimate; and (e) the
special account and SGSAs have been used appropriately; along with an opinion on
the reliability of the SOE procedures and on whether the goods and services
acquired under the project were being utilized in accordance with its aims. The
auditors would also include the management report revealing possible shortcomings
in staffing and systems, and evaluate the accounting system and efficiency of the
internal control procedures.  Assurances in this regard were obtained during
negotiations.



- 30 -
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.           Project Justification
6.01        In the absence of specific and adequate measures, the degradation of
natural resources will become irreversible and the land/population ratio will
continue to decrease at an alarming rate. Given the current rate of demographic
growth, the population of Benin will virtually double in some 20 years' time.
The time has come for concern about the future of the younger generations.  The
Government is fully aware of the adverse eff&cts of growing population on natural
resources and must reconcile the need to stimulate growth in agricultural
production and the risks of increasing the concomitant pressure on the
environment.   This pilot operation, if successful, would make a fundamental
contribution to the formulation of national policies and the foundation of
productive and durable farming, livestock and forestry systems with respect for
the environment and the biological diversity.
6.02        The first phase of a long-term program, this project seeks to test
an approach that would eventually curb the degradation of natural resources, the
main advantages of which rest on the following:
(a)   the  developmenw   of  individual,   community  and  institutional
capability  that  can  ensure  sustained  management  of  natural
resources;
(b)   promotion of an environment conducive to the emergence of private
and community-based initiatives;
(c)   identification and promotion of appropriate techniques and action
that are replicable and respond to real individual and collective
demand;
(d)  grass-roots  assumption  of  responsibility  in  the management  of
natural resources (soils, forests, water and wildlife), including
increased security in land rights; and
(e)   development  of  an  institutional  natural  resource  supervision,
monitoring and evaluation capability, including the formulation of
more appropriate legislation.
B.          Expected benefits
6.03        The nature of this project's approach and its long term reach make
the  formal  quantification  of  benefits  risky.    Cost  benefit  analysis  is
constrained by lack of time series on natural resources degradation and its
impact on productivity, household economics and labor allocation.  Empirical
evidence and information available from Burkina Faso, Mali, Nigeria and Benin
11, show that there are sufficient successful technologies available and
relevant for improved natural resources management at household level (Annex 3).
Many technologies show attractive economic returns--rock bund techniques achieve
rate of return of 30Z in Burkina Faso and 64Z in Nigeria with crop yield gains
ranging from 152 to 130Z.  On the other hand, though significant incremental
1/    Burkina Faso - Economic Issues in Renewable Natural Resources Management
(The World Bank 1990); Nigeria - Land Resources Management Studies (FAO/CP,
1990); Mali - The on-site costs of soil erosion (Bishop et Allen, The World
Bank, 1989); Benin - ESYCTRA and DRA Research Program and results.



- 31 -
yields are always noted, the financial profitability for households is less
obvious because the majority of these technologies entail cash outlays and labor
reallocation in the initial years, and their rate of return compare to higher
discount rates in rural areas. Bridging the gap between financial and economic
attractiveness would be necessary and would be sought by MDR to encourage local
participation (indirect inducements, input delivery, village Infrastructure,
rural works, food for work) and justified in view of national obiectives for
sustainable resources management, food security and poverty alleviation. The
contribution of pilot operations to that end would be assessed in the terroir
management plans.
6.04        Field activities would reach some 120,000 people in diversified rural
areas and various domains.   Benefits are very broad and can be described
qualitativelyi
1.    Socioeconomic benefits
Rural income would increase through (a) an intensification of agro-
silvo-pastoral production, improvement in stockraising techniques and integration
with agriculture, conservation and better management of soils and development of
rural land; and (b) better management of natural forests and enhancement of the
energy subsector.   Better planning of community land management and better
knowledge of land tenure could help resolve conflicts among the various users of
rural land, while the pilot operations would give the participating villagers
better control of the means at their disposal for preserving their land and
forest assets. The community approach would have a beneficial impact on both
individual and collective actions, improving the management of renewable
resources and promoting sustainable agricultural growth. Community organization
is indispensable for the improvement of communal lands and watershed development,
and for the implementation of certain activities which individuals could not
undertake without mutual help.
2.    Environmental benefits
The local inhabitants would become more aware of and feel more
accountable for rational management of natural resources. Improved ecological
monitoring and forestry services would lead to better preservation of protected
areas, conservation of biodiversity and decrease in poaching. The introduction
of more intensive cultivation methods (sedentarization) would reduce the pressure
on land and forests.   Greater land tenure security would boost demand for
appropriate technology and strengthen protection of the environment from abuses
ensuing from open access to natural resources.   The forestry inventory would
serve as the basis for a land use development strategy and better management of
the wood subsector. Modification of the current forestry code would help improve
efforts to protect forestry resources.
C.          Impact on the State budget
6.05        In the long-term State  income would  increase through  improved
recovery of taxes and fees (wood collection, hunting and park visit fees
presently lost owing to poor control, laxity or fund diversion), and through a
better management of the wood sector 2/ and touristic resources. On the other
hand, the activities initiated through the pilot operations are intended to be
2/    Fuelwood consumption in the main urban centers has been estimated at
about 1.5 million tons (out of a total consumption of about 5 million tons)
and corresponding fees collection should amount to 450 million FCFA (150
FCFA/m3) compared with 7 million FCFA officially collected at present.



- 32 -
thereafter managed by the local communities, probably without need of contractual
staff. State assistance to these communities could be provided through existing
agencies (CARDER, MDR) within their normal operations.  A National Resources
Management Fund, if it were approved and financed from the Amproved tax and fee
revenue, would allow the initiation and maintenance of further environmental
activities, including some financial assistance to the communities.
D.          Risks
6.06        The main risks during the pilot phase are (a) a lack of sufficient
government resolve and commitme.at to moving from a simple conservation policy to
participatory management of the entire natural resource po-ential; (b) an
ineffective disengagement of the State in favor of decentralized management of
natural resources;   (c) limited ability of the pilot site teams to rapidly
evaluate the natural resource and land management issues and identify solutions
with the local communities; (d) insufficient availability, competence or
participatory and learning abilities of the staff of the CARDERs and other public
or private entities working on the pilot opeLations; (e) the initial lack of
experience of MDR staff for interministerial planning and coordination on
sensitive issues such as land tenure and natural resource management; and (f)
undesirable modifications in the implementation of the restructuring of
agricultural services.
6.07        Measures to reduce these risks would comprise (a) the introduction
of forestry legislation favoring participatory management; (b) the implementation
of natural resources management by rural communities and the private sector; (c)
the careful selection and training of local team members, and the provision of
some technical assistance; (d) contractual arrangements with the CARDERs and
other entities for the provision of capable staff and for their training: (e)
training and environmental sensitization of civil servants at all levels; and (f)
conditioning the effectiveness of the credit on the nomination of the
professional staff in DFRN.
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01        Assurances were obtained during negotiations that:
(a)   the forestry program would be finalized and diffused by June 30,
1993 (para. 3.08);
(b)   competent  staff  with  qualifications,  experience,  terms  and
conditions of employment satisfactory to the Association would be
appointed and maintained (para. 4.06);
(c)   the project coordinator would monitor project activities and prepare
semi-annual activities reports; and work and training programs would
be submitted each year for approval by the Coordinating Committee
(para. 4.09);
(d)   a mid-term review would be undertaken at the latest three years
after the effectiveness of the credit, and its conclusions approved
by the Government and IDA would be implemented as soon as possible
thereafter (para. 4.11); and
(e), project accounts would be audited each year by independent auditors
satisfactory to IDA and their reports submitted to IDA for review,
at the latest in the six monthn following the close of the fiscal
year (para. 5.19).



- 33 -
7.02        Conditions of credit effectiveness are:
(a)   the adoption of the forestry code (para 3.08);
(b)   the selection of technical assistance staff with the approval of IDA
(para. 4.04);
(c)   the nomination and start of duty of the professional staff of DFRN
and of the forestry departments in the CARDERs (para. 4.05);
(d)   the conclusion of a contract with an internationally known firm for
the introduction of a computerized accounting management and
monitoring system and related training (para. 5.18); and
(e)   the appointment of competent independent external auditors (para.
5.19).
7.03        The opening of a project account and the initial deposit of CFAF 30
million as the first tranche of the Government's contribution would be a
condition of disbursement against the buildings and works, vehicles and equipment
and operating costs categories of the credit (para. 5.16).
7.04        With the assurances and conditions mentioned above, the project would
be eligible for an IDA credit of SDR10.1 million (US$14.1 million equivalent).



- 35 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Pilot operation for the rural land tenure plan
I. INTRODUCTION
1.          Benin's land tenure system is of a dual nature. On the one hand, one
finds a formal modern regime, introduced by law No. 65-25 of August 14, 1965 and
not adapted to African conditions.  On the other hand there is a traditional
regime to which the local population remains attached.
2.          Essentially oral in nature, the traditional regime is characterized
chiefly by the precariousness of rights to the possession and use of land, giving
rise to destructive and uncontrolled exploitation of natural resources.  The
principles on which the traditional regime rests are I at:  (a) the land is
sacred, inalienable and subject only to collective apprtp,riation (attenuated by
the increasing population pressure particularly in the South of Benin); (b) the
land chief, sometimes religious chief, is the depositary of the collective
patrimony; (c) the user generally has but a precarious right of use and may
neither dispose of the land nor plant perennial crops; and (d) the right is
transmitted from generation to generation.
3.          The traditional regime is under increasing pressure from the outside
world and is trying to adapt in specific ways as the need for land increases.
Such adaptation is hampered by imprecise boundaries, the absence of formal
possession or occupation rights, the absence of public notice and valid proof in
land transactions, duplicate conveyance of land to different purchasers, sale by
persons not holding title, distrust between owners and users, and, finally, by
the State's past readiness to expropriate.
4.          In the face of these land tenure problems, the evolution to a more
secure legal approach, without upsetting traditional practices, is to be
encouraged.  In the course of time, a new land tenure policy will have to be
devised together with a land tenure code capable of fostering rational and
decentralized management of natural resources and of reflecting both traditional
realities and contemporary requirements.
II. OBJECTIVE AND STRATEGY
Justification of the Rural Land Tenure Plan
5.          Like most African countries, Benin is faced with serious problems in
terms of insecure land tenure. This situation is furthered by the coexistence
of modern legislation modeled after the system inherited from colonial times and
customary  law.    It  tends  to hamper  private  initiatives  in agricultural
development and is a constant source of litigation among claimants to property
rights. The constant degradation of natural resources due to the absence of a
rational and consistent land tenure policy, the frequent and sometimes violent
conflicts between transhumant herders and farmers and the absence of a strategy
to deal with these problems, all point to the need for a long-term land tenure
policy and code, a land registry and arbitration procedures.
6.          The implementation of a Rural Land Tenure Plan operation on pilot
sites meets present concern of promoting increased security in access and
utilization of natural resources while providing an overview of the typology of



- 36 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 6
existing rights and land tenure situations. It also makes it possible to keep
track of changing agrarian settlements on legal foundations.
Objective
7.          The main objective would be to offer producers more secure land
tenure and limit the abuses resulting from "open access" to the land. The pilot
land tenure operations would allow identification of rural land tenure situations
in different sites representative of the country's overall land tenure situation;
they would also lead to improved understanding of the nature and magnitude of the
constraints. They would provide the State with means to develop its land tenure
policy in the form of a rural land tenure plan and a land tenure code,
indispensable features of any development project and any development dynamic.
Strategy
8.          The project would permit implementation of an experimental, pragmatic
and progressive approach, village by village, leading to the formulation of a
rural land tenure plan describing the relationships among holders of land rights.
In the short term, the operations will be conducted on the pilot watershed
management sites. Eventually, should the experience gained prove successful,
they could be expanded to other localities in Benin.
9.          The rural land tenure plan consists in recording existing rights
pertaining to rural land as they are perceived and recognized by the local
inhabitants themselves, and as resulting from agreements between individuals,
neighbors, families and villages, expressed to a survey team and not contested
by third parties. The survey teams are not authorized to modify the statements
received or to settle disputes. Contested rights would not be recorded until the
conflicts are resolved.
Contents of the Rural Land Tenure Plan
10.         The Rural Land Tenure Plan would consist of two main documents:
(a)   A land register listing plots, the nature of the rights recorded and
the rightholders; and
(b)   photoplans (1:10.000) based on aerial photographs taken on a scale
of 1:30,000 and allowing identification of the terroir boundaries and communal
or individual plots.
III. CHOICE OF SITES
11.         Previous studies have allowed identification of groups of watersheds
representatives of different degrees and types of natural resources degradation.
Four of those basins were selected for improvement:
(a)   Beffa (Ouessb) in the Zou Department.  This still potentially rich
area is undergoing uncontrolled settlement. Its main features are those of the
country's  central  region.    Priorities will  be  assigned  to planning  and
organization of the settlement of new lands by external farmers and herders.
management of land clearing, intensification of sedentary agriculture around
large villages, and the development of forest areas. The total area measures
around 10,000 ha;
(b)   Lanta (Azove) in the Mono Department, which are representative of the
watersheds of South Benin, with dense rural population and serious degradation



- 37 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 6
of natural resources. Priorities are intensification of agriculture, bottom-land
development and agroforestry. The total area is around 10,000 ha;
(c)   Binao (Ouake) and Dominga (Djougou) in the Atacaora Department, which
are part of the group of watersheds of the Keran and the Upper OudmO, with poor
soils degraded by overuse.   Emigration is prevalent.   Priorities  are the
sedentarization and intensification of farming, agroforestry and soil protection.
The total area is around 8,000 ha;
(d)   Koumongou (Boukoumbe) in the Department of Atacora.  This area is
characterized by total deforestation, lack of available land, farming on rocky
slopes, uneven terrain, substar.tial animal pressure and brush fires on exhausted
land. The total area is around 10,000 ha.
IV. METHODOLOGY
Aerial photography and creation of photoplans
12.         The ai:n is essentially to take photographs at v. scale of 1:30,000
enlarged to 1:10,000 for each site.  Only the Boukoumbe area requires repro-
duction by orthophotography because of the uneven terrain. Controlled mosaics
of enhanced photographs would be used at the other sites. The photographs would
be black-and-white. Reference to the geodetic information system, to be set up
under project financing by INC, would be sought.
Information and awareness campaign
13.         The field work would be preceded by an information and awareness
campaign.   First the local authorities, prefects, subprefects, local elected
officials and notables should be informed of the objectives and contents of the
operation.   Then the general population must be informed and reassured by
stressing the advantages of the operation for both landowners and those working
the land, so that they will make themselves available to, and cooperate with, the
field teams.
Demographic survey
14.         The actual land tenure survey operations would be preceded by a
demographic survey as a basis for drawing up the list of possible individuals or
communities.   The demographic survey would be entrusted to the national land
tenure survey commission in the Ministry of Justice and Legislation in
cooperation with the Directorates of Planning and Statistics in the d6partemLents.
Land tenure survey
15.         The work will be preceded by a small sociological survey designed to
provide insight into the particular land tenure situation of each area and to
gauge the public's attitude to the collection of information by the chosen
method. Land tenure rights would be recorded in tandem with the topo-graphical
surveys  for the  identification of plots'  limits.   Specially designed and
preprinted land tenure survey forms would be used to gather all useful data on
the various rights and farming methods.
(a)   In the Mono area
16.         Based on an aerial mosaic enlarged and corrected to 1:10,000, topo-
graphical surveys would be conducted to determine the X and Y coordinates of each
plot surveyed with a tachometer. The transcriptions would be made on paper at
the office or, preferably, on a small board with direct transcription of the
measurements, with only the clean copy done at the office.  This last method



- 38 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 6
offers the economic advantage that the land tenure survey and the plan would be
prepared concomitantly. In either case the principle is the same; the background
of a polygonal line is established from each peak of the polygonal, and the
recording of the plot boundaries is performed by extension or by intersection.
(b)   In the Zou area and a part of the Atacora
17.         In the watersheds of Beffa in the Zou, the methodology to be used is
that of the periforestal zones. After aerial photographs have been taken, a team
of topographers would determine the coordinates of the plots individualized by
planimetric and leveling measurement. The photographs would be enlarged to a
scale of 1:10,000 for assembly on 50 x 60 cm boards.
18.         The same applies to the watersheds of the Binao (Ouake) in the
Atacora, except that the almost total absence of trees and the relatively large
size of farms would make work on the ground in this zone easier.
(c)   In the Boukoumbe zone
19.         The irregular form of the relief calls for the establishment of an
orthophotoplan. A simple terrain outline would be established, consisting of a
polygonal line of points identified on the photographs centered on the lines of
thalwegs. The photos would subsequently be enlarged, enhanced, assembled and cut
up in squares of about 60 x 60 cm. The survey of parcels may also be performed
directly on the ground but with the possibility of using the small board at a
scale of 1:1,000.
Litigation
20.         In Benin the number of land tenure cases varies by region, but it is
generally thought that southern Benin has more such lawsuits than the northern
regions because of its dense population.
21.         In the event of litigation, work must be suspended. on the land
involved in the dispute and continued elsewhere until such time as the parties
call on the survey team. It is up to the interested parties to settle their
differences themselves or, if necessary, to seek arbitration before the
appropriate bodies. It may be hoped, however, in view of experience gained in
Cote d'Ivoire, that obtention of formal recognition of their rights is a
sufficient incentive for parties involved in rapidly succeed settling their
disputes.
Public notice and registry
22.         After the operations, public notice would enable people absent during
the ground work to express their views and possibly appeal.   To render the
results and documents produced by those operations credible, a deadline for
lodging an objection must be set.  That deadline would fall on the date three
months following public notice of the land cenure plan, and the beginning of this
period would be announced in the press.
23.         This  plan  could  be  consulted  in  the  CARDERs,  and  at  the
Subprefecture. In addition, the rural land map (extract of the various portions
of the village land with all the plots) would be kept by the village chief, who
would make it available to the public. Presentations to the villagers of the
completed plans would be organized by the project with the cooperation of the
local authorities. Challenges or requests for amendments would be filed at the
Subprefecture and may entail changes to be made by the project's survey teams.



- 39 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 6
24.         Upon expiration of the time limit on appeal and after the changes,
the following two final documents would be prepared to make up the rural land
tenure plan:
(a)   A topographical document representing plots, consisting of photo-
plans with explanatory keys. This document would contain all the boundaries of
village lands and collective and individual holdings; and
(b)   A land registry listing all rightholders over natural resources and
distinguishing collective from individual units. This registry would clarify the
list of plots with a location key to identify them on the topographic document
and determine the nomenclature of the rights and the types of land use.
25.         To give practical meaning to the results of the land tenure survey,
villagers whose rights have been recorded would be given a receipt and a plat
specifying name, plot number, photoplan number, village, township, and status of
plot, and bearing the official signature of the survey team leader. They would
also receive a transcript with the description and identification of the plot,
obtained by diazoic prints of the original photoplans. These documents would be
distributed only after the time limit on appealing has expired and at the request
of the interested parties, and there would be a small nominal charge to cover
printing costs.
Legal validity of the topographic surveys and the documents produced
26.         The topographic surveys realized would have the same validity as
those ordered by the Prefectures. All operations conducted from the demographic
survey to the recording of rights would carry legal status.   The documents
delivered to villagers whose rights have been recorded would serve to obtain
provisional or definitive title of concession under the future land legislation.
These operations would start when the Minister of the Interior and the Minister
of Rural Development issue an order to that effect.
Risks
27.         Execution of the pilot operation entails two main risks:  (i) the
arousal of latent conflicts between interested parties or with the
Administration, and (ii) possible errors in recording the boundaries of plots or
the rights pertaining to them.
28.         With respect to the conflicts, these risks would be lessened by a
good public information and education casnpaign, inclusion in the field teams of
an outreach worker speaking the language of the village, and the active
cooperation of the village chief with the education of his villagers and with the
survey work. Cote d'Ivoire experience shows that, with interest of obtaining an
official paper, conflicts tend to find solutions. Furthermore, keeping technical
errors to a minimum would depend especially on the quality of the training given
to field teams before work begins.
V. HUMAN MEANS
Staffing requirements
29.         The personnel needed for these operations would complement the staff
required in the local management unit of the watershed development component.
They would be assigned at the same location and would follow the same start-up
timetable. Specific additional personnel at each site would comprise: (i) a
topographic photo-interpreter or geometric engineer, or, if such specialists are
unavailable, a senior geometric technician; (ii) a topographic assistant with
expertise in drafting; (iii) a technician who would help carry out the land



- 40 -
ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 6
tenure survey; (iv) a rural outreach worker speaking the language of the village
and facilitating communication between the team and the villagers to help with
the surveying work (preferably an employee of the Subprefecture land office).
At the central level a technical coordinator with legal expertise, assisted by
initial foreign consultancy to help start up operations and a secretary familiar
with microcomputing would be needed.
30.         In all, three teams would be needed to cover the four watersheds in
four years at the rate of two years per site, with the Mono or Zou team starting
the first year and being assigned to Ouak4 the third year. The Boukumbe team
would start the second year. The topographic operations proper could be carried
out by contracting with the National Institute of Cartograpby or with its
support.
Training
31.         Training of the pilot operation staff must be organized in a manner
consistent with the survey objective and under the supervision of the national
project management, with the participation of an expatriate technical consultant.
Two-week study trips would be organized in Cote d'Ivoire, which already is
developing experience in setting up Rural Land Tenure Plans.
VI. INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
32.         The Ministry of Rural Development would be in charge of the rural
land tenure plan, keeping it updated and making use of its findings. Management
of the land tenure plan would be automated.
33.         The Ministry of the Interior,  Public Security and Territorial
Administration would actively participate, through the Prefects, Subprefects,
Mayors and Delegates, in sensitization and information prior to the land tenure
surveys, and in the publication of the contents of the rural land tenure plan at
the beginning of the objection period.
34.         The Ministry of Environment, Housing and Urban Development, through
the National Institute of Cartography (INC), would be in charge of topographic
surveying and mapping.
35.         The Ministry of Justice and Legislation would draft, over the medium
term, a national land tenure code, in conformity with the information collected
by the project. The National Land Tenure Survey Commission would be responsible
for the organization of the demographic surveys preceding the land tenure survey.
36.         A permanent link should be mantained between the management of the
pilot operation, the Directorate of Rural Promotion Legislation of the Ministry
of Rural Development and the Ministry of Justice which is in charge of preparing
the land code.
37.         Given the prominent role which the farmers are required to play in
the implementation, maintenance and updating of the Land Tenure Plan, their
involvement would be easier to bring about if they were organized in land use
management structures and capable of ensuring the effectiveness of the
participatory approach.   This is consonant with the activities proposed in
watershed development and could facilitate the constitution of the proposed
Village Land Management Committees.



- 41 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 7
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Management of Gazetted Forests
I. INTRODUCTION
l.          During the colonial period, especially in the forties and fifties,
the administration placed areas of forest under state ownership. This domaine
forestier was  created to protect watersheds  and forest  resources  against
clearing, logging and overgrazing.  Forty-six tracts of gazetted forest were
constituted in Benin under this system, with a total area of 1,300,000 ha.
However, local communities received no comper.sation and often did not understand
the reasons for the classification, which arbitrarily put an end to their users'
rights.
2.          Very little has actually been done in the way of protecting and
managing these forests, whose total area is diminishing at an alarming rate.
Since the State does not have the means with which to back up its policy, the
forests have remained devoid of protection and are often subjected to heavier
human and animal pressure than forests which remain under the local ownership of
villages and communities.
3.          For this reason the Government of Benin now wishes to involve the
adjacent populations in the management and protection of gazetted forests.
Although Government ownership would be maintained, communities might be
interested in the wages earned for the proposed activities of conservation and
reforestation of gazetted forests, as well as in permitted uses and in the
revenues generated.
II. OBJECTIVE AND STRATEGY
4.          The principal objective of the forest management operations would be
to test methods of comprehensive and participatory management of various types
of natural forests with the village communities, aimed at providing better
protection of gazetted forests.
5.          The gazetted forests would remain State property.  In each tract the
areas still sufficiently intact would constitute a core that would receive total
protection.    To  protect  that  core  against  clearing  and  other  external
intervention, rational utilization of forest products coupled with reforestation
would be permitted and encouraged in the surrounding buffer zone of already
cleared or degradated areas. Revenues from the buffer zone would be shared by
the government, which remains the owner, and the adjacent communities, which used
to be the owners. Activities would be regulated under pre-agreed multiple-use
management plans defining users rights and necessary incentives to foster willing
cooperation of local populations. The development among local communities of a
sense of belonging toward the forest, through participation in the management
plans, seems to be a prerequisite for effective protection of the tracts.
6.          Such plans would be drawn up by technical support units for each
section of gazetted forest which belonged to a village or to a homogeneous group
of villages prior to gazetting, in close consultation with the communities, the
CARDERs, the Forestry Administration, the Subprefects and existing NGOs, and
strive to better protect the forest while providing a variety of forest products
and services for the long-term. A forestry group or association would be set up



- 42 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of  7
in each community for which a management plan is designed and carry out its
implementation.
III. DESCRIPTION OF PILOT SITES
Situation
7.          Following the preliminary preparatory studies for the project, three
gazetted forests have been selected for this component:
(a)   The forest of the Upper Oueme is by far the largest of the three
included in the project.   It covers 142,000 ha in Borgou and 35,000 ha in
Atacora. The main reason for the gazetting was the protection of the watershed
of the Ou4m4 river, which is very important for the country's economy and
fisheries. The forest currently constitutes one of the main sources of fuelwood
for Parakou and Djougou. Despite poaching, it possesses a considerable wildlife.
It is estimated that approximately 15-20Z of the forest has been cleared by
farmers, with areas of concentration towards Yebessi and Kpessou. However, there
are no villages within the forest;
(b)   The forest of Toui-Kilibo, of around 49,000 ha, is located between
250 and 300 km north of Cotonou, almost entirely in the Zou department, and along
the Okpara river, which is the frontier with Nigeria.  Agricultural villages
peopled by immigrants from other parts of Benin are inside the forest. It is
roughly estimated that 10-20Z of this forest has been cleared and that about half
of it is degraded; and
(c)   The two neighboring classified forests of Ketou (11,000 ha) and Dogo
(31,850 ha) are located entirely within the department of Oueme, between 150 and
200 km north of Cotonou.  Of the forests selected, these are by far the most
degraded, because of very heavy pressure by a population seeking farmland. It
is estimated that half the forests has been cleared and the rest is greatly
degraded.
Vegetation
8.          The three forests included in this component are situated in the
Guinean savanna zone (mostly dense savannas). More specifically, they include
a small section of gallery forest along the watercourses, and open woodland,
woodland savanna and tree savanna, but no dense forest. Species are found there
such as Isoberlinia doka, I. dalzielii, Wapaca togolensis, Monotes kersingii,
Anogeissus leiocarpus, Daniellia oliveri, Burkea africana, and Gardenia. The
parts that remain of the Ketou-Dogo forest could contain 50-60 m3/ha of timber,
while in the forests of the Upper Oueme and Toui-Kilibo this volume may reach 150
m3/ha in areas with little or no degradation.
Hydrography
9.          The three forests are in the watershed of the Oueme river, Benin's
principal body of water leading to lake Nokoue constituting Benin's main source
of fish production (30.000 tons per year).  The location of these forests is
important for the regulation of the river flow, prevent erosion and river
silting. The river provides grazing during the dry season in the Oueme delta,
and is a source of revenue (fishing) for the indigenous populations.
Transhumance
10.         The three forests are intensively used for grazing, either through
transhumance during the dry season or continuously by the Peuls and local
herders.   Transhumance  is often the source of conflicts and has reveiled
difficult to control. During the dry season it leads to bushfires and to tree



- 43 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 7
lopping, to allow the herds to browse among the new shoots.   The adjacent
population complains loudly of the transhumant herders, saying that they are
armed and dangerous.
IV. PROPOSED ACTIVITIES
ARproach
11.         To facilitate the preparation of forest management plans, and also
in connection with the needs of the watershed development activities, aerial
photos (1:30.000) would be enlarged to scale of 1:10,000, and the sites chosen
would be inventoried by specialized teams, The forest management operations also
include a survey to determine the village structures concerned, the groups using
the forest, land tenure issues and current use of the forest, and to identify
techniques for limiting the pressure on forest areas.
12.         The next step would be to prepare with the communities the management
plans proper, in the light of possibilities for natural and artificial
regeneration, regulations governing forest utilization, human resources and a
timetrble of implementation.   Specifications would be drawn up governing the
creation and operation of rural groups participating in managing forest resources
in the buffer zones in conjunction with defined multi-purpose management plans
and under supervision of the Forestry Administration. In addition, conservation
plans would be prepared for the comprehensive protection of forest cores by the
forestry authorities in cooperation with nature conservation experts.   These
conservation plans would define, for example, the policy to be followed in each
protected area with respect to brush fires and grazing.   Forestry services
concerned with the gazetted forests included in the project would be strengthened
to work out a more effective support and monitoring role.
Management plans
13.         The buffer zone around the forest core area could be used for the
rational and sustainable management of all authorized forest utilization:
thinning, selective cutting for biological improvement, fuelwood, charcoal,
honey, hunting, fishing, hay-making, grazing, and fruit-picking, as well as fees
paid therefore by users outside the community. Paid jobs resulting from these
and other activities would constitute the main incentive for participation,
especially in the beginning.
14.         In the most densely settled areas of the buffer zones, participatory
reforestation known as taungya would be introduced as described below. It will
be important for each management plan, and especially for the lands that will be
used to establish buffer plantations, to be able to identify the individuals or
communities which still consider themselves (and are considered) as owners of the
lands, and it is important that they should be able to share in the revenues and
wages.
15.         If the farmers cannot be shown that sustainable economic use of the
forest can be more profitable than its conversion into agricultural land, the
forest will continue to be subjected to external aggression which will be very
difficult to control.   If, on the other hand communities participate in the
development and reforestation operations, ar.d share in their profit, they will
have a greater stake in forest protection and will help the forest agency to
prevent infractions.
Actions on the ground
16.         Possible action to protect the forest better in the new participatory
framework could consist of: (a) inside the gazetted forests: control of fires,
grazing and hunting, thinning, natural regeneration, enrichment of existing but



L
-44 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 7
degraded forests and planting in already cleared areas, especially around
remaining natural. forests (buffer plantations); (b) outsic'e  e azettedforests:
improvement of agricultural techniques, the resettlement of certain farmers who
are now in the forest, sedentarization and stabilization ;:f agriculture; and (c)
alone  the  boundaries:    demarcation,  delimitation,  firebreaks,  and  buffer
plantations wherever the natural forest has been destroyed.
Enrichment plantings
17.         Entrichment plantatings have often produced disappointing results,
with few seedlings s8 viving the competition of nearby trees and usually with
high costs. Nature will bring about reforestation if the forest is protected
against fire and grazing for a few years, but if the goal is to make the forest
richer in terms of species, enrichment plantatio;s with local species may be
warranted, provided costs are not too high. For example, the method of opening
strips to plant enrichment species would be too harsh and much too expensive for
these open woodlands with low productivity.
Buffer plantations
18.         While local species should be used in any enrichment planting, exotic
species such as teak can very well be used for buffer plantation in already
cleared areas around existing forests. A plantation of exotic species is often
a more effective psychological barrier against clearing than the natural forest
itself. Teak, already widely spread in Benin, is a useful species resistant to
brush fires. Local species such as Terminalia can also be used.
19.         Planting at deforested areas would go forward under the participatory
agro-forestry system known in forestry by the Burmese word "taungya". Its basic
principle is that farmers would be allowed to farm State lands interspersed with
young forest plantations which they would establish and maintain during some
three years, after which the height of the trees would preclude cropping. The
farmers would carry out the planting, as well as protect and maintain the trees,
for three years, after which another deforested tract would generally be allotted
them in the buffer zone for the establishment of another forest plantation by the
same method.
20.         The plantations would therefore be tended by the farmers but belong
to the government. The amount paid to the rarmers for protection and maintenance
should be sufficient to cover the time spent on these tasks; the total cost to
the State would in any case be much lower than if the operation were done by a
company. There are advantages for both parties: the farmers can cultivate State
land for three years and share in the future profits of the plantation, and the
government can accomplish reforestatic.n at considerably reauced cost. However,
this system must be applied in disciplined fashion so that taungya, like other
forms of agroforestry, will not become an excuse to pexmit the settlement of
gazetted forests in return for the establishment of a few symbolic trees.
21.         The taungya system has the best chances of success where there is
scarcity of arable land and sufficient support and supervision from the forestry
services. At the beginning the main incentive would be paid wages to carry out
the plantations, but farmers should have a clear perception of expected revenues
so that long term participation in maintenance and management can be ensured. A
contract would have to be entered into with each farmer participating in the
taungya reforestation and define the role to be played by the forestry service
and the farmers including participation in future revenues. A forest monitor can
supervise 100 to 200 farmers. The digging should be checked to make sure that
all the planting holes are sufficiently deep and that the planting itself is
carefully done. The young plantations must be inspected every year, surviving
trees coutted, and the maintenance grants reduced by fines collected for trees
that di';;; turing the year.



- 45 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 7
22.         The Ouemd Forest Inspection agency has already passed such contracts
this year to 120 farmers to plant teak in the Dogo gazetted forest. As most of
the villagers were already inside the forest, their participation is an
attractive alternative given the severe shortage of arable land and their
understanding that, although no expulsion was prospected, their situation is
irregular.
Demarcation
23.         If the gazetted forests are to be protected, their boundaries must
be (re-)marked and they must be delimited and surrounded by firebreaks. Under
the gazetting procedure, the main boundary markers should be placed at 1 km
intervals, with secondary markers every 100 m.   The markers delimiting the
gazetted forests would need to be maintained or replaced.
Delimitation and firebreaks
24.         For the three gazetted forests in question the delimitation and
firebreak functions can be combined. Three lines of trees would be planted along
the boundaries in question.   The distance between the lines would be 4.5 m,
producing a strip 9 m wide, which is the standard width for firebreaks in Benin.
The distance between trees in the lines would be 2.5 m. The lines would be laid
out in staggered rows. These boundary/firebreaks would be weeded each year for
as long as necessary (about five years) to ensure their effectiveness, after
which the trees would be big enough to choke back undergrowth.
25.         It is estimated that only about half the circumference needs to be
thus delimited, the other half being bounded by rivers, roads or other terrain
features serving as both boundary and firebreak (the river Okpara for the Toui-
Kilibo forest or the Parakou-Djougou road for the Oueme Superieur forest).
Participation of local residents
26.         It would be unrealistic to think that the farmers, who do not
participate in gazetted forest management at present, could organize
spontaneously and swiftly to prepare and implement management plans.  Rather
close supervision should be provided at the start.   This should become less
necessary over time, however, and toward the end of the project the forestry
groups should be able to function with a certain autonomy in accordance with the
established management plans, in cooperation with and supported by the forestry
agencies and CARDER. Furthermore, without sharing the authorized revenues from
forestry activities, participatory forest protection is difficult to imagine.
The government should to consent to a formula for sharing revenues earned at the
three pilot sites with the communities. However, receipts from sales would not
be the only earnings that could motivate the local populations to participate in
forest management. Especially at the outset, the most important incentive would
be the paid jobs growing out of the various development efforts (,f. the
experience of the participatory forest project of Guesselbodi in Niger where all
labour was paid).   Especially for buffer plantations and boundary-marking
operations, which cannot be expected to produce revenues in the short term, it
would be necessary to count on contributions from the government to furnish
plants, tools and to partly compensate for farmer labour (par. 5.3).
27.         It should also be noted that in connection with buffer plantations
the farmers would be allo.ed to cultivate farm crops on state land for three
years by intercropping with the forest seedlings.   Participatory management
operations would be possible only to the extent that there are villages on the
edge of the forest and the scheme enjoys the villagers' support. In addition,
these relatively unproductive open woodlands and semi-dry forests do not warrant
intensive interventions such as tropical rain forests might.



46 -
ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 7
Lessons from experience
28.         Management of state forest reserves in collaboration with the local
communities is a relatively new venture in developing countries.   In Nepal,
village forests are being handed back -o the control of village councils, each
forest with a management plan prepared by the forestry department, which
afterwards provides technical backup.   In Niger, the USAID-funded project at
Guesselbodi in the 1980ies assisted the local communities in the managemnent of
a forest reserve.  Recently the Bank's Sahelian department has funded similar
natural resources management activities in Bourkina Fasso and other countries.
29.         The Niger experience which provides useful results and the closest
to Benin's situation proved that the most workable framework for long-term
management of natural forests is some type of joint arrangement between the
Forest Service and local villages organized in associations. Management plans
have been prepared to regulate technical requirements and self-financing
mechanisms and incentive structures to ensure implementation. Administration of
revenues at the Guesselbodi forest has been organized by sharing responsibilities
among all participants and-decentralizing decision-making. Cooperative members
are entailed to revenues from sales of firewood to Cooperative at negotiated
prices, a Cooperative fund receives 252 net profit from resale of wood and 102O
from hay permits, a Forestry Fund collects 752 of net profits from resale of wood
and 1002 from fuelwood permits.
30.         It is still too early to draw the final lessons from participatory
experience in developing countr es. There is no doubt a risk that fariners may not
wish to participate.   On the other hand, at present the forest reserves in
question are being degradated at such a rate that a new approach to their
protection is called for, and the participatory management seems to be the most
proirising alternative.
V. COSTS AND BENEFITS
Costs
31.         The cost of demarcation  (surveying,  beacons, markers) has been
estimated at about CFAF 5,000/km (mainly labor).
32.         The cost of delimitation, i.e. for establishing boundaries/firebreaks
(clearing, staking out, digging, planting, and maintenance during the first year)
has been estimated at 160,000 CFAF/km, while the cost for maintenance after the
planting year is estimated at CFAF 3,500 (5-6 man-days) per km and year.
33.         The estimated costs of the taurngya method in cleared areas is:
(a)   Government contribution                                         '000 CFAF/ha
First vear. Plants (produced whenever possible by the
farmers and purchased by the project): 2,000 plants/ha
at an on-site cost of 25 CFAF/plant.                                  50
First to third years. Compensation for maintenance would
generally be about CFAF 4,500, 3,000 and 1,500 per
hectare for years 1, 2 and 3 respectively, or a total of
CFAF 9,000/ha. A fine of about CFAF 50 would be deducted
for each plant that dies.                                              9



- 47 -
ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 7
Fourth year.  Five man-days/ha of maintena..e when the
trees have grown too big for farming to continue on the
plot and the farmers have gone elsewhere.                              4
63
(b)   Farmers' contribution
Clearing, staking out, digging, planting; maintenance and
fire protection for three years: estimated total cost of
100 man-days/ha at an average cost of CFAF 600/man-day =
CFAF 60,000/ha; less the compensation of CFAF 9,000
(see above).                                                           51
TOTAL      114
Benefits
34.         It is assumed that no reforestation will take place during the first
year at each pilot site, because of required sensitization and preparation. In
the remaining years the number of farmers participating in the taungya
reforestation in each pilot site could increase by 100 per year. Each farmer
would reforest 2 ha the first year and would intercrop for three years on the
same plot; he would then be assigned to another classified plot and begin again.
Following this procedure, d total of 3,000 ha could be reforested by the taungya
method in the three pilot sites over a six-year period. This is only a small
portion of the lands cleared in the three sites, but the chief constraint on
planting, as on the other activities to be undertaken in the three gazetted
forests, is the local farmers' readiness to participate.
35.         At the farmer standpoint the most direct and short-term benefit
deriving from the taungya system would be the possibility to cultivate state land
during at least three years and the compensations for the input supply and part
of the maintenance cost of the newly established tree crop. For operations like
enrichment planting, demarcation and delimitation, which would not yield
immediate benefits, paid jobs would be the main incentive.
36.         About 200 million FCFA represent project contribution to planting
activities in the three forests over the five years period and about 115 million
FCFA for the implementation of management plans including delimitations,
firebreaks and maintenance.   These amounts,  represent the biggest share of
farmers' earnings in the short term and main incentive for their participation.
They have been calculated on the basis of the unit costs described above (A.-
Costs) with reference to experience of this type elsewhere (particularly the
Guesselbodi experience). In the long run, forest conservation by the project
would also safeguard the farmers benefits from wood, grazing, fruits, game meat
and other products, and society's benefits from stream regulation, silt reduction
and protection of bio-diversity.    Individual contracts and management plans
would indicate also authorized rights for farmers and forestry groups on
plantation products and revenue sharing mechanism on authorized forest
utilization so as to entail sustainable villagers participation.



- 49 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 7
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Description of some possible actions of the
Terroir Management Plans and Research Development
1.          The most appropriate actions that could be chosen to protect the
natural resources of village land are specific to that land's biophysical and
socioeconomic  conditions.    Indicative  development  plans  with  technical
descriptions are presented in the working paper. Some possibilities which have
already been experimented with in Benin or abroad are dealt with here, together
with their cost.
2.          Contour plowing and ridging.  In regions where ridging and plowing
are standard practices, this technique is effective and requires practically no
extra work. Once the lines are determined with simple tools like the clinometer
triangle, it is useful to mark them (roughly parallel at a distance of 20-30 m)
with permanent ridges, preferably reinforced with filter hedges of species such
as Pennisetum iurpureum (Napier grass, elephant grass) or Vetiveria zizanioides
(vetiver grass). Narrow strips (0.5-1 m) of unplowed grasses can also be very
effective, in combination with bushy species (Caianus cajan, Leucaena
leucocephala, Gliricidia sepium, Cassia siamea, etc.).  Planting species of
nutritive value would make it possible to introduce animals into the fields after
the harvest and to maku use of the manure.  Good opportunities may also arise to
introduce animal traction.
3.          Contour hedaes or filter barriers.   The simplest are cordons of
sorghum or maize stalks tied in swathes and supported by poles or stakes to avert
breaching by runoff. For slopes of 52 or more, intervals should be about 30 m.
These cordons must be renewed each year and are susceptible to accidental fires
and tend to invite pests. One worker can complete about 100 m of destumping and
cordon-making a day.   The cost for 300 m/ha would therefore be about CFAF
1,800/ha (1 m-d = CFAF 600).
4.          One alternative is hedges or narrow strips of stabilizine Dlants such
as perennial grasses like pennisetum purpureum, vetiver zizanoides, panicum
maximum or densely planted shrubs such as leucaena leucocephala, cassia siamea,
etc. Once well established they offer permanent protection, though the shrubs
need periodic pruning. These prunings produce organic fertilizer for the soil
or forage for animals.



- 50 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 7
5.          Cost estimates.  Base:  1 ha, 4 strips/ha, 8 plants/m (Vetiver norm
for 82 slope)
Unit     Unit Cost  Quantity   Total Cost
(CFAF)                   (CFAF)
Seed/seedling purchases   plant                        1             3,200
Planting cost              m-d             600          4            2,400
Inputs and misc.           set price                   _               500
TOTAL                     I                                          6,100
Farmers' contribution (m-d + 502 inputs):  2,650 CFAF
NOTE:       Seeds will first be purchased at the training centers in Zou and
Atacora and afterward from the multiplier farmers in the regior..
Two weedings and 50Z of the fertilizer are assumed.
6.          Contoured alternating grassed absorption strips of 2-20 m are made
up of dense vegetation at intervals of about 30-40 m to control runoff. Grassed
strips preferably consist of plants producing a thick felling of roots, with more
or less creeper-like characteristics and resistant to burial (e.g., cynodon).
In permanent systems the strips can be enriched with useful species (fruit-
bearing, foraging, etc.). The strips can be introduced effectively at no cost
when the natural vegetation is left in place after land is cultivated.
7.          General soil fertility improvement. The declining output of his plot
is often the most visible sign to the farmer that the soil is losing its
fertility. The leading factors are often the loss of organic material and the
depletion of essential minerals, especially P and K, brought on by lack of soil
replenishment. Runoff erosion and the loss of the topsoil often aggravates the
phenomenon.
8.          A number of techniques have proved effective in improving the organic
matter of soils (composting, use of leguminous cover like Mucuna and Pueraria,
alley cropping, etc.). However, feasibility must be ascertained in each case.
In the long run, after years of normal harvests, an input to maintain an adequate
P and K balance would still be necessary to maintain durable cropping systems.
9.          Contour alley cropping is in fact a filter hedge system generally
with woody, preferably leguminous plants, planted in lines at smaller intervals
(roughly 5 m) and annual crops between the lines. The main advantage of this
system is the production of mulch from pruning and the creation of a lasting
system based on organic manure. It is important to plant shrubs densely in the
line (8-10 plants/m), with direct seeding of species such as leucaena,
gliricidia, or cassia.
10.         Eb.I.__ted cost of direct alley seeding of leucaena, gliridicida,
cassia,  etc.   Base:   1 ha with alleys of 5 m, 8 holes/m in the hedges,
association with maize and 3/4 of the inputs allocated to maize.



- 51 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 7
Rubric                   Unit   Unit Cost   Quant ty   Total Cost
(CFAF)                   (CFAF)
Seed purchases                   kg     2,000            4         8,000
Installation costs               m-d      600            8         4,800
Inputs and misc.:                                                    200
TOTAL                      13,000
Farmers' contribution (m-d + 50Z inp.):               4,900
NOTE: Labor prunings + distribution trimmings
First pruning of the year:m-d    600              12        7,200
Successive prunings:       m-d    600              8        4,800
N.B.:  Semi-late maize crop:  leucaena:  I + 2 prunings
Gliricidia/cassia 1 + 1 n
11.         Ensilage ditches completed by mutual help groups of about five people
have proved a simple and inexpensive technique for meeting fodder needs during
the dry season.  Each member of the group digs three compartments or ditches
measuring about 2 x 1.25 x 1 m deep and helps collect hay, fill, stack, and
protect. One compartment at a time is utilized for the group fodder requirement.
The cost of three compartments (cement, salt and tools) is about CFAF 4,000 and
the labor needed is about 20 m-d for a work that will last two to three years.
12.         The ditches generally have a trapezoidal cross section whose depth
is greater than or equal to the width of the bottom. They can be of two types:
-     Contoured infiltration (retention, absorption) ditches, which almost
stop runoff and cause almost total infiltration,
-     guard ditches, which have a slight slope to evacuate excess water.
13.         Ditches are installed to protect a field or housing subject to
substantial runoff.   Ditches exceeding 250 m should be avoided as far as
possible, but can be used when it is not possible to work on the upstream side
of the watershed. On shifting soil, a large ridge is created upstream in order
to retain the earth displaced by the runoff and to foster the gradual formation
of terraces.  A small ridge is created downstream to prevent overflow.   The
ridges must be protected and fixed (pennisetum).  The ditches must be cleaned out
regularly. A farmer can on average create 5 m of ditch per day. The cost for
100 m would be CFAF 12,000.
14.         To correct gullies or ravines, different tvpes of spillwav sills can
be used: (i) sills of pure fascines, (ii) of fascines reinforced with stones,
and (iii) of pure dry stones. Wherever a gully is deeper than 40 cm the last
type is needed, but in regions where few stones are available it is too costly
for widespread application. Stabilizing plants such as pourgh&re, at rather high
density, can be used to reinforce the sills and to replace the stakes initially
necessary. From upstream to downstream, the highest level of a sill must be on
the same horizontal plane as the lowest level of the immediately preceding sill.
The sills would be placed at 10 m intervals on 5 slopes.
15.         The estimated cost per hectare for spillway sills of dry stones,
based on 10 sills of 2 m each -> 20 m/ha -> 6m3 of stones and assuming the need
to rent a truck (southern watersheds), is given below:



- 52 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 7
Rubric                   Unit    Unit Cost   Quantity   Total Cost
(CFAF)                   (CFAF)
Delimit contours:              m-d         600          0.5
Collect and transport stone:               if           5
Dig trench:                                             1.5
Place stones:                    i          i           5
Subtotal:                m-d          600        12            7,200
Transport stones (approx. 15 km)
Truck rental s                m3        3,000          6          18,000
Labor load/unload:           m-d          600          2           1,200
TOTAL:                                                  26,400
Farmers' contribution 10O  m-d                          8,400
If stones are available on-site the cost is reduced to CFAF 6,000/ha.
16.         For sills of single reinforced fascines the cost per hectare is CFAF
3,000/ha, based on 80 m of sills of which 20 m are reinforced (source FAO BEN85-
006).
17.         The contoured stone bunds are permanent structures used for degraded
land and steeper slopes.   They reduce the erosive force of runoff waters,
encouraging infiltration and the alluvial deposits. The interval between stone
bunds is determined by the ratio of the slope to the height of the stone bunds.
Plants like pennisetum purpureum can be utilized at high density along the stone
bunds on the uphill side, to protect the crop. From a practical point of view
this system seems feasible only on land where enough stones are locally available
(areas of Boukoumb4 and Ouake), because of the difficulty and cost of
transportation.
(a)   Site with few stones (Pehunco norms)
Base:  1 ha with a 2.5Z slope, 300 m of low wall and 75m3 of stones (table 1).
Rubric                     Unit    Unit Cost   Quantity  Total Cost
(CFAF)                 (CFAF)
Delimit contours:                m-d         600            6
Collect and transport stone:                  "             60
Dig trench:                        "                        20
Place stones:                      "          "             60
Subtotal:                       m-d          600           146       87,600
Transport stones (approx. 15 km)
Truck rental :                    m3       3,000           75       225,000
Labor load/unload:               m-d         600           25        15,000
TOTAL:                                                        3277&,0
Farmers' contribution:  labor                                 102,600
Table 1: Interval norms and total stone bunds/ha (Pehunco norms: height 40 cm)



- 53 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 7
Slope      Interval          Stone       Qt Stones
(zj (m)     bunds/ha         Wm_)
0.8          100             100           25
2             50             200           50
2.5           33             300           75
3             25             400          100
4             17             600          150
5             14             700          175
6             12.5           800          200
7             11             900          225
8             10           1,000          250
0              9           1,100          275
11-14              8           1,250          313
15-20              7           1,400          350
(b)   Sites with stones available (Pehunco norms)
Base:  1 ha of 2.5Z (table 1), 300 m of stone bunds and 75 m3 of stones
Unit     Unit   Cost   Quantity   Total  Cost
(CFAF)                     (CFAF)
Delimit contours:              m-d         600              9
Collect/transport stone:                                   15
Dig trench:                                                60
Place stones:                                              60
Total:                        m-d          600           144           86,400
Farmers' contribution 75Z m-d          64,800
18.          Other  figures  are  available  (table  2)  for  the  Burkina  Fasso
experiences and lower stone bunds (25 cm).
Table 2:  Interval norms and total stone bunds/ha (Burkina-Faso)
Slope      Interval         Stone        Qt Stones
(Z)         (m)          bunds/ha          (in3)
m )                   11
0.4           100             100           10
1              50             200           20
1.25           33             300           30
1.5            25             400           40
2              17             600           60
2.5            14             700           70
3              12.5           800           80
3.5            11             900           90
4              10           1,000          100
5               9           1,100          110
6-7               8           1,250          125
8-10               7           1,400          140



- 54 -
ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 7
19.         The development of bottom-lands that are often left uncultivated is
advisable  in conjunction with the development  of the sub-watershed.   The
performance of a bottom-land is closely related to infiltration ioater and runoff.
It is preferable to educate the populations to such a relationship before
initiating measures to protect the slopes around the bottom-land and before
undertaking development of bottom-lands in the strict sense.
20.         For reforestation operations such as the protection of fragile and
degraded areas (steep slopes, shores and banks, etc.) or the enrichment of
certain zones with useful species and agroforestry, the establishment of
nurseries would be necessary.
Village nursery (production capacity 2,000-5,000 pl/year)
Rubric             Unit      Unit Cost    Quantity   Total Cost
(CFAF)                  (CFAF)
INVESTMENTS
Well                     Unit      2,500,000      1          2,500,000
Pumping equipment        Un           50,000      1             50,000
Basin                    Unit         25,000      1             25,000
Wire-mesh fencing        m             1,000   100             100,000
Chain-link fencing       m               400    25              10,000
Metal poles              Unit          1,000    40              40,000
Cart                     Unit        100,000      1            100,000
Wheelbarrow              Unit         20,000      1             20,000
ULV sprayer              Unit         30,000      1             30,000
Small items              Lot          50,000      1             50,000
Labor for misc. construction: m-d        600   110              66,000
TOTAL INVESTMENT:                               2,991,000
of which village labor for well and misc.         560,000
OPERATION
Labor                    m-d             600          175       105,000
Insecticide              forfait                                 10,000
Plastic bags             Unit             12        5,000        60,000
Miscellaneous            forfait                                 20,000
TOTAL OPERATION:                                   195,000
21.         Stabilization  and  protection  of  banks  of  watercourses,  the
regeneration of gallery forests and the protection of very fragile areas by the
construction of gabions, etc. The cost of m3 of gabion in Benin is CFAF 4,000
plus the cost of placing and transporting stones.
22.         Control of brush fires, the leading cause of degradation in the
center and north of Benin, is essential to: (i) limit damage to the soil,
plantations and crops, and (ii) permit the application of biological measures
that improve soil fertility. The "early burning' method, if well applied, is a
"lesser evil" through which to keep damage within bounds, yet its limitations in
terms of the possibilities for introducing enhancement crops that remain in the
field during the dry season remain substantial. To protect land improvements,



- 55 -
ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 7
the introduction of effective firebreaks would be necessary. It would be useful
to undertake an annual education campaign covering the whole district, through
the basic schools, at the beginning of the dry season.
23.         The control of local transhumance,  generally combined with the
problem of late brush fires and grasslands management.   A grazing zone for
livestock, controlled and improved by the local Peuls settled around reservoirs,
currently seems the most realistic approach.   The sub-watershed of such a
reservoir must be thoroughly protected, especially upstream from the reservoir.
The potential carrying capacity of the available pasture land in the area
concerned must be studied, and the committee of the community managing the area
must make sure that the capacity is not exceeded. The establishment of reserves
of leguminous shrubs in the protection zones of the reservoirs, to be pruned
during the dry season, would be an added step.   Tree-planting might be a
contractual requirement for the creation of reservoirs with the communities.
Enough experience has been gained in Benin in the area of reservoir construction.
As a rule of thumb, a 15,000-20,000 m3 reservoir costs about CFAF 22 million and
the protection works about CFAF 1.5 million.
24.         General development actions at the village or community level.  The
improvement of an access road, a bridge, a well, a barn, etc. often seems more
important in the eyes of farmers than environmental protection measures,
especially before the education campaign. Nevertheless, such measures can be
spurs to environmental action. A terroir management plan probably has a greater
chance of succeeding if initiatives of general interest are associated with
measures involving natural resource and environmental management.  Similarly,
investments such as a reservoir for livestock or bottom-land management are of
greater interest than environmental protection alone and can have a considerable
effect on the development of a community dynamic.



- 57 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Basic Cartographic Needs
I. INTRODUCTION
1.          The absence of uniform thematic maps of the entire country has often
been pointed to as a serious lack. Such maps are necessary not only for planning
and as an aid to decision making in rural development, but also for the
identification and appraisal of existing natural resources and their level of
degradation.
2.          That lack of systematic data, identified with coherent legends and
uniform scales, hampers decision making in connection with studies in rural
development, hydro-agriculture, erosion, conservation of protected zones, etc.
3.          Satellite  imagery is the most  suitable instrument for natural
resource inventories and their monitoring and management, at scales of 1:100,000
and  even  1:50,000.    Aerial  photography  remains  necessary,  however,  for
geomorphology-vegetation correlations, zoning, land tenure operations and
detailed inventorying.
4.          Satellite images require additional later analyses by geologists,
geomorphologists, city planners, agronomists, agrostologists, etc. in order to
build up a Geographic Information System (GIS) by "layers" and produce maps
derived from it such as:   (i) plant cover and potential production,  (ii)
susceptibility to erosion, (iii) potential demographic carrying capacity, (iv)
agro-ecological zones and development plans.
II. MAPPING NEEDS
5.          In addition to specific local needs, involving the management of
watersheds, forest sites, pasture, etc., there is an urgent nationwide need to
inventory resources, update existing maps, and monitor erosion and plant cover.
These matters are of paramount importance to patrimonial surveillance and
management and to propose remedial actions for controlling the degradation of
resources.
6.            The map of current land use and plant cover is necessary for the
following studies:  (i) location of watersheds, forests and terroirs (sector
studies/ land inventory); (ii) interrelations of farming, herding, infrastructure
and hydrography; (iii) identification of transhumance patterns and agro-silvo-
pastoral interactions; monitoring of forest ecosystems and forest resources
(management).
7.          Nationwide coverage would comprise 46 sheets on a scale of 1:100,000
(assuming the CENAP printing format is followed), to be produced in annual lots
of 10 sheets according to the following operating system:



- 58 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 3
Tasks for lot 1
*     Selection and acquisition of satellite data.
*     Obtainment of topographic bases from INC/IGN.
*     Digitization of administrative boundaries, ecological zones, etc.
*     Determination of reference points on images and maps.
*     Preparation of mosaics with radiometric balancing in accordance with
map  format  and  correction  in  accordance  with  cartographic
projection.
*     Preliminary land-use classification.
*     Production of an intermediate product on colored paper for field
checking.
*     Field sampling to establish an interpretation key.
*     Introduction of the results of the interpretation key as reference
sites for the supervised classification.
*     Supervised classification of land use.
*     Cartographic  finishing  of  the  results  by  combination  of  the
classification results with the basic data of the administrative
boundaries, etc.
*     Calculation of land-use statistics distributed by administrative
unit, in the ecological units, by classified forest, etc.
*     Conversion of the geographic data on color separation films on a
definitive scale in order to make a polychrome print.
*     Preparation of a progress report, including the land-use statistics.
Polychrome offset print of the nine maps' by a contractor  (for
example CENAP) and publication of 200 to 1,000 copies per sheet
depending on potential need.
3.    Participation of CENATEL staff in the main phases of the work:
*     Participation of an engineer in field work (about 0.5 to 1 month).
*     Participation of the same engineer in final work on the statistical
classification and evaluation as part of an initial training
internship with an outside consultant (about two months).
4.    Diachronic study for the appraisal of current results in relation to
other information on plant cover, size of inhabited areas and
cultivated areas (topographical and thematic maps).
*     Digitization of old documents and integration into a geographic data
base (GIS).
*     Calculation  and  integration  of  the  old  statistics  into  the
categories of the current map.
*     Calculation of statistics of changes.
*     Classification of a map of changes.
*     Conversion of change data on color separation films on the final
scale for purposes of a polychrome print.
*     Printing of the nine maps of changes since 1976 and publication of
about five copies per sheet for specific needs.
*     Preparation of a progress  report containing the statistics of
changes.
1/    The first map would be contracted out with the participation of a
CENATEL official in all preparatory tasks.



- 59 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 3
III. MASTER PLAN FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF THE BORGOU'S NATURAL RESOURCES
8.          The preparation of a master plan for the management of the Borgou's
natural resources would already have at its disposal the basic inventory on a
1:100,000 scale, assuming the 24 sheets necessary to cover that department are
completed  on a priority  basis.    The preparation  of analysis  and policy
programming maps could then be undertaken. The master plan should include the
following  thematic  maps:    (i)  inventory  of available  natural  resources;
(ii) uniform development zones and zones at risk; (iii) trans-humance patterns
and development potential; (iv) short-term natural resource development program,
including zones to be protected with new boundaries; (v) medium- and long-term
natural resource development program.
9.          Since the CENAP polychrome print is limited to 80 cm x 62 cm per
sheet,  the 1:250,000 scale that would be adopted would allow Borgou to be
represented in three 80 cm x 58 cm sheets for each map.
10.         The operations plan for the preparation of maps necessary for the
preparation of the master plan for the management of Borgou's natural resources
is as follows:
(a)   Basic data:
-     Spatial maps and inventory of plant cover,  1:100,000  (24
sheets)
-     Topographic maps (INC), 1:50,000/1:200,000
(b)   Preparation:
-     Reduction of basic maps to 1:250,000
-     Assembly of reproductions to be cut into three new sheets
(c)   Tasks:
-     Thematic tasks to generalize the 1:100,000 data reduced to
1:250,003
-     Field checks and preparation of thematic drafts:
1.    inventory of available natural resources;
2.    uniform development zones and zones at risk;
3.    transhumance patterns and development potential;
4.    program for short-term natural resource development,
including the areas to be protected with new boundaries;
5.    medium-  and  long-term  natural  resource  development
program.
(d)   CENATEL GIS:
-     Digitization of drafts
-     Incorporation of the data into a GIS
-     Interactive finishing of maps
-     Conversion of color separation disk/films to SAT in Abidjan
-     Printing of 500 copies of 5*3 sheets at CENAP



- 61 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Resident Technical Assistance - Summary Terms of Reference
1.          Rural Development Specialist, 5 years as of PY1, based in Cotonou in
the Forest & Natural Resources Directorate (DFRN) of MDR.
Responsibilities: He would assist DFRN in the analysis of policy issues and in
the planning of natural resources management programs. He would help in the
management and coordination of the units establ shed in the field, monitoring,
controlling and evaluating implementation of the activities. He would participate
in the organizational assessment or the different project components and their
overall development impact. He would advise on the planning of future activities
of national scope and the preparation of specific programs.
Qualifications: Rural Development Specialist or Agricultural Economist with
knowledge in environmental impact of development activities, with at least 12
years experience, of which at least six in Africa.
2.          Watershed Development Specialist, 3 years as of PY1, based in Cotonou
in  DFRN.
Responsibilities: He would assist : (a) in all technical operations relating to
the preparation of studies, the evaluation of watershed development programs and
the establishment of technical criteria for possible actions; and (b) in
supervision and coordination for all watershed management site specific
activities connected with the project's investment program.
Qualifications: Rural Works Engineer specialized in watershed management, with
at least 10 years experience of which at least five in Africa.
3.          Forest Management Specialist, 3 years as of PYl, based in Parakou in
the Forestry Inspectorate.
Responsibilities: He would : (a) advise the DFRN and the local management units
in the preparation of natural forest management plans including demarcation,
inventories, reforestation, possible forest utilization and operations by the
private sector, forest cooperatives and local community involvement; and (b)
assist in elaborating monitoring guidelines for assessing the environmental
impact of participatory forest management activities
Qualifications: Forester specialized in natural forest management plans with
local participations. He would have at least 10 years experience of which at
least five in Africa in that matter.
4.          Remote Sensing Sspecialist, 2 years as of PYl, based in Cotonou at
the CENATEL.
Responsibilities: He would assist CENATEL in: (a) environmental monitoring, use
of remote sensing equipment and data processing; (b) planning of forest
inventories and natural resources management; (c) map preparation; and (d) the



- 62 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 2
training of CENATEL staff in specific remote sensing equipment and software
utilization, data analysis and interpretation, and permanent monitoring of the
evolution of natural resources.
Qualifications: Geographer/Remote Sensing Specialist with knowledge of specific
software (ERDAS), at least 10 years of experience as such of which at least two
in Africa.
5.          Training Expert, 1 year as of PY1, based in Cotonou in DFRN.
Responsibilities: He would assist in planning and organizing all training
activities in close collaboration with the specialist contracted for the specific
needs of the project by MDR, the DFRN and the end-users (farmers, support units,
civil servants). He would assist in defining training modules and sensitization
activities for the community land use management program.
Qualifications: Training specialist with specific experience in community land
use management and in corresponding training activities. He would have at least
12 years experience of which at least five in Africa, as such.



-63 -                                           ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 5
Table 1
lENIN
KAAGEMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES PROJECT
Project Cost S_mry
000 FCFA                        000 USS                      X Total
..............................    ...........................      foreign    Ea4e
Local   Foreign     Total      Local  Foreign   Total      Exchange    Costs
....... ..... i....................................... ............... I  .......................  ....................
A. Pltmins/wAnegement              53S999   872096   1408095         1894    3082    4976            62        23
8. Monitoring/eveluetion           232388    546112    778500        821     1930    2751            70        13
C. Poaching Control                 82155    150020    232175        290      530      820           65         4
0. Training                        245711    200749    446460        868      709     1578           45         7
E. Studies                          74635    156615    231250        264      553      817           68         4
F. foret management               495000   319176    814176         1749     1128    2877            39        13
G. Watershed Development           688021    650912   1338932       2431     2300     4731           49        22
H. Land tenure operations          175199    128660   303859         619      455     1074           42         5
1. Research Devetop ent           275552   152631    428183          974      539     1513           36         7
J. WiLdlite a nawement             123671    75065    198736         437      265      702           38         3
Total BASELINE COSTS             2928329  3252038   6180367        10347   11491    21839            53       100
Physical Contingencies          188118   237342    425460         665      839     1503           56         7
Price Contingencies             188500   107615   296115          666      380     1046           36         5
...--------------    ---------------  .   .... .........  ... ......._.............. ........
Total PROJECTS COSTS             3304946  3596995   6901942        11678   12710   24388             52       112
11/12/1991 15:27



Table 2
BENIN
MANACEMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES PROJECT
Sumary Account by Project Component
000 FCFA
Watersho   Land
Planning  MonitorI                                 Forest       d      tenure  R.e..rch  Wildlife
/managem  ng/evalu  Poaching                      manag-n  Develop   operati- Ov-lopm  manago_
ant      ation    Control  Tralning   Studies     nt        net       as        eat       at
. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil works                       16000      6000     14000         0         0     SOOO0    129600         0      56000      7200
S. Infrastructure Works                  0         0      1260         0         0    316900   560000           0        0      192t5
C. Vehicles                          75000     28450     72500         0         0     90300    106100      28400      60650    26900
D. Equipment                         24760    174400     48520         0         0    86471       89310    59600      41455     48520
E. Maps, Photos, Satilages               0    242100         0         0         0         0          0      J184        0          0
F. Training                              0         0         0    366460         0         0          0        0         0          0
0. Resident TechnAsclatance         473000     66000         0     43000         0         0         0         0         0          0
H. Consultant services              523300     S16OO         0         0         0     57000      0000    1200            0      5700
I. Studies                               0         0         0         0    281250         0     36600         0         0         0
1. PPF                               96250     30000         0     37000         0         0         0         0         0         0              r
Total INVESTMENT COSTS             1211630   683660    136270    446460    231250    611271   1060510    224664    164106    102670
II. RECURRENT COSTS
___________________
A. Incremental salarle               7S00     13000         0         0         0     61036    147966     3080     "367        54265
S. Travel Expenses                   33S50     31300     12500         0         0     24965     35730      4560    30075           0
C. Vehicle maintenance               49000     17750     60026         0         0     50560     62180    22100    33400        16390
0. Equ I pmnt/Office laInten.         8766     40400     13380         0         0     39715      34027     937J?     1772I     17521
E. Othern                            12500      2600     10000         0         0      6600      3500      12960    60700       9000
Totsl RECURRENT COSTS               196266    109950     95906         0         0    20290C    286422      7927t    260407     96166
Total BASELINE COSTS               1406095    778600    232175    446460    2312S0    814176   1336932   go059    42613J    19736
Physical Contingencies             19254     51460     22730     14760     13930    90669    160002    14061        33393     15201
Price Contingencies                67510     31177      9436     15639      9473     52090      77?19     10363     2194i    10690
Total PROJECT COSTS                1464660    61137    264340    476699    264653   956955   1566O64    32t298    493319   224633
Taxes                                  0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Foreign Exchange                  911752    602477    169964    210468    170761    372017   760755    139642    173613       9657?
…  --------         ---       -    --------    ---------------------…- ---- -                   …-…-----               …
12/14/1991 9:36
0
Ln



.... . . .~~Tal .e 3.....  
HAMCE IV 0  NAMOL~ PESM1*Cn  PROJCT
kiest   ccrnuti by?raj*c0,O9fW
Ptses-ka~          Price
CowXifiu44eRe     Co.ti.omcei
9QS   Ae.t        U   'meg"t
X. toEW     IMIT _
A~ Vte1t ¢tws             i1040O                    is     4f'10        2      6112
891400        If S1$    134610    7     6a3a0
S.     i                             493O           t0     49630        4     20016
2. f<a>\pbe-;                         B t"          to     54796        3      11976
C  *Opa tZ4u40  i%a,&                2ts02          10     26021        i      14216
F, tam;riv 6f.0                      >>4i4                 14750        4     153U
4  X;i*st ts<0            0       3      17099
~'t.   (&9rz ...                . .    t         J *       AN 34*        a slf a2 13700  £  43231
1. 57 It ic-                         ale00so         7     224U0        3     t0930
J. ft                                212260          0         0        0         0
------------------~                               --   --  ---                                    0
(¢s   "f,C   CC$.)rts,           4051400          7    361654        4    206496                             U'
A. Incr-mntx1 salaries               504300          0         0        7     86SS3
S. Travel Expenses                   186510          0          0       7      12262
C. Vehicle maintenance               315396         10     31539        a     18659
0. Equipm.nt/Office mainten.         180912         10     13091        7     1290
E. Others                            142760         10     14275        7      1037T
Total RECURRENt COSTS               1328907          C     63906        7      M961?
Total BASELINE COSTS                6160C87          7    425460        6    298115
Physical Contingenc!es             426460
Price Contingencie-                296116          7     19484
Total PROJECT COSTS                 6901942          6    444944        4    296115
Taxes                                   0          0         0
Foreign Exchange                  3696995          7    246226                                         ' 
-------------------___--------------------- ----------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -Q ---
12/14/1991  9:a6                                *
w a
0~
0n



Table 4
MANAUT OF IIAIAL f1ESPC1Z POJIET-
$v eyMc"nt. by Yea
Total. Icedludsloetln       ¢.I                                    Totals I.edieg C.elIm..eiO
000 FCtA                                                             000 us$
92/93     03/94      *4/K       OS0/"      '0/07      lots I       02903      03/94      *4/9t     * /00      #o/"       T-..
I . IIs         CoTS 1 
A. Civi lsork                      214610    112230      3014           0          0    #8t072           75n        307        127          0         0       1it"
I. Infraetructure Weiek             91235    121172    294U00    300699    219536   100l 540             *22        040       1041       1002       776       307
C. Vehilese                        200627     65070      "042    128207        00912    535948           06         2t0        101        486       307       2000
0. Equapmt                         30477    31979        32409      60011      44500    619727           1077       420        2"1        240        is$      2190
E. Mope  Photae, Sat. l.pe          69481     4400C      46U74      55200      73949    20927            246        1"         10         19C       261       1023
F. TrainIwg                        127434    10651      75471      50793      36l1    3oss"6            450        370        267        170       12        1401
C. lOsldost Tieehn.Aeost"nes    216105    175614    13T706          45776      47420    619099            766        21        473        102       150       21m
I. Conewlteat serices              20C141    13200    100422    170039    161381    900631                725       047        080        081       570       3210
1. Studies                          304      131967      04206      7322           0    850160           205        490        227        260         0       1ts3
J. mPF                             212250          0         0          0          0    212250            150         0          0          0          0       750
Total  tE;1NVE NtT COSTS          1750071   1110523    96793U    903963    670150    4194C2              215        062       8420       3104      2090      19150
It. UEOM I  COSTS
A. IJ,erpntal *il.elo5e 83                     90263    128652    120fO1    125329    Sa9m                231        no        437        47         443      10o
S. Trowel Expesee                   *1317      84092     44279      44110      39583    197372            111       1to        15;        1U         140       000
C. Vehicl oelnte.en.e              $2694      60240     01280      04350      70994    0S523            16         241       27         200        270      122
O. E"qI     OtIof9le maine.         23972      89312     460t7      50256      51281    211909             Ss        Is$         U        10         101 I40
E* OtMe                             2429t      844C3     36620      31325      36219    167402             0         122        120       1t         122        502
Total RECUI"SNT COSTS              19764J    276060   J32760    843050    831356   1402490                699        07e      1170       121t       1171      t23J
Total PROJEce COSTS110523   1395391   1300701   1247013   1001514   6_0                                  1914       4C31      4506       4409       3539     2433
12/14/1M0 90:#
10
O o
kn



Table 5
8EhlH
MAAGEMENT OF NATURAL RESORCES PRECT
Projects Coqponents by Tear
Totals Including Contingencies                                 Totals Inciuding Contingencies
000 FCFA                                                        000S 
..................................................................... w............ ........................ ............................................................
92/93    93/94     94/95     95/96     96/97    Total        92/93    93/94      94/95    ff/96      96/9?    Total
A. Platming/magement               468522   287387   289697   230398   208855  1484860             1656      1016     1024       814       738      5247
B. Monitoring/evaluation           332638    160564    101794    130555   13558S   861137          1175       567      360       461       479      3043     ot
C. Poaching Control                126395    22619    31126    52037    32163   264340              447        80       110      184       114       934      Z
0. Training                        207m75    106519    75471    50793    36381   476899             734       376      267       179       129      1685
E. Studies                          33256    83849    64296    73252           0   254653           118       296      227       259         0       900
F. Forest management               145842   173237   243208   202918    191750   956955             515      612       859       717       678      3381
G. Uatershed Development           300266   310677   333510   34R006   274195   1566654            1061      1098     1178      1230       969      5536
H Land teruire operations          136977    78044    67453    35145    10675   328293              484      276       238       124        38      1160
l. Research Development            154635    105615    62942    86865    73461   483519            546      6373       222       307       260      1709
J. lildlife management              50256    66880    31203    37844    38449   224633              178      236       110       134       136       794
Total PROJECTS COSTS              1956523   1395391   1300701   1247813   1001514  6901942        6914      4931      4596      4409      3539    24388
11/12/1991 15:28
%.
F0



- 69 -
ANNEX 7
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
IDA FY              Disbursements
and                                                 Cumulative
semester      Semester          Cumulative        disbursements
(US$ million)                 (SDR million)
FY92    1         0                   0                     0
2       1.5                 1.5                   1.1
FY93    1        0.8                2.3                   1.6
2       0.9                 3.2                   2.3
FY94    1        1.0                4.2                   3.0
2       1.0                 5.2                   3.7
FY95    1        1.2                6.4                   4.6
2       1.2                 7.6                  5.4
FY96    1        1.2                8.8                   6.3
2       1.2                10.0                   7.2
FY97    1        1.1               11.1                   7.9
2       1.0                12.1                  8.7
FY98    1        0.8               12.9                   9.2
2       0.7                13.6                  9.7
FY99    1        0.5               14.1                  10.1
2
Note: This schedule assumes that the Credit becomes effective in May 1992. The
project preparation advance (US$750,000) will be repaid and the initial deposit
(US$700,000) made during the second semester of FY92.



- 71 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Project Activities
1  PYl     PY2      PY3      PY4      PY5
1.PLANN & MANAGEM
Staffing                      . _
Procurement                   ---
Set-up account.syst.& support -          _        _
Set-up monitor.syst.& support --         _        _        _
Work Program prep.             x        x        x        x        x
Audit                                x        x        x        x        x
Anti-poaching                   _______    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Prepar.forestry code          -----
Prepar.forestry program        -----
Mid-term review                                     xx
Monitoring                     -   -   -  -  -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -
Evaluation                            x        x        x        Y        x
2.STUDIES
Wood sub-sector                --------
Borgou  Master-Plan                      ---------------------
Nat.Res. Fund                                               -----
3 .ENV.MONLTORING
Procurement equip             ---        _              _         . _
Procur.aerial photo           - 
Procur.satellite images       -_
Set up geodesic inform. sys.     -------
Set up software programs        -       - -__
Images   interpr.                 -  -  -  -  -  -  -  .   -  -  -   -  -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -
Plant   cover   map               ----------------------------------------
GIS set up                                      I   -             I
Monitoring/Eval                          -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -
4.TRAINING
Core team
Prep.train. modules           -_
Local teams                    -4       -7       -9       -9
CARDER staff                    x        x        x        x
National Workshop                          x        x        x        x
Communities Worksp                        x        x        x        x
CENATEL staff                   __      __      . _ -              _
Savalou Tr.Center              --------------20 trainees/yiear -------------



- 72 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 4
pyl      PY2       PY3       PY4      PY5
5.FOREST MANAGT.
TOUI-KILIBO
Staffing                       ---
Procurement                    ---                          ---
Studies/Inventory               ------
Sensitization                    ------
Support forestry posts           -2-
Prep/Impl.mgt.plans                  ---------------------------------------
Monitoring                      -  -  -   -   -  -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -  -  -
Evaluation                            x         x         x         x        x
OUEME-SUPERIEUR
Staffing                                 ---
Procurement                              ---                       ---
Studies/Inventory                         -------
Sensitization                              ------
Support forestry posts                     -3-
Prep/Impl. mgt.plan                             _.                   --------
Monitoring                                -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -
Evaluation                                      x         x         x        x
DOGO-KETOU
Staffing                                           ---
Procurement
Studies/Inventory                                   ------
Sensitization                                        ------
Support forestry posts                              -2-
Prep/Impl.mgt.plan                                        _. ____.___
Monitoring                                          - - - _- - - - - - - -
Evaluation                                                x         x        x
6.WATERSHED DEVEL.
APLAHOUE & OUESSE
Staffing                       ---
Procurement                    _                            ___
Sensitization                    ------
Land tenure plan                   ----------------
Research-Dev.trials                 ---------------------------------------
Prep/Impl.mgt.plan (village)          -(4)-----(8)------(14)-----(20)-----
Monitoring                       -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  _
Evaluation                            x         x         x         x        x
BOUKUMBE
Preliminary studies             -------
Staffing                                 ---
Procurement                              ---
Sensitization                              ------
Land tenure plan                             ----------------
Research-Dev.trials                          ------------------------------
Prep/Impl.mgt.plan (village)                    -(2)----(4)-----(7)----(10)
Monitoring                                 - - -   _
Evaluation                    |                          xl x|X-             x



- 73 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 4
PY1       PY2       PY3        PY4       PY5
OUAKE
Preliminary studies                         -------
Staffing
Procurement                                          ---
Sensitization                                          ___-_
Land tenure plan                                          -----------------
Research-Dev.trials                                       ----------------------
Prep/Impl.mgt.plan (village)                                 -(3)----(6)----(10)
Monitoring                                             - - - - - - - - - - - -
Evaluation                                          x         x         x          x
7.WILDLIFE MGT.
ALPHAKOUARA
Staffing                         ---
Procurement                      _                            ___
Study/Sensitizat.                   ----
Prep/Impl.mgt.plan                    ____.                  -------------------
Monitoring                         -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -
Evaluation                               x          x         x         x          x
BATIA
Staffing
Procurement
Study/Sensitizat.                             -----
Prep/Impl.mgt.plan                                -----------------------------
Monitoring
Evaluation                                          xI        xI        xI         x



- 74 -
ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 4
Implementation Schedule
Estimated Annual Contractual and Other Payments
(US$ million equivalent)
Project Element                   Pr--               Project Year              Total          Remarks
Proj-ct       1     2     3      4     5    Payment
Loan Timing
Sign/Effect/Clos-                        **   **                            **
Works
Buildings                                   0.5    0.6   0.2                   1.3          LCB/Cofin.
Rural Works                                         0.1   0.2   0.2   0.3    0.8            LCB
0.2    0.6   0.5   0.4   0.3    1.9            Direct/Shopping
0.1    0.1   0.3   0.4   0.3    1.2            Cofin.
Goods
Vehicles/Equip.                              0.7    0.7   0.5   0.4            2.4          1C8
0.2    0.1                        0.3          LC?
0.1                 0.1          Shopping
0.2    0.6   0.4   0.3            1.4          Cofin.
Service Contracts
Aerial photos, mapping,                            0.2                        0.2          ICB
satellite images                           0.2                         0.1   0.3           LIB/Cofin.
0.2   0.2   0.1           0.6          Force ac./Cofin
Consultancies
Consultants,                               0.8    1.2   0.9   0.7    0.4   4.0
Technical assist.,                         0.8    1.2   1.0   0.6    0.4   4.0             Cofin.
Training
Miscellaneous
Operating costs                              0.4    0.5    .6   0.4   0.2    2.0
0.3    0.6   0.7   0.8  C1.9    3.2            Cofin.
Refinancing of PPF                           0.8                               0.8
TOTAL                                          S.2    i.4   5.6   4.4   2.9   24.4
(IDA-Financed)                                (3.1)  (3.8) (3.5) (2.6) (1.0) (14.1)



- 75 -
ANNEX 9
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Supervision Schedule
IDA Supervision input into key activities
Missions          Activity                 Expected Skill              SW
Requirements
First year  1      Project launching              Task Manager           6
Procurement review             Forester
Financial aspects              Procurement
Disbursement
2     Organization/management        Management             6
Start-up field operation       Environmentalist
National workshop              Forester
Second Year 1      Implement.& coordin,           Environmentalist      8
field activities               Forester
Environm.monitoring            Agronomist
Review forestry program
2     Implem.field activities        Nat.res.managt.        6
Financial performance          Financial analyst
Land tenure sp.
Third Year  1      Implem.field activities        Community devel.      5
Adequacy of monitoring         M-E specialist
2     Mid-Term Review                Environmentalist    14
Determination of               Forester
major changes                  Agronomist
Management
Financial analyst
Fourth Year 1      Implem.field activities        Nat.Res.managt.        7
Environm.monitoring            Remote sensing sp.
Rural engineer
2     Implem.field activities        Agronomist             7
Review of studies              Livestock sp.
Forester
Fifth Year  1      Implem.field activities        Environmentalist       7
Land tenure follow-up          Land tenure sp.
Financial performance          Financial analyst
2     Implem.Eield activities         Nat.Res.managt        8
Environm.monitoring            Forester
PCR                            Economlst



IBRD 23346
M A LI    NIG
NIGER
f#OEMA
(\BURKINA \r                           > b
FASO                          Ksrmoma                                      12'
I            ~~~~~~Molanville Z_ 
0   20  40  60   o  100
Bonikoorj
ToDbn.oq ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~69n
dro               Gogounou                         NIGERIA
Materi                               
I   Tongui6ta                             /
(   Kobli-  \NToukountouno
<,NAT1TINGOUr  ±    Kouonde  0   t   Sinend6     BORGOU            /
Bou koumb6 .-8mbb&kW
I ATAKORA P6 onko
( O--                      Nd li         -               BENI
'~~pougou
Ou~~~~6~~~ ~ ~
'~~' 11  ~BENIN
7Xlcssilo   >        tz  r'NATURAL RESOURCES  t
,Tchoourou            MANAGEMENT PROJECT
\    -_;1   Ou6ss6 k- PAVED ROADS
TOGO                 -fElBord6            ''a                        GRAVEL ROADS
- - RAILROADS
,  INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
SQVoI ! GblzQU6 .... ±) AIRFIELDS
-t6     1            (                     ° DISTRICT CAPITALS
o PROVINCE CAPITALS
*  NATIONAL CAPITALS
-  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
Dj\iidja \ o ZQ-  ou a                      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
.           T. np h. ;o. o      WodT -o .to    n tf
-r o  ANo bh ui o            K      I    Pobn G,oop nb.                   d
Djokotom Io O                             t,vi  tnot o n
"DgoTg;o ZoO   hounkt               O
Athi6mb* !op       o          Q     ¢iIln
_  ~~~AIHQU6Y   )    -.tit   tB    ;Q_
LOKQS         O A7 duidhCOTONOU Sbm&- p         it
1*      mt         nd- ATLANTIQUE                         .
OCTOBER 1991



l ;       J ~~~N I G e R   \  2-                       3                      Z   W
MALI)    )IGR                                    4NIGER.
NIGERiA                                   9  
-1VGI~ GI4ANC            BURKINA\(
OT -          FASO                                             ZONE CYEGETIQUE          12-
,JW - ~~ ~ Maionvill
DEL'ATAKORAo,                                                  -/ 0   20   4   60 - 0 -00
ZONE CYNEGETIQUE                                                                        KILOMETERS
\6g no~<7tonik  '  9X,
1< >  <  r       < 1y                /               Segbono                       <-~~~unou
NIGERIA
|.E                                                                 Kolou ofJ  ~ < (a  )5
s a   n     e     g    f e        n~~uad ~ ned S         
SOTOfIr-  uku b
NATURAL RESOURCES
iia    ~      ~           MNAGEMENT PROJECT
y WATERSHED SITES
GAZETTED FORESTS (PROJECT SITES)
0E  GAZETTED FORESTS
TOGO                        X                       t TOUI-KIL.IBO  *      WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT SITES
HUNTING AREAS
ov6-  150 ISOHYETS IN MM.
10  ~~smlu  Glozou6    
PAVED ROADS                  8'
GRAVEL ROADS
?            -s--i-   70  RAILROADS
4  INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
N     ,     8 piid'   ,      KAEou                   +  AIRFIELDS
70D0 ~t              i (pota 0W _ ,f\o                     o DISTRICT CAPITALS
7 PROVINCE CAPITALS
T. Nftk                           LmOA (,ZXbodon 7 \ Vn *NATIONAL CAPITALS
-PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
-  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
LOKO SMONa                T-lag
m                                                      t                                                      8 
> ~~   ~ ~~~~                ui,dohCOC ONOU S§mb- ji 
so GHANAm LOME    '8d-  ATLANTIQUE                       '     BGHT OF
P             fb~~~~~~Ppo                           BENIN                4.
10  11' -                 I                         I~~~~~~~~~~~~~2



