Document Of
The World Bank
FOR oMciL USE ONLY
0/, Aj,1;07         vS
Report No. P-4308-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$64.5 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR THE
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 7, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency unit   =  Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00   =  Rp 1,100
Rp 100   =  US$0.09
Rp 1 billion   =  US$909,091
FISCAL YEARS
Government of Indonesia   -  April I-March 31
State Commercial Banks    -  January 1-December 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BAPINDO        -  Bank Pembangunan Indonesia (Development Bank
of Indonesia)
BDN            -  Bank Dagang Negara
BI             -  Bank Indonesia
BNI 1946       -  Bank Negara Indonesia 1946
BRI            -  Bank Rakyat Indonesia
ESB            -  Export Support Board
ESF            -  Export Support Fund
GOI            -  Government of Indonesia
P.T. ASEI      -  P.T. Asuransi Ekspor Indonesia (Export Insurance
Company of Indonesia)
REPELITA       -  National Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita I,
1969-74; Repelita II, 1974-79; Repelita III,
1979-84; Repelita IV, 1984-89; Repelita u,
1989-94)



FOR OFFICIA, USE ONLY
INDONESIA
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Proiect Sunmmary
Borrower:           Republic of Indonesia.
Beneficiaries:      Bank Negara Indonesia 1946; Bank Dagang Negara; Bank
Rakyat Indonesia; and P.T. Asuransi Ekspor Indonesia.
Amount:             US$64.5 million equivalent.
Terms:              Payable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:    The Government of Indonesia would relend the portion of
the loan allocated to the credit component (US$51 million) to
the three participating banks at a variable interest rate
equal to their average cost of loanable funds subject to a
floor equivalent to the Bank's rate plus a spread of
1.75Z. The Government would bear the foreign exchange
risk. Bank funds would be relent to the participating
banks for a period of 20 years, including three years of
grace. The participating banks would onlend the funds to
their subborrowers at prevailing market rates. The
proceeds of the loan allocated to the technical assistance
and training components (US$13.5 million) would be made
available to the participating agencies as budgetary
grants.
Project
Description:      The project's objective is to strengthen Indonesia's
efforts to increase non-oil exports by increasing the
availability of long-term credit for export-oriented
investments, by strengthening the policy and institutional
framework needed for export development and by assisting
individual export firms with technical assistance and
training. The project will cover both direct and indirect
exporters.
Under the credit component the loan would provide three
major state commercial banks with long-term funds to
support about 30 export-oriented investments. The capa-
city of these banks to identify and appraise export pro-
jects would also be strengthened. Under the technical
assistance component, the policy and institutional frame-
work to support exports will be strengthened. In
addition, direct technical assistance would be provided to
about 300 export firms and supporting institutions in
marketing and related areas. The training component would
provide a program of short-term courses related to the
IThis document has a   kictod distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oficia duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without Worid Bank authorizaion.



:                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- ii. -
immediate needs of 800 exporters and related public offi-
cials. Training of about 35 local trainers would also be
included.
Risks:              Delays in strengthening the institutional capabilities of
the participating banks could delay the preparation and
appraisal of sound investments. The advance training
program for relevant bank staff, which is ongoing, should
reduce this risk. Another risk is that subprojects under
the credit component would fail to realize the minimum 40Z
export requirement. This risk is being addressed by
emphasizing realistic assessment of export potential at
the appraisal stage.
Estimated Cost:                                   Local       Foreign      Total
-  ~   - (US$ million)
Credit                                          38.0        58.0         96.0
Technical assistance                             2.6         9.6         12.2
Training                                         0.8          1.1         1.9
Total Baseline Cost /a                     41.4        68.7        110.1
Physical contingencies                      0.2          -           0.2
Price contingencies                         0.3         1.0          1.3
Total Project Cost                         41.9        69.7        111.6
Financing Plan:
Bank loan                                        1.8        62.7         64.5
Participating banks                             12.0          -          12.0
Subproject sponsor/user fees                    27.6         7.0         34.6
Covernment                                       0.5           -          0.5
Total                                  41.9         69.7        111.6
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY            1987   1988   1989   1990   1991
-----  (USs million)--
Annual                      5.5    20.4   21.3   12.6    4.7
Cumulative                  5.5    25.9   47.2   59.8   64.5
Rate of Return: Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 5968-IND, dated May 1, 1986.
Map: IBRD No. 11038R1
/a   Includes a negligible amount of taxes and duties.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA FOR
THE EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of US$64.5 million to help
finance the Export Development Project. The loan would have a term of
20 years, including 5 years grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
About US$51.0 million equivalent of the proposed loan would be on-lent to Bank
Dagang Negara (BDN), Bank Negara Indonesia 1946 (BNI46) and Bank Rakyat
Indonesia (BRI) for 20 years, including 3 years of grace, at a variable
interest rate based on the average cost of loanable funds of the participating
banks. The loan proceeds applicable to the technical assistance and training
components, of US$11.4 and US$2.1 million, respectively, would be made avail-
able to the participating agencies as budgetary grants. The foreign exchange
risk on the loan would be borne by the Government.
PART I - THE ECONOMY1'
2.        An economic report, entitled "Indonesia:  Policies for Growth and
Employment" (No. 5597-IND, dated April 23, 1985), was distributed to the
Executive Directors on April 30, 1985. Annex I gives selected social and
economic indicators for the country.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is a highly diverse country spread across
an archipelago of more than 13,000 islands with a land area of about 2 mil-
lion km'. It now has a population of over 155 million, growing at about 2.2Z
p.a., and is the world's fifth most populous nation. The country has a diver-
sified resource base, with plentiful primary energy resources, significant
mineral deposits, large timber potential and a developed system of agricul-
tural commodity production and export. A high proportion of these primary
resources are located on the sparsely populated islands of Sumatra and Kali-
mantan, while two thirds of the population live on Java, which has areas with
some of the highest rural population densities in the world. About a quarter
of the population lives in urban areas, and the current rate of urban popula-
tion growth is about 4Z p.a. The 1983 estimate of GN3,per capita is US$560,
which places Indonesia among middle income countries.
1/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on a Gas Distribution
Project (No. P-4287-IND), circulated under cover of R86-96 dated
April 17, 1986, and approved by the Executing Directors on May 6, 1986.
2/   On the basis of the World Bank's sytems of country classification and
Atlas methodology for calculation of GNP.



- 2 -
Macroeconomic Developments and Resource Management
4.        Until 1981, the economy had been growing at almost 8% p.a. for over
a decade. This growth was associated with rapid increases in public expendi-
tures, total investment and savings. The initial impetus for this occurred in
the period of recovery from the turbulence of the mid-1960s. The Government
of Indonesia (GOI) took effective action to restore macroeconomic stability,
liberalize the economy, rehabilitate infrastructure, and provide incentives
for domestic and foreign private investment. However, the dominant external
influence over the past decade has been the huge expansion, and significant
variability, in foreign exchange earnings from oil. Net exports from the oil
and gas sector rose from US$0.6 billion in 1973/74 to US$10.6 billion in
1980/81, when the current account enjoyed a surplus of US$2.1 billion. Oil
receipts also provided about 60% of Central Government receipts by 1980/81 and
helped finance a sustained increase in demand. The pattern of expenditures
has also helped foster diversified growth. Of particular note has been the
support for agriculture, through investment in infrastructure and support ser-
vices. This supported an agricultural growth rate of almost 4% p.a. over the
past decade, and led to the recent achievement of self-sufficiency in rice.
Manufacturing also enjoyed a high growth rate during the 1970s (of about 14%
p.a.), although this was from a very low base and predominantly oriented
toward the protected domestic market.
5.        During 1982, the Indonesian economy was affected adversely by the
protracted international recession and the accompanying decline in export
earnings, especially from oil. These developments led to a sharp turnaround
in Indonesia's external resource position and a fall in real per capita
incomes. In response, the Government acted promptly to ensure that the coun-
try's balance of payments situation was manageable and to provide a basis for
longer-term structural transformation. Particular attention was paid to
reducing Indonesia's dependence on oil for export earnings and public reve-
nues. Specific measures introduced over the past two years include:
(a) a 28% devaluation of the rupiah against the US dollar in March 1983,
without any change in the policy of full convertibility;
(b) a major rephasing (postponement/cancellation) of large-scale and
import-intensive public investments, especially in the industrial
sector;
(c) successive price increases for petroleum products, which have
largely eliminated domestic subsidies;
(d) a far-reaching financial reform, including the liberalization of
interest rates and the abandonment of credit ceilings;
(e) introduction of a comprehensive tax reform program, aimed at
increasing government revenues by broadening the tax base, simplify-
ing the structure of rates and improving administration; and



3
(f) an ongoing effort to reduce the unfavorable impact of the regulatory
framework, including simplification of investment approval proce-
dures and a major reorganization of customs, ports and shipping
operations.
6.        These measures, aided by more favorable trends in the world economy,
are already having their desired impact. GDP, led by strong performance in
the oil (including LNG and refining) and agriculture sectors, rose by an esti-
mated 4.7Z in 1983 and 6.5Z in 1984. The balance of payments situation is
also improving. In particular, the current account deficit was reduced from
US$7.1 billion (8.5Z of GNP) in 1982/83 to an estimated US$1.9 billion (2.42
of GNP) in 1984/85. The major factors responsible for this improvement are
import cuts, resulting from the Government's efforts to curb aggregate demand,
and higher export earnings from non-oil products, due to recovery in the
industrial countries and the Government's policies to promote non-oil
exports. The Government's restraint is also evident in the budget, where real
expenditures have probably fallen over the past three years. This fiscal dis-
cipline, in turn, helped keep domestic inflation down to about 122 in 1983 and
9Z in 1984, despite the inevitable pressures associated with the 1983 devalua-
tion and the petroleum price adjustments. Faced with the prospect of even
lower oil prices in the year ahead, the Government recently announced an
austere budget for 1986/87. In particular, total expenditure is projected to
fall by 7% (compared to budgeted levels in 1985/86), with a 222 reduction in
the development budget.
Policies for Medium-Term Growth and Transformation
7.        Sustained growth of the non-oil economy by at least 5% p.a. is pro-
bably necessary to have a significant impact on employment creation and pov-
erty alleviation over the remainder of this decade. To promote such a growth
rate, without generating unmanageable balance of payments pressures, is one of
the major challenges facing the Government. Successful transformation of the
economy will require continued action in three key policy areas: management
of the public investment program (and improvements in the regulatory/policy
environment for private investment), rationalization of the external trade
regime and development of the financial sector.
8.        The projected import constraint imposes serious limitations on the
rate at which Indonesia can undertake new investments over the next few
years. At the same time, some reallocation of resources towards agriculture
and the social sectors might be justified, in order to reduce the import con-
tent of investment while still meeting the Government's employment objec-
tives. It is therefore important that mechanisms are established to facili-
tate orderly and rational adjustments to the public investment program. Pos-
sible options include preparation of multi-year expenditure plans (at least
for the larger projects), identification of a core program of high priority
projects and strengthening of project appraisal/selection procedures. The
Government is also considering ways to improve project implementation, so that
investment returns can be realized more promptly. Given the budgetary con-
straints, it is expected that the private sector will be called upon to play
an increasingly important role in capital formation. To encourage this pro-
cess, the Government recently announced simplifications in investment approval



-4-
procedures and a major internal reorganization of the Investment Coordinating
Board.
9.        The recent decline in the price of oil has clearly demonstrated the
importance of reducing the economy's heavy dependence on a single source of
foreign ezchange and, more generally, the need to rationalize the external
trade regime. The Government has set a target of doubling non-oil exports in
nominal terms over the next five years. This target should be attainable pro-
vided that economic recovery in the industrial economies is sustained,
Indonesia's access to those markets is not constrained by protectionist mea-
sures and, most importantly, Indonesia follows appropriate trade and exchange
rate policies. The Government has already introduced a range of export promo-
tion measures intended to improve export incentives, ensure ready access to
f-nance for exporters, raise product quality and enhance marketing capacity.
However, over the longer term, there is no effective substitute for comprehen-
sive trade reform. On the import side, Indonesia's trade regime has histori-
cally been characterized by a predilection for high tariffs and quantitative
restrictions. In March 1985, the Government announced a major reduction in
the range and level of nominal import tariffs. However, other actions -
including increased use of import quotas/bans and regulations requiring higner
local content in production -- have served to promote some potentially costly
and uneconomic investments which could prove counter productive to the export
drive.
10.       The Government's decision to move towards a more liberal financial
environment raises a number of issues relating to resource mobilization,
financial intermediation and credit allocation. Over the longer term, as the
scope for subsidized credit is reduced, the banking system will have to play
an increasingly important role in mobilizing domestic resources. However,
during the transition period, some potential conflicts between the resource
mobilization and credit allocation objectives could arise. For example, the
increase in deposit rates following the recent financial reforms, while
encouraging resource mobilization, has also led to high real lending rates
which have tended to dampen investment and credit demand. This in turn may
restrain economic activity. It is therefore important to find ways to reduce
the high intermediation costs of banks. Consideration should also be given to
other ways of mobilizing financial resources, including development of a capi-
tal market, expansion of the banking network (especially in rural areas) and
selective relaxation of restrictions on private banks (combined with increased
bank supervision).
Incomes, Employment and Human Development
11.       Indonesia's physical, human and economic resources are very unevenly
distributed between its main regions. Java, for example, accounts for almost
50% of Indonesia's GDP and 62% of its population, but only 7X of its land
area. Although all five of the country's main regions experienced rapid per
capita growth in the 1970s, regional differences in output tended to widen.
To a large extent, differences in performance are associated with the impor-
tance of the mineral sector, particularly petroleum. However, there are two
important processes at work in Indonesia which enable the benefits of growth
to be more evenly spread than indicated by output trends. The first of these



-5-
is migration. Between 1971 and 1980, 4.3 million people (or 16% of the natur-
al increase in population) resettled permanently in provinces outside those of
their birth. Approximately 1.7 million people moved from Java to the Other
Islands, of whom some 675,000 were resettled through the official transmigra-
tion program. There has also been substantial rural-arban migration both
between and within provinces. The second process is the redistribution of
income through the government budget. Regional variations in per capita con-
sumption are much less pronounced than differences in per capita output. This
is largely due to the impact of taxation on the oil sector.
12.       An analysis of household expenditures indicates that Indonesia's
rapid economic development has been accompanied by significant progress in
reducing poverty. Between 1970 and 1980, the proportion of the population
living in poverty declined from 57% to 40%; the decline was particularly rapid
in the Other Islands and in urban areas. The core of the poverty problem con-
tinues to be in rural Java, where landless laborers form a large, and possibly
rising, proportion of the population and where, for most of the 1970s, there
is little evidence of any rise in real agricultural wages. However, there was
a significant rise in real agricultural wages around 1980-81, associated with
the sharp increase in rice output and booming overall economic growth.
Increases in rural non-agricultural and urban wages also occurred at the
beginning of the 1980s. Despite the slowdown in economic growth and stabili-
zation measures since 1982, the limited available evidence suggests that wages
and incomes have held up, partly as a consequence of continued agricultural
growth.
13.       In the future, the availability of productive employment will be a
key determinant of income distribution. The labor force is expected to grow
at about 2.3% p.a. over the next decade, while economic growth will be lower
than in the 1970s. The resultant squeeze in the labor market is not expected
to lead to a dramatic increase in unemployment but there is a serious risk of
stagnant or declining labor income in both rural areas and the urban informal
sector. Given the balance of payments constraint facing the country,
Indonesia's employment outlook depends crucially on the pattern of economic
growth, and in particular the extent of labor absorption in the commodity-
producing sectors. Although over the long term the structural shift in
employment away from agriculture should continue, this sector will still
account for half or more of total employment and the growth in agricultural
incomes will be an important determinant of job opportunities elsewhere in
non-farm activities. This will require continued priority to agriculture in
the form of supportive pricing and investment policy, with some shift in
emphasis toward the Other Islands. On Java, attention will need to be paid to
issues of agricultural diversification and the pace of mechanization. With
respect to the industrial sector, the development of an efficient, relatively
export-oriented pattern of production can also contribute to significant labor
absorption in the medium to long term, especially in Java; this will involve a
continuing major role for small-scale firms. If a favorable evolution of the
employment situation is to occur, there will also need to be an appropriate
pattern of public expenditure and supportive policies for the urban informal
sector; finally, the transmigration program can make a substantial contribu-
tion, provided it is closely coordinated with complementary agricultural
investment programs, in tree crops, water resources and livestock development.



14.       There has been substantial progress in extending the nrovision of
social services throughout the population. Universal enrollment in primary
education has been virtually achieved and the enrollment rate in secondary
schools is now about 352. However, the weak educational base of the popula-
tion continues to be a major obstacle to rapid economic development and a sub-
stantial further expansion of secondary and tertiary education will be neces-
sary as well as a major effort to raise the quality of the whole system. In
the health sector, there has been a large expansion in facilities, notably at
the sub-district level, but continued investment and an improvement in quality
will be necessary to increase effectiveness. This will have to be complemen-
ted by a major expansion in water supply and sanitation if the improvement in
indices of mortality and morbidity during the 1970s is to be maintained. By
1981, only 18Z of the rural and 40Z of the urban population had access to safe
water, compared with government targets of 60% and 75%, respectively, for 1990.
External Capital Flows
15.       The recent improvement in Indonesia's balance of payments situation
is evidence of the Government's commitment to manage short-term economic
shocks. The ongoing program of economic reforms should also help to hold the
current account deficit to sustainable levels over the medium term. Even so,
continued resource transfers from abroad will still be essential if the Gov-
ernment's modest growth targets (5% p.a.) for the next five years are to be
achieved. Staff projections indicate that new public medium- and long-term
(MLT) borrowing will have to average about US$5.2 billion p.a. over the next
three years, including about US$2.5 billion p.a. of official development
assistance and the balance from import-related credits and untied borrowing.
Indonesia is well placed to arrange the necessary financing on reasonable
terms; the profile of existing debts is good and a comfortable level of exter-
nal reserves has been rebuilt over the past two years.
16.       Total public debt outstanding at the end of 1984 is estimated at
US$22.9 billion, with an additional US$14.0 billion of undisbursed commit-
ments. Of the total debt disbursed and outstanding, official assistance
(including non-concessional multilateral aid) accounts for 50% and obligations
at variable interest rates for only 24Z; there is no short-term public debt.
The average maturity of public MLT debt at the end of 1984 is estimated at 16
years. The Government continues to manage its external debt quite prudently.
Until 1982, Indonesia had succeeded in maintaining its public debt service
ratio, based on net exports (i.e., net of oil sector imports), at or below
20%. However, because of the sharp drop in oil export receipts over the past
three years, the ratio rose to 25% in 1984. With the projected levels and
composition of borrowings and export earnings, Indonesia's public debt service
ratio, again based on net exports, would rise to about 30% in 1989 and then
gradually decline in later years. With private MLT debt included, the total
debt service ratio, based on the conventional concept of gross exports, would
rise from 21% in 1984 to around 24% in 1989 and decline back to 22% by 1995.
While debt management will require careful attention in the coming years, the
projected debt service ratios are not excessive by international standards.



-7-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA 3/
17.       As of March 31, 1986, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits total-
ling US$896.49 million (less cancellations) and 107 Bank loans amounting to
US$8,149.54 million (less cancellations). IFC commitments totalled
US$163.2 million. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and
IFC investments as of March 31, 1986. The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1983 was
13.1%, and the Bank's share of debt service 10.3X, compared with 13.3Z and
7.9Z, respectively, in 1982. From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia
was made through IDA. Due to the country's improved creditworthiness follow-
ing the commodity and oil price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group's
lending in the remainder of the 1970s was through IBRD loans, with a modest
amount of IDA lending being justified primarily on poverty grounds, as the per
capita GNP was well below the IDA cutoff level. IDA lending was discontinued
in FY80. Given the critical importance of agriculture (including transmi-
gration) for employment, food security and exports, over one third of Bank
Group-assisted projects have been in this sector. In addition, loans and
credits have been extended to virtually all other sectors of the economy,
including transportation, education, urban development, water supply, rural
development, industrial development financing (including small-scale
industry), power, telecommunications, population and nutrition, and technical
assistance.
18.       During Repelitas I (1969-74) and II (1974-79), and in line with the
objectives of these first two National Five-Year Development Plans,-a high
proportion of Bank Group lending was directed initially toward the rehabilita-
tion and then the expansion of infrastructure and production facilities.
Special attention was also given to meeting the shortage of skilled manpower
and technical assistance needed for preinvestment studies and project execu-
tion. Repelita III (1979-84), published in early 1979, stressed the need for
continued high growth and stability, but departed from previous plans by plac-
ing special emphasis on more equitable income distribution and poverty allevi-
ation. This focus, which was fully in line with the conclusions of the Bank's
economic work, required greater attention to employment generation (particu-
larly in the industrial sector) and to improvements in basic public ser-
vices. While Bank lending was already consistent with these objectives,
increased emphasis has been given to these priorities. However, the adverse
economic developments that occurred in the latter half of the plan period and
the measures taken to address them, led to a reshaping of development objec-
tives for Repelita IV (1984-89). These emphasize restoring growth of incomes
and employment while continuing financial prudence, promoting structural
change toward a more diversified economy, and maintaining efforts to improve
income distribution and alleviate poverty. This shift in focus has underscored
the need to follow through on reforms that have already been initiated, seek
3/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on a Gas Distribution
Project (No. P-4287-IND), circulated under cover of R86-96 dated
April 17, 1986, and approved by the Executive Directors on May 6, 1986.



-8-
increased efficiencies in the economy, mobilize domestic resources to finance
needed investments and recurrent expenditures, and foster a policy environment
conducive to the achievement of required changes.
19.       The Bank has geared its lending and economic work program to address
these needs and to maintain a high level of resource transfer. The approach
is to continue to emphasize the ongoing dialogue on economic policy that has
been a cornerstone of the Bank's relationship with the Government for many
years, and to coordinate discussion of macroeconomic issues with advice on
institutional and policy reform in important sectors and subsectors, coupled
with lending operations and technical assistance that meet priority needs and
support institutional improvements in specific areas. Emphasis in economic
work is being given to trade and industriaL issues, development of the finan-
cial system, and public resource management. In the lending program, agricul-
ture continues to receive the most attention. However, the program is broadly
based, and includes increasing emphasis on education and human resource deve-
lopment. Continued attention is being given to power and energy, where the
Bank is concentrating on policies to diversify Indonesia's energy base,
rationalize pricing and improve sector planning. In transportation, the Bank
is focussing on efficiency improvements in the maritime sector and on improv-
ing the national network of highways and rural roads. In urban development
and water supply, lending is being directed more and more to developing inno-
vative low-cost solutions, providing for cost recovery and strengthening local
institutions, in order to minimize demands on the government budget and decen-
tralize the responsibility for addressing basic needs. In all, the Bank's
lending program is intended to contribute about 20Z of Indonesia's capital
requirements during the next 3 years and is expected to be an important
catalyst in attracting other funds. Where possible, we are seeking also to
widen the impact of Bank lending through technical assistance, as well as
complementary investments and coordinated policy dialogue with other donors.
This is especially true in our lending programs for power, urban development,
water supply and transportation.
20.       a ere has been an improvement in the last few years in the disburse-
ment ratio_ from a low of 13X in FY80 to over 171 in FY85. The poor FY80
ratio was in large part merely a result of the rapid increase in commitments
during the FY77-79 period, when total Bank/IDA commitments to Indonesia
increased by 122Z compared to a Bank-wide increase of 83%. However, it also
reflected implementation difficulties arising out of the Government's budget-
ary, procurement and payment procedures, as well as the severe shortage of
managerial and technical manpower in Indonesia. A number of steps have been
taken by the Government and the Bank to address tnese issues. Several special
Bank missions have visited Indonesia to analyze the problems and make reco=-
mendations for simplifying budgetary and financial procedures. The Government
and the Bank have also instituted formal and regular joint review procedures
to identify general and project-specific problems and work out corrective
measures. Procurement seminars were held in Jakarta in September 1979,
4/   The ratio of actual disbursements during the fiscal year to the
cumulative undisbursed amount at the beginning of the fiscal year.



-9 -
November 1981 and May 1984. As a consequence of these joint initiatives, the
Government has taken measures to streamline some of the complez budgetary and
financial procedures affecting project implementation. In addition, in order
to reduce disbursement delays due to initial project implementation difficul-
ties, many operations are now being presented for Board consideration at a
later stage in the project cycle. The combined effects of all of these acti-
vities are reflected in the increase in disbursements from US$206 million in
FY79 to US$728 million in FY85. It is nevertheless clear that continued
efforts to improve project implementation and the pace of disbursements are
required, as Indonesia continues to show a disbursement ratio below the Bank-
wide average. A number of initiatives are underway. The Bank is helping the
Government in a special effort to identify problems in the construction indus-
try with a view to developing appropriate remedial actions and policies, as
weaknesses in the domestic contracting industry have been identified as one of
the major causes of implementation problems in Indonesia. Efforts are also
underway to develop standardized tender documents in order to speed the
procurement process, and to improve project monitoring and land acquisition
procedures. It is the Bank's and the Government's intention to devote conti-
nued attention to these and other aspects of project implementation in the
coming year, in order to ensure that maximum benefit is realized from the
Covernment's investments, Bank-assisted and other.
PART III - THE SECTOR
Role of Exports in the Industrial Sector
21.       Rapid growth of non-oil exports is a high priority in Indonesia for
two basic reasons. First, Indonesia's exports are heavily concentrated in oil
and gas and, given the instability of those markets, this concentration of
exports exposes Indonesia to substantial balance of payments risk. In 1984,
oil and gas exports constituted over 70% of merchandise exports. Small
fluctuations in oil prices can therefore produce substantial swings in export
earnings. For this reason, it is important that Indonesia diversify its
exports to provide a stable and growing source of foreign exchange earnings.
22.       Second, manufacturing exports will need to play a leading role in
industrial growth.  As noted above (paras. 7-10), a major transformation in
the pattern of industrial growth will be required if the sector is to play an
important role in providing the needed employment opportunities and foreign
exchange earnings.  Industrial development in the coming years will need to be
achieved in an environment of slower growth in incomes and domestic demand
than in the past. Achieving high manufacturing growth in the face of lower
domestic absorption will require a shift in emphasis towards exports. To
achieve a 5Z non-oil GDP growth rate, the manufacturing sector would need to
grow by 8-9Z p.a. over the next ten years. The narrowing scope for efficient
import substitution implies that exports of manufactures would need to rise by
almost 11% p.a. (in real terms) to meet this target. This would imply that
the growth in manufacturing output accounted for by export expansion would
need to increase from 10% during the 1970s to 12X for the period 1986-90, and
thereafter to 14%.



- 10 -
23.       Generating the requisite export growth calls for a policy environ-
ment that induces domestic manufacturers to accept the challenge of selling
their products in the international as well as the domestic market. This will
require trade policy reform and import liberalization to redirect the flow of
resources away from high-cost import replacement investments towards exports
and efficient import-competing industries, mainly based on Indonesia's natural
and human resources. The Government has begun to move in this direction with
the April 1, 1985 reduction in the range and level of import tariffs, with the
maximum rate on most products lowered from 225Z to 60%. However, the domestic
economy remains highly protected and much more needs to be done to reduce the
relative incentives for production for the domestic market.
24.       While trade policy adjustment is of critical importance, there is
substantial scope to improve export performance in the short and medium run by
promoting foreign exchange earning activities directly. Policies and adminis-
trative arrangements that more closely approximate "neutral (or free trade)
status" for export activities are especially relevant. Such policies have
been the cornerstone of the export promotion systems of the successful East
Asian countries. Their objective is to provide a "neutral status" to all
exporters to compete with foreign competitors in the world market on an equal
footing. The Government of Indonesia has in fact taken a number of important
steps over the last few years towards implementing such a strategy. First,
the Government introduced an export certificate scheme in 1978 to rebate
duties to exporters. Second, an export promotion policy package was announced
in 1982 which included a number of steps to remove disincentives to expor-
ters. Key among these was the establishment of a comprehensive finance system
including facilities for preshipment and postshipment credit and related
guarantee and insurance schemes. Third, the Government established in May
1982 a high level interagency, the "Permanent Working Committee for Export
Development" (PANJATAP), to coordinate and facilitate implementation of export
policies. Fourth, faced with a tight balance of payments situation and ero-
sion of budgetary surpluses, the Government announced a major economic reform
package involving, inter alia, substantial devaluation of the Rupiah on
March 30, 1983 and adoption of a managed floating exchange rate. Fifth, the
Government in 1985 implemented a sweeping reform of customs and ports adminis-
tration, *which had long been a major bottleneck to the efficient delivery of
imported inputs and shipment of export products.
25.       These steps significantly reduced disincentives and barriers to
export. In this improved environment, manufactured exports have increased
substantially during the past few years from US$0.5 billion in 1980 to
US$1.5 billion in 1984. Much of this growth was concentrated in a narrow
range of subsectors, in parcicular, plywood and textiles. However, there has
been a wide variation in the growth rates of individual exports and some
encouraging signs of newly emerging export products. Manufactured exports are
nevertheless still relatively small, representing a quarter of non-oil exports
and only 7% of total merchandise exports. Moreover, future growth will be in
a less hospitable international environment and to continue the momentum of
the past few years, will require a sustained effort by Government. First,
existing measures discussed above (para. 24) need to be strengthened if they
are to achieve their stated objectives. Specifically, the export finance
system is still not reaching many exporters and indirect exporters are not



- 11 -
covered at all. Similarly, the export certificate system is not providing
adequate or timely rebates to many exporters and again, indirect exporters are
not covered. A major improvement in this system is needed to ensure all
export activities receive complete exemption from import duties and other
indirect taxes. An objective of the proposed project is to strengthen the
implementation of both the export finance and duty drawback systems.
26.       Besides strengthening these existing measures, there are a number of
other areas that deserve greater support including: (i) private sector insti-
tutional development to enable producers, investors and traders to respond
aggressively to rational incentive policies; and (ii) infrastructural support,
for example, free trade zones, export estates, bonded warehouses, technical
training centers, quality certification and upgrading. The proposed project
includes significant measures to address these areas. In addition, there is
also a need to provide a more conducive environment for foreign investors in
order to capitalize on their know-how in export marketing, product design and
production technology. As first steps in this direction, the Government has
extended access to preshipment export credit to foreign firms and is consider-
ing several moves toward more liberal licensing for export-oriented foreign
investment.
The Financial Sector and Export Finance
27.       The Indonesian financial system is still at an early stage of
development. It is dominated by a banking system that comprises Bank
Indonesia (the central bank), five state commercial banks, sixty-nine private
banks providing mainly short-term credits, and 28 development banks comprising
a state development bank and 27 regional development banks. In addition,
there are two small joint venture development banks and a venture capital
company. The capital market is still very simple and limited in scope.
28.       Until recently the Indonesian financial system was tightly control-
led by the authorities. The Government channeled its financial savings into
the banking system through low-interest liquidity credits (refinance facili-
ties) by Bank Indonesia (BI) in order to achieve a variety of development
objectives. BI in turn set deposit and lending rates of state banks and
detailed credit ceilings for all banks, and guided the allocation of credit
through the liquidity credit mechanism. However, as oil prices weakened in
1982/83 and the Government's financial position came under pressure, the
authorities introduced a major reform of the financial sector (in June 1983)
to stimulate financial savings, improve resource allocation, and reduce the
dependence of the banking system on BI liquidity credits. Consequently, the
state banks are now free to set their deposit and lending rates; credit
ceilings have been eliminated for all banks; and the number of special
priority programs qualifying for (and the state banks' access to) new BI
liquidity credits has been substantially reduced.
29.       These reforms have had a dramatic impact on the banking system.
Nominal (and real) deposit rates paid by state banks have increased sharply;
and there has been a rapid increase in bank deposits, particularly time depo-
sits of state banks. Given these changes, the cost of funds and lending rates
of state banks have also increased sharply. Nominal lending rates of state



- 12 -
banks on nonpriority (general) loans have risen from a range of 13-13.5X to
18-21Z for working capital, representing real lending rates of around 13-16x.
Real lending rates of private banks are even higher, ranging from 14-18X p.a.
Nominal rates on long term loans have increased from 12-13X to around 17-18Z.
30.       These changes have, on the whole, been beneficial to the development
of the financial system, aLthough a number of concerns have emerged. These -
issues and possible strategies to deal with them fgym the main focus of the
Bank's recently completed Financial Sector Report.-   The most important issue
is the potentially adverse impact on investment activity of changes in the
cost and availability of state banks' term loans. Following the liberaliza-
tion, longer maturity deposits declined sharply. The shortening of maturity,
together with the substantial reduction in Bank Indonesia's refinancing faci-
lities for investment credits, has had substantial consequences for long-term
lending. Given the much greater dependence on relatively short-term deposits,
banks have been reluctant to lend long-term and new investment credits have
fallen off sharply since mid-1983.
31.       Export Financing System.  Prior to the January 1982 Export Policy,
there was no effective system for providing preshipment (short-term) export
financing as exists in all of the successful export nations of East Asia. The
Indonesian practice of imposing credit ceilings and allocating credit to
"prime" customers, particularly to the large state-owned projects, led to
relatively low credit allocation to the private sector, including export
firms. Further, the banking procedures were so time-consuming that exporters
had often lost their export orders due to delays in arranging the needed
finance. Timing is of the essence to exporters, and what counts most is
immediate availability of credit. The Government recognized the situation,
and in a January 1982 decree instituted access to export financing, with
supporting insurance and guarantee facilities. This decree contains all the
basic elements required for an effective system to provide exporters with
working capital. The decree provided the framework for financing of non-
oil/LNG exports as a priority sector, and in that regard provided an automatic
guarantee to preshipment export financing, reduced the interest rate on both
the pre- and post-shipment finance, provided Bank Indonesia refinancing up to
85Z of export credit, liberalized the payment terms on which export orders
could be accepted, and introduced a domestic letter of credit system to assure
equal treatment of all production activities generating export value added.
This is a comprehensive and ambitious program. However, its administrative
demands have allowed only partial implementation so far. In particular, the
domestic letter of credit system has not been implemented so that indirect
exporters are not covered, many smaller and new export firms still encounter
delays in obtaining credit and the guarantee and insurance facility is not yet
5/   Report No. 5501-IND, dated July 10, 1985, entitled "Indonesia:  Policies
and Prospects for Long Term Financial Development".



- 13 -
fully operational. The Government is comitted to strengthening the implemen-
tation of this system and technical assistance would be provided under the
proposed project for this purpose.
32.       All the above-mentioned policy measures relate to short-term export
financing. Ensuring that exporters have adequate access to longer-term
financing is also essential to provide for the projected rapid generation of
manufactured exports. Corresponding to the projected growth of manufactured
exports mentioned in the Government's Fourth National Five-Year Development
Plan (Repelita IV), investment needs would be around US$5 billion during the
nezt five years, or about US$1 billion a year. However, aside from Bank
Pembangunan Indonesia (BAPINDO), the primary development bank in the country,
there is little long-term lending activity. The open nature of the capital
account together with speculation on the exchange rate have kept financial
markets very liquid, encouraging short-term deposits and short-term lending by
the commercial banks. In this context, there is a need to augment long-term
resources available to meet Indonesia's investment requirements. This is
particularly true for exporters of non-traditional products which are disad-
vantaged in obtaining financial resources because of the bias in incentives
toward import-substitution industries and the relatively greater risk of
export-oriented investments. Because non-traditional exporters are expected
to play a key role in Indonesia's future industrial development, it is espe-
cially important that the investment needs of this priority group are met.
This is also supported by the proposed project.
33.       The Bank has played a major role in helping the Government to iden-
tify and design the various export measures that have been implemented during
the past few years as well as to prepare additional measures to be implemented
under the proposed project. Significant assistance has been provided in the
areas of export finance, duty exemption, export zones/estates, quality
improvement of exports and export promotion. This assistance involved financ-
ing and supervising several studies and items of technical assistance under
the Fifth BAPINDO (Loan 2277-IND) and the Fifth Technical Assistance (Credit
898-IND) Projects. It also involved substantial Bank staff input through the
economic and sector work program. As noted above, a great deal of additional
effort is required, particularly at the implementation phase, to establish an
effective export framework.
34.       More generally, the Bank's strategy in the industrial sector calls
for assisting the Government in its attempt to transform Indonesia's indus-
trial base and position the economy for steady, broad-based growth in the
future. This policy-based strategy is focussed on three interrelated areas:
(a) macroeconomic and trade policy; (b) industrial subsector support; and
tc) financial sector development. To date, the Bank Group has provided a
total of US$976.6 million to the Indonesian industrial sector, comprising
seven DFC loans/credit made to BAPINDO (US$358.9 million) and the Private
Development Finance Company of Indonesia (US$25 million), three loans/credit
for fertilizer production (US$220 million), three loans/credit for small
enterprise development (US$350.7 million), one loan for an industrial estate
(US$16.5 million), and one engineering loan for the pulp and paper industry
(US$5.5 million).



- 14 -
35.       Six Project Performance Audit Reports 6/ have been completed on
these projects and one is underway. The specific objectives of the Bank
Group's lending operations in the industrial sectors have generally been
realized. However, achievements of the broader objectives in the financial
sector operations were significantly constrained by the restrictive policy
environment in the financial sector. Also, institutionaL weaknesses in
BAPINDO, which were exacerbated by rapid growth in BAPINDO's portfolio and
depressed economic conditions, resulted in serious portfolio problems which
are now beginning to be addressed with Bank assistance. The lessons learned
from our operations in the financial sector will be helpful in our further
involvement in this sector. However, they are not directly applicable to the
proposed project since the institutions are different, the focus of this
project is on end-user rather than financial intermediary, and the financial
system has been substantially reformed since our previous operations.
36.       A major thrust of the Bank's recent involvement in the industrial
sector has been through economic and sector work, which has attempted to
explore the effects of past trade and industry policy and demonstrated the
benefits of a more open trade regime and less rigid approach to industrial
licensing and regulation. As noted above, an adjustment of trade policies is
needed to reduce the bias against exports and encourage efficient import
competing industries. This issue is being highlighted in our economic and
sector work, through industry and export sector reports and a number of
subsector studies, the objective of which is to analyze inefficiencies in
selected subsectors and indicate directions for policy change and subsector
restructuring.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.       The project was prepared by the Ministry of Trade with substantial
consultant and Bank staff input. The project was appraised in May/June and
October 1985. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. from April 16-
21, 1986. The Indonesian delegation was led by Mr. Oskar Surjaatmaadja. A
Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5968-IND) is being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
38.       The overall objective of the project is to provide financial and
technical support for a number of important measures aimed directly at
improving the performance of non-oil exports. The specific objectives of the
project are: (a) improving exporters' access to finance by strengthening the
implementation of the export finance system and by assisting the state
6/   Nos. 2563 (Credit 310-IND), 5771 (Credit 423-IND), 2015 and 3862 (Loan
1363-IND and Credit 436-IND), 1948 and 5419 (Credit 193-IND and Loans
1089-IND and 1254-IND), covering industrial finance, industrial estate
and fertilizer projects.



- 15 -
com_ercial banks to improve their term lending capability in the ezport
sector; (b) establishing an effective institutional framework to provide
needed technical assistance to the export community in marketing and produc-
tion; (c) providing training for exporters as well as relevant public offi-
cials; (d) improving exporters' access to inputs at world prices so that they
can compete internationally; and (e) providing a range of technical assistance
to help design export promotion measures in such areas as export estate and
zone development, quality upgrading of export products, improved organization
and coordination of public sector activities and enhancing the role of trading
companies as marketing agents for smaller- and medium-scale producers. The
project would consist of three components: (a) a line of investment credit;
(b) a program of technical assistance; and (c) a training program for expor-
ters and relevant public officials.
Investment Credit Component
39.       Under the credit component, mediumr- and long-term loans will be made
by three participating banks, Bank Dagang Negara, Bank Negara Indonesia 1946,
and Bank Rakyat Indonesia, for export-oriented investments over a two-year
commitment period. The line of credit extended under the project will be
relatively small reflecting the Government's desire for assured rapid dis-
bursements and the fact that this is the Bank Group's first operation with
these commercial banks for term lending. The basic objective of the credit
component is to help establish a capacity and incentive in the financial
sector for term lending to exporters. If successful, it is anticipated that
this approach will be followed-up with a more substantial transfer of long-
term resources to the export sector.
40.       Eligibility Criteria for Subprojects.  To qualify for financing
under the project, all subprojects will be required to: (i) demonstrate a
conmnitment, and capacity, to export, directly or indirectly, at least 40% of
production attributable to the investment being financed; (ii) prepare a
satisfactory export development plan including a monitorable action program to
be implemented by the firm to meet the export target; (iii) show an economic
rate of return of at least 10%; and (iv) be in the industry or service sec-
tors. During negotiations, the participating banks agreed on these eligibi-
lity criteria.
41.       Loan Demand for Export Oriented Investments.  As indicated above
(para. 32), the overall investment requirement to sustain the targetted 11%
annual growth rate of manufactured exports is of the approximate order of
about US$1 billion per year. Some of this demand can be met from self-
generated resources, direct foreign borrowings or by rolling over short-term
credits; however, there should still be significant loan demand from domestic
financial institutions. However, there is some uncertainty about how much of
this demand will materialize during the next couple of years given the
inherent difficulties of marketing new and/or additional exports, especially
in view of the increasingly restrictive world trade environment. Morever, the
Government of Indonesia is very reluctant to take on new loans for which there
is any uncertainty about the pace of disbursement. In this context, it was
agreed at negotiations that the loan amount under this component would kept to
the minimum size which would be large enough to justify the administrative and



- 16 -
financial arrangements with the participating banks. In view of recent loan
applications with the participating banks, it was agreed that a reasonable
Bank loan amount that meets the above criteria would be an allocation of
US$17 million to each bank for a total loan amount of US$51 million.
42.       Demand should be strengthened through the work of the Export Support
Board (see paras. 57-60 below), which, among other things, will assist exporters
to identify and prepare investments for export-oriented projects. Provision has
been made in the terms of reference of the technical team advising the Export
Support Board (ESB) to coordinate closely with the project officers designated
in the various participating banks. In addition to this source of loan demand,
a major consultant study being undertaken with Bank financing for the Investment
Coordinating Board is identifying and preparing about 50 investment profiles
which will be promoted among potential investors. This work is giving special
emphasis to investments with export potential.
43.       Financial Intermediaries.  The three state-owned commercial banks
which have been selected as financial intermediaries in the proposed project
are Bank Dagang Negara (BDN), Bank Negara Indonesia 1946 (BNI 1946) and Bank
Rakyat Indonesia (BRI). These banks are among the largest deposit-taking
financial institutions in Indonesia. Together they own approximately half of
the gross assets of all deposit banks in Indonesia. These banks are suitable
as financial intermediaries for the investment component for a number of
reasons. Their resource base is large enough to enable them, through tern
transformation, to provide complementary local currency financing to Bank-
assisted subprojects. The dominance of these banks in the financial system,
together with their well developed branch network, which covers most of
Indonesia, will enable them to provide extensive coverage of the export commu-
nity. These banks have also been the main sources of term lending in
Indonesia and as such are familiar with term project financing.
44.       The three participating banks were established in their present
forms following the enactment of the Bank Indonesia Act and other legislative
measures in 1967/68. Although Government-owned, all the participating banks
operate independently, and compete with each other and with other financial
institutions for loan and deposit business. The pattern of development of the
state banks was strongly influenced by the role and policies of Bank Indonesia
(BI). In addition to supervising all financial institutions, BI has also been
a very important source of funds to the state-owned banks, which prior to 1983
had unrestricted access to BI's refinancing facilities for investments in
priority sectors. These policies encouraged the state-owned banks to develop
their term lending capacities. However, the preferred position of the state-
owned banks, particularly their access to BI funding, and the regulation of
most of the interest rates they could charge until June 1983, largely isolated
them from competition and diminished the stimulus for these banks to maximize
operational efficiencies.
45.       The general quality of management and staff of the participating
banks appears good. The banks are, however, overstaffed. Internal systems
and procedures tend to be duplicative. Despite their size and volume of
operations, none of the participating banks operates as yet a fully automated
accountancy/management information system. The financial reforms of June 1983



- 17 -
dramatically increasad the competitive pressures on the state banks and all
are now reviewing their strategy, internal systems, costs, and policies to
increase operational efficiencies. All the participating banks have major
organization and systems improvement programs either planned or underway to
help them in the transition towards becoming modern full service commercial
banks.
46.       In line with its supervisory and regulatory functions, BI has estab-
lished standards on cash and liquidity ratios, and on capital adequacy accord-
ing to the size and ownership of banks. These standards form a sound basis
for the conduct of the business of commercial banks. Each of the partici-
pating banks has a corporate development plan spelling out its goals and
operational objectives. However, because of the involvement of the state
banks in term lending outside of the scope of BI priority programs or govern-
ment projects in recent years, and the specific objectives of the proposed
project, the participating banks each prepared, in the context of preparation
for this project, a Development Strategy Statement that would serve as a guide
for their term lending operations. These Statements were agreed in substance
at negotiations and their adoption by the participating banks is a condition
of disbursement of loan proceeds for each bank.
47.       In general, appraisal standards of the participating banks are good,
although the judgemental aspects could be strengthened. It is expected that
deregulation, along with the present organizational and other changes, will
lead the state banks to make more independent and critical evaluations of
loans and to improve their general credit skills. Most emphasis is placed on
the risk and financial creditworthiness aspects, which are reviewed in a
satisfactory manner. The technical aspects, when beyond the competence of the
bank's own staff, are normally reviewed by outside consultants. Appraisal of
the economic aspects of a project is usually weak, however, and is often limi-
ted to the employment impact and a rough estimation of an economic rate of
return. The staff of the state banks responsible for appraising projects for
financing out of the proposed project will need further training in the spe-
cial requirements of evaluating export projects and, in particular, in the
analysis of the marketing aspects and of the economic feasibility of pro-
jects. All the participating banks have agreed to sponsor trainers and pro-
ject appraisal staff to the training programs being organized for this purpose
with Bank assistance provided under the Fifth BAPINDO Project (Loan 2277-IND).
48.       All three participating banks have a satisfactory financial struc-
ture and their operations have been profitable. The participating banks
present fairly similar characteristics, with relatively high loan/deposit
ratios which reflect the importance of BI funds in the liability structure of
these banks. The capital-to-asset ratios average about 5%, which is adequate
when account is taken of the relatively high proportion of loans that carry a
government guarantee or are under priority programs where risk is shared with
the Government and the fact that these are state-owned banks. Profitability
is reasonable with an average return on assets in 1984 of 0.9%. Operating
costs of the participating banks have been relatively high reflecting the pro-
tected environment under which they operated until 1983. The participating
banks are aware of the factors contributing to their high intermediation costs



- 18 -
and are pursuing measures to reduce them. Regular provisions are made for bad
debts, which appear adequate given the extent of guarantees and collateral.
49.       All the participating banks have agreed to set up an informal unit,
made up of analysts who had participated in the Bank-sponsored training pro-
grams, to be responsible for preparing and appraising subprojects to be
financed out of the proposed project. These teams would oversee implementa-
tion and supervision of all subloans. They would also be directly responsible
for reporting to the Bank on project implementation. The functions and
responsibilities of these teams were spelled out in understandings reached at
negotiations.
Technical Assistance Component
50.       The technical assistance component comprises a range of technical
assistance activities to the public sector as well as directly to exporters to
help establish and strengthen an effective and comprehensive framework for
export development. Implementation of each item of technical assistance will
be by the appropriate line agency. However, in view of the complex nature of
the technical assistance and training components, the Ministry of Trade will
provide overall co-ordination and monitoring of these components. At negotia-
tions, an understanding was reached that the Ministry of Trade will prepare,
and submit to the Bank for review, semi-annual progress reports on these
components.
51.       Duty and Indirect Tax Exemption/Drawback System.  An efficient and
effective duty and indirect tax exemption/drawback system is essential to
enable exporters to compete in world markets. Although Indonesia has been
operating a type of drawback/exemption system, serious deficiencies in its
operation have caused the Government to withdraw this scheme as of July 1,
1986. It is important that an effective scheme be established as soon as
possible to replace the current system. To set up such a scheme the Govern-
ment has recently established the Office of Import Duty Exemption and Drawback
in the Ministry of Finance, drafted Ministerial and Presidential decrees
setting up the new scheme, and appointed private agents to undertake the
necessary inspection services. In view of the importance of this scheme to
exporters, the Government has agreed to include it within the project scope
and in that context provide the Bank with details of the proposed legal and
administrative framework for the system and periodically exchange views on the
progress of its implementation.
52.       Export Credit Insurance and Guarantee Institution.  The Government
has recently established an export credit insurance and guarantee institu-
tion - P.T. Asuransi Ekspor Indonesia (P.T. ASEI) - under the supervision of
the Ministry of Finance. This is a key institution needed to operate the
insurance and guarantee elements of Indonesia's export finance scheme.
Insurance and guarantee facilities are important aspects of the scheme which
have been suffering from lack of effective institutional support. The Bank
has already provided substantial technical assistance (under Loan 2277-IND and
Credit 898-IND) to help design and strengthen implementation of the export
finance scheme. This assistance would be continued under this project through
the provision of expert assistance during the initial period of operation of



- 19 -
P.T. ASEI, to advise on a range of technical issues and to help train the
local staff.  At negotiations, the Government agreed that a detailed plan for
assistance to P.T. ASEI, to be prepared by the consultants in the first phase
of this work, would be submitted for Bank review by March 31, 1987.
53.       Export Quality Upgrading and Improvement Program.  Deficiencies in
product quality of non-oil exports have been a significant problem for
Indonesia, depressing export value and growth. To rectify the situation, and
on the basis of a number of Bank-financed studies commissioned by the Govern-
ment, a core program to improve export quality was identified. The program
emphasizes three immediate objectives: (i) improving government regulations
needed to encourage voluntary export quality certification and labelling;
(ii) developing an institutional network for quality management assistance to
the enterprises; and (iii) demonstrating to the business community that
advanced quality management is possible and profitable. To meet these objec-
tives, this program has two subcomponents. The first will strengthen the
Government's export quality support network by improving the capability of the
network of accredited agencies to provide the business community a variety of
services, including quality testing of products, advice on introducing quality
control and testing equipment, assistance in implementing quality management
systems, and information and assistance an technological matters. It will
also include feasibility studies for new technical centers for quality ser-
vices in such areas As packaging, design and key product areas, and a study of
systems for voluntary certification and marking. The Standardization and
Quality Control Directorate in the Ministry of Trade, assisted by a consultant
team, will implement this subcomponent. At negotiations, the Government
agreed that the studies noted above wilL be submitted for Bank review by
June 30, 1987.
54.       The second subcomponent will focus on the promotion and diffusion of
advanced practices in quality management among the export community.  This
subcomponent will be financed through the Export Support Fund (see para. 58
below), on a cost-sharing basis, so that the private sector is actively
involved in both setting the overall priorities and implementing the pro-
gram. Based on a first-come first-served basis, two manufacturing establish-
ments will be selected in each of three to four product areas where advanced
quality management systems would be introduced. The systems would include
consulting services of quality management experts, training of local managers
and staff, installation of modern product testing equipment, adoption of
advanced quality control procedures, improved access to information on quality
networks abroad, and promotion ins.1de Indonesia and abroad. At negotiations,
an understanding was reached with the Government on the coordination mechanism
between the Standardization and Q-ality Control Directorate and the proposed
Export Support Board, and the roles of the technical experts assisting these
two organizations.
55.       Establishment of an Export Estate.  As an initial step toward
improving the physical facilities available to exporters, the Government
intends to establish an industrial estate of about 100 ha for export-oriented
firms. The basic objective of such an estate would be to act as a focal point
for efforts to attract foreign producers to enter joint ventures with local
firms for export production. One option being considered is to establish an



- 20 -
export estate which, unlike a standard export processing zone, would, from the
beginning, emphasize linkages to the domestic market and would give special
emphasis to attracting firms that would make significant use of domestic
inputs. As an incentive to attract foreign firms to establish operations on
the estate, the Government would provide limited access to the domestic mar-
ket. Firms would be given duty-free access to their imported inputs through
an improved duty exemption sytem which. would incorporate simplified exemption
procedures for estate firms. The Government is now considering alternative
site and management arrangements for the proposed estate. Once a decision is
reached on these issues, additional analysis and engineering will be needed
before implementation. The Government has requested that the Bank maintain an
active involvement in supervising the design and implementation phases and to
that end has requested that this project include the technical assistance
required to complete preparation of the proposed estate. In this context, the
project includes the technical assistance required for the feasibility study/
detailed design of the estate. At negotiations, the Government agreed that
the feasibility/design study would be furnished for Bank review by June 30,
1987.
56.       Export-Related Studies.  This subcomponent includes two export-
related studies: a study to assess the potential role of trading companies in
export development; and a study to review the Government's institutional role
in trade promotion, planning and policy development. At negotiations, the
Government agreed that these two studies will be furnished for Bank review by
June 30, 1987. Also included are funds for undertaking more general indus-
trial sector/subsector studies focussing on improving industrial efficiency
and the export of manufactured products. The scope and terms of reference of
these studies will be developed in consultation with the Bank and will be
subject to Bank approval.
57.       Export Support Board and Fund.  Extensive field surveys of exporters
in Indonesia have revealed many firm-level deficiencies in areas such as
international marketing, production technology, industrial management, packag-
ing and labeling, product quality standards and control. Various studies
financed by the Bank have recommended programs of technical advisory services
to export and manufacturing firms to address these constraints. To address
this need, the Government has adopted an innovative approach by establishing
an Export Support Board (ESB), under the primary direction of the private
sector, to provide assistance to direct and indirect exporters. The Board
will be supported by the proposed project for approximately three years, after
which point the experience will be evaluated with a view to continuing to
operate the Board on, as far as possible, a self-financing basis.
58.       The ESB will manage an Export Support Fund (ESF), which will be
available to assist the export community. The main focus will be to finance
the technical services required by export firms. Thwse services will include
technical assistance to improve export marketing and production management
(including export quality upgrading and improvement), as well as more general
feasibility studies of export-oriented projects suitable for bank financing.
Firm-specific training would also be provided under the ESF. In addition to
assisting export firms, the ESF will also provide technical assistance to
organizations that serve the export community.



- 21 -
59.       The ESB has been established as an essentially autonomous agency,
under a Decree of the Minister of Trade. A majority of the members of the
ESB, as well as its Chairman, will be prominent private businessmen belonging
to the export community. The Chairman of the ESB will report to the Minister
of Trade. The ESB will review and approve the proposals submitted by poten-
tial users of the ESF and will provide an informal forum for the Minister of
Trade on export matters of concern to the private sector. It will be assisted
by a small Secretariat, including two consultant technical advisors, who would
be actively involved in an outreach program to generate interest among poten-
tial users of the ESF.
60.       The guiding principles for the ESF include cost-sharing (in general,
25% of proposed services to be financed by the user), freedom to choose a qua-
lified service supplier, quick and impartial decisions, and active solicita-
tion of proposals. The ESF will have monitoring provisions to assess its
impact and make recommendations on its future operation. Understandings have
been reached with the Government on the ESF's statement of policies and opera-
ting procedures. The recruitment of advisors and formal adoption of the
statement on policies and operating procedures are conditions of disbursement
for this subcomponent. At negotiations, the Government agreed that an evalua-
tion study of the performance of the ESB will be carried out and furnished to
the Bank for review by June 30, 1989.
Exporter Training Component
61.       Strengthening the manpower resources needed to increase non-oil
exports and enhancing the existing training capacity is an important element
of Indonesia's export development strategy. A Bank-financed study outlined a
comprehensive manpower development strategy for increasing non-oil exports,
identified substantial training needs, and recommended a comprehensive action
plan. The project would include the initial phase of this program and provide
training in areas of immediate priority by supporting a program of short-term
training for about 800 exporters and government staff. It would also provide
training for about 35 trainers so that Indonesia eventually becomes self-
reliant in this area.
62.       The Ministry of Trade will establish a project management unit for
this training program. Execution of the training itself would be done by
selected local training institutions. These institutions, in turn, would be
assisted by a consultant team, specialized in training for export development,
which would also provide overall coordination and direction of the program.
Project Costs and Financing
63.       Total project cost (including contingencies) is estimated at
US$111.6 million, of which the foreign exchange component would be US$69.7 mil-
lion or 62% of the total. The cost of the investment credit component is
US$96.0 million, and the costs of the technical assistance and training compo-
nents are estimated at US$13.3 million and US$2.3 million, respectively. Costs
of these components were prepared on the basis of the actual requirements of
implementing the desigrated tasks and were reviewed with the participating
agencies during the appraisal and post-appraisal missions in June and October



- 22 -
1985. The cost estimates for advisors/experts are based on the Bank's experi-
ence in similar projects. Price contingencies total US$1.3 million, calculated
on the basis of an estimated 6% annual increase in local prices from 1986-90 and
4.5Z per annum thereafter, and foreign price escalation of 7.5% in 1986, 8% per
annum in 1987-90 and 5% per annum in 1991-92. Physical contingencies of
US$0.2 million have been included for the training and technical assistance
components.
64.       The financing plan for each component would be as follows.
(a) For the investment credit component, subproject sponsors would con-
tribute US$33.0 million of their own funds to provide an adequate
equity level. The Bank would contribute US$51.0 million to cover
the foreign exchange costs up to 70% of subproject cost. The
balance of the local cost requirement, about US$12.0 million, would
be financed by the participating banks from their own resources.
(b) For the technical assistance component, export firms applying for
ESB assistance would contribute US$1.4 million based on the equiva-
lent of about 25Z of costs. Agreement was confirmed during negotia-
tions on this self-financing ratio for the ESB. The Government
would contribute US$0.5 million toward the costs of the feasibility/
design study for the proposed export estate. The Bank would finance
the balance of US$11.4 million of this component.
(c) For the training component, users would contribute US$0.2 million in
the form of training fees. The Bank would finance the balance of
US$2.1 million.
65.       Overall, the Bank loan of US$64.5 million would finance 58% of pro-
ject costs and 93% of the estimated foreign exchange requirements. The parti-
cipating banks would provide US$12.0 million, or 11% of project costs, and the
balance of US$34.6 million, or 31% of project costs, would be borne by subpro-
ject sponsors and users.
Features of the Proposed Loan
66.       Lending and Allocation Arrangements.  The proposed Bank loan of
US$64.5 million would be to the Government of Indonesia. The Government would
allocate the proceeds of the loan to the participating institutions as
follows.
(a) To the three participating banks, GCI would relend US$51.0 million
through subsidiary loan agreements with each institution. Signing
of satisfactory subsidiary loan agreements for at least two partici-
pating banks is a condition of effectiveness of the loan, and sign-
ing of a subsidiary loan agreement is a condition of disbursement
for each respective participating bank. GOI would channel the pro-
ceeds directly to the banks on a first-come first-served basis. The
banks will use the amount of US$51.0 million to make subloans to
export-oriented projects under conditions and criteria specified
above (see para. 40). It is expected that these funds will cover



- 23 -
about a two-year comfitment period. The closing date for the sub-
mission of subprojects would be December 31, 1988.
(b) To P.T. ASEI, GOI would provide (on a grant basis) US$0.4 million to
finance consultant assistance in the area of export insurance and
guarantees. Signing of a subsidiary agreement between GOI and
P.T. ASEI is a condition of loan effectiveness.
67.       The Government would retain US$13.1 million and allocate it as
follows.
(a) To the Export Support Board (ESB), GOI would make available (on a
grant basis) US$6.9 million to implement a program of technical
assistance to the export community. Of this amount, US$2.1 million
would cover the administrative and consultant costs of operating the
ESB during the project period. The ESB would allocate the balance
of US$4.8 million, according to its decree and operating procedures.
(b) To the Ministry of Trade, GOI would provide US$4.2 million to
implement programs of technical assistance and training. Of this,
US$2.1 million would be used to finance technical assistance for
export studies as well as to strengthen the export quality support
network, and US$2.1 million would finance an exporter training
program. Signing of memoranda of understanding with the local
training institutes, covering their responsibilities, estimated
costs and fee schedule under the training program, is a condition of
disbursement of the training component.
(c) The Ministry of Finance would retain US$2.0 million for industry and
export studies. Funds will be allocated to the respective line
ministeries when specific terms of reference for each study are
agr'ed.
Lending Terms
68.       Interest Rate.  For the credit component, the Government would
assume the foreign exchange risk in accordance with existing policy. The
funds would be relent to the participating banks at a variable rate equal to
the average interest cost of loanable funds from rupiah customer deposits of
all the participating banks. The rate will be subject to a floor equal to the
rate on the Bank loan plus a fixed spread of 1.75%. Based on recent data,
this arrangement would result in a relending rate to the participating banks
of about 11% p.a., which is significantly higher than the Bank rate, and is
highly positive in real terms. Since deposit rates in Indonesia are market
determined and capital flows are generally unrestricted, the cost of funds
formula would include an element of the perceived foreign exchange risk.
Tnerefore the difference between the relending rate and the Bank rate can be
considered a market based premium to the Government for bearing the foreign
exchange risk. The participating banks would bear the full credit and
interest variability risks and would blend the funds from the Bank loan with
their own resources to finance eligible subloans.



- 24 -
69.       On-Lending.  The investment credit component would be on-lent to the
final borrowers by the participating banks, along with complementary local
cost financing out of their own resources, at market rates. Present indica-
tions are that the interest rates to the final borrowers would initially be in
the range of 16-18% p.a. (or about 11-13Z p.a. in real terms). Since the on-
lending rate set by the participating banks will reflect their costs plus a
profit margin, the premium for foreign exchange risk paid by the participating
banks to the Government will be fully passed on to sub-borrowers. The maximum
term for subloans, including grace period, would be 15 years.
70.       Commitment Fee.  GOI will charge the participating banks a commit-
ment fee equal to 0.75% p.a. on the undisbursed amount of the investment cre-
dit component. Each of the banks would be responsible for paying this commit-
ment fee on the basis of a hypothetical allocation for each bank of US$17 mil-
lion. Should, however, one or more of the banks commit more than US$17 mil-
lion, then that bank would bear the commitment fee on the undisbursed portion
of its total commitments and the amount of commitment fee to be paid by the
other banks would be commensurately reduced. This arrangement is designed to
encourage loan utilization.
71.       Amortization.  Since there is a need to augment term resources for
productive investment purposes, it is proposed that the loan to GOI be on
standard terms (20 years maturity/5 years grace). The loan would be on-lent
to the participating banks for a fixed term of 20 years including three years
of grace. Since the maximum term on subloans is for a period of 15 years,
rollover funds would accrue to the participating banks, which would be relent
for similar export-oriented investment projects.
72.       Free Limits, Subproject Review and Individual Subloan Limits.  At
negotiations it was agreed to establish an initial subproject free limit of
US$500,000. After the Bank has reviewed three subprojects from each bank with
respect to appraisal standards, adjustments in the initial free limit would be
made as appropriate. Ir addition to the eligibility criteria set out in
para. 40 above, subprojects to be financed out of the proposed project would
need to have a total investment cost not exceeding US$25.0 million. To ensure
that a broad spectrum of exporters is reached, each individual subloan should
not exceed US$7.0 million. A minimum subloan size of US$250,000 would
apply. Based on experience with other line-of-credit type projects in
Indonesia, it is expected that the credit component would finance about
30 projects in a variety of sectors. It is expected that the Bank would
review about 60% of subloans amounting to about US$40 million or 80% of the
credit component.
73.       For ESF proposals, subprojects requiring up to US$10,000 from the
ESF would be processed through a "Fast-Track" process within two weeks of
their submission and would require only the Board Chairman's approval.
Subprojects between US$10,000 and US$100,000 would require approval by the
Board, and those exceeding US$100,000 would require World Bank authorization.
The Bank would also review on a post-disbursement basis subprojects below
US$100,000. A funding ceiling of US$300,000 for a single proposal has been
fixed in view of the innovative nature of the program, limited fund resources,



- 25 -
and the objective of maximizing the scope of market and product
diversification for Indonesia's exports.
74.       Procurement.  For the investment credit component, the proposed
participating banks in general do not have formal procurement requirements.
However, they require sponsors to justify all procurement decisions and
provide comparative quotes. It is proposed that for this component, the
participating banks' usual procedures be followed for bid packages valued
below US$5.0 million. For bid packages of US$5.0 million and above, procure-
ment would be carried out under International Competitive Bidding procedures
in accordance with Bank guidelines. The participating banks would be expected
to fully justify procurement decisions in the appraisal reports, maintain
records of method of procurement and monitor utilization of subloans through
regular supervision activities.
75.       The recruitment of advisors/experts under the technical assistance
and trainiLg components of the project would be done in accordance with the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency." For short-term consultants hired by
exporters under the ESF, the ESB would prepare a roster of qualified consul-
tants (both foreign and local) in various areas of specialization. Exporters
would be free to suggest additional consultants, but the ESB must be satisfied
as to the qualifications of any consultant to be financed under the ESF.
Procurement of testing equipment and office equipment and materials amounting
to about US$600,000 under the technical assistance and training components of
the project, most of which would be obtained in small quantities through local
suppliers or representatives of foreign suppliers, would be done on the basis
of prudent shopping after obtaining three quotations.
76.       Disbursement.  For the investment credit component, the Bank loan
would be disbursed against: (a) 100% of the foreign exchange cost of directly
imported goods; and (b) 502 of the invoice price of domestically procured
capital goods, civil works and services, which is equivalent to the estimated
foreign exchange cost of those goods and services. For subloans below the
free limit, a Statement of Expenditure would be used as a basis for disburse-
ment; those above the free limit would use standard documentation. For funds
disbursed under Statements of Expenditure procedures, full supporting documen-
tation would be retained by the participating banks and made available for
Bank inspection during supervision missions.
77.       For technical assistance subprojects for export firms under the ESB,
the Bank loan would be disbursed against 75% of expenditures. For all other
expenditures under the technical assistance component, the Bank loan would be
disbursed against 100% of eligible expenditures. For the training component,
the Bank would disburse against 100% of consultant costs and 80% of incremen-
tal operating costs associated with the training program. For the technical
assistance and training components disbursements would be made against stan-
dard documentation except for expenditures valued at less than US$100,000,
which would be claimed under Statements of Expenditure. Retroactive financing
of up to US$700,000 equivalent is proposed to enable GOI to initiate various
parts of the technical assistance and training components from January 1, 1986



- 26 -
to loan signing. Work covered under retroactive financing would be according
to agreed terms of reference and procurement procedures.
Project Benefits and Risks
78.       Benefits.  The proposed project would support a number of direct
measures to expand Indonesia's non-traditional exports. To provide exporters
with improved access to finance for both on-going activities as well as expan-
sion, the loan would help establish facilities and financing for long-term
credit, as well as continue technical assistance efforts to improve the short-
term pre- and post-shipment finance scheme. The investment credit component
of the project would finance about 30 subprojects with a total investment cost
of about US$96 million. To tap the special skills of foreign firms in the
areas of product design and production technology, the project would provide
technical assistance to lay the basis for establishing an export estate, with
liberalized entry and operating conditions, as a focal point of efforts to
attract such firms to establish joint operations with local partners. It is
anticipated that about 100-200 firms would be accommodated on the estate. To
strengthen the capacity of local export firms to generate and meet new orders,
the project would establish a special facility, with substantial participation
by the private sector, to provide needed technical help. The project also
will provide short-term specialized training to about 35 trainers and about
800 participants in topics of immediate relevance to exporters. To help move
exporters towards "free trade status", essential to be competitive interna-
tionally, the project includes the establishment of an improved duty drawback/
exemption scheme for all export activities. The project also provides for a
substantial strengthening and widening of institutional support for export
development. In this regard, two key new institutions would be established,
the ESB and P.T. ASEI; existing public agencies dealing with duty exemption
and quality upgrading would be strengthened; the skills of the private sector
and existing training institutions would be tapped; and the capacities of the
major financial institutions to meet the financial needs of exporters would be
strengthened.
79.       Risks.  The project would not be subject to any extraordinary risk.
There is the risk that delays in strengthening the institutional capabilities
of the participating banks could also delay the preparation and appraisal of
sound export projects. The advance training program, which is ongoing for
relevant participating bank staff, should help to reduce this risk. Another
risk is that subprojects under the credit component would fail to realize the
minimum 40Z export target. Since the scope to enforce export commitments once
production is underway is limited, the project places primary emphasis on sub-
project preparation and appraisal to ensure that only subprojects with good
export potential are financed. The other project risk is that there would be
major delays in implementing the export estate component. This could occur if
Government is unable to settle the issue of site selection and management. In
this eventuality, the amount allocated for technical assistance for the estate
*gould need to be cancelled. Given the important potential benefits the estate
would confer on Indonesia's export effort, its experimental nature and the
procedural and policy aspects of this proposal, the close and continuing
association of the Bank afforded by financing the technical assistance
justifies this risk.



- 27 -
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
80.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed Loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 7, 1986
Was)hington, D.C.



za -                2-ANN  I
Page 1 of 6 pages
S~~~~Nn  PA aS  NZ 
IsgoLk     i~@Lk S8TINA?UL         AIZA D PCIVIC          LAT. xU     a  n
mu (MEW N. m0
TOTAL                                        1919.3     1919.3
AOUCZLTUL                         296.5      307.1       315.5
ium   cmm41                           ..          ..        5 o0.0           1011.1                  1575.9
1-0  usu    m   -wt
I.OUu Of OIL i tmI)                "U.0       9N.0       191.0             MG.1                    99.6
POILaZNm AM ViTAL um
For JAmONID-1A  CTUOS*3D)  94660.0   116201.0   155649.0
IIOU POPULATION tX 01 TOTAL)       14.6       11.1        24.1              35.9                     67.7
POPULATION PSOJcTIUs
POPULA    SIN nU  a2000 (HILL)                         212.0
SATIONU POIPILTION (HILL)                              368.0
POILATIO  W     1                                        1.3                *
POHILATIoN 333312
PR SQ. fl.                       49.3       60.5        61.1             386.9                     4.0
M  IQ. I. A01. LAND             519.3      378.4       483.4            1591.2                     91.1
POLATION 61 IT1UCTURS (2)
0-14 in                         40.7       44.0        40.6              36.2                     3.5
13-64 M                          54.2       53.4        55.1              57.7                     57.1
65 AND ADM                        3.0        2.5         3.5               3.5                      4.2
1PU.TIUR R3ITSD RtATS CZ)
TOTAL                             2.1        2.0         2.2               2.3                      2.4
USD4                              3.7        3.6         4.3               4.1                      3.6
ChUS 11s A  (AT    t cm O003)      44.2       41.0        34.0              30.1                     30.9
M  DU 32  SAT ("M  c 3)            22.,       17.6        12.6               9.4                      6.0
cGOSS S9tfDUCT1OS  m1               2.7        2.7         2.1               1.9                      2.0
lIASZLY PLAINXICD
ACMrT. ANNUAL (I0                 ..        161.1     3051.0 /c
US= (aZorV          VO100         ..          ..        55.0              56.5                     45.3
FM0 AID      TO
La       W FOOD P0. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      93.0      102.0       123.0             124.                     109.6
PU CAPiTA BUM   0o
CALUlICS Io uSQIU T)             79.0       92.0       112.0             115.7                    113.2
.023233 (GUAM  M  DM)            34.0       41.0        53.0              60.3                     69.4
OF I0 3XNL M  PUL UD            6.0        6.0         7.0 /d           14.1                     34.2
C31  (CA03  1-4) 3642 31           21.9       18.1        13.0               7.2                     4.6
LIPS M=. AT siI ((TIM)             41.2       47.0        33.5              60.6                     64.6
INFANT W . 31 CM 2300)            150.0      121.0       101.0              64.9                     59.7
D035231  WA   (20)
TOTAL                             ..         3.0        23.0              46.0                     65.3
11*                               ..         10.0       40.0              57.6                     76.5
RURAL                             ..         1.0        16.0              37.1                     4.2
*00331 T0 E1030  DI 31*1
CZ OF POPUATION)
TOAL                              ..        15.0        23.0              50.1                     56.3
0U521                             ..        19.0        20.0              52.9                     73.A
Rum                               ..        14.0        24.0             *4.7                      25.5
POPULATN M  PVTBICIAS           46750.0    26510.0    11530.0 /           7751.7                   1909.7
PQ. 11 NSING  olPEN              43510.0 if  7660.0     2300.0            2464.J                   608.2
POP. Paz NUPIAL -
702A1                          1360.0     1650.0      1720.0 /          1112.1                    362.0
ORSU                            250.0        ..        700.0             651.4                    422.0
303AL                             ..         ..       3160.0            2596.9                   2716.7
ADNSSIO   1  sw AL                  ..         ..          ..               41.1                     27.5
AIEMCE SIZE OF H
TOTAL                             4.4        4*.
033*3                             4.9        5.3
RURAL                             4.3        4.7
APURAN NO. oF MIOW/330K
TOTAL                             ..         1.5         ..                ..
grIm                              ..         1.6
RUL                               ..         1.5
!JTCZ  OF AELIMOS WITH ELT.
TOTAL                             ..         ..
URN"1                            ...         ..
10.. .                            ..         .....



- 29 -                                      ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6 pages
InNRUIA                -WmOC"AL INDCA    DA  INE
tM uA      HO                  RNS  I01.0111 EONRD T AVISM) N
NonI                    (NMS fRChIT ESTIATE)
uzcusn     ~MuKXCN                 MMID
IUCZIIIATt     ASIA & PACIrIC        LAT. AMItICA  CAR
ADJUSTED COLWUIUS LA4I0
PRIART:  TOTAL                  71.0        77.0      100.0             100.7                   106.7
MALE                  56.0       33.0       106.0            1bS4                     10835
PENiLE                55.0       71.0        94.0              97.2                   104.6
EBCOUAXTa TOTAL                  6.0        15.0       33.0              47.8                    44.2
IULE                  10.0        20.0       38.0              50.6                    42.7
WmLS                   3.0        10.0       27.0              44.8                    44.9
VOCATIDIAL CZ 01 5ECONDY)         20.4        22.1       13.9              18.4                    13.3
r uL-TEAOI RATIO
PRIMARl                          39.0       29.0       29.0              30.4                    29.9
SEOUCDAST                        14.0       13.0       16.0              22-2                    16.7
onsu
PASOU CESh/TEOUAD POP              1.1        2.1         4.4 /c           I0.1                    46.0
LRDIO ECRIIVS/TEJARD POP           7.2        21.9      131.2             172.9                   328.3
TV RICIVURSTHOUSAND POP            0.1        0.8        22.6              58.5                   112.4
NESUPAPER ("DAILT ONUAL
INTEEST'") CIXCULATIO
PZ TUOUSAND POPULAT10C           11.0         ..        14.9              65.3                    81.1
CIIUI ANN.AL ATTENDANCE/CAPTA      2.8         ..         1.0 /             3.4                     2.4
UUC
TOTAL LABOR VORCh (MSMUS)      34791.0    41090.0    54417.0
iNALE CPrTc2                    27.8        30.9       29.3              33.6                    23.6
AGICWLTUE (PEtCENT)              75.0       66.0       38.0 /            52.2                    31.4
ZUDUSTT tF2CZRIT)                8.0        10.0       12.0 79           17.9                    24.3
PARTICXATPO  AE (PERCVr)
TOTAL                            36.7       35.4       35.0              38.9                    33.5
HALZ                             54.2       49.5       49.6              50.6                    51.3
PROUES                          20.0        21.6       20.4              26.8                    15.9
UCOUNMIC DEPENDECY RATIO           1.2         1.3        1.3               1.1                     1.3
lN-   D       DsuT
MCET O0 PRIVATE INCE
RZcEIVED BY
31035 5S0 o   CSZHOLDS            *-         *-        23.5 1
DCGSS 2OZ OF VBUSEOILDS           ..         ..        49.4              49.0.
LOWEST 20S O HDU8ZHOLDS          ..         ..         6.6               6.4
LOIOS? 402 OF BLCSZOLDS           ..         ..        14.4              15.5
PT  u    -I
-        Suw ASOL  oT or CMM
LVEL (USS PE CAPITA)
VRMAM                            ..        124.0 /h   124.0 t             ..                    288.3
an"A                             ..        106.0 71;   106.0  b         151.9                    185.3
ESTIMATED RZLATIVZ POVERrT INCOME
LEVZL (U9J PE CAPITA)
UlmA                             ..          ..       119.0 lb          177.9                   519.8
EATL                             ..          ..        98.0 -;r         164.7                   359.7
ESTIMATED POP. BELCH AJSOLUns
POVYEr INCOME LZEVL (Z)
URAN                              ..        51.0 /h    26.0 /h           23.5
AL                                ..        59.0     44.0 7              37.8
Mto AVAnAEA.
EOr APPLICAUL
N 0 T Z S
/a  The group averages for such indicator are popnlation-weahted arithmtlc *mena. Coverage of countries
*mong the ndlcatore depend. on *5ailability of data and Is not uniform.
b  Unleurs otherIse noted. "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between
1969 and 1971; ad data for "Most Recent RetInst.e between 1981 and 1983.
/c 1980; /d 1977; /a 1979; /f 1962; a 1976; /b 1960 prxte .
JUNE, 1985



30 -                                     AiMNE I
Page 3 of 6 pages
.             ~~~DSVNOMMMOF 3OCL&L UINDS 
Neow Ahhose dw dsaim wn from roswumhnlljudpd th mmathontamw and ulable. kt sho  a  be _coed that dly may n,g bmulamodly
womparabw b.c. of se lath of eiaaudnrJid shadond s5 anaps mu by dukesM cjosatr in collctin  h dwhoss. Ihe dam are. nomouhuaLsm.Sa to
dsaibe esof mAgud. indin trusS, an casm    am anion     dilrarec bew  cofm,
The -1 u  ao    an cli hnusa coarY   p of5k sub11ct cmatr and (2) a CmDUy pomp 'wish soewhat hl_ sa _nc  sta th _muy
grow of se Mjctotq (a fer 1gw inc  ODi  Epons0  " group_whir. "MM&dle1mm Norh Afrca  Middle b 1t" dse bum  ofirr
rmociltwnl a*1i11i. lathe  a pomp data the awvng, am population aughsd .tiama amen for each idctor and show only when majont
oft  com'mu ien *an pmg he da for ts iet. Slw th coverag of couee among the lndkor depends on dh availbility ofdata and Iano unifrm.
aton  mum bearcdin relatg awng ofo ondict to ansh. The avernm a only usful in o*mpna w   of one imflasor a a tme am
sh coen  aN  A    groups
ARtEA (thousad sq.km.)                                         Cmre ARuh Rae (pw>m  -N      umberof live birts in the year
rTol--Total surface are comprising land ar  and inland waters  per thousand of mid-year populatios  1960. 1970. and 1933 data.
1960. 1970 and 1933 dta.                                       Crd Desk  ar (per ah ued)-Number of deaths in the year
AgrdhwlEstiuiate of agricultural am  usd temporarily or        per thousand of s.d-yewr populatiom  19606 1970. and 19U3 data.
permanendy ror crops. pastum mrket and kitchen  prdens or to   G.e Repywedh Rae-Avernag  number of daughte a womn
lie fallow, 1960 1970 and 1982 data,                           will bear in ber nonnal reproductive period if sbe e
present  espic  fertilit ratesy usuadly fiveyear averges ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current       in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market pries calculated by -am  convenion method as World      FAmily Pbimlr-AeCpers. Amus (trhmas,-Annual nazi-
Bank Atlas (1981483 basis); 1983 data                         hber of acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                  ramily pbnning prom.
consumption of commercal primary energy (coal and lignite.     Fon* PlmOr-Uie (prenf Vmwred wa -The percen-
peroeum. naturwal ps and hydro-. nuclear and geothennal eec-   tage of marmed women of child-bearing ae wbo are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands ar practcing any form of contrception. Womsen
1982 data.                                                     of child-bearing age are generally women aged 1549. although for
some countries contracptive usag  is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VtNAL STATISTICS                                groups.
Twl Pepeilaria.MM- Yewr ftheursmadj-As of July 1 1960. 1970.   mOOD  AND NurR TION
and 1983 data.
VrAm Ptplatd.u (percenr of rnalj-Ratio of urban to tool       Indrx.fFFo.dPriwtisPevCawa(1 -1  lOIM-Index ofper
population; diffrent definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  capit annual production of all food conmnodities.   duction
ability of data among countries 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.      exludes anunal feed and seed for agniculture Food commodities
include primary commodities (e.g sugprcn  insted of sugar)
rhpn rdo       _ A'ajeio                                       which are edible and contain nutrients (eg. coffee and te am
Phpultwn in year 2000-The projection of population for 2000.   exduded); they conprise cerals. root crops. puils. oil seeds.
made for each economy separtly. Starting with information on   vegetbks. fruits. nuts, sugarcane and sugar bee  livestock, and
wtal ppulation by age and sex, fertility rates. morality rtes, and  liveswck products. Aggrepte production of each country is based
inteational  igraution in the base year 1980. these parmeters  on national avcrage producer price weights; 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of genralized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.            P- cepira Spy f Calre (pren efrsueurf-Comput-
Stananary populaton-ls one in which age- and sr-spedfic mor-   ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while agespecific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise dormestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replaement level  tion. imports kss exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproducton rate - I1. In sucb a population. the birth rate ss  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death ratc the age structure is also  food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
sze was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights.
she population in the year 2000. and the rate of dedine of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing IO percent for
rate to replacement level                                      waste at household level; 1961.1970 and 1982 data.
Populetin .Iomentu-Is the tendency for population growth to    Per cGpa Supl of Pwaiu (gas per day-Protein content of
continue beyond the timc that rcplacement-level fertility has becn  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved. that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirments for all countries establisbed by USII4
unity. The momentum of a population in die year  is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and puls protein. of which 10 grami.
the year t. given the assumption that fertility remains at replac-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
ment klvel from year t onward. 1985 data.                      75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Ap.adouS  Dnsity                                               average for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq.ku.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-  Supply; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tarns) of totl area; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                Pe Cept Peen Supp  Fom Amml avd hIre-Protein  supply
Per sqkm. agrpkulr lid-Computed as above for agricultural      of food derived from animals and pulss in grams per day; 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                          197;0 and 1977 data.
Fbpuloiou Age Sincere (rrceari-Children (0-14 years). work-    CiW feW 1-0) DooM Rats (per tkoasaud)-Nnumber of deaths of
ing age (15-64 yer). and retired 65 years and over) as percentagc  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the  -  age
of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data,             group in a gven year For most developing countries data derived
hpoL%tiou Grouch Rar (percenj-wtol-Annual growth rates of      from life tables; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 197083.    HEALTH
ftp.lmron Growuc Rar (pecr4l-{mh--Annual growth rates          We & Expetancyt UreA (yars)!-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-t. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.     infant would live if prevailing pattrns of mortlity Tor all people



-31-                                  ANEX I
31                  ~Page 4 of 6 pages
a th tim  of of In bih wer to sy the -  throuot its lIfa      AW ruher Atio  pLrmi      avcuudWY-ToUI Kstu          a
1960,1970 and 1983 da.                                        roild In pry and  coadary lsb die  by numbe  of
ji_  J_me ft  Raw (pw M)-Number of infants wbo dle    teaches in th Xoo_ pon                lve.
befowb r       one yar o ap per thousad lve bith in a h vsn
year, 1960.1970 and 193 dat                                   CONSMTON
'111M  SO       m war  .   .f qdelbu-          Wideln, m               cl Co pw j,_ A*maai pv  1Mie)-        cm com-
ril-Number of 1pe0  (o111 ut an" and rl) Wth t mable          prle motor cas seating ls thn eight perona exchudes ambul-
am  to saf water supply (incud. utretd suface water or        ances, hearess and miliar vddehiLa
uontratd bst uncontaminad water suh ast  ri frm  proe-d       XWb    W    (. uemdipephile)-All t - of reeve
bombole spio and unity wal) a pesutp of thirr                 for rdio broadcss to  oneal public pe thousad of poputmn
dve populions In n urban  -  a public fountain or sdpties ad    y  
locatd not mom than 20 waten fiom a house may be cosierd      rqdmon ukhof rdiommtsws in efcoundtrisfor Icnt years wma
AS beno  withia r_sonbl aco   of that hous  In r m            nption ofpradio sie mostn o tinnres fabod roon yam g   y
resnbeaccrn unul imply that the houwnrewf or member of  notecmhel  m    mconn   bbWlcnig
boulold do not have to spend a dip   onate pt of t dy         Trvlm   (pet     udm renforbradct
in fteching      ts wa                                        to gnea  public per thousan populton exude unlend TV
Amm to Esws _DEpd (                    qf, receivs in counrie an in years whn rtraion ofV nrs wa
and nura-Number of people (toal, urban and nurl) serd by      in effem
ezoruta disposal as percntaigs of their respective populatons.  N lwer Geal    (per          p      Id  a)-Shows th aver
Excreta disposa my iclude the collction and disposaL with or  ag circulatimo of daily snal in-est onwspa        defind as a
without trmtint. of human excrt and waste-water by water-     peodicl publit   devoted primiy to recording gnal news.
bore sysmor the use of pit privi nd simhlr installationL      It is consdered to be Idsil if ik appa  at last four times a we.
Pa d. per   Ib - opul atioo divided by number of pac-         Chan. Amud A         _Adw Fr Cq,ir Fe YarnBased on the
tising physician qualified from a medical scbool at univenity levd.  number of tickets sold dumg the year. including admins to
Pbpdam pt Nwl. Pmn-Population divided by number of            drve-u, cinema. and mobile units
practicing male and famale graduate nurses, assitant nurse.
pracl nurse and nursing auaries                               I        FORCE
hpuhlauperHasp"ta hiP-ted, lMrA11 ad no,111--pbpulation    Teed Laa Farc (dmsheuadi)-Economically active persons. in-
(total urbn and rual) divided by their respective number of   duding armed rorce and unempoyed but excluding houewives.
hospitalbedsavaibleinpublic and priva-ge  aland s_            students. etc.. covering population of.all ags Definitiou in
hospital.and bdbsa iab uin ceptu c    Hospriva    ar eseal e  vanous countris are not comparablc 1960. 1970 and 1983 dua.
permanently staffed by at eat one physician. Estblshments prov-  Fen   (pr  r-Female labor form as percentage of total lbor
iding pipany custil cue am o  induded. Rural hospitls.    fo
howeer, indude hedth and medical centers not pcmanedy stffed  Arkxhwe (pacet-Labor force in ranmins foresty. hunbti
by a physican (but by a mednicl assistanL nurse midwife. etc.)  and fishing as perentage of tota labor forne; 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer n-pint accommodation and provide a limited rang   data.
of medical facilities.                                        I.dmstvy (perceurj-Labor force in ming consucto  maun-
AI ai  per Hospil Bi-Total number of admissions to or         facuing and elecrity. water and ps as petsnage of total abor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.      force; 1960.1970 and 1980 data
F      eA*dpadm it"   (Pecent)-ieL male, MAdm -ri
HOUSING                                                       or acvity rtes awe computed as totaL mae, and fle lbor force
Avra  She of Hmexld (peu per h             sehl)-tod. har,    as percentages of totaL malce and female popubtion of all ages
anduiral-A household consi  of a gwup of individuals who share  respectivelr, 1960. 1970. and 1983 data These are basd on ILOs
living quarter and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  partcipation rtes reflecting age-ex sruct  of the  population and
maY not be induded in the household for stistical purposes    long tuim  trend. A few estimates are from national souces.
A,w4 e .vber of Prseu per Reon_-trdel. WaM. ad rvral-         Eceow,u  Dependeacy Rario-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban. and rural    65 and over. to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwelings. respeively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanen structures and unoccupied parts.                 LNCOME DISTRIBLTION
P-emetae of DueE     -if Eecdry-4eal watm, ad rurl -          P. cenq  of Tre Dispesahk  Iccnw (hbok in cas  aid Uhnd)-
Conventional dwelihngs with elctricity in living quarters as peren-  Accruing to perntile groups of households ranked by total house-
uap of total. urban. and rural dwellings respectively.        bold incorne.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A*we-    E         Rad                                        The foflowing esimates are very approximat measures of poverty
FIimy scOol - rotal. male aCd female-ro   wia  m    a         levels, and should be interpreted with consderble caution.
female enrolment of al ags at the pimary kvel as percentages of  Eitid Awhstg Por ybnm  Leel (USSpr cepir)  -w6
respctive prmary school-ag populations. Whike many countries    d  al-Absolute poverty income kvel is dtt income klve
consider pimary school age to be 6-11 year. others do not. The  below which a mininal nutritionaly adequate diet plus essental
differen  in comtiry practc  in the ae and duration of school  non-food rquirements is not affordabkl
are reflected in the ratos given. For some countries with univesl  Estimed Rladve Pove  Income Leed l(USW per cqte)-} a
education. gros enrolt may exceed 100 percet sinc some        and real-Rural relative poverty income lv  is one-third of
pupils are beow or above the country's standard prutnay-school  average per capita prsonal income of the country. Urban evel is
ag8e                                                          derived from the rural klvel with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondry schoo - tt. lmae and femal-Computed as above:        lving in urban ar
seconday educan requis at est four years of approved pr-      Esixard Pepuama Beow Ahsoer Po1ery nco  Lmd fel -
mazy insructo  provides geeraL vocationaL or teacber traiing  c ar-r  snd rsuni- Percent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupis usually of 12 to 17 year of age corrspond-  who are 'absolute poor.
enco cours are generally emluded.
Vocatio,al Er-olmn (pecent of seodavy -Vocational iiitun-              Comparative Analysis and Dat Division
tions include tedmicaL industral or otber proams which operate       Economic Analysis and Projctions Department
independently or as departmen  of scondary institutioJs.                              June 1985



-32-                                          A4NUX I
Page S of 6 pages
Population       155.8 million (mid-1983)
GCP per Capita: US$560 (1983 estimate)
INDONESIA - ECONOMIC rNDICATORs
Amount
(million US$ at                             Annual growth rate tZ) lb
current prices)                 ACtual                                 Projected
Indicator                           1983          190o  1951   198Z   1983  19847a  1985   LV80   1987   1955   1959   199
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Lrogs domestic product /c         78.344         9.9    7.9   -0.2    4.7    6.5    2.9    4.6    5.1    4.7    4.1    4.3
Agriculture                     20,651         5.2    4.9    2.1    4.8    5.0    3.7    3.7    3.7    3.7    3.7    3.7
Industry                        29,896        12.5    8.5   -6.4    5.0    9.8    0.9    4.5    5.5    4.6    3.0    3.5
Services                        27,797        11.8    9.8    5.5    4.3    4.0    4.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5
Ceusuaption                       62.731        12.4   15.8    3.0    0.7    7.2    3.1    3.1    4.2    4.2    4.2    4.2
Gross investment Id               18,908        18.9   11.1    8.5   -7.0   -9.0    5.1    5.1    5.3    5.5    5.7    5.5
Exports of GMS -                  19,508        -5.6   -2.4  -12.6   14.2    3.5    1.4    6.4    5.2    3.9    1.4    3.0
Imports of CNFS                   22,803        15.1   27.1    3.2  -8.6   -7.5    3.6    1.5    2.4    2.6    2.6    3.4
Gross national savings            12.273        33.2  -20.0  -11.3    3.7   18.4   -3.3    8.9    8.0    6.9    5.3    5.2
PRICES
CMDTFdeflator (1981 - 100)                        91    100    113    131    142    154    168    183    199    217    237
Exchange rate (Up per USS)                       627    632    661    909  1,026
Share of CDP at market prices (2)
(at current prlees)                          Aversy;              a annual increase (S) lb
W6__    1970   19ti 90               ls 1990              19/  /3   1913-So   1950-85   1965-90
Cross domestic product          100    100    100    100    100    100           3.9       8.4       7.4        4.3        4.6
Agriculture                    54      47     32     25     26      25         2.7       4.1       3.3        4.1        3.7
Industry                       14      18     34     43     38      38        5.2       12.0       9.8        3.4       4.2
Services                       32     35      35     32     36      37        4.8        9.7       9.5        5.6       5.5
Consumption                    91     89      79     71     78      76        4.1        8.4       9.2        6.0       4.0
Gross investment /d             8      14     20     21      18     19        4.8       18.3      12.2        2.6       5.4
Export. of CNGS -              13      13     23     31     25      24        3.6        9.2       2.9       -1.1       4.0
Imorts of CNPS                -13    -16    -22    -22    -21    -19          3.2       22.1      14.0        2.6       2.5
Gross national savings          8      9      17     26     19      21        6.1       23.1      14.2       -0.3       6.8
As Z of GDP
1s0               1970               197Y               1950               1954
PMBLIC FINANCE /e
Current revenue                               11.7               10.1               17.4              22.5                21.5
Current expenditures                          14.0                8.4                9.9              12.8               13.3
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                    -2.3              +1.6               +7.5               +9.7               +8.2
Capital expenditure                            n.a.               5.0               11.3              13.0               10.0
Forelgn financing                              0.2                3.5                3.7                3.3                1.8
1960-70         1970-75          1975-80          1980-85          1985-90
OTHER IIDICA2ORS
Annual GNP growth rate (Z)                           4.5              7.6              7.1             4.1             4.7
Annual CUP per capita growth rate (Z)                2.4              5.1              4.7            2.0              2.5
Annual energy consumption growth rate (2)            2.2             11.2             11.0             1.4             4.6
ICOR                                                 2.2              2.2              3.3            4.8              4.0
Harginal savings rate                                0.30             0.48             0.28          -0.01             0.29
Import elasticity                                    1.2              2.8              0.84           0.57             0.53
/a Estimates.
75 At constant 1973 prices for 1980-81, and 1981 prlces for 1982-90.
7T At market prices.
7W Fixed Investment; stock changes are Included in consumption.
7Te Central Government only, on an April-to-Mbrch fiscal year basis.
East Asia and Pacific Region
May 31, 1985



Population     :  155.8 million (mid-1983)                      - 33 -                                     ANU  I
GNP per Capita:  US$560 (1983 estimate)                                                                    Page 6 of 6 pages
INDONESIA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND exTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
tMlHULons UiS at current price.)
Actual                                 pro1ected
198U     LI       LYGz lYBai L-aY 1983---n 19,4!                          Ll99l
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS/b
TI.- Es$76-rEs                                 22,885   22,994   18,672   19,817   20,243  20,769   22,868   26,170   36,235
(a)  Oil and LNG (gross)                   17,297   18,824   14,744   14,449   14,341  14,253   15,512   17,821   23,848
(b)  Nonoil                                 5,588    4,170    3.928    5,368    5,902   6,516    7,356    8,349   12,387
2.  Imo-rts (including net IFS)               -17,589 -22,570 -22,339  -19,655  -17.611 -19,066  -20,783  -23,026  -31,586
(a)  Oil sector                            -4,050   -5,407   -4,802   -3,839   -3,135  -3,801   -4,113   -3,619   -6,540
(b)  Nonoll Imports                       -11,837  -14,561  -15,824  -14,246  -12,805 -13,616  -14,899  -16,462  -22,438
(c)  UFS (net)                             -1,702   -2,602   -1,713   -1,570   -1,611  -1,649   -1,771   -1,945   -2,608
3. Resource balance                             5,296       424   -3,667       162   -2,632   1,701    2,085    3,14      2,800
4. Factor services                             -3,165   -3,210   -3,573   -4,476   -4,596  -4,528   -4,994   -5,708   -7,287
(a)  Interest public debt                    -823     -994   -1,145   -1,256   -1,620  -1,598   -1,851   -2,132   -4,487
(b)  Other (net)                           -2,342   -2,216   -2,428   -3,220   -2,976  -2,930   -3,143   -3,576   -4,487
5.  Capital grants                                  76       67      105        95      100      112      119      125       150
6. Balance on current account                    2,207   -2,719   -7,135   -4,219   -1,864  -2,715   -2,790   -2,439   -2,488
7. Direct foreign investmnt                        140      142      311       193      250     250       275      300       3Z5
8.  Public M & LT loans
(a)  Disbursement                           2,551    2,673    4,192    4,965    3,828   4,988    5,428    6,068    6,892
(b)  Amortization                            -936   -1,053   -1,102   -1,295   -1,628  -1,980   -2,137   -2,545   -4,603
(c)  Hit disbursements                      1,615    1,620    3,090    3,670    2.220   3,008    3,291    3,523    2,289
9. Other capital (net)                         -1,488       -31      455    1,975       287    -143      -104     -418       133
10.  Change in reserves (- increase)            -2,736       988    3,350   -1,619      -873    -400     -672      -966     -309
II.  Met official reserves                       7,342    6,354    3,004    4,623    5,496   5,896    6,588    7,534    9,354
Reserves in months of nonoil imports
+ NFS                                        6.5      4.4      2.1       3.5      4.6     4.6       4.7      4.9       4.5
Nemorandum Item
get foreign assets of the banking
aystem/c                                     10,787   10,622    6,322    8,395    9,930  10,331   11,003   11,969   13,819
Total reserves in months of nonoil
Imports + NFS                                   9.6      7.4      4.3      6.4       8.2     8.1       7.9      7.8       6.6
EXERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT/d
Gross Disbursements                             2 551    2 673    4 192    4 965    3 828
concesslonal Loans                              `S        4 ~7      689      609      '55
Bilateral  -                                          7T7m      UTa      3ZP       T78
IDA                                           42        69       78       60        54
Other                                           6        7        8        8        19
Nonconcessional Loans                          1892    1 880    3 503    4 357    3 277
Ilt-er=                                      'i5      -I7IT    :ff       -SW
IBRD                                            331      314      505      489       772
Other multilateral                               52       85      126       160      163
Private-source                                1,421    1,310    2,356    3,219    1,938
External Debt
Debt outstand'og and disbursed /e            14 971   15 870   18 515   21 686   22 863
Official-soLrce               -T                          T7
Private-source                             5,465    5.812    7,403    9,649   10,042
Undisbursed debt                             9,481   11,387   12,870   13,778   13,973
Debt Service
Total *ere' ce payments                       1,759    2,047    2,247    2,551    3,248
Interest                                     823       994    1,145    1,256    1,620
Payments as Z of exports/f                      7.7      8.9     12.0      12.9     16.0
_verage Interest late on New Loans (Z)            8.1      8.7      9.2      8.8       9.1
Lricial-source                                 5.4      7.8      8.8      8.7       8.6
Private-source                                 12.4      9.4      9.5      8.8       9.8
Averae Maturity of New Loans (Years)             18.8     15.5     15.2      15.1     15.9
.t icia -source                                24.4     20.5     20.6     22.3      20.9
Private-source                                  9.8     11.1     11.1     10.3       9.2
As Z of debt outstanding at end of 1984
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                                                             34
Haturities due within 10 years                                                                            65
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                                           7.0
/a Estimates.
7F On an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
7Wr Includes foreign assets of deposit money banks in addition to official reserves.
7WT Excludes private nonguaranteed loans.
7Te  At end of period.                                                                          East Asia and Pacific Region
7r Oil exports treated on gross basis.                                                                  May 31, 1985



: ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~Au    rr.
.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~3  - 
Page I of 4 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1986) /a
Loan/                                                         Amount (USM  million)
Credit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
number   year   Purpose                                     Bank     IDA    Undisbursea
Forty Loans and forty-four Credits fully
disbursed                                              l1971.86   777.89         -
1578    1978   Tenth Irrigation                            109.00      -        22.96
1604    1978   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders II           50.50      -        10.40
1653    1979   Third Urban Development                     53.60       -         9.14
1707    1979   Transmigration II                            90.00      -        75.49
1708    1979   Eighth Power                                175.00      -        37.34
1709    1979   Second Water Supply                          35.49      -         4.87
946    1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                   -      12.00       5.50
1751    1980   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders III          92.00      -        23.85
995    1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                          -       37.60       5.53
996    1980   National Agriculture Extension II              -      39.00      19.26
1811    1980   Fourteenth Irrigation                       116.00      -        36.55
1835    1980   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders IV          30.00       -        15.69
1840    1980   National Agricultural Research              35.00       -        35.00
1014    1980   National Agricultural Research                -       30.00       0.56
1872    1980   Ninth Power                                253.00       -        65.46
1898    1981   Smallholder Coconut Development             25.00       -        10.51
1904    1981   University Development                      45.00       -        31.26
1950    1981   Tenth Power                                250.00       -        10.97
1958    1981   Swamp Reclamation                           22.00       -        11.70
1972    1981   Fourth Urban Development                    43.00       -        19.66
2007    1981   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders V           134.00      -        80.69
2049    1982   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway                     85.00      -        66.60
2056    1982   Eleventh Power                              170.00      -        39.42
2066    1982   Second Seeds                                 15.00      -         9.34
/a  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



-35-                     ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4 pages
Loan/                                                         Amount (US$ million)
Credit  Fiscal                                                 (less cancellations)
number   year   Purpose                                     Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
2079    1982   Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and
Transport                                 185.00      -        65.84
2083    1982   Rural Roads Development                      85.00       -        32.27
2101    1982   Second Teacher Training                      79.59       -        64.19
2102    1982   Second Textbook                              25.00       -        21.22
2118    1982   Sixteenth Irrigation                         37.00       -        15.66
2119    1982   Seventeenth Irrigation (East Java            70.00       -        36.31
Province)
2120    1982   National Fertilizer Distribution             66.00       -        31.35
2126    1982   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders VI           55.50       -        43.77
2153    1982   Coal Exploration Engineering                 25.00       -        14.56
2199    1982   Central Java Pulp and Paper Engineering       5.50       -         4.03
2214    1983   Twelfth Power                               300.00       -       223.08
2232    1983   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders VII         138.90       -       136.43
2235    1983   Provincial Health                            27.00       -        23.25
2236    1983   Jakarta Sewerage and Sanitation              22.40       -        19.22
2248    1983   Transmigration III                          101.00       -        54.16
2258    1983   Public Works Mancower Development            30.00       -        24.74
2275    1983   East Java Water Supply                       30.60       -        17.35
2277    1983   Fifth BAPINDO                               208.90       -       131.24
2288    1983   Transmigration IV                            63.50       -        59.14
2290    1983   Second Polytechnic                          107.40       -       105.47
2300    1983   Thirteenth Power                            279.00       -       171.84
2341    1984   Third Agricultural Training                  63.30       -        52.43
2344    1984   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder Sugar         79.20       -        47.84
2355    1984   Second Non-Formal Education                  43.00       -        34.89
2375    1984   Second Provincial Irrigation Dev.            89.00       -        60.31
2404    1984   Highway Betterment                          240.00       -       185.23
2408    1984   Fifth Urban Development                      39.25       -        35.45
2430    1984   Third Small Enterprise Development          204.65       -        96.73
2431    1984   Second Swamp Reclamation                     65.00       -        62.73
2443    1984   Fourteenth Power                            210.00       -       196.07
1950-1  1985   Supplemental Loan for Tenth Power
(1950-IND)                                50.00       -        19.75
2472    1985   Secondary Education and Management
Training                                  78.00       -        73.58



-36 -                   ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4 pages
Loan/                                                         Amount (US$ million)
Credit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
number   year   Purpose                                     Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
2474    1985   Upland Agriculture and Conservation          11.30      -         11.27
2494    1985   Smallholder Rubber Development II           131.00       -       131.00
2529    1985   Fourth Population                            46.00      -         46.00
2542    1985   Second Health (Manpower Development)         39.00      -         39.00
2543    1985   Kedung Ombo Multipurpose Dam and
Irrigation                               156.00       -       156.00
2547    1985   Second University Development               147.00       -       147.00
2560    1985   West Tarum Canal Improvement                 43.40       -        43.40
2577    1985   National Ports Development                  111.00       -       111.00
2578    1985   Transmigration V /a                         160.00       -       160.00
2599    1986   Science and Technology Training              93.00       -        93.00
2628    1986   Smallholder Cattle Development /a            32.00       -        32.00
2632    1986   Second East Java Water Supply /a             43.30       -        43.30
2636    1986   Second Nutrition and Community Health        33.40       -        33.40
2638    1986   Nusa Tenggara Agriculture Support /a         33.00       -        33.00
2649    1986   Central and West Java Irrigation /a         166.00       -       166.00
Total Bank loans and IDA credits         8,149.54   896.49
Of which has been repaid                  -577.51   -23.38
Total now outstanding                    7,572.03   873.11
Amount sold to third party        28.24
Amount repaid by third party    -28.24        -
Total now held by Bank and IDA /b        7,572.03   873.11
Total undisbursed /c                                          4,053.25
/a Not yet effective.
/b Prior to exchange adjustment.
/c Includes loans not yet effective.



37                 AMEX II
Page 4 of 4 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1986)
Fiscal                                                               Loan  Equity  Total
year   Obligor                             Type of business         -  (US$ million) --
1971    P.T. Semen Cibinong                 Cement                   10.6    2.5    13.1
1971    P.T. Unitex                        Textiles                   2.5    0.8      3.3
1971    P.T. Primatexco Indonesia           Textiles                  2.0    0.5      2.5
1971    P.T. Kabel Indonesia                Cable                     2.8    0.4      3.2
1972    P.T. Daralon Textile Mfg. Corp.   Textiles                    4.5    1.5      6.0
1973    P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel             Tourism                   9.8    1.6    11.4
1973    P.T. Semen Cibinong                 Cement                    5.4    0.7      6.1
1974    P.T. Primatexco Indonesia           Textiles                  2.0    0.3      2.3
1974    P.T. Monsanto Pan                  Electronics                0.9     -       0.9
1974    P.T. PDFCI                          Dev. fin. co.              -     0.5      0.5
1974    P.T. KAmaltex                       Textiles                  2.4    0.6      3.0
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinong                 Cement                    5.0    1.5      6.5
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinong                 Cement                     -      1.1     1.1
1977    P.T. Daralon Textile Mfg. Corp.   Textiles                    0.4      -      0.4
1977    P.T. Kamaltex                       Textiles                  1.3    0.2      1.5
1979    P.T. Daralon                        Textiles                  0.9      -      0.9
1980    P.T. Papan Sejahtera                Capital market            4.0    1.2      5.2
1980    P.T. Indo American Industries       Glass dinnerware         11.1    0.9    12.0
1980    P.T. Semen Andalas Indonesia       Cement and construc-
tion material          48.0    5.0    53.0
1982/5  P.T. Saseka Gelora Leasing          Capital market            5.0    0.3      5.3
1984    P.T. Semen Cibinong                 Cement                   25.0      -     25.0
Total gross comsitments                                     143.6   19.6   163.2
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled                         113.4    7.3   120.7
Total held by IFC                                            30.2   12.3    42.5
-



- 38 -
ANNEX III
INDONESIA
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section.I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project:    30 months
(b)  Agency that prepared the project:      Ministry of Trade with substantial
consultant and Bank staff input
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:        September 1983
(d)  First Bank Mission to prepare          February 1984
the project:
(e)  Date of depart':re of appraisal        May 1985
mission:
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:         September 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
In view of number of institutions participating for the first time
in a Bank project and the comprehensive nature of the technical assistance
component, intensive supervision will be required during the first two years
of the project.
Section III: Special Conditions
Conditions of Loan Effectiveness
(a) Signing of subsidiary loan agreements between the Government and at
least two participating banks (para. 66(a)).
(b)  Signing of a subsidary agreement between the Government and
P.T. ASEI (paras. 66(b)).
Conditions of Disbursement
(a) For each participating bank, adoption of a satisfactory Development
Strategy Statement and signing of a subsidiary loan agreement with
the Government (paras. 46 and 66(a)).
(b) For the ESB subcomponent, recruitment of advisors and adoption of a
statement on policies and operating procedures satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 60).
(c) For the training component, memoranda of understanding satisfactory
to the Bank between the Ministry of Trade and local participating
training institutions on implementation arrangements (para. 67(b)).
(d) For the industry and export studies, terms of reference satisfactory
to the Bank (para. 67(c)).



TH AI A NI -                                                           ; B 8 h
-                            -c<  'SDV      ~C#;T.FH  PHILIPPINES   1/
INDONESIA
N. 1  gt5_   'MALAYSIA  )  ,,,   Se,.C P,                                           H  I N DON E SAISA
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ii *0...<0---
25 K ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ 
2  C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
-~~~ ~~~~ /a d;                                                           Ford s 5 41   W -,   5   = 2  , r D Oceane
.-  A n Vo         pce           2S,= , 
8 ~ ~   - . .                                                                      .
.~~~~~~~~I .  -                        C~






