Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Repor No. 5968-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
EXPORT !'EVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 1, 1986
Industrial development and Finance Division
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a resticted distribuio and may be wed by recipients only in the perforance of
thir oflkic  dtkis. Its contents my not oterwise be disclosed witxut World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency unit - Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$1   - RP.1,100
Rp 100   -  US$0.09
Rp I billion   -  US$909,091
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Indonesia - April 1-March 31
State Commercial Banks - January 1-December 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AIRD         -  Agency for Trade Research and Development
BAPINDO      -  Bank Pembanguman Indonesia (Development Bank of
Indonesia)
BDN          -  Bank Dagang Negara
BI           -  Bank Indonesia
BUPM         -  Badan Koordinasi Penanaman Modal (Investment
Coordinating Board)
BNI 1946     - Bank Negara Indonesia 1946
BPEN/NAFED   -  Badan Pengembangan Ekspor Nasional (National Agency
for Export Development)
BRI          - Bank Rakyat Indonesia
CERLAB       -  Centre inter laboratoires d'etudes et de realisations
DGFT         -  Directorate General of Foreign Trade
ESB          -  Export Support Board
ESF          -  Export Support Fund
GATT         -  General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
GOI          -  Government of Indonesia
ICB          -  International Competitive Bidding
ITC          -  International Trade Centre
L/C          - Letter of Credit
LP3ES        -  Lembaga Penelitian, Pendidikan dan Penerangan Ekonomi
dan Sosial (Institute for Social and Economic
Research, Education and Information)
MOT          - Ministry of Trade
MOF          - Ministry of Finance
PBs          -  Participating Banks
PPMB         -  Central Test and Quality Control Laboratory
PT ASEI      -  PT Asuransi Ekspor Indonesia (Export Insurance
Company of Indonesia)
REPELITA IV  -  Fourth Five Year Development Plan of Indonesia,
1984/85-1988/89
SFADCO       -  Shannon Free Airport Development Company
TA           -  Technical Assistance
TOR          -  Terms of Referen-e



FOR OFFXCAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ....... ....  . ................... ...    iii
I.  SECTOR BACKGROUND ................1...............
A.  The Manufacturing Sector and Exports of Manufactures ......       1
B.  The Financial Sector and Export Finance ...................       4
C.  The Bank's Role in the Industrial and Financial Sectors....       7
II.  THE PROJECT     .     .......                                         8
I. TEPOET.................................................
A.  Project Rationale, Objectives and Content ..........              8
B.  The Investment Finance Component             ..... ...... ......    10
C.  Technical Assistance (TA) Component .......................    18
D.  Exporter Training Component .........        ...............     25
E.  Overall Project Costs and Financing   . ............ ...   .     26
III.  THE PROPOSED LOAN   .. ......             .....................      28
A.  Features of the Loan ........             ...... .............    28
B.  Project Benefits and Risks . ..         .... ..o ....... o... .    33
IV.  AGREEMENTS AND UNDERSTANDINGSo ...... .        ......... ..o ... ..    34
ANNEXES
1.  Eligibility Criteria for Investment Subprojects
2.   Financial Statements of Participating Banks
Table 1   Bank Negara Indonesia 1946:  Income Statements, 1981-84
2  Bank Rakyat Indonesia:  Income Statements, 1981-84
3   Bank Dagang Negara:  Income Statements, 1981-84
4   Bank Negara Indonesia 1946:  Summarized Balance Sheets, 1981-84
5   Bank Rakyat Indonesia:  Sunmmarized Balance Sheets, 1981-84
6  Bank Dagang Negara:  Summarized Balance Sheets, 1981-84
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in May/June
1985. Mission members were Kevin Young (mission leader), Victor Agius
(investment component), Hans Lesshafft (export estate), Vinod Prakash
(technical assistance & training components), and Daniel Gunaratnam
(engineer). A post-appraisal mission took place in October 1985.
I Ths document has a restted distnbution and may be uwed by recipents only in the pefofnnce 
of their ofii dutie. Its contents may not otherwise be discosed without Wodd Bank authoiutn.|



- ii -
3.  Calculation of Relending Rate from GOI to PBs
4. Export Support Board/Fund: Statement of Policies and
Operating Procedures
5.   Exporter Training Development Prograe
6.   Objectives and Timeframe of Key Technical Assistance Items
7. Estimated Cumulative Disbursements
8.  Documents of the Proposed Loan Available in the Project File Index
CHART: Organization of the Export Support Board.
MAP: IBRD No. 11038R1



- iii -
INDONESIA
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           Republic of Indonesia
Beneficiaries:      Bank Negara Indonesia 1946 (BNI 1946); Bank Dagang Negara
(BDN); Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI); and P.T. Asuransi
Ekspor Indonesia (PT ASEI)
Amount:             $64.5 million equivalent
Terms:              The proposed loan would be made at the Bank-s standard
variable interest rate and would have a term of 20 years
including 5 years of grace
Relending Terms:    The Government of Indonesia would relend the credit
component ($51.0 million) to the three participating banks
at a variable interest rate equal to the banks' average
cost of loanable funds subject to a floor of the Bank's
rate plus 1.75%.  The Government would bear the foreign
exchange risk on the Bank loan. Bank funds would be
relent to the participating banks for a period of 20 years
including three years grace. The participating banks
would onlend the funds to their subborrovers at prevailing
market rates. The technical assistar.ce and training
components ($13.5 million) would be made available to the
participating agencies as budgetary grants.
Project
Description:      The project's objective is to strengthen Indonesia's
efforts to increase non-oil exports by increasing the
availability of long-term credit for export-oriented
investments, by strengthening the policy and institutional
framework needed for export development and by assisting
individual export firms with technical assistance and
training. The project will cover both direct and indirect
exporters.
Under the credit component thc project will provide three
major state commercial banks with long-term funds to
support about 30 export-oriented investments. The
capacity of these banks to identify and appraise export
projects will also be strengthened. Under the technical
assistance component, the policy and institutional
framework to support exports will be strengthened. In
addition, direct technical assistance will be provided to
about 300 export firms and supporting institutions in
marketing and related areas. The training component will
provide a program of short-term courses related to the



- iv -
immediate needs of about 800 exporters and related public
officials. Training of about 35 local trainers would also
be included.
Delays in strengthening the institutional capabilities of
the participating banks (PBs) could delay the preparation
and appraisal of sound investments. The advance training
program for relevant PB staff, which is ongoing, should
reduce this risk. Another risk is that subprojects under
the credit component would fail to realize the minimum 40%
export requirement. This risk is being addressed by
emphasizing realistic assessment of export potential at
tble appraisal stage.
Local     Foreign       Total
Estimated Cost:/a                                            US$ million
Credit component                               38.0          58.0      96.0
Technical assistance                             2.6          9.6      12.2
Training                                        0.8           1.1       1.9
Total Baseline Cost                       41.4          68.7     110.1
Physical Contingencies                          0.2            -        0.2
Price Contingencies                             0.3           1.0       1.3
Total Project Cost                        41.9          69.7     111.6
Local     Foreign       Total
Financing Plaa:                                              US$ million
IBRD                                            1.8          62.7      64.5
Participating Banks                             12.0           -       12.0
Subproject sponsor/user fees                   27.6           7.0      34.6
Government                                      0.5            -        0.5
Total                                     41.9          69.7     111.6
Estimated Disbursements:
IBRD FY             87      88     89     90     91
--            US$ million --
Annual            5.5    20.4   21.3   12.6    4.7
Cumulative        5.5    25.9   47.2   59.8   64.5
Rate of Return: N.A.
a/   Project costs includes a negligible amount ot taxes and duties.



INDONESIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1. SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. The Manufacturing Sector and Exports of Manufactures
1.01      Characteristics and Performance. The manufacturing sector has been
growing rapidly in Indonesia. Since 1973, average annual growth of
manufacturing GDP has been over 13Z, compared with 7Z for the economy as a
whole. Yet, because of the low initial base, the share of manufacturing in
Indonesia-s GDP is still relatively small, 13X in 1984. Most of the output
has come from a relatively few medium and large scale firms and resulted
mainly from increases in domestic demand and import substitution. By 1975
Indonesia had virtually completed the "early" stage of import substitution
(when over 90Z of consumer goods were being produced domestically), and since
then the replacement of producer goods has become an increasingly important
source of industrial growth. Public investments in cement, engineering goods,
fertilizers, iron and steel, and paper made a significant contribution to the
growth in producer goods industries. The private sector also played an
important role in these and other subsectors, encouraged by a large protected
domestic market. However, much of this growth occurred at low levels of
industrial efficiency and high economic cost.
1.02     Exacerbating the pattern of inefficient import substitution was
limited success in exports of manufactured goods up to 1975. The value of
Indonesia-s manufactured exports in 1975 was only around US$100 million.
However, substantial devaluations of the Rupiah in 1978 and 1983, together
with a number of other measures to stimulate exports, improved Indonesia-s
international competitiveness and resulted in significant increases in
manufactured exports. By 1984, manufactured exports had increased to US$1.5
billion. This growth was concentrated in a narrow range of subsectors, in
particular plywood and textiles, with a wide variation in the growth rates of
individual export products. Recently there are some encouraging signs of
newly emerging export products (e.g., semi-conductor devices, furniture,
fabricated metal products, glass products, and perfumes and cosmetics).
Manufactured exports nevertheless remain relatively small, representing a
quarter of non-oil exports and only 7Z of total merchandise exports.
1.03      Trade Policy Bias and Other Constraints.  Indonesia-s industrial
performance can be traced in large part to the policy environment guiding the
sector during the last decade. One of the main reasons for inadequacies in
the performance of the sector has been deficiencies in the incentive struc-
ture: specifically, the high protective barriers behind which industrializa-
tion in Indonesia has taken place. These barriers - quantitative restric-
tions and high tariffs - have encouraged import substitution in many areas
regardless of economic costs (as compared to the development of export-



- 2 -
oriented and import-competitive industries). Among import replacing indus-
tries, these barriers have encouraged the growth of relatively more capital-
intensive industries and worked against more labor-intensive industries. Con-
sequently, the contribution of the industrial sector to employment generation
has been low.
1.04      While stimulating import substitution, the incentive structure had
the opposite impact on exports. Indonesia-s exporters have in general exper-
ienced negative effective protection because of taxes on imported inputs used
to produce exports. This has put exporters at a significant disadvantage on
world markets. Further, empirical evidence of domestic resource costs in
Indonesia indicates that the more highly protected import-substitution indus-
tries have higher resource costs than the less (or negatively) protected
exportables industries. Thus, the incentive structure has caused the indus-
trial sector to be a poor generator of foreign exchange and employment and to
have high costs of production.
1.05      Other aspects of the policy environment that explain the high cost
of Indonesian industry include a complex regulatory system that reduces domes-
tic competition between firms and generally increases operating costs; a sub-
stantial involvement by the public sector in production activities often with
inadequate investment appraisal and management. Substantial restrictions on
foreign investments in such areas as local ownership requirements, local pro-
duct distribution, market access, employment of expatriates, and closed indus-
tries, limit the potential contribution to economic efficiency from the trans-
fer and application of technical and managerial know-how. These restrictions,
together with a lack of support facilities such as EPZs, have especially
limited the involvement of foreign firms in export-oriented manufacturing.
1.06      Need for a New Industrial Strategy.  A major transformation in the
pattern of industrial growth will be required if the sector is to play an
important role in providing the employment opportunities and foreign exchange
earnings needed to achieve the Government's income growth and employment tar-
gets. In this regard, industry has been given a leading role in achieving the
development objectives for the Fourth Five Year Development Plan (1984-88).
Rapid industrial development in the coming years will need to be achieved in
an environment of slower growth in incomes and domestic demand than in the
past. Achieving high manufacturing growth in the face of lower domestic
absorption requires a shift in emphasis towards exports. To achieve a 5Z non-
oil GDP growth rate, the manufacturing sector would need to grow by 8-9% p.a.
over the next ten years. The narrowing scope for efficient import substi-
tution implies that exports of manufactures would need to rise by almost 11%
p.a. (in real terms) to meet this target. This would imply that the growth in
manufacturing output accounted for by export expansion would need to increase
from 10% during the 1970s to 12% for the period 1986-90, and thereafter to
14%. Generating the requisite export growth calls for a policy environment
that induces domestic manufacturers to accept the challenge of producing their
products at competitive prices and selling them in the international as well
as the domestic market.
1.07      In summary then, not only is a high growth rate required for the
manufacturing sector, it is of central importance that this growth be effi-



cient and that an increasing share be allocated to exports. A significant
redirection of industrial policies will be required to facilitate this shift
of resources. Fundamental reform of trade policy and import liberalization
will be required to redirect the flow of resources away from high cost import
replacement investments towards exports and efficient import-competing indus-
tries, mainly based on Indonesia-s natural and human resources. Movement in
this area, while important, will be difficult, in view of the prospect of
reduced oil revenues and the strains which increasing protection in industrial
countries, depressed domestic demand, and higher interest rates, have placed
on the manufacturing sector in particular. Nevertheless, trade policy adjust-
ments are of central importance to enhancing economic efficiency in Indonesia
and building a strong and diversified economy. The initial steps of industry
and trade policy reform will need to include: (i) replacing quantitative re-
strictions with tariffs, (ii) changing mandated deletion (local content) to
tariff protection (iii) simplifying the investment licensing system and,
(iv) strengthening export incentives. In the longer run, additional measures
would need to be introduced to rationalize the incentive structure by a
gradual reduction in the level and variation of tariffs and to assist
industries in adjusting to the new policy environment through subsector
adjustment strategies.
1.08      Recently the Government has taken two important steps toward trade
policy reform. In March 1985, the Government announced a major reduction in
the range and level of tariffs. The maximum nominal tariff was reduced from
225% to 60% with tariff reductions for most products ranging from 5-35%. In
addition the number of tariff levels was significantly reduced. The second
major area of progress has been in customs and port procedures where a sweep-
ing reform was announced in April 1985 (see para. 1.10 below). Unfortunately
the impact of these positive actions has been at least partially offset by an
increase in quantitative restrictions on imports and expanded local content
(mandated deletion) requirements in engineering products. Substantial reforms
are still required to achieve the needed improvements in industrial
efficiency.
1.09      Export Policy Framework. As a further step toward broader trade
policy reform, there is substantial scope to improve export performance in the
short and medium run by promoting foreign exchange earning activities
directly. Policies and administrative arrangements that can achieve "neutral
(or free trade) status" for export activities are especially relevant. Such
policies have been the cornerstone of the export promotion systems of the
successful East Asian countries. Their objective is to provide a "neutral
status" to all (existing or potential) exporters to compete with foreign
competitors in the world market on an equal footing.
1.10      The Government of Indonesia has in fact taken a number of important
steps over the last few years, towards implementing such a strategy. First,
it introduced an export certificate scheme in 1978 to rebate duties to
exporters. Second, an Export Promotion Policy package was announced in
January 1982, which included a number of steps to remove disincentives to
exporters. Key among these was the establishment of a comprehensive finance
system including facilities for preshipment and postshipment credit and
related guarantee and insurance schemes. Third, the Government established in



-4-
May 1982 an interagency, high level, "Permanent Working Committee for Export
Development" (PANJATAP), to coordinate and facilitate implementation of export
policies. Fourth, faced with a tight balance of payments situation and
erosion of budgetary surpluses, the Government announced a major economic
reform package involving, inter alia, substantial devaluation of the Rupiah on
March 30, 1983 and adoption of a managed floating exchange rate. Finally, the
Government, in 1985, implemented a sweeping reform of customs and ports
administration, which had long been a major bottleneck to the efficient
delivery of imported inputs and shipment of export products. These reforms
appear to be having a significant impact on reducing the time and costs of
getting goods into and out of Indonesia.
1.11      All these steps represent a significant reduction in disincentives
and barriers to export. However, the implementation of many of these measures
is far from adequate and will require a sustained effort by Government to
ensure that the stated policy objectives are achieved. Specifically, the
export finance system is still not reaching many exporters and indirect
exporters are not covered at all. Similarly, the export certificate system is
not yet providing adequate or timely rebates to many exporters and, again,
indirect exporters are not covered. A substantial improvement in this system
is needed to ensure that all export activities receive complete exemption from
import duties and other indirect taxes. An objective of the proposed project
is to strengthen the implementation of both the export finance and duty
exemption systems.
1.12      Besides strengthening these existing measures, there are a number of
other areas that deserve greater support including: (i) private sector insti-
tutional development to enable producers, investors and traders to respond
aggressively to rational incentive policies; and (ii) infrastructural support,
for example, free trade zones, export estates, bonded warehouses, technical
training centers, quality certification and upgrading. The proposed project
includes significant measures to address these areas. In addition there is
also a need to provide a more conducive environment for foreign investors in
order to capitalize on their know-how in export marketing, product design and
production technology. As first steps in this direction, the Government has
extended access to preshipment export credit to joint venture firms and is
considering easing restrictions on the licensing and regulation of joint
ventures involved in production for export.
B. The Financial Sector and Export Finance
1.13      The Indonesian financial system is still at an early stage of
development. It is dominated by a banking system that comprises Bank
Indonesia (the central bank), five state commercial banks, sixty nine private
banks providing mainly short-term credit, and 28 development banks comprising
a state development bank (BAPINDO) and 27 regional development banks. In
addition, there are two small joint-venture development banks and a venture
capital company. The capital market is still very simple and limited in
scope.
1.14      Until recently the Indonesian financial system was tightly
controlled by the authorities. The Government channeled its financial savings



into the banking system through low-interest liquidity credits (refinance
facilities) by Bank Indonesia (BI) in order to achieve a variety of develop-
ment objectives. BI in turn set deposit and lending rates of state banks and
detailed credit ceilings for all banks, and guided the allocation of credit
through the liquidity credit mechanism. However, as oil prices weakened in
1982/83 and the Government-s financial position came under pressure, the
authorities introduced a major reform of the financial sector in June 1983 to
stimulate financial savings, improve resource allocation, and reduce the
dependence of the banking system on BI liquidity credits. Consequently, the
state banks are now free to set their deposit and lending rates; credit
ceilings have been eliminated for all banks; and the number of special
priority programs qualifying for (and the state banks' access to) new BI
liquidity credits have been substantially reduced.
1.15      These reforms have had a dramatic impact on the banking system.
Nominal (and real) deposit rates paid by state banks have increased sharply;
and there has been a rapid increase in bank deposits. Given these changes,
the cost of funds and lending rates of state banks have also increased
sharply. Nominal lending rates of state banks on nonpriority (general) loans
have risen from a range of 13-13.5Z earlier to 18-21% for working capital,
representing real lending rates of around 13-16%. Real lending rates of
private banks are even higher, ranging from 14-18% p.a. Nominal rates on long
term loans have increased from 12-13% to around 17-18%.
1.16      These changes have, on the whole, been beneficial to the development
of the financial system, although a number of concerns have emerged. These
issues and possible strategies to deal with them for17 the main focus of the
Bank-s recently completed Financial Sector Report. -  The most important
issue is the potentially adverse impact on investment activity of changes in
the cost and availability of state banks- term loans. Following the
liberalization, longer maturity deposits declined sharply. Two year deposits
declined from 92% of time deposits to only 13%. Overall, the average maturity
of time deposits fell from 22 months in June 1983 to about 10 months by
December 1984. This shortening of maturity, together with the substantial
reduction in Bank Indonesia-s refinancing facilities for investment credits,
has substantial implications for longer term lending. Given their much
greater dependence on relatively short term deposits, Indonesian banks have
been reluctant to lend long term for investment projects outside Bank
Indonesia-s priority loan programs.
1.17      Export Financing System.  Prior to the January 1982 Export Policy,
there was no effective system for providing preshipment (short-term) export
financing as exists in all of the successful export nations of East Asia. The
Indonesian practice of imposing credit ceilings and allocating credit to
"prime" customers, particularly to the large state-owned projects, led to
relatively low credit allocation to the private sector, including export
firms. Further, the banking procedures were so time-consuming that exporters
1/   Indonesia:  Policies and Prospects for Long Term Financial Development,
Report No. 5501-IND, July 1985.



- 6 -
had often lost their export orders due to delays in arranging the needed
finance. Timing is of the essence to exporters, and what counts most is
immediate availability of credit. The Government recognized the situation,
and in a January 1982 Decree instituted a system to provide much greater
access to export financing, with supporting insurance and guarantee
facilities. This Decree contains all the basic elements required for an
effective system to provide exporters with working capital. The Decree provi-
ded the framework for financing of non-oil exports as a priority sector, and
in that regard provided an automatic guarantee to the banks for preshipment
export fiqancing, reduced the interest rate on both pre- and post-shipment
finance 2! provided Bank Indonesia refinancing up to 85% export credits,
liberalized the payment terms on which export orders could be accepted, and
introduced a domestic letter of credit (L/C) system to assure equal treatment
of all production activities generating export value added.
1.18      This is a comprehensive and ambitious program.  However, its
administrative demands have allowed only partial implementation so far. In
particular, the domestic L/C system has not been implemented so that indirect
exporters are not covered, many smaller and new export firms still encounter
delays in obtaining credit and the guarantee and insurance facility is not yet
fully operational. Government is committed to strengthening the implementa-
tion of this system and technical assistance will be provided under the
proposed project for this purpose.
1.19      All the abovementioned policy measures relate to short-term export
financing. Ensuring that exporters have adequate access to longer term
financing is also essential to provide for the projected rapid generation of
manufactured exports. Corresponding to the projected growth of manufactured
exports as mentioned in the Government7s Fourth Five Year Plan, investment
needs may be around $5 billion during the next five years or around $1 billion
a year. However, aside from Bank Pembangunan Indonesia (BAPINDO), the pri-
mary development bank in the country and Bank Indonesia-s priority programs
for a few major primary commodities, there is currently very little long-term
lending activity. The open nature of the capital account together with
speculation on the exchange rate have kept financial markets very liquid,
encouraging short-term deposits and short-term lending by the commercial
banks. In this context, there is a need to augment long-term resources
available to meet Indonesia-s investment requirements. This is particularly
true for exporters of non-traditional products who are disadvantaged in
obtaining financial resources because of the bias in incentives toward import-
substitution industries and the relatively greater risk of export-oriented
investments. Because exporters of non-traditional products are expected to
play a key role in Indonesia-s future industrial development, it is especially
important that the investment needs of this priority group are met. This is
also supported by the project.
2/   In March 1985, Government announced it was phasing out the interest rate
subsidy of this program over the next few years.



- 7 -
C. The Bank's Role in the Industrial and Financial Sectors
1.20      The Bank's strategy in the industrial sector calls for assisting the
Government in its attempt to transform Indonesia's industrial base and posi-
tion the economy for steady, broad-based growth in the future. This policy-
based strategy is focused on three interrelated areas: (a) macroeconomic and
trade policy; (b) industrial subsector support; and (c) financial sector
development. To date, the Bank Group has provided a total of $976.6 million
to the Indonesian industrial sector comprising seven DFC loans/credit made to
BAPINDO ($358.9 million) and the Private Development Finance Company of
Indonesia ($25 million), three loans/credit for fertilizer production ($220 mil-
lion), three loans/credit for small enterprise development ($350.7 million),
one credit for industrial estates ($16.5 million), and one engineering loan
for the pulp and paper industry ($5.5 million).
1.21      The broad objectives of the Bank's lending operations in the
industrial sectors have been generally realized. The Project Performance
Audit Report (No. 2563), covering the Bank Group-s first operation with
BAPINDO (Credit 310-IND), found that the Credit brought about signific it
reforms in the accounting and operational procedures of BAPINDO, laying a
useful basis for future operations. More recently, the Project Completion
Report (QCR dated June 1984), covering the Bank Group's relationship with
BAPINDO2  over the period, 1979-83, noted that by the mid-seventies BAPINDO
had established itself as a small but creditworthy term lending institution.
However, the very rapid growth in BAPINDO-s operations since the late seven-
ties, severely strained BAPINDO's limited resources of trained technical and
management staff. In that regard, the PCR stressed the need for strengthening
BAPINDO-s institutional capability, project appraisal and supervision pro-
cedures. Weaknesses in these areas together with depressed economic con-
ditions in the past couple of years have resulted in serious portfolio and
liquidity difficulties, which BAPINDO is now beginning to address with Bank
assistance. With the June 1983 financial reforms, BAPINDO also has to evolve
new strategies for domestic resource mobilization in a competitive market.
The Project Performance Audit Report (No. 5771) covering the Jakarta
industrial Estate Pulogadung Project (Cr. 423-IND) found the project to be a
considerable success despite delays in implementation. An effective manage-
ment institution was established, 190 firms have been accommodated employing
17,500 workers and a satisfactory financial return was earned. The Project
Performance Audit Reports (Nos. 2015 and 3862) covering the two Private
Development Finance Corporation of Indonesia (PDFCI) Projects (Loan 1363-IND
_nd Credit 436-IND) found that while the proceeds of the loan were transferred
to sound industrial projects, performance on the broader institutional and
policy goals was disappointing, largely because of the restrictive overall
policy environment in the financial sector (prior to the 1983 reforms). The
lessons learned from these financial sector operations will be helpful for our
further involvement in this sector. However, they are not directly applicable
to the proposed project since the institutions are different, the focus of
3/   During this period, Bank loans to BAPINDO were:  Loans 1054, 1437 and
1703-IND.



this project is on the end users rather than financial intermediaries, and the
financial system has been substantially reformed.
1.22      Performance under other industrial development projects has been
generally good. The fertilizer projects (Credit 193-INJ and Loans 1089 and
1254-IND) have been successfully implemented so that the domestic production
of fertilizer was able to meet domestic demand. The Project Performance Audit
Reports (No. 1948 and 5419) found these projects to be among the most
successful industrial operations financed by the Bank. The Bank Group-s three
operations in the small scale enterprise sector (Cr. 785-IND, Loan 2011-IND
and Loan 2430-IND) have assisted tLe handling banks to extend a substantial
volume of credit to this sector. However, the continuation of significant
subsidies to borrowers under the program undermines the effectiveness of the
program by reducing incentives for repayment and collection.
1.23      A major thrust of the Bank-s recent involvement in the industrial
sector has been through economic and sector work, which has attempted to
demonstrate the costs of past trade and industry policy and the benefits of a
more open trade regime and simplified approach to industrial licensing and
regulation. As noted above, a major reform of policies is needed to reduce
the bias against exports and encourage efficient import competing indus-
tries. This issue is being highlighted in our policy dialogue, which will be
sustained in the next few years, through industry and export sector reports
and a number of subsector studies, the objective of which is to explore the
relationship between inefficiencies in selected subsectors and past policies
and indicate directions for policy change and subsector restructuring.
Lending operations, to provide financial and technical support to programs of
industrial restructuring may follow. The proposed export project, a first
step toward trade policy reform, is expected to address the immediate biases
against exports. Bank activities in the financial sector will focus on
follow-up of past project work and of the recent Financial Sector Report, a
major element of which was a study of Indonesia-s development banks. A key
objective in this sector is to strengthen the capacity of the financial system
to provide term lending to the industrial sector.
II: THE PROJECT
A. Project Rationale, Objectives and Content
2.01      Project Rationale and Objectives.  During the past few years,
Government has taken a number of important steps toward establishing the
policy and institutional framework required to reduce existing disincentives
to exporters. However, administrative and technical limitations of the
Government have constrained their full implementation. Also, as part of a
long term program to develop non-oil exporters, the Government will need to
address the broader trade policy issues germane to enhancing manufactured
exports. These broader macro issues are being taken up in the context of the
Bank-s ongoing policy dialogue.
2.02      Against this background, the focus of the project would be to
provide financial and technical support to help strengthen measures aimed



- 9 -
directlj at improving export performance in the short and medium term. The
specific objectives of the project are: (a) improving exporters- access to
finance by strengthening the implementation of the export finance system and
by assisting the state commercial banks to improve their term lending
capability in the export sector; (b) establishing an effective institutional
framework to provide needed technical assistance to the export community in
marketing and production; (c) improving exporters- access to inputs at world
prices so that they can compete internationally; (d) providing short to medium
term training for exporters as well as relevant public officials; and (e)
providing a range of technical assistance to help design export promotion
measures in such areas as export estate and zone development, quality
upgrading of export products, improved organization and coordindation of
public sector activities and enhancing the role of trading companies as
marketing agents for smaller and medium scale producers.
2.03      Bank Role.  The Bank has played a major role in helping Government
to identify and design the various export measures that have been implemented
during the past few years as well as to prepare additional measures to be
implemented under the project. Significant Bank assistance has been provided
in the areas of export finance, duty exemption, export zones/estates, the
quality upgrading of exports, and export promotion. This assistance has
involved financing and supervising several studies and items of technical
assistance under BAPINDO V (Loan 2277-IND) and Technical Assistance V
(Cr. 898-IND). It has also involved substantial Bank staff input through the
economic and sector work program. Bank involvement in the proposed project is
essential in order to continue the Bank-s substantive advisory role in helping
the Government to design and implement needed policy and institutional meas-
ures to develop and promote exports. In addition, the resource transfer of
long-term funds that the Bank is providing through this project would help to
fill a gap in the supply of financial resources in Indonesia. At present, the
financial system has access to very few long term resources except for
subsidized funds provided by BI for priority programs.
2.04      Project Components.  The project would consist of the following
three components:
(a)  A line of credit to finance about 30 export-oriented investments
with a total investment cost of about $96 million. The credit would
be lent through three state commercial banks: Bank Dagang Negara
(BDN), Bank Negara Indonesia 1946 (BNI 1946), and Bank Rakyat
Indonesia (BRI).
(b)  A program of technical assistance to strengthen the export policy
and insti'utional framework and to improve export marketing, product
quality and production management of export firms. The project cost
of this component is estimated to be $12.2 million. Assistance to
the public sector would be implemented by the respective line
agencies responsible for each technical area. These would be: the
Agency for Trade Research and Development (ATRD) and the Directorate
General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) in the Ministry of Trade (HOT), and
the Export Insurance Company of Indonesia (P.T.ASEI). Assistance to
the private sector would be implemented by a new agency, the Export



- 10 -
Support Board (ESB). Overall coordination and monitoring of this
component, as well as of the training component, would be provided
by the Ministry of Trade.
(c) A training program for exporters and relevant public officials in a
wide range of export related topics involving a project cost of
about $1.9 million.  This would be implemented by the Ministry of
Trade in conjunction with local training institutions.
B. The Investment Finance Component
Background and Rationale
2.05      In order for the manufacturing sector to play the role envisaged for
it by the Government, manufactured exports will have to grow substantially
over the next decade. It will require among other things a large expansion in
production capacity for exports. To achieve the targetted medium term real
growth of manufactured exports of 11% a year would require investments of
roughly $1 billion a year for the next five years. However, the shortage of
long term funds in the financial sector restricts the availability of
resources for productive long-term investments. Moreover, the attractive
financial returns afforded by investments directed toward the protected
domestic market, bias the limited financial resources that are available for
term lending towards import substitution industries. In this cortext, the
credit component is designed to help establish a capacity and incentive in the
financial sector to meet the term credit needs of the export sector. To
initiate this program, the project includes on a pilot basis a line of term
credit for exporters. The relatively small size of the credit line reflects
the Government-s desire for assured rapid disbursements as well as the fact
that this is the Bank Group-s first involvement with the commercial banks for
term lending. If this initial program is successful, it is anticipated that
this approach would be used for a more substantial transfer of long term
financial resources to the export sector.
Eligibility Criteria for Subprojects
2.06      To qualify for financing under the project, all subprojects will be
required to meet the following criteria:
(a) demonstrate a commitment and capacity to export, directly or
indirectly, at least 40% of production attributable to the invest-
ment being financed, within 5 years from start-up of production for
new subprojects, and within 3 years for expansion or rehabilitation
subprojects;
(b) prepare a satisfactory export development plan (covering five years
for new projects and at least three years for expansion/moderniza-
tion projects) which identifies the factors affecting export
potential, indicates the action the firm proposes to take to improve
its export capability and includes a monitorable action program to
be implemented by the firm to meet the export target;



- 11 -
(c)  show an economic rate of return (ERR) of at least 10%; and
(d)  be in the industry or service sectors, broadly defined to include
all export activities with the exception of primary agriculture and
mining.
The above criteria would allow financing of a wide variety of investments that
directly or indirectly support export growth. Primary agriculture is excluded
because the focus of the project is on stimulating non-traditional exports,
which are expected to play a leading role in export growth. In addition,
existing BI priority programs cover the main primary export commodities. The
project would however include processing activities related to primary
products. It is estimated that a minimum level of export orientation of 40%
would require a firm to improve its competitiveness, including product quality
and cost efficiency, across most of its activities. At negotiations the
participating banks (PBs) agreed to these eligibility criteria.
2.07      An export development plan will constitute a key element of an
appraisal report for a subproject. The plan should establish the export
potential of a subproject and define clearly the action needed to achieve the
export target. Annex 1 presents a checklist of items that would be covered in
a typical export development plan. In the execution of the project, the PBs
will regularly monitor export performance against the export plan.  In turn,
the PBs will require subborrowers, as part of the subloan agreements, to
provide annual reports on progress to achieve export targets and export
performance. These reports would be reviewed by Bank supervision missions.
At negotiations, the PB's agreed to adhere to the basic content of export
development plans.
Loan Demand for Export Oriented Investments
2.08      As indicated above (para. 1.19), the required investment to sustain
the targetted growth rate of manufactured exports is of the approximate order
of $1 billion per year. Some of this potential demand could be met from self
generated resources, direct foreign borrowings or by rolling over short term
cr-rits. But there would still remain a substantial demand for term loans
from domestic financial institutions. However, there are some uncertainties
about the magnitude of demand in the next couple of years. Exporters may have
difficulties in marketing new and/or additional non-traditional exports in the
increasingly restrictive world trade environment facing many labor intensive
export products. It was accordingly agreed that the loan amount under this
component would be set at the minimum size that would be large enough to
adequately justify the proposed administrative and financial arrangements and
yet small enough to ensure rapid disbursement. In view of the level of recent
loan applications with the PBs, it was agreed that a reasonable loan amount
that meets these criteria would be an allocation of $17 million to each PB for
a total loan amount of $51 million. There is reasonable certainty that this
level of loan allocation could be committed relatively quickly. The
Government objective of not taking on new commitments when there is
uncertainty about the pace of disbursement would thus also be met.



- 12 -
2.09      Although the PBs have not been actively promoting term loans because
of a shortage of long-term resources, recent term loan applications that would
qualify for financing under the proposed project include a number of shrimp
production ventures, rattan processing and furniture, sawmill/veneer products,
canned food, coconut oil processing, and garment manufacture.   Although not
all of these subprojects would be financed under this project because of
timing availability of funds they do establish an indicative level of
demand. This demand should be further strengthened as the PBs start to pro-
mote term loans for export-oriented investments as they have indicated they
will do. The first-come first-served basis of PB-s access to the Bank loan
and commitment fee arrangements (see para. 3.06 below) are designed to
stimulate such promotional activity.
2.10      Demand should also be strengthened through the work of the Export
Support Board (ESB), which will actively assist exporters to identify and
prepare feasibility studies for export-oriented investments (see para.
2.36). Provision has been made in the terms of reference (TOR) of the tech-
nical team advising the ESB to coordinate closely with the project officers
designated in the various PBs. In addition to this source of loan demand, a
major consultant study being undertaken with Bank financing for the Investment
Co-ordinating Board (BKPN) is identifying and preparing about 50 investment
profiles which will be promoted among potential investors. This work is giv-
ing special emphasis to investments with export potential.
Financial Intermediation - The Participating Banks (PBs)
2.11      Choice of Financial Intermediaries.  The three state-owned commer-
cial banks, which have been selected as financial intermediaries in the
proposed project are: Bank Dagang Negara (BDN), Bank Negara Indonesia 1946
(BNI 1946), and Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI,. These banks are among the
largest deposit taking financial institutions in Indonesia. Together they own
approximately 55% of the gross assets of all deposit banks in Indonesia__/
These banks are suitable as financial intermediaries for the investment
component for a number of reasons. Their resource base is large enough to
enable them, through term transformation, to provide complementary local
currency financing to Bank-assisted subprojects. The dominance of these banks
in the financial system together with their well developed branch network,
which covers most of Indonesia,will enable them to provide extensive coverage
of the export community. Tfesw-banks have also been the main sources of long-
term lending in Indonesia and as such are experienced in term investment
financing.
2.12      The other two state commercial banks, Bank Bumi Daya and Bank
Ekspor-Impor declined to participate in this first export project. However
both these banks are participating in the training program organized for this
project and would consider possible involvement in a future Bank supported
4/   These three banks also account for 68% of the assets of all state
commercial banks: the remaining 32% of assets are held by Bank Ekspor-
Impor and Bank Blmi Daya.



- 13 -
operation. A number of the larger private banks were approached on their
possible interest in participating in the project. However, their limited
capital base restricted their ability to undertake the term transformation and
bear the lending risks implied by the project. Even if these banks are not
suitable for participation in the financial elements of the project, the
bankers' training program is open to the private banks should they wish to
pailicipate in it. BAPINDO in its normal operations does include export-
oriented projects in its term lending, however, BAPINDO is not included in
this project since, for the next couple of years, its foreign exchange needs
are funded and it will be in a period of consolidation.
2.13      Although Government-owned, all the PBs operate independently, and
c.,&pete with each other and with other financial institutions for loan and
:posit business. This competition has intensified since the financial
reforms of June 1983 which removed many of the advantages and protection the
state-owned banks had enjoyed over other financial institutions. As a result,
these banks have initiated internal changes to improve efficiency and to
enable them to maintain their market position. An overview of each of the PBs
is given in the Project File. This section discusses the general charac-
teristics of the PBs and those aspects that relate directly to the investment
component of the proposed project.
2.14      Background and Development.  The three banks included in the project
operate under the general guidelines of the Banking Act of 1967 and of a
number of other legislative measures enacted in 1967/68, which established the
state-owned banks in their present format. All were given the objective of
furthering national economic development and allowed to operate in most sec-
tors of economic activity. Each was, however, assigned particular sector(s)
to which it should give priority as follows: BDN - mining and industry; BNI
1946 - industry and; BRI - agriculture and rural credit. This sectoral
specialization was, however, difficult to implement due to customers- reluc-
tance to change banks, and thus increasingly the three institutions competed
amongst themselves and with other banks for both loans and deposits.
2.15      The pattern of development of the state banks was strongly
influenced by the role and policies of Bank Indonesia (BI). The 1967 Banking
Act delegates to Bank Indonesia the responsibilities for the guidance, control
and supervision of all financial institutions. The role of BI in the
Indonesian economy has, however, been much broader than that of a traditional
central bank. It has taken the lead in furthering national development by
directly financing public enterprises and promoting special credit programs
and providing refinancing facilities to banks to enable them to finance
investments in priority sectors. Thus BI has been a very important source of
funds to the commercial banks, and particularly to the state-owned banks,
which had unrestricted access to all BI facilities. These policies encouraged
the state-owned banks to develop their term lending capacities. In this they
were strongly supported by BI, which set up a project appraisal department to
monitor the appraisal quality of the individual banks and helped provide
training programs on project evaluation. The preferred position of the state-
owned banks, particularly their access to BI funding and the regulation of
most of the interest rates they could charge until June 1983, relatively
isolated them from competition and diminished the stimulus for these banks to



- 14 -
maximize operational efficiencies.
2.16      The general quality of management and staff is good.  The banks are,
however, overstaffed. Internal systems and procedures tend to be duplica-
tive. Despite their size and volume of operations none of the PBs has as yet
a fully automated accountancy/management information system. These problems
are being addressed as discussed below.
2.17      The financial reforms of June 1983 dramatically increased the compe-
titive pressures on the state banks and all are now reviewing their strategy,
internal systems, costs, and policies to increase operational efficiencies.
BNI 1946 is now in the final stages of a major organizational reform program
being conducted with the assistance of Booz Allen and Hamilton. BRI is in the
final stage of recruiting a consultant firm, with Bank assistance (Loan 2430-
IND), to help it with a similar exercise. Bank Dagang Negara also has an
organizational and systems improvement program underway. These modernization
exercises encompass not only organization, but also strategy, market position,
product range, and so on. Thus these banks are in transition towards becoming
modern full service commercial banks.
2.18      Each of the PBs has corporate development plans spelling out the
goals and operational objectives of the bank. However, because of their
involvement in term lending outside the scope of BI priority programs or
Government projectsin recent years, and the specific objectives of the pro-
posed export project, the PBs prepared, Development Strategy Statements that
would serve as a guide for their term lending operations. These policy
statements include each bank-s term lending policies with regard to decision
criteria for approving term loans; special emphasis to be given to export
projects; exposure limits; collateral requirements; staffing and organization;
and corporate objectives with regard to sectoral priorities, resource
mobilization and lending. These statements were agreed in substance with the
PBs during negotiations and adoption of these statements by each PB is a
condition of disbursement for each PB. (The statements, two final, one still
in draft form, are included in the Project File.)
2.19      The Credit Process, Appraisal and Supervision of Term Loans.  In all
the PBs, loan applications are initiated at the branch level. In practice,
however, all investment-related term loan applications exceeding $200,000
equivalent are forwarded to the Central Credit Departments for analysis. The
level of approval authority varies from bank to bank. The approval of the
full board is needed for loans exceeding $2.0 million to $5.0 million
depending on the institution. None of the banks operates a formal Loan or
Credit Committee. However, in practice, informal consensus among board
members is sought on many loan approvals even when full authority is not
needed.
2.20      In general, appraisal standards are good, although the judgemental
aspects could be strengthened.  This reflects partly the public sector mental-
ity of the PBs, and the fact that in the past they had to rely on directions
from Government and BI as to the projects and sectors they should lend to.  It
is expected that deregulation, along with the present organizational and other
changes, will lead the state banks to make more independent and critical
evaluations of loans and to improve their general credit skills. Appraisal of



- 15 -
term loans is according to Bank Indonesia guidelines which cover most aspects
of project evaluation including economic appraisal. (In the past BI reviewed
in detail all appraisal reports of projects for which rediscounting facilities
were requested.) The quality of appraisal of term loans appears to be quite
similar for all the state banks. Most emphasis is placed on the risk and
financial creditworthiness aspects, which are reviewed in a satisfactory
manner. The technical aspects, when beyond the competence of PB-s own staff,
are normally reviewed by outside consultants. Appraisal of the economic
aspects of a subproject is usually weak, however, and is often limited to the
employment impact and a rough estimation of an economic rate of return. The
staff of the state banks responsible for appraising subprojects for financing
out of the export project will need further training in the special require-
ments of evaluating export investments and in particular, in the analysis of
the marketing aspects, including evaluation of export plans, possibilities,
etc., and of the economic feasibility of projects. All the PBs
enthusiastically supported the training of trainers course carried out with
Bank assistance and are also sponsoring project appraisal staff to the
traini7g program being organized for this purpose also with Bank assist-
ance _
2.21      In all the PBs, responsibility for loan and project supervision
rests primarily with the branch in charge of the client account. Branches are
required to report monthly on project status and account movements. Particu-
larly for small loans financed under the government's small enterprise loan
scheme (KIK1KMKP), actual loan supervision has been very weak, probably
because of the large number and very small size of these loans, and also
because these loans are insured with the Indonesian Credit Insurance
Corporation (ASKRINDO). Supervision for larger loans is tighter. The more
important loans and investments are also supervised by the head office credit
departments, often with regular visits by the senior managers and board
members.
2.22      Overall Financial Situation of the PBs.  An overview of the
operational results and financial performance of each of the PBs is presented
in the Project File. A brief summary is provided below and the main financial
indicators for each PB are in Table 1. Although low, the capital bases of the
PBs are satisfactory, particularly in view of their Government ownership and
because a substantial percentage of their loans carry unconditional Government
guarantees. The institutions are required to allocate a part of their net
profits for specific reserves as stipulated under their founding Acts. The
debt equity ratios of the PBs are satisfactory.
5/   A Bankers  Training Program for this purpose was undertaken by the
Institution for the Development of Banking in Indonesia (LPPI) with the
assistance of the Industrial Development Authority (Ireland), which is
being financed under BAPINDO V Project (Loan 2277-iND). This course will
be replicated at least eight times over the next two years and the PBs
confirmed during negotiations their intention to sponsor at least 16
staff each for the next two years for training under this course.



- 16 -
2.23      Between 1981 and 1984, the three PBs achieved a substantial increase
in assets and in lending. The assets and net earnings of the PBs as a group
increased by about 20% a year in real terms during this period. The reforms
of June 1983 led these banks to emphasize profitability as a major
objective. They are now keenly aware that earnings are necessary to generate
returns on assets, to meet future costs and to help finance expansions.
Profitability varies from bank to bank reflecting in part the extent of
influence on the banks' portfolios of the past regime of controlled interest
rates.
2.24      The intermediation costs of the PBs have been relatively high both
because of high operating costs and also because of relatively high provisions
for bad debts. During 1981-84, operating costs of the PBs averaged 4.5% of
total assets. However this ratio would be closer to 5% if account is taken of
the loans made on government guarantee for which processing costs are
minimal. This reflects the effect of the protected environment under which
the PBs operated until 1983. The PBs are aware of the factors contributing to
their high intermediation costs and are actively and aggressively improving
their organizations and operating procedures in order to reduce their
operating costs and loan losses.



- 17 -
Table 1:  FINANCIAL CHARACTERISTICS OF PBs AS OF DECEMBER 1984da
All PBs as
BNI 1946   BDN      BRI      a group
Balance Sheet (Rp billion)
Total Assets                                   7,062   4,276   5,293       16,631
of which long term loans                    2,284   1,709   1,038         5,031
Liabilities                                    6,731   3,997   5,096       15,824
of which long term debt                      1,757   1,547   1,090        4,394
Net Worth                                        331     279      197         807
Equity and reserves                            167     202       86         455
Provisions for bad loans                       164      77      111         352
Income Statement (Rp billion)
Total income                                     807     449      451        1,707
Cost of funds                                    472     278      212         962
Gross margin                                     335     171      239         745
Operating expenses                               242     105      191         538
Pretax profit                                     93      66       48         207
Net profit                                        61      40       31          132
Financial Ratios (Z)
Capital Ratios
Primary capital/b to assets, Z                   4.7     6.5      3.7         4.8
Primary capital75 to risk assets, Z              8.3    10.3      4.8         7.5
Long term debt/primary capital/b              5.3:1   5.5:1   5.5:1         5.4:1
Long term debt/equity/c                       10.5:1   7.7:1  12.7:1        9.7:1
Earnings Ratios
Return on average total assets, Z                1.0     1.0      0.7         0.9
Return on average
primary capital, Z                           21.5    15.3    17.4          18.2
Return on average equity, Z                     44.7    20.5    42.8         29.0
/a   Based on audited Balance Sheets and Income Statements.
7TF   Includes equity, reserves and provisions for bad debts.
7Tc Excludes provisions for bad debts.



- 18 -
2.25      Loans comprise about two-thirds of the assets of the PBs.
Approximately half of the loan portfolio is short term and half long term. A
substantial portion of the long term loans are made under RI priority pro-
grams. The sectoral composition of the loan portfolios still reflects the
original sectoral responsibilities with industry the dominant sector for BNI-
1946, mining for BDN and smallholder and rural credit for BRI. However, all
the PBs are actively seeking to diversify their portfolios. Earnings are
being used to absorb write-offs of bad loans, significant provisions for loan
losses are being made and the collection and monitoring of loans are being
improved. Provisions for bad loans represent 3.5X of loans outstanding and
are adequate considering the extent of guaranteed loans in the PBs' portfolio.
2.26      Organization of the PBs for Participation in the Proposed Project.
Each of the PBs has agreed to set up an informal unit, made up of analysts who
had participated in the Bank-financed training programs (see para. 2.20), to
be responsible for preparing and appraising subprojects to be financed out of
the proposed project. This team would oversee implementation and supervision
.f all these loans.  It would also be directly responsible for reporting to
the Bank on project implementation. The functions and responsibilities of
this team were agreed at negotiations.
C. Technical Assistance (TA) Component
2.27           Objectives and Scope.  The TA component comprises a broad range
of activities to help establish and strengthen an effective and comprehensive
framework for export development. These activities can be conveniently
divided into those aimed primarly at the public sector and those targetted on
the export community itself. Regarding the public sector, the project would
help to establish and strengthen export promotion, policy, and institutional
framework in such areas as: export credit insurance and guarantee, export
quality upgrading, export promotion, duty exemption/drawback and export estate
development. Assistance in each area would be channeled through the
respective public institutions (ATRD, DGFT, and P.T. ASEI) responsible for
that functional area. Regarding TA to the private sector, it would cover such
areas as international marketing and production management including quality
upgrading. This assistance would be channeled through a new autonomous
agency, the Export Support Board (ESB). In view of the complex nature of the
TA and training components, the Ministry of Trade will provide overall
coordination and monitoring of these components. At negotiations an
understanding was reached with Government that MOT will prepare, and submit to
the Bank for review, semi-annual progress reports on these components. The
project cost of the TA component is estimated to be $12.2 million. An
overview of the TA program is provided in Table 2, which indicates the type of
activities, estimated costs, staff months, and implementation schedule. The
main features of the various TA items are discussed below and an overview of
the objectives, and timetable of key TA items are presented in Annex 6.
2.28      Duty and Indirect Tax Exemption/Drawback System.  Although Indonesia
has been operating a type of drawback/exemption system (e.g. cash certificate
scheme), serious deficiencies in its design and operation have caused the
Government to scrap this scheme as of July 1, 1986. These deficiencies have



- 19 -
Table 2:s TRCNICaL ASSIrAC  PrOGAN
atimetad                              Subisslon  of
Staff mth       ame                      r.portsluork plan Is
rpatrimtel    Coat   Implmnting           action program    Implmntation
Program Item                                Dscription               Local      s aln.jA     agncy             for runeV            psriod
1. Direct Tucbnical Assistace   Conultant assistace on range            26/-        0.4      P.T. AsI            031317             flhli-0fl18
(1)  bEport credit insurance and  of  nament snd t ehnical
uarantee insttutton          issues durtuin  Intal operation
of nem export insurance/uer-
antee orgenization
2)  Strengthentin  of quality    Conultants to strengthen labo-          75/50       1.3      MT (DllT)           n6/87 la           I0l6-C4/Sq
support network              ratory tenttig network, and to
train local staff
(3) Administretian/operaeton of  Consultants to provide techni-           72/1115     1.4      13                  06X/39 lb          II/k86-I0f9
Export Support Board         cal/admnistratIve  suport to
EpPort Sunport Brd . and staff-
luag nd other operating expenes
during three years trial pertod
of lSE
1I. Studies
(I)  Export eatmte feasibility/   Conaultant asdsItance to under-         12/310      0.7    1MO (ATllD)           06/117             09/16-n6/U7
design                       take feesibilityldetsiled design
of export estate
(2) Bole of tradingt conpnies     Consultant assistance to under-         9/-      4           PeT (AtRD)          06/17              12/R6-C/Il7
take study to propose a *trstegy
for trading companies In export                 I 0.3
devlopment
(3)  Covernnt institutional       Consultant assistance to under-         q/-      f           MOT (AT7D)          06/87              12136-06/17
support for exports          take study and make recommenda-
tiame on gnvernment role in ex-
port promotion, trade planning
asd policy development
(4)  Industry ard export studies  GCsultant assistance to under-          100/20      1 .6     107 /c
take sector and policy studies
related to industrial efficiency
and deweloping manfactured exports
11I. Techntcal Assistance Pund
Subprojects via SBn
(1) Asistance to direct end in-
direct exporters:
(a)  Export merketing,pro-   -    Consultant services to ex-         n.e. -.0            ItS      1 
duction mnagement            porterl/mnufacturers 
and training                 help Improve their export                                                           I
marketing product develop-
men;e.nd training                                                                   4
(b) Quallty Management            Consultnt services and             n.&.        1.3              I           -                  10/o6-10139
Demonstration Opera-         equipment to help quality
tions                        improveent
(23 Assistance to specialized
support services:
(a) PublIcations on ex-      -    Consultants to help design    t
porters directory,           end publish docuents on       t
policies. procedures         exports
ad Pracices c
(b)  Pckegingt and 1sbeling   -   Consultants to assist ex-
port packing and labeling    I     .s.        0.4      I= -                                    101lIr.6InIR9
agencies
(c0  Trade AssociStton-      -   Consultants to assist sub- 
sector-specific trade asso- 
ciation  regerding export    t
development
Total                                                                303/745    12.2
/a  Studies of new technical quality suppport centers *end voluntary certification and markntt.
7i  Evaluation report on tr-tal period of 15.
r  Inpleentetion to be done by the respective line agncies uch *as Ma, MoT etc.
7- Except for Iem 1 (3). excludes provisions of government counterpart funds as required for counterpart ste:f office space. logistic support. etc.



- 20 -
resulted in substantial under-rebating of many exporters. over-rebating of
others and a lack of coverage of indirect exporters. It is critical that an
effective system be established as soon as possible to replace the current
system. Such a system must meet three essential criteria: (i)
comprehensiveness: the system should cover all producers/exporters and all
export products; (ii) technical integrity: the system should not over-rebate
*  under-rebate: and (iii)efficiency: the system should deliver promptly
intended benefits to the beneficiaries without involving unreasonable cost to
them or to the Government.
2.29      To introduce an effective scheme, the Government has recently
established the Office of Import Duty Exemption and Drawback in the Ministry
of Finance, drafted the Ministerial and Presidential Decrees establishing the
new scheme, and appointed SGS/SUCOFINDO 6/ as its agents to undertake the
necessary inspection at the ports of origin and factory sites. Under the
scheme, a firm will be reimbursed 75% of the duty drawback within 30 days of
its filing the completed documents and the remaining 25% upon a satisfactory
inspection of the eligible exported goods. Duty exemption will be provided
whenever a single firm is the importer-manufacturer - exporter. Initially the
scheme will be firm-specific, relying primarily on firms' self-assessment of
their duty drawback/exemption. Once experience is gained in operating the
system, the Government will consider placing increasing reliance on using a
generalized input-output coefficient schedule as a basis for estimating duty
drawback/exemption. In view of the importance of this scheme for exporters,
the Government has agreed to include it within the project scope and in that
context provide the Bank with details of the proposed legal and administrative
framework for the system and periodically exchange views on the progress of
its implementation.
2.30      Export Credit Insurance and Guarantee Institution.  The Government
has recently established an export credit insurance and guarantee institution-
P.T. Asuransi Ekspor Indonesia (P.T. ASEI) - under the supervision of the
Ministry of Finance. This is a key institution needed to operate the insur-
ance and guarantee elements of Indonesia's export finance scheme. These are
important aspects of the scheme which have suffered from a lack of effective
institutional support. The Bank has already provided substantial technical
assistan e to help design and strengthen implementation of the export finance
scheme2   Assistance would be continued under this project through the
provision of expert consultant services during the initial period of operation
of P.T. ASEI, to advise on a range of management, staffing and technical
issues (Table 2 item I(1)). This assistance would involve about 26 staff-
6/   Under Presidential decree, IMPRES IV issued in April 85, the
Government drastically reduced its role in customs' inspection and
contracted those functions to an international inspection services firm,
Societe Generale de Surveillance (SGS) and a local firm SUCOFINDO. The
additional work on duty drawback assigned to those firms would be
undertaken in the broader context of their assignment under INPRES IV.
7/   Provided through the Bank's sector work program as well as financed under
BAPINDO V (Loan 2277-IND).



- 21 -
months of consultant assistance and is estimated to cost $0.4 million. The
work would be divided into two phases. Phase I would be an assessment of
needs; Phase II would cover the drafting and modification of technical manuals
and procedures and assistance in implementing all agreed programs with on-site
support. At negotiations the Government agreed that the Phase I report will
be furnished to the Bank for review by March 31, 1987. The task description
for this consultant assistance is available in the Project File.
2.31      Export Quality Upgrading and Improvement Program.  Deficiencies in
product quality of non-oil exports have been a significant problem for
Indonesia, depressing export value and growth. To rectify she situation, the
Government commissioned a number of Bank-financed studiesA8! to address this
problem. On the basis of these reports, a core program to improve export
quality was identified, taking iato account Indonesia-s priorities for export
development, skilled manpower availability, status of institutional infra-
structure, product comparative advantage and marketing prospects. The core
program will focus on three immediate objectives: (i) improving government
regulations, needed to encourage voluntary export quality certification and
labelling; (ii) developing an institutional network for quality management
assistance to enterprises; and (iii) demonstrating to the business community
that advanced quality management is possible and profitable. To meet these
objectives, this program has two basic subcomponents.
(a)  Strengthening of the Quality Support Network.  This subcomponent
will focus on improving the capability of the network of accredited
agencies (such as the Central Test and Quality Control Laboratory
(PPMB) and the network of associated regional laboratories) to
provide the business community a variety of services including
quality testing of products, advice on using quality control and
testing equipment, assistance in implementing quality management
systems, and information and assistance on technological matters
(Table 2 item I (2)). The subcomponent will have three inter-
related objectives: (i) reorienting selected government
laboratories from quality control (based on one-commodity, one-
standard, one- testing method, which is appropriate for primary but
not industrial products), to developing quality support systems for
non-traditional exports; (ii) accrediting other public and private
institutions to provide quality testing services; and (iii) revising
the present frame of regulations and incentives for export quality
improvement. The improved system will be designed to promote
voluntary certification and labelling, except in health and safety-
related areas where mandatory standards are usually employed. The
program will include feasibility studies for new technical centers
for quality assistance in such areas as: packaging, design,
furniture, textiles/garments, processed food; a study for adopting a
voluntary certification and marking system; and training of staff
from quality control agencies. The Standardization and Quality
8/   Financed under BAPINDO V (Loan 2277-IND) as well as Technical Assistance
V (Cr. 898-IND).



- 22 -
Control Directorate in the MOT, assisted by a consultant team, will
implement this subcomponent, which would involve about 75 manmonths
of foreign consultancy. The estimated cost of this subcomponent is
$1.3 million. At negotiations, the Government agreed to furnish the
various studies noted above for Bank review by June 30, 1987. The
task description is available in the Project File.
(b) Quality Management Demonstration Operations. The success of the
export quality improvement strategy hinges largely on the extent to
which the producers/exporters adopt advanced quality management
systems. In order to motivate the export community to use modern
quality management methods as an integral part of overall production
management, the project includes demonstration operations (Table 2
item III (1-b)). This subcomponent will be financed through the
Export Support Fund (see para. 2.36 below), on a cost sharing basis,
so that the private sector is actively involved in both setting the
overall priorities and implementing the program. Based on
Indonesia-s comparative advantage, three to four product groups will
be selected for this purpose in collaboration with ESB. On a first-
con. first-served basis, two manufacturing establishments will be
selected in each product group where advanced quality management
systems would be introduced. The systems would include consulting
services of one or two quality management experts (e.g.
engineer/designer, as needed), training of local managers and staff,
installation of modern product testing equipment, adoption of
advanced quality control procedures, access to information on
quality networks abroad, and promotion inside Indonesia and
abroad. The program will have a built-in mechanism for evaluation,
and is expected to make Indonesian exporters aware of the export
potential of quality improvement methods by demonstrating actual
examples of successful application. The total cost is estimated to
be $1.3 million, out of which $1.0 million will be made available
through the Export Support Fund. The balance of the costs ($0.3
million) will be borne by the beneficiary firms. At negotiations, a
coordination mechanism between the Standardization and Quality
Control Directorate and the proposed Export Support Board was
agreed.
2.32      Establishment of an Export Estate.  As an initial step toward
improving the physical facilities available co exporters, the Government
intends to establish an industrial estate of about 100 ha for export-oriented
firms. The basic objective of such an estate would be to act as a focal point
for efforts to attract foreign producers to enter joint ventures with local
firms for export production. One option being considered is to establish an
export estate, which unlike a standara export processing zone, would, from the
beginning, emphasize linkages to the domestic market and would give special
emphasis to attracting firms that would make significant use of domestic
inputs. As an incentive to attract foreign firms to establish operations on
the estate, the Government would provide limited access to the domestic
market. Firms would be given duty-free access to their imported inputs
through an improved duty exemption sytem which would incorporate simplified
exemption procedures for estate firms.



- 23 -
2.33      The Government is now considering alternative site and management
arrangements. Once a decision is reached on these issues, some additional
analysis and engineering will be needed before implementation. The Government
has requested that the Bank maintain an active involvement in supervising the
design and implementation phases and in that regard has requested that this
project include the technical assistance required to complete preparation of
the proposed estate. In this context, this project includes the TA required
for the feasibility/design of the estate (Table 2, item II(1)), which is
estimated to cost $0.7 million. At negotiations, the Government agreed that
the feasibility/design study would be furnished to the Bank for review by June
30, 1987.
2.34      Export Related Studies.  This subcomponent includes the following
export related studies:
(i)    a feasibility study to assess the potential of large trading
companies to assist in export development (Table 2 item II(2));
(ii)    a study to review the government's role in trade promotion,
planning and policy development (Table 2, item II(3)); and
(iii)    industrial sector/subsector and policy studies focussing on
improving industrial efficiency and the export of manufactured
products (Table 2 item II (4)).
2.35           The combined cost of studies (i) and (ii) above is estimated to
be $0.3 million and involve about 18 staff-months of consultant assistance.
At negotiations, Government agreed that these two studies will be furnished to
the Bank for review by June 30, 1987. The specific content of the
industry/export studies noted in item (iii) above is not yet identified and an
indicative amount of $1.6 million is included in the project cost for them.
As is the usual practice, detailed TOR will be approved by the Bank before
studies are undertaken.
2.36           Establishment of the Expott Support Board (ESB).  Extensive
field surveys of exporters have revealed many firm-level deficiencies in areas
such as international marketing, production technology, industrial management,
packaging and labeling, prodg7t quality standards and control. Various.
studies financed by the Banuk=/ have recommended programs of technical advisory
services to the export and manufacturing firms to address these constraints.
(These reports are available in the Project File). Based on these reports,
the Government has adopted an innovative approach to providing assistance to
exporters by establishing an Export Support Board (ESB) as an autonomous body
under the leadership of the private sector. The ESB will manage an Export
Support Fund (ESF). The ESB will also provide an informal forum for the
Minister of Trade on export matters of concern to the private sector. The
operation of the ESB and ESF are included under the project.
9/        Financed unde. BAPINDO V (Ln. 2277-IND) and Technical Assistance V
(Cr. 898-IND).



- 24 -
2.37            The main focus of the ESF will be to finance the technical
services required by export finms. These services will cover all aspects of
export marketing and production management, such as market research, marketing
strategy, trade promotion, office practices, product design, packaging,
productivity improvements, cost accounting and pricing for export, as well as
more general feasibility studies of export-oriented projects suitable for bank
financing. Firm specific training would also be provided under the ESF. In
addition to assisting directly export firms, the ESF will also support tech-
nical assistance to organizations that service the export community. In this
regard, the following specific areas have been identified for possible assis-
tance: publications on Indonesia's export incentives, policies, procedures
and practices; programs undertaken by packaging institutions to improve export
packaging and labeling; and activities undertaken by subsector specific trade
associations concerning export development.
2.38            All direct and indirect exporters, and export-oriented
organizations providing specialized export services will be eligible to use
the ESF. Since the sole objective of the ESF is to promote non-oil exports,
the eligibility of firms will not be subject to restrictions on their size or
type of ownership. It is expected that the sectoral focus will be on
manufactured, processed and semi-processed products.
2.39            The ESF will be managed by an autonomous board (ESB), which has
recently been established under a Decree of the Minister of Trade. All
members of the Board will be appointed by the Minister of Trade initially for
a period of one year. A majority of ESB members, as well as its Chairman,
will be prominent private businessmen belonging to the export community. The
Chairman of the ESB will report to the Minister of Trade. Though the ESB is
established by the Government and will report to the Minister of Trade, it
will function essentially as an autonomous body. This special arrangement is
made to reinforce the complementary roles of the public and private sectors in
order to ensure the ESB's independence and maximize its operational
effectiveness. The ESB will be assisted by a small Secretariat headed by an
Administrator, and supported by three to five Project Officers who would be
actively involved in an outreach program to generate interest among potential
users of the ESF. In turn, the Secretariat will be assisted by two Senior
Technical Advisors who will provide assistance to ensure better access to
appropriate technical services, mainly in the areas of export marketing,
product management and training, and also to provide general supervision of
those services (Table 2, item I(3)). Because of the specialized nature of
assistance needed in the area of quality improvement the technical assistance
in this area will be provided by the Senior Technical Advisor attached to MOT
(DGFT) under the export quality upgrading and improvement program as described
in para. 2.31 above. The entire staff of the Secretariat will be recruited
from the private sector and would receive salaries competitive with the
private sector. None of them will have any financial interest in suppliers of
services to the ESF, nor will they be a party to ESB's decisions on proposals
submitted.
2.40           The guiding principles for the ESF include cost sharing,
freedom to choose service supplier, quick and impartial decisions, and active
solicitation of proposals. The ESF will have monitoring provisions to assess



- 25 -
its impact and make recommendations on its future operation.  Tthe ESB auQ cSF
will be set up on a tnree year trial basis. Upon completion or the trial
period, the private sector will be encouraged to take over the full management
and operation ot the ESi oni an essentially self-financing basis.  The proposed
tinancial support is directed mainly towards meeting indirect costs and
excludes routine operational expenses, and it represents only a tiny percent-
age ot the total costs ot an exported product. Iioreover, the proposed support
is only a temporary start-up measure. Should the ESB prove ettective, ic is
the GovernmentEs intention that it be established permanently on an
essentially selt-rinancing basis.
2.41            At negotiations understandings were reached with Government on
tne ESi-s statement ot policies and operating procedures (Annex 4). The
recruitment ot advisors and tormal adoption of the statement of policies and
operating procedures by the ESB are conditions of disbursement for this
subcomponent. The project cost under the ESB/ESF is estimated , be S7.9
million. Or this, $1.0 million would be for the 72 staff-months of technical
advisors, $U.8 for the ESB-s incremental operating costs for the trial period,
and tne balance or $6.1 million would be used to assist directly about 300
export tirms and support organizations. The task description for consultant
assistance and the decree establisning the ESB are made available in the
Project File.
D. Exporter Training Component
2.42            Strengtnening the manpower resources needed to increase non-oil
exports by enhancing the existing training capacity is an important element of
Indonesia-s export development strategy. The bank-financed=L/ "Study on
Indonesian Training Needs for Export Development" (International Trade Centre
(ITC)/Institute for Social and Economic Research Education and Information
(LP3ES), April 1985) outlined a comprehensive manpower development strategy
tor increasing non-oil exports, identified substantial training needs, and
recommended a comprehensive action plan. Implementation of the recommended
strategy would take several years and would need to be phased, especially the
development ot new training institutions. The project would include only the
initial phase or this program and comprises training in the highest priority
areas by supporting a program or short-term training for exporters and
government stalt and trainers. The component would comprise the tollowing
specific items:
(a)  Training or Trainers.  T'his will include the training of about
35 trainers trom local training institutions in the whole range
of more than 30 export-related topics: trom export marketing
to export product development, and from export financing to
legal aspects ot foreign trade. The objective is to create a
permanent capacity in up to four selected Indonesian training
institutions to offer export-related training programs so that
Indonesia eventually becomes self-reliant in this area.
-10/      Financed under Technical Assistance V (Cr. 898-IND).



- 26 -
(b) Training of Exporters. This will include about 40 short-term
workshops for a total of about 800 participants, mainly
exporters, and to a limited extent, public officials, in a
broad range of export related topics. This training will cover
both supervisory staff and middle and senior level managers of
medium to large export firms and will have a special action
learning program for small exporters. It will also provide
training for export service institutions including banks,
insurance and shipping companies. In addition, it will have
workshops focusing on development of consultancy skills in the
areas of export development and promotion. The courses will
cover a broad range of practical topics of immediate concern to
exporters, such as export procedures and documentation, export
pre- and post-shipment financing, export shipping and freight
services, export marketing strategy and plan formulation,
export costing and pricing, and joint ventures. The subjects,
target groups, frequency, duration and type of training are
provided in Annex 5.
2.43           The Ministry of Trade will establish a Project Management Unit
for this training program. Execution of the training itself would be done by
selected local institutions. These institutions, in turn, will be assisted by
a consultant team, specialized in training for export development, which will
also provide overall coordination and direction of the program. The project
cost of this component is estimated to be $1.9 million.   This would cover a
consultant team of three resident experts during the first year and a half,
which would be phased out during the following year as Indonesian trainers,
trained under the project, are able to carry on the training program. In
addition, it includes about 35 man-months of short-term specialized
consultants, and the incremental administrative expenses of the local training
institutions. The task description is available in the Project File.
E. Overall Project Costs and Financing
2.44           Total project cost, including contingencies is estimated at
$111.6 million of which the foreign exchange component would be $69.7 million
or 62Z of the total. A summary of project costs is given in Table 3.
2.45           The cost of the investment credit component is $96 million and
represents a conservative estimate of the projected volume of export-oriented
subprojects to be made, by the PBs during 1986-88. The foreign exchange
requirement of US$58 million is based on the estimated average of term invest-
ment subprojects in Indonesia. The costs of the Technical Assistance and
Training Components are estimated at $12.2 million and $1.9 million respec-
tively. Costs of these components were prepared on the basis of the actual
requirements of implementing the designated tasks and were reviewed with the
participating agencies during the appraisal and post appraisal missions in
June and October 1985. The cost estimates for advisors/experts are based on
the Bank's experience in similar projects. In total, the project includes 34
staff years of expatriate consultants and 62 staff-years of local consulting
assistance. In addition to man-month costs, the technical assistance and
training components also include incremental operating expenses for the ESB



- 27 -
training components also include incremental operating expenses for the ESB
and the local training institutions. Following the usual practice, the credit
component does not include any contingency. Price contingencies amounting to
$1.3 million, and physical contingencies amounting to $0.2 million have been
included for the technical assistance and training components. Price
contingencies have been included on the basis of an estimated annual increase
in local prices of 6% during 1986-90 and 4.5% thereafter and in foreign prices
of 7.5% in 1986, 80% during 1987-90 and 5.0% during 1991-92.
Table 3: TOTAL PROJECT COSTS
Rp billion               US$ million
Foreign
as % of
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total       Total
Investment Credit Component   41.8    63.8   105.6   38.0       58.0    96.0        60
Technical Assistance
.Component a/                 2.8    10.6    13.4    2.6       9.6    12.2        78
Direct TA                   0.9     2.9      3.8    0.8      2.6      3.4       76
Studies                     0.4     2.4      2.8    0.4      2.2      2.6       81
TA Fund for Subprojects    1.5      5.3      6.8    1.4      4.8      6.2       77
Training Component              0.9     1.2      2.1    0.8       1.1     1.9       57
Total Baseline Cost            45.5    75.6   121.1   41.4      68.7   110.1        62
Physical Contingencies      0.2      -       0.2    0.2       -       0.2
Price Contingencies         0.3     1.1      1.4    0.3      1.0      1.3
Total Project Cost b/          46.0    76.7   122.7   41.9      69.7   111.6        62
a/   For details refer to Table 2.
b/   Includes a negligible amount of taxes and duties.
2.46      The financing plan for each component would be as follows:
-    For the investment credit component, subproject sponsors would
contribute about $33 million of their own funds to provide an
adequate equity level. The Bank would contribute $51 million to
cover the foreign exchange costs up to 70% of subproject cost. The
balance of the local cost requirement, about $12 million, would be
financed by the PBs from their own resources.
-    For the technical assistance component, export firms applying for
ESB assistance would contribute US$1.4 million, equivalent to about
25% of costs. Agreement with the Government was confirmed during
negotiations on this self-financing ratio for the ESB. The



- 28 -
Government would contribute $0.5 million toward the costs of the
feasibility/design study of the proposed export estate. The Bank
would finance the balance of $11.4 million.
-    For the training component, users would contribute US$0.2 million in
the form of training fees. The Bank would finance the balance of
$2.1 million.
2.47      Overall, the Bank loan of $64.5 million would finance 58% of project
costs and 93% of the estimated foreign exchange requirements. The PBs would
provide $12 million or 11% of project costs, the Government would provide $0.5
million, and the balance of $34.6 million or 31% of project cost would be
provided by subproject sponsors and user fees.
Table 4: FINANCING PLAN
US$ million
Local      Foreign     Total      % of Total
Investment Credit                    38.0        58.0        96.0          86
PBs (own resources)                12.0          -         12.0           11
Subproject sponsors (equity)       26.0         7.0        33.0          30
IBRD                                 -         51.0        51.0          46
Technical Assistance                  2.9         10.4       13.3           12
Subproject sponsors                 1.4          -          1.4           1
IBRD                                1.0        10.4        11.4          10
Government                          0.5          -          0.5           -
Training                              1.0          1.3        2.3           2
Users fees                          0.2          -          0.2           -
IBRD                                0.8         1.3         2.1           2
Total                                41.9        69.7       111.6          100
PB(s)                              12.0          -         12.0           11
Subproject sponsors/users fees    27.6          7.0        34.6          31
IBRD                                1.8        62.7        64.5          58
Government                          0.5          -          0.5           -
III. THE PROPOSED LOAN
A. Features of the Loan
3.01      LendizLg and Allocation Arrangements.  The proposed Bank loan of
US$64.5 million would be lent to the Republic of Indonesia and the Ministry of
Finance would act as the Government's agent. A Special Project Account would
be established at the Ministry of Finance to record the channelling of the
Bank loan, including disbursements to the individual participating agencies



- 29 -
for qualifying subprojects and expenditures, and for any debt service payments
received from them. The Government will allocate to the participating
institutions as follows:
(a) to the three PBs (BDN, BNI 1946, BRI), GOI will onlend US$51 million
through subsidiary loan agreements with each institution. Signing
of subsidiary loan agreements of at least two PBs is a condition of
effectiveness of the loan. However, signing of a subsidiary loan
agreement on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank is a
condition of disbursement for each respective PB. GOI would channel
the proceeds directly to the PBs on a first-come first-served
basis. The PBs will use the amount of US$51 million to make sub-
loans to export-oriented projects under conditions and criteria
specified in para. 2.06. It is expected that these funds will cover
about a 2-year commitment period. The closing date of the
submission of requests for subproject financing would be December
31, 1988.
(b) to P.T. ASEI, GOI will make available through a subsidiary
agreement, $0.4 million to finance consultant assistance in the area
of export credit guarantee and insurance. Signing of the subsidiary
agreement between GOI and P.T. ASEI, satisfactory to the Bank, is a
condition of disbursement.
3.02      The Government will retain $13.1 million and allocate it as follows:
(a)  to the Ministry of Trade, $4.2 million to implement the technical
assistance and training components. Of this, $2.1 million will be
used to finance technical assistance for export related studies as
well as to strengthen the export quality support network, and
$2.1 million will finance the exporter training program. Signing of
memoranda of understanding, satisfactory to the Bank, between GOI
and the local training institutions, covering the availability of
facilities, staffing, frequency of courses, unit costs and fee
schedule, is a condition of disbursement for the training component.
(b) to the Export Support Board (ESB), $6.9 million to implement a
program of direct technical assistance to the export community. Of
this amount, $1.1 million will cover direct consultant assistance to
the ESB and $1.0 million will cover the administrative costs of the
ESB during the project period. The balance of $4.8 million, the ESB
will allocate according to its enabling decree, policies and
operating procedures.
(c) the Ministry of Finance will retain $2.0 million for industrial
export studies which will be allocated to the respective line
ministries as specific TOR are agreed.
Lending Terms
3.03      Interest Rate.  For the credit component, the Government would
assume the foreign exchange risk. The funds would be relent to the PBs at a



- 30 -
variable rate equal to the average cost of loanable funds from customer rupiah
deposits of all the PBs. The rate would be subject to a floor equal to the
rate on the Bank loan plus a fixed spread of 1.75Z. (Annex 3, gives details
on the proposed formula.) Based on recent data, this arrangement would result
in a relending rate to the PBs of about 11% p.a., which is highly positive in
real terms. Since deposit rates in Indonesia are market determined and
capital flows are generally unrestricted, the cost of funds formula would
indirectly include an element of the perceived foreign exchange risk and the
difference between the Bank's lending rate and the relending rate charged by
the Government can be considered a premium for bearing the foreign exchange
risk. BI would be responsible for calculating this rate on the basis of the
most recent quarterly data available to it six business days prior to a due
rate change (which should be the same as that for a Bank rate change). At
negotiations Government agreed to these interest rate provisions as well as on
the method and frequency of interest rate calculations.
3.04      On-lending Terms.  The investment credit component will be on-lent
to the final borrowers by the PBs, along with complementary local cost
financing out of their own resources, at market rates. Since the on- lending
rate set by the PBs will reflect their costs plus a profit margin, the premium
for foreign exchange risk paid by the PBs will be fully passed on to the sub-
borrowers. Present indications are that the interest rates to the final
borrowers would initially be in the range of 16-18% p.a. (or about 11-13% p.a.
in real terms). The maximum term for subloans, including grace period, would
be 15 years. Agreement was reached with the PBs at negotiations on these on-
lending terms.
3.05      Funds under the ESB would be provided to export firms on a cost-
sharing basis with the exporters providing 25% of the costs from their own
funds. This level of cost recovery reflects the promotional and innovative
nature of the ESB. Funds to non-profit support institutions would be provided
as grants for 100% of costs. Agreement was reached with the Government at
negotiations that during the third year of the ESB's operations, an evaluation
study will be undertaken and submitted to the Bank for review by June 30,
1989. The study would evaluate the performance of the ESB and make
appropriate recommendations for its possible permanent establishment on a
self-financing basis, to the maximum extent possible, using a combination of a
general levy on exporters and user fees.
3.06      Commitment Fee.  GOI will charge the PBs a commitment fee equal to
0.75% on the undisbursed amount of the investment credit component. Each of
the PBs will be responsible for paying this commitment fee on the basis of a
hypothetical allocation for each PB of US$17 million. Thus each PB would bear
the commitment fee on the undisbursed portion of this hypothetical allocated
amount. Should however one or more of the PBs commit more than US$17 million,
then that PB(s) would bear the commitment fee on the undisbursed portion of
its total commitments and the amount of commitment fee to be paid by the other
PBs commensurately reduced.
3.07      Amortization.  Since there is a need to augment term local currency
resources for productive investment purposes, it is proposed that the loan to
GOI be on standard terms (20 years maturity/5 years grace). The loan would be



- 31 -
relent to the PBs for a fixed term of 20 years including three years grace.
Rollover funds (i.e. the repayments on Bank-financed subloans) would be relent
by the PBs for similar export-oriented investment projects.
Free Limits, Subproject Review and Individual Subloan Limits
3.08      At negotiations it was agreed to establish an initial subproject
free limit at $500,000 for each of the PBs. After the Bank has reviewed three
subprojects from each PB with respect to appraisal standards, adjustments in
the initial free limit would be made as appropriate. In addition to the
eligibility criteria set out in para. 2.06, subprojects to be financed out of
the proposed project would need to have a total investment cost not exceeding
$25.0 million.  To ensure that a broad spectrum of exporters is reached, each
individual subloan should not exceed US$7.0 million. A minimum subloan size
of $250,000 would apply.  Based on experience with other line-of-credit type
projects in Indonesia, it is expected that the credit component will finance
about 30 subprojects in a variety of sectors. It is expected that the Bank
would review about 60% of subloans amounting to about $40 million (80Z of the
credit component).
3.09      For ESB proposals, subprojects requiring up to $10,000 from the ESF
will be processed through a "Fast-Track" process within two weeks of their
submission and will require only the Board Administrator's approval. Sub-
projects between US$10,000 and US$100,000 will require approval by the ESB
Board, and those exceeding $100,000 will require World Bank authorization.
The Bank would also review, on a post-disbursement basis, subprojects below
$100,000. A funding ceiling of $300,000 for a single proposal has been fixed
in view of the innovative nature of the program, limited fund resources, and
the objective of maximizing the scope of market and product diversification
for Indonesia's exports. Because the Bank loan would be the only source of
funds to the ESB, the Ministry of Finance has agreed to establish a
prefinancing facility to cover ESB's local administrative costs.
Procurement, Disbursement and Audits
3.10      Procurement.  For the investment credit component, the proposed PBs
in general do not have formal procurement requirements, however, they require
sponsors to justify all procurement decisions and provide comparative
quotes. At negotiations it was agreed that for bid packages valued below $5.0
million, the PBs follow their usual procurement practices and specifically
that they would ensure that sub-borrowers obtain at least three price
quotations wherever possible. For bid packages of $5.0 million and above,
procurement would be according to the Bank's guidelines for ICB procedures.
The PBs would be expected to fully justify procurement decisions in the
appraisal reports, maintain records of method of procurement and to monitor
utilization of subloans through regular supervision activities.
3.11      The recruitment of advisors/experts under the Technical Assistance
and Training Components of the project will be in accordance with the "Guide-
lines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency." For short-term consultants hired under the ESF to
assist directly the export c'Amunity, the ESB will prepare a roster of



- 32 -
qualified consultants (both foreign and local) in various areas of
specialization. Exporters will be free to suggest additional consultants, but
the ESB must be satisfied as to the qualifications of any consultant to be
financed under the ESF. The basis for approving a consultant selection will
be qualification and experience for undertaking the assignment. The ESB's
consultant procurement procedures are covered in their statement of policies
and operating procedures to be adopted as a condition of disbursement (para.
2.41). Procurement of testing and training equipment, and office equipment
and supplies amounting to about $600,000 under the technical assistance and
training components, most of which would be obtained in small quantities
through local suppliers or representatives of foreign suppliers, would be done
on the basis of prudent shopoing after obtaining three quotations.
3.12      Disbursement.  For the investment credit component, the Bank loan
will be disbursed against: (a) 100% of the foreign exchange cost of directly
imported goods; (b) 50% of the invoice price of domestically procured capital
goods, civil works, and services which is equivalent to the estimated foreign
exchange cost of those goods and services. For subloans below the free limit,
Statements of Expenditure (SOE) will be used; those above the free limit would
be disbursed against standard documentation. For projects disbursed under SOE
procedure, full supporting documentation will be retained by the PBs and made
available for Bank inspection during supervision missions.
3.13      For technical assistance subprojects for export firms under the ESB,
the Bank loan will be disbursed against 75% of expenditures. For all other
expenditures under the TA component, the Bank loan will be disbursed against
IOOZ of eligible expenditures. Disbursement against the operating costs of
the ESB would be limited to the first three years of its operation. For the
training component, the Bank will disburse against 100% of consultant costs
and 80% of the incremental operating costs associated with the training pro-
gram. For the technical assistance and training components, disbursements
will be made against standard documentation except contracts and operating
cost expenditures valued less than $100,000, which will be claimed under
Statements of Expenditure.
3.14      A small amount of retroactive financing of up to $700,000 is
proposed to enable GOI to initiate various parts of the technical assistance
and training components prior to loan signing. Specifically, this amount
would cover expenditures for technical assistance and training incurred after
January ;, 1986 for the Export Support Board, the Export Quality Upgrading and
Improvement Program, the Export Estate Feasibility Study, and Training. Work
covered under retroactive financing would be according to agreed terms of
reference and procurement procedures. The standard Industrial Development
Finance Loan disbursement profile was used to prepare the disbursement
schedule (Annex 7) for the credit component. Disbursements for the technical
assistance and training components were based on the actual implementation
schedules of the various items of TA and training. The closing date of the
loan would be December 31, 1991.
3.15      Audits.  The accounting and internal audit procedures of the PBs are
satisfactory. Each PB has an internal audit office which continuously audits
their accounts. Further, as required in their founding acts, the PBs accounts



- 33 -
are audited annually by the State Accountancy Directorate. Due to organiza-
tional and staff weaknesses in this Directorate, there have been delays in
completing audits for financial institutions. These problems are being
addressed, inter alia, by the Bank under a separate project (Credit 869-IND)
and there is reason to believe that over time, the State Accounting Director-
ate's performance would improve. The audited accounts for 1984 of the PBs are
held on file. The ESB would make satisfactory arrangements for an independent
annual audit. The implementing agencies would submit such audits to the Bank
within nine months of the end of each fiscal year. The implementing agencies
would also be required to submit quarterly progress reports covering their
operations under the project, acceptable to the Bank.
B. Project Benefits and Risks
3.16      Benefits.  The proposed project would support a number of direct
measures to expand Indonesia's non-traditional exports. To improve exporters
access to finance for both on-going activities as well as expansion, the loan
would establish facilities and a framework for investment financing as well as
continue technical assistance efforts to improve the short term pre- and post-
shipment finance scheme. The investment credit component of the project would
include about 30 subprojects with a total investment cost of about $96 mil-
lion. To tap the special skills of foreign firms in the areas of product
design and production technology, the project would provide technical assis-
tance to design an export estate, with liberalized entry and operating
conditions. It is anticipated that about 100-200 firms would be accommodated
on the estate. To strengthen the capacity of local export firms to generate
and meet new orders, the project would establish a special facility, with
substantial participation by the private sector, to provide needed technical
help. About 300 export firms and support service institutions are expected to
make use of this new facility. To help provide exporters with duty free
access to their inputs, essential to be competitive internationally, the
project includes the establishment of a improved duty drawback/exemption
scheme. In addition, the project will provide short term specialized training
to about 35 trainers and to 800 participants in topics of immediate relevance
to exporters. The project also provides for a substantial strengthening and
widening of institutional support for export development. In this regard, two
key new institutions are being established, the ESB and P.T. \SEI; existing
public agencies dealing with duty exemption and quality upgrading would be
strengthened; the skills of the private sector and existing training insti-
tutions would be tapped; and, the capacities of the major financial
institutions to meet the financial needs of exporters would be strengthened.
The project also will help to extend the benefits of export incentives to
indirect exporters. In this regard, indirect exporters would have equal
access to the technical assistance, credit and training provided under the
project.
3.17      Risks.  The project would not be subject to any extraordinary
risk. There is a risk that delays in strengthening the institutional
capabilities of the PBs could delay the preparation and appraisal of sound
export projects. The advance training program, which is ongoing for relevant
PB staff, should help to reduce this risk. Another risk is that subprojects
under the credit component would fail to realize the minimum 40% export



- 34 -
requirement. The scope to enforce export commitments after a subproject is in
production is limited. Therefore, the project places primary emphasis on
subproject preparation and appraisal to ensure that only subprojects with
realistic export potential are financed. The other project risk is that there
would be major delays in implementing the export estate component leading to
delays in utilizing the funds allocated for the TA for the industrial
estate. This could occur if Government is unable to settle the issues of site
selection and management. In this eventuality, the loan amount allocated for
technical assistance for the estate would need to be cancelled. Given the
important potential benefits the estate would confer on Indonesia's export
effort, its experimental nature and the significant procedural and policy
aspects of this proposal, the close and continuing association of the Bank
afforded by financing the technical assistance justifies this risk.
IV. AGREEMENTS AND UNDERSTANDINGS
4.01      During negotiations, agreements and understandings were reached with
the Government on:
(a) lending terms (paras. 3.03 and 3.06) terms to the PBs;
(b) the submission of the following reports and studies to the Bank for
review:
-    semi-annual progress reports on the TA and Training components
by HOT (para. 2.27);
-    the Phase I report on export guarantee and insurance scheme by
March 31, 1987 (para. 2.30);
-    studies for new technical support centers, and voluntary
certification and marking by June 30, 1987 (para. 2.31);
-    the feasibility/design study for the export estate by June 30,
1987 (para. 2.33);
-    the study on trading companies by June 30, 1987 (para. 2.34);
and
-    the study on Government institutional support for exports by
June 30, 1987 (para. 2.34); and
-    the evaluation study of the ESB by June 30, 1989
(para. 3.05);
(c)  the self financing ratio of ESB subprojects (para. 2.46);and
(d) the size of ESB proposals requiring prior Bank approval (para. 3.09)



- 35 -
4.20      During negotiations, agreements and understanding were reached with
the PBs on:
(a) the eligibility criteria for subprojects (para. 2.06);
(b) the content of the export development plan (pari. 2.07);
(c) their development policy statements (para. 2.18);
(d) the provision of trainers and participation in the banker's training
program (para. 2.20);
(e) the functions and responsibilities of the implementation unit
(para. 2.26);
(f) the on-lending terms to subborrowers (para. 3.04);
(g) the use of roll-over funds for export oriented (projects 3.07)
(h) the free limit provision (para. 3.08); and
(i)  the arrangements for annual audit, and quarterly reporting (para.
3.15).
4.03      The signing of subsidiary loan agreements, satisfactory to the Bank,
between GOI and at least two PBs (para. 3.01(a)); and the signing of a
subsidiary agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, between GOI and P.T. ASEI
(para 3.01(b)) are conditions of effectiveness.
4.04      The conditions of disbursement are as follows:
(a) for each PB, adoption of the Development Strategy Statement
(para. 2.18) and the signing of a subsidiary loan agreement with the
Ministry of Finance, satisfactory to the Bank, (para. 3.01(a));
(b) for the ESB subcomponent, recruitment of advisors and adoption of a
statement on policies and operating procedures, satisfactory to the
Bank, (para. 2.41);
(c) for the training component, memoranda of understanding, satisfactory
to the Bank, between MOT and local participating training
institutions on implementation arrangements (para. 3.02(b)); and
(d) for the unspecified industrial export studies, terms of reference,
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 2.35)
4.05      Subject to the above conditions, the project is suitable for a loan
of $64.5 million to the Republic of Indonesia for 20 years, including a grate
period of five years at the standard variable rate.



- 36 -
A7NNE 1
Page 1 of 5
INDONESIA
ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR INVESTMENT SUBPROJECTS
Introduction
1.        The criteria for export-oriented subprojects (para. 2.06) provide
three basic tests of eligibility. The first sets a minimum percentage of
production (40X) attributable to the project investment within the specified
period (3 or 5 years depending upon whether an expansion/rehabilitation or a
new project is involved). The second sets an EVR requirement (10%). The
third requires sponsors to demonstrate that there is a reasonable probability
that the project will in fact lead to exports, through preparation of a
satisfactory export development plan covering the time frame within which the
minimum export target is expected to be reached.  This annex, using examples,
is intended to clarify how these criteria should be applied in specific
situations. It does not, of course, eliminate the need for judgment.
Production Attributable to the Investment
2.        The production "attributable to the investment" in the first
criterion means all production of a firm to which value has been added by
fixed assets financed under the project. It is to this production that the
minimum percentage (40%) is applied. In making this calculation, production
would be valued at international prices.
Example 1 - Capacity Expansion: The project to be financed is for the
replacement of half of the spinning frames in an 'ategrated textile mill.
Present mill output is 4,000 tons of finished fabric sold domestically at
US$30 million (US$7.5 kg). In addition to cost reduction and improved yarn
quality, spinning capacity will increase 40Z as a result of the project.
Since both weaving and finishing equipment is substantially underutilized,
total production would also be increased by 30X. Export will be sold f.o.b.
at US$6/kg.
Production "attributable to the investment" is as follows:
(a)  1/2 of existing level of output:  2000 tons valued at US$12.0 million
(b)  Full amount of expansion:         1200 tons valued at US$ 7.2 million
Total:               3200 tons valued at US$19.2 million
Required minimum export of 40% of the above is 1280 tons valued at US$7.68
million.



- 37 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 5
Example 2 - No change in capacity: In the above example if the project is to
replace the blowroom of the small mill which prepares the cotton used in all
the spinning lines without any increase in capacity, the production attribut-
able to the investment is total present output. The minimum export require-
ment would be 40% of this, i.e. 1600 tons valued at US$9.6 million.
Indirect Exports
3.        To meet the criteria for indirect exports it is not sufficient to
show simply that the required percentage is being utilized by an exporting
firm. There must also be convincing evidence that the production is indeed
being used in actual export production. The following example illustrates
this principle.
Example 3.  Firm A requesting finance under this loan as an indirect exporter
intends to produce 50,000 fractionel horsepower electric motors. It intends
to meet the eligibility criteria by supplying 20,000 motors to Firm B, a con-
sumer durable manufacturer, which is producing 100,000 vacuum cleaners
annually of which 50,000 are exported. Firm B's vacuum cleaners use electric
motors of the same design and quality specifications regardless of whether
they are exported or sold domestically. Firm A produces a letter that Firm B
would consider purchasing 20,000 electric motors if competitive in price and
quality.
(a) On the basis of the above facts, Firm A would not be eligible as an
indirect exporter even though 50% of the output of the firm to which
it is selling (Firm B) is exported. The reason is that since firm
A's sales can equally well be used domestically, only 50%, which is
the percentage of Firm B's exports, can be considered as exports.
Thus, it's exports are calculated as 50% x 20,000 which equals
10,000 which is only 20Z of its total production.
(b) Alternatively, under the initial assumption that the same motor is
used for both domestic and export markets, if Firm A can provide
convincing evidence that 80% of its output would be sold to Firm B
(which might be the case if they had the same shareholders) then
Firm A would be eligible as an indirect exporter. Its indirect
exports would be calculated as 50% x 40,000 which is 20,000 motors
equivalent to 40% of Firm A's production.
(c) Alternatively, if Firm A were to produce motors of a higher quality
better suited to the export market which would be exclusively used
by Firm B in its export products, then Firm A would qualify (20,000
motors would be exported, which is equivalent to 40Z of Firm A's
production).
Economic Analysis of Subprojects
4.        For the purposes of the second criterion, the project's output
should be evaluated in accordance with the usual methodology. This means that
the portion of output to be exported should be valued at international prices
and the balance at c.i.f. prices.



- 38 -
ANNE 1
Page 3 of 5
Export Development Plans
5.        There is a risk that projects which commit to export at the
appraisal stage would fail to meet their commitment later on, preferring
simply to sell on the domestic market. Even the proposal to extend investment
incentives to exporters on the basis of actual performance may not be a
sufficient inducement. The PBs have primarily the sanction of accelerating
loan repayment for failure to meet a loan condition - a drastic measure which
could adversely affect the willingness of subborrowers to make use of the Bank
credit line and is therefore not appropriate. Thus the scope to enforce
export commitments after a project is in production is limited.   In these
circumstances, the proposed loan places primary emphasis on project
preparation and appraisal to ensure that only sound projects with export
potential are promoted and that there is a reasonable likelihood that under
the circumstances of the specific project that they are likely to meet the
minimum export target of 40Z of production.
6.        The principal mechanism for achieving this objective is the
requirement stated in the third criterion that each project prepares an export
development plan covering at least three years for expansion/rehabilitation
projects and five years in the case of new projects. For directly exporting
projects, this plan would target annual levels of exports and formulate an
action program to achieve these target levels. Client firms would be required
to make annual reports on progress in implementation and in meeting the
targets. PBs would refer clients to the ESB, which can arrange appropriate
assistance either directly or from the Exporter Support Fund (ESF) in
preparing export development plans.
7.        The export development plan, together with supporting data and
studies on which it is based must make a convincing case that the project is
export capable and that exports will in fact take place. While the elements
of this plan will vary from project to project, all plans need to show that
(i) expected production will be competitive in specifications, price, and
quality in the selected markets, and that (ii) conditions exist that make it
likely that incremental exports to meet the mininmm under the definition will
take place. Each export development plan must contain an action plan to show
how each project will attain export targets. The action plan must deal with
all the steps concerning market development and penetration, product design
and adaptation, efficiency improvement, organization and training, and
technical assistance arrangements needed to implement actions. Additional
supporting evidence of export likelihood, as relevant in each case, will
include: (a) past exporting performance; (b) detailed market studies; (c)
already established marketing channels; (d) orders from foreign importers.
Also relevant is evidence regarding the competing pull of domestic markets,
such as the extent to which domestic capacity will meet domestic demand at
that time exports are expected. Para. 9 (below) provides a check list of
items which need to be addressed in the action plan.
8.        Indirectly exporting projects must also present an action plan.  The
action plan and other supporting evidence must make a convincing case that the
required minimum percentage of the project's production will indeed be used in
actual exports. They must show on the basis of actual contracts that the



- 39 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 5
product intended to be produced is being used by firms that are now exporting,
or would be used in export-oriented projects which are being implemented. The
plan should also establish that the proposed input product meets the
requirements of potential buyers who would be bona fide exporters and that
there are no special arrangements that would preclude sales of the proposed
indirect export.
9.        Following is a check list of items that should be covered in a
typical export development plan to be reviewed during appraisal. The elements
which appear in an export development plan will vary with different projects
as will the emphasis placed on different elements and the way in which they
are organized. In total, however, they should provide convincing evidence
that the project has the potential to achieve the minimum required export
level and the project sponsors have prepared a realistic action plan to attain
the target.
A.   Target markets
-    location, size, growth rate
-    product design, price, quality
-    domestic and foreign competition
-    market structure
-    tariffs and other import protection
-    health or other regulatory requirements
B.  Proposed export targets by
-    product
-    country
-    year
C.   Strategy elements to reach target levels
-    design, specification, quality level of products to be produced
for markets
-    marketing and sales channels
-    pricing strategy
-    packaging - needs and sources
-    transportation - needs and availability
-    promotion and advertising



- 40 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 5
-    organization and staffing (sales, recruitment, training)
-    inputs needed for export quality output - needs and sources
-    production costs to meet sales price requirements
-    obtaining licenses, permission, or special support from
government
D.   Required support to implement strategy
-    past experience and present capability of firm and its sponsors
in relevant strategy elements
-    information and technical assistance needs in implementing
strategy elements in light of present experience and capability
-    proposed sources of information and technical assistance and
how it will be used as appropriate, to supplement present
capability in various elements of strategy (joint venture
partners, buyers, consulting firms, recruitment of staff,
foreign manufacturers, individual experts (short and long
term), staff training, etc.)
E.   Timebased action program
Time based action program to implement strategy in light of above
factors indicating major steps, activities, decisions, etc. in each
of the strategic areas, their interdependence, and when they are to
be taken in order to meet export targets.
F.   Other supporting evidence relevant to export capability
-    present domestic price of proposed product compared with f.o.b.
price and relative profitability of each
-    present and planned capacity to meet domestic demand
-    expected future development with regard to relative
profitability.



_ 41 -
ANNEX 2: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF PARTICIPATING BANKS
ANNEX 2
Table 1
INDONESIA
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Bank Negara Indonesia - 1946
Income Statements /a
Year ending December 31, 1981-84
(Rp billion)
1981        1982         1983         1984
Income
Interest                             266.1        336.7        425.2        655.3
Commission                            20.4         20.6         55.7         63.9
Exchange difference                    5.1         10.3         83.0         62.5
Other                                 12.1         15.8         21.8         25.4
Subtotal                        303.7       383.4        585.7        807.1
Expenses
Cost of Funds
Interest                           136.2        191.2        270.0       446.8
Commission                           1.6          3.9         10.5        24.8
Subtotal                        137.8        195.1       280.5        471.6
Gross Margin                    165.9        188.3       305.2        335.5
Other Expenses
Personnel                           53.6         71.8         73.0        129.6
Depreciation                        58.8          3.8         11.0          5.4
Office supplies                     15.2         22.8         31.2        37.8
Surveys and studies                  0.5          0.2           -           -
Other                                8.2          6.6          1.6         0.2
Provision for bad debts              n.a.        36.7        108.9        69.1
Subtotal                        136.3        141.9       225.7        242.1
Total Costs                     274.1        337.0       506.2        713.7
Profit before tax                       29.6         46.4         79.5         93.4
Provision for tax                       13.3         20.8         35.7         32.8
Net Profit After Tax             16.3         25.6        43.8         60.6
/a  Restated from audited statements.



- 42 -
ANNEX 2
Table 2
INDONESIA
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Bank Rakyat Indonesia
Income Statements /a
(Year ending December 31, 1981-84)
(Rp billion)
1981      1982       1983      1984
Income
Interest                                  143.8      187.3     231.9      381.6
Commission                                  9.8        9.4       10.0      20.7
Foreign exchange transaction               15.4        5.7        7.3      21.0
Other                                       7.4       13.2       19.5      28.1
Subtotal                             176.4      215.6     268.7      451.4
Expenses
Cost of funds                              40.3       62.7       95.2     212.4
Net Margin                           136.1      152.9     173.5      239.0
Operating Expenses
Personnel                                74.7       73.6      96.3      112.0
Material                                  6.6        8.6        9.2       9.6
Depreciation                              3.3        3.9       4.2        5.4
Provision for bad debts                  23.2       32.4      22.3       29.2
Nonoperating (profit) cost                0.4        0.7      (6.3)        -
Other                                    21.3       27.9      32.4       34.4
Subtotal                             129.5      147.1     158.1      190.6
Total Costs                          169.8     209.3      253.3      403.0
Net profit before taxes                       6.6        5.8       15.4      48.4
Provision for taxes                           2.9        2.5        6.9      17.8
Net Profit After Tax                   3.7        3.2       8.5       30.6
/a Restated from audited statements.



-  43 -
ANNEX 2
Table 3
INDONESIA
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Bank Dagang Negara
Income Statements /a
(Year ending December 31,-T981-84)
(Rp billion)
1981         1982          1983          1984
Income
Interest                         54.8          93.3         117.2        352.2/b
Foreign exchange interest       169.0         177.7         165.5            -
Coumissions                      20.8          22.5          25.7         34.6
Other                            15.9           4.0         45.4          62.5
Total Income                260.5         334.5         353.8         449.3
Expenses
Cost of funds                   143.6         182.7        202.5         277.8
Gross Margin                246.2          151.8        151.3         171.5
Other Expenses
Personnel                      30.9          25.6         43.4          35.0
Depreciation                    1.7           2.3           3.0          5.0
Loan loss provision            12.7          22.8         36.3          35.3
Other                          12.4          14.1         27.6          30.0
Subtotal                     57.7          64.8         110.3         105.3
Total Costs                 201.3         247.5         312.8         383.1
Net profit before tax              59.2          87.0         41.0          66.2
Special foreign exchange gain        -             -          101.8           -
Provision for tax                  26.9          39.3          64.5         26.5
Net Profit After Tax         32.2          47.7          78.3          39.7
/a  Restated from audited statements.
/b  Includes all interest earned included in foreign exchange resources.



AMNX=  2
Table 4
IONESIA
EXPORT DEVELOPKENT PROJECT
Bank Negara Indonesia - 1946
Su usw rized Balance Sheets /a
(Year ending December 31, 1981-84)
(Rp billion)
1981        1982         1983        1984
Assets
Current Assets
Cash                               39.4        42.3         43.5        51.8
Bank Indonesia                    117.8       298.1        101.0       251.8
Other banks                     1,022.4       797.0      1,398.1     2,328.9
Short-term loans                  77R.6     1,078.4      1,530.8     1.617.3
Other assets                       R4.3       117.0        184.7       345.6
Subtotal                     2,042.5     2,332.8      3,258.1     4,595.4
Log-Ters Assets
LOanS                             515.0       816.8      1,567.2     2,283.5
Participations                     10.6        26.3         33.8        41.9
Investments                         1.6         5.9         15.4        21.4
Subtotal                       527.2       849.0      1,616.4     2,346.8
Flied assets (net)                   18.6        29.4         31.5        36.3
Other                                43.7        61.5         66.3        84.1
Total Assets                 2,632.0     3,272.7      4,972.3     7,062.6
Lfabilities and Capital
Current Liabilities
Demnd deposlts                    962.9       937.2        937.8     1,240.3
Savings                           159.9       285.4        347.4       178.3
Time                              566.9       813.7      1,741.1     2,937.1
II *hort-term aid                  58.8       108.0        121.0       173.9
Marginal deposits                  41.7        34.0         41.3        38.2
Others                            132.2       136.3        186.1       209.2
Subtotal                     1,922.4     2,314.6      3,374.7     4,777.0
ronx-Ters Liabilities
Deposits                          165.4       177.9        211.9       241.9
BI/Government funds               331.6       522.8        985.5     1,495.3
Others                              9.2         9.7          8.9        19.4
Subtotal                       506.2       710.4      1,206.3     1,756.6
Other liabilities                    54.2        61.3        155.0       198.1
Total Liabilities            2,482.8     3,086.3      4,736.0     6,731.7
Capital Accounts
Paid-in capital                       0.5         0.5          0.5         0.5
Reserves                             75.3        99.7        105.5       166.7
Provisions for bad debts             73.4        R6.2        130.3       163.7
Subtotal                       14'.2       186.4        236.3       330.9
Total Liabilities
and Capital                 2,632.0     3,272.7     4,972.3      7,062.6
/a Restated from audited statements.



- 45 -
ANNEX 2
Table 5
INDONESIA
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Bank Rakyat Indonesia
Consolidated Balance Sheets /a
(Year ending December 31, 1981-84)
(Rp billion)
1981      1982       1983      1984
Assets
Carrent Assets
Cash                                     52.1       58.7       63.1      97.9
Bank Indonesia                          262.4      253.1     279.6      399.6
Banks                                    34.7       35.3     110.1       83.4
Securities                                3.7        2.9      14.R       32.0
Loans                                   911.6   1,128.0   1,461.9   3,026.1
Assets in foreign currency              118.9       52.2     111.9      292.2
Others                                    2.7        8.1      14.2      259.3
Subtotal                           1,386.1   1,53R.3   2,055.6   4,190.5
Long-Term Assets
Loans                                   730.6      926.2     908.4   1,038.2
Participation                             1.1        1.2         -         -
Subtotal                             731.7     927.4      908.4   1,038.2
Fixed Assets                               20.1       22.8       24.5      64.7
Total Assets                       2,137.7   2,488.5   2,988.5   5,293.4
Liabilities and Equity
Liabilities
Deninad deposits                        695.3      425.8     602.4   1,006.4
Time deposits                             8.6       12.1      276.5     375.6
Savings                                 106.2      125.0      148.9     188.5
Other liabilities                        91.0       76.8      154.3     137.9
Liquidity credit from 8I                283.1      431.4     497.2   1,934.2
Liabilities in foreign currency          29.5      101.1       23.9      39.2
Others                                  134.5       88.6      177.3     324.3
Subtotal                           1,348.2   1,260.8   1,880.5   4,006.1
Long-Term Loans
Liquidity credit from BI                453.4      772.5     908.7   1,053.2
Loans from BT                            69.0      123.6       38.8      37.4
Loans from Government                    55.2       63.1         -         -
Time deposits                            86.9      119.6         -         -
Subtotal                             664.5   1,n7R88      947.5   1,090.6
Total Liabilities                  2,n12.7   2,339.6   2,828.0   5,096.7
Equity
Paid-up and reserves                     35.3       35.3      50.7       54.4
Other reserves                           21.6       22.9        8.5      30.6
Provision for bad debts                  6R.3       90.7     101.3      111.3
Subtotal                              99.1      125.2     160.5      196.7
Total Liabilities and Equity       2.137.9   2,488.5   2,988.5   5,293.4
/a Restated from audited statements.



- 46 -
AN=E 2
Table6
IND0RESIA
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Bank DaganR Negara
Suurarized Balance Sheets /a
(Years Ending December 31. 1981-6.)
(Rp billion)
1Q81      1982       1983       1984
Assets
Current AJSets
Cash                                      22.6       29.2      31.0       43.6
Deposits with banks                      361.6       79.6      326.7     261.7
Bank Indonesia                            23.4       27.1      67.9       52.0
Due from other banks                     401.7       49.9       92.5      57.9
Receivables                                8.6       23.3      52.4       52.7
Loans (gross)                            423.3      609.5      655.6   1.001.0
Deposits with other banks (includ-
ing overseas)                           47.1      615.0   1,125.2   1.011.6
Other                                     14.5       68.6       70.5      50.9
Subtotal                              1,302.R   1,502.2   2,401.R   2,531.6
Long-Term Assets
Loans                                    311.1      400.8      371.2      530.0
Loans under guarantee                    779.3      974.5   1,261.7   1,178.6
Participation                               1.R       3.0        3.5        3.9
Subtotal                              1,092.2   1,37R.3   1,636.4   1,712.5
FixLed assets (net)                          10.6      15.3       24.2       32.R
TOTAL ASSETS                          2.605.6   2,8q5.8   4,062.4   4,276.7
Liabilities and Capital
Current Liabilities
Demand deposits                          708.3      711.7   1,088.3   1,105.9
Savings deposits                          30.0       35.6      42.6       52.5
Tim. deposits                             51.4       62.0     545.2      632.2
Borrowing (mostly RI)                    102.3      102.0      101.7     161.6
Other                                    293.6      413.2     405.9      498.2
Subtotal                              1,185.6   1,324.5   2,1R3.7   2,450.4
Long-Term Liabilities
BorrowIngs                               956.4   1,243.4   1,547.9   1,497.0
Time deposits over 12 months             133.3      150.9      85.1       49.2
Other                                      1.0        1.n        1.0       1.0
Subtotal                              1,090.7   1,395.3   1,634.0   1,547.2
Total Liabilities                     2,276.3   2,719.R   3,817.7   3,997.6
Capital
Paid-up capital                           31.R       31.R       30.3      3n.2
Reserves                                  66.1      100.1      157.5     172.2
Provisions for bad debt                   31.4       44.1      56.9       76.7
Total Capital                           129.3      176.0     244.7      279.1
TOTAL LIABILITIES ANn CAPITAL         2,405.6   2,R95.R   4,062.4   4,276.7
/a  Restated fron asdited statementq.



- 47 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit Component
Calculation of Relending Rate From GOI to the Participating Banks
- Agreed Formula
1.       The interest rate on subsidiary loans will be a variable rate
per annum equal to the average weighted interest rate on the free (unpledged)
customer deposits of the Participating Banks. This rate will be determined
according to the following formula:
xt   =   rt  (Tt) + r   (S) + rD  (D)
t     t   ~t     t    t      t     t
IT    S    D
(Tt + St + D)- (R  + Rt + Rt)
Definitions
t    =   the last day of the most recent month or quarter prior to an
Interest Period for which BI has consolidated data on the
deposit base of the participating banks.
D
rt   =   interest payable on demand deposits as defined below, at
time t, of the PB's
T
rt       interest payable on time deposits, at time t, of the PB's
S
rt    interest payable on savings deposits, at time t, of the PB's
Dt   =   the amount of Demand deposits (i.e. those free castomer
deposits in accounts which can be operated by checks), at time
t, of the PB's
Tt   =   the amount of Time deposits, at time t, of the PB's
St   =   the amount of Savings deposits, at time t, of the PB's



_ 48       ~        ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2
MD      e     minimum average balance of demand deposits outstanding
t           during quarter immediately preceeding time t
T
R       =     reserves on time deposits of the PB's at t
t
S
R       =     reserves on savings deposits of the PB's at t
t
D
R       =     reserves on demand deposits of the PB's at t
t
Xt      =     Interest rate applicable on subsidiary loans for
each interest period
2.      Notwithstanding the above cost of funds formula, the relending
rate will not be less than the interest rate on the Bank loan plus
a margin of 1.75 percentage points.
3.      The interest rate Xt shall be calculated for each Interest
Period except that if during an Interest Period changes in the underlying
parameters indicate a change of at least 1.5 percentage points in the
rate, then the Government, may, after consultation with the Bank,
adopt for the rest of that interest period the rate calculated on the
basis of the most recently available data.



_ 49 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 11
INDONESIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO EXPORT COMMUNITY
THROUGH
EXPORT SUPPORT BOARD/FUND
STATEMENT OF POLICIES AND OPERATING PROCEDURES
I. Introduction
1.01      Extensive field surveys of exporters have revealed many firm-level
deficiencies, particularly in the areas of international marketing and produc-
tion management, which can be removed or alleviated by proViding appropriate
consultancy services to exporters and export-oriented institutions. To
provide such technical assistance to the export community, an Export Support
Fund (hereinafter called "the Fund") and an Export Support Board (hereinafter
called "the Board") to manage the Fund have been established under a Minister
of Trade Decree, No. 89/Rp/III/86 dated March 7, 1986. The Board/Fund will be
financed by International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (hereinafter
called "'the Bank") under the Export Development Project (hereinafter called
the project). Given the unique features of the Indonesian economy including
those of its industrial export sector, as well as the successful experience of
many East Asian countries in increasing their iudustrial exports and
penetrating world markets, the Minister of Trade established the Board and the
Fund on a three year trial basis, as an autonomous body attached to the
Ministry of Trade.  Upon completion of the trial period, the private sector
will be encouraged to come up with a scheme to manage and operate the
Board/Fund on a self-financing basis.
II. Objectives
2.01      The main objectives of the Board will be to provide guidance to the
Secretariat Staff and Technical Advisors and set priorities regarding their
work; and review and approve the proposals submitted by potential users of the
Fund. The Board will keep the Minister of Trade abreast with the progress of
its operations through periodic reports. In addition, the Board will be
accessible to the Minister who may wish to use it as an informal forum to
solicit advice on export matters of concern to the private sector.
2.02      The Fund will be used to finance expenditures in the following
areas:
(a)  the Board's administrative costs of managing and operating the Fund;
(b)  direct technical assistance to exporters (or export-oriented
producers): (i) to help market and produce internationally competi-
tive industrial exports, (ii) to promote modern quality management
systems, and (iii) to support in-company staff training; and



- 50 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 11
(c) technical assistance to private institutions to strengthen special-
ized export support services.
2.03      Assistance will be provided in all aspects of export marketing
including market research, marketing strategy, initial promotion to agents of
distributors, cost accounting and pricing for export, promotion tools for
export office practices. Similarly, assistance in all aspects of production
management for export including improvements in labor and capital productivi-
ties, product quality and consistency, packaging and labelling, production
scheduling and product design will be provided. Further, to persuade the
export comnunity that use of modern quality management systems can be profit-
able, the Fund will finance demonstration operations, promotional activities
and staff training in selected industries. Assistance in the area of special-
ized support services will include technical assistance to key private sector
organizations for strengthening a range of support services and for undertak-
ing specialized studies designed to assist the export community.
III. General Eligibility
Firm Eligibility
3.01      All direct and indirect exporters, and export-oriented organizations
providing specialized export services will be eligible, in principle, to use
the Fund. Among the firms, however, priority will be given to those with high
export growth potential. An important consideration will be that the use of
the Fund must be expected to yield tangible results in the short to medium
term. Since the Fund is primarily aimed at accelerating growth of non-oil
exports, the firm eligibility will not be subject to any considerations
regarding the size or type of ownership. It is expected that the sectoral
focus will be on promoting manufactured, processed and semi-processed
products.
Expenditure Eligibility
3.02      The Fund will provide financial support for expenditures on tech-
nical and advisory services, and material and small equipment expenditures
related to demonstration operations in modern quality management systems. Such
expenditures will be eligible if incurred directly in the pursuit of
activities such as: (a) desk market and production management research; (b)
overseas field market research; (c) i-ntial promotion to agents and
distributors; (d) consultancy costs incurred during planning and start-up
phases of overseas trading operations; (e) consultancy for productivity
improvements and cost reductions; (f) design and product adaptation (including
RED and prototype imports); (g) consultancy services needed to acquire
design/process knowhow; (h) consultancy services for cost accounting and
pricing; (i) consultancy services for quality improvement and upgrading
information and promotion; (j) feasibility study for exporting industrial
products; and (k) in-company staff training (workshops, seminars, etc. at firm
level) needed to improve export performance.



- 51 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 11
3.03      In addition, consultancy, and material and small equipment
expenditures for strengthening specialized export services will be supported,
if incurred in the following areas:
(a) improvements in packaging and labelling;
(b) subsector specific marketing information needed by a group of
eligible users;
(c) publications on export directory, incentives, policies, procedures
and practices; and
(d) sector or subsector specific documents (e.g. specialized trade
journals, published market surveys, overseas product catalogues,
samples from overseas markets).
IV. Resources and Cost Sharing
4.01      During the three year commitment period of the Project, a total sum
of US$6.9 million will be made available to the Fund. This amount will be
allocated as follows:
(a)  Administration and management of the Fund             US$2.1 million
(b)  Assistance to direct and indirect exporters           US$4.8 million
Ci)  Export marketing and production management,   (US$3.0) million
and staff training
(ii)  Quality improvement and upgrading               (US$1.0) million
(c)  Assistance to specialized support services            US$0.8 million
Total                                                 US$6.9 million
The funds will be utilized according to the following cost sharing formula:
Fund    User
(a)  Administrative costs                               100l     nil
(b)  Technical assistance to export firms and other
profit making export-oriented organizations        75%    25%
(c) Technical assistance to export support
organizations for a nonprofit activity             100Z    nil
4.02      If warranted by the circumstances, the Board may recommend modifica-
tions in the above cost sharing formula. Any changes will require agreement



-52 
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 11
of the Minister of Trade and the Bank.
4.03      The Board will receive funds from the Ministry of Finance as grant
money to administer and operate the Fund on behalf of the Government. To
expedite payments the Government has agreed to establish appropriate pre-
financing facilities for the Board to meet its administrative costs (but not
the consultancy services).  The Board will utilize the funds: (i) to finance
eligible export development expenditures of the clients; and (ii) to meet its
administrative costs.
4.04      It is anticipated that most proposals will be for the Fund to meet
foreign exchange expenditures. However, for administrative simplicity, the
above cost sharing formula will apply to the total cost of each proposal,
irrespective of the costs in foreign exchange or local currency.
4.05      A funding ceiling of US$300,000 for a single proposal (subproject)
has been fixed in view of the innovative nature of the program, limited fund
resources, and the objective of maximizing the scope of market and product
diversification for Indonesia's exports. Subproject proposals requiring
financing of US$100,000 or more will require Bank authorization. Since the
Board will be a new institution, during its supervision missions the Bank will
pay special attention to the proposal/subproject appraisal and processing
until the Board sufficiently develops such in-house capabilities.
V. Management and Administration
5.01      All members of the Board will be appointed by the Minister of Trade
in consultation with the Bank, initially for a period of one year. A majority
of Board Members as well as its Chairman will be private businessmen of high
repute and integrity, belonging to the export community. Other Board Members
may be senior officials from relevant government agencies. The Board will
consist of five or seven members. The Chairman of the Bosrd will report to
the Minister of Trade. (For details, see the Organization Chart given below.)
5.02      While the Board has been established by the Government and will
report to the Minister of Trade, it will function as an autonomous body. This
special arrangement is made to reinforce the complementary roles of the public
and private sectors in order to ensure the Board's independence and maximize
its operational effectiveness and efficiency toward raising Indonesia's
industrial exports.
5.03      The Board will have a Secretariat headed by an experienced
Administrator, who will be appointed by the Minister of Trade in consultation
with the Bank. The Administrator will be drawn from the private sector with
strong background in management and export marketing. The Secretariat will be
staffed by three to five locally recruited Project Officers. At least two of
them will be graduates preferably in engineering and/or management with five
years of commercial/industrial experience in areas as closely related to
export marketing and production management as possible; at least one of them
will be an economist-cum-finacial analyst with practical background in
preparing and evaluating investment proposals. The Project Officers, under
the general supervision of the Technical Advisors, will be actively involved



- 53 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 11
in an outreach program to generate interest among the potential users of the
Fund, and thus will spend a major part of their time in visiting clients.
These visits should be seen as part of a continuing advisory service.
5.04      The Secretariat will be assisted by two Senior Technical Advisors in
the areas of international marketing and production management respectively.
These advisors must have substantial experience and be of proven ability in
promoting industrial exports. It is expected that they would be expatri-
ates. They will be initially appointed for a period of one year with the
possibility of extension for additional two years. These appointments will be
made by the Board/Ministry of Trade in consultations with the Bank. Detailed
Terms of Reference for these advisors and their required qualifications will
be agreed by the Board/Ministry of Trade and the Bank prior to the start of
Board operations. The Technical Advisors will take active interest in all
types of technical work including identification, preparation and evaluation
of proposals for Board consideration. Other short term advisors (consultants)
may be appointed, provided their need is clearly established.
5.05      The entire staff of the Secretariat will receive salaries
competitive with the private sector, and none of them will have any financial
interest in suppliers of services to the Fund, nor will they be a party to
Board-s decisions on proposals submitted.
5.06      The Board Members will be reimbursed for their travel and
subsistence costs if actually incurred in attending a Board meeting. In
addition, they will receive an honorarium.
5.07      The Board will have regular periodic meetings, and also ad hoc
meetings as needed. It will keep the Minister of Trade and the Bank well
informed about the progress of its operations by submitting periodic
reports. It will adopt the operating procedures given below.
5.08      The Bank will assist the Ministry of Trade in drawing up the Terms
of Reference appropriate for the Technical Advisors. The Ministry of Trade,
in consultations with the Bank, will draft the Terms of Reference for the
Administrator and Project Officers. The Ministry will invite proposals fo.
the services of the two technical advisors from consultancy firms approved by
the Bank. The Ministry will review and evaluate all the proposals and
transmit its recommendations to the Bank for approval. The Board/Ministry
will also select the Administrator in consultation with the Bank. The
Technical Advisors will be selected prior to selection of the Project Officers
so that the latter may be appointed in consultation with the former.
VI. Implementation Arrangements
Processing of Proposals
6.01      A client/user proposal will normally go through the following
stages:
(a) proposal preparation by the client and the responsible Project
Officer, normally at the client-s premises;



- 54 -
ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 11
(b)  submission by the Project Officer to the Administrator for
processing;
(c)  submission to the Chairman of the Board for consideration and
approval;
(d)  approval/disapproval by the Board and communication of the decision
to the client;
(e)  negative decision -;n the proposals will be soon conveyed to clients,
as far as feasible, in person by the Project Officer; and
(f)  the Technical Advisors will assist, as appropriate, at all stages of
proposal identification, preparation and evaluation.
6.02      Decisions on proposals eligible for "fast track" processing will be
taken within two weeks. Upon receiving recommendations from one of the
Technical Advisors, the Administratn- -ty approve the proposal and later sub-
mit to the Board for an ex-post formal approval.
Approval of Service Suppliers
6.03      The Secretariat will draw up and maintain a list of eligible Service
Suppliers to be approved by the Board. The approval procedure will require
gaining first hand information, where feasible through a visit by the Project
Officer to the premises of the Service Supplier, in the following areas:
(a)  historical development of the practice, size, number of
representative offices, etc.;
Cb)  membership of professional organizations, particularly those with
established code of practice (e.g. INKINDO);
(c)  bio-data of all consulting staff to be used on Fund supported work;
(d)  fee-rate information;
(e)  a list of past clients in the activities concerned, with at least
three personal references given for quality of output; and
(f)  Project Officer's confidential assessment.
6.04      The above mentioned information for each eligible Service Supplier
will be sublected to a technical evaluation by one or both the Advisors. The
Advisors may wish to visit some Service Suppliers either to gain first hand
impression about the supplier or to supplement the information compiled by the
Project Officers.  The list of eligible Service Suppliers will not be
exclusive; Service Suppliers recommended by clients will be carefully
evaluated and promptly added to the list, as appropriate. The Secretariat
will establish the range of fee rates acceptable for the different categories
of service being supported. These -ates will be competitive with the ongoing



- 55 -
ANNEX 4
Page 7 of 11
rates in the private sector, and may differ from the government rates for
similar services.
Choice of Service Suppliers
6.05      The client/user will be free to choose the supplier of service that
best meets its requirement, subject -nly to the approval by the Board as
stated above.  The client/user will, however, normally provide evidence of
competitive quotations and justification for choosing other than the least
cost supplier.
Administrative Details
6.06      The Project Officers will form the primary point of contact and
assistance to the individual clients. The Administrator will have overall
responsibility for day-to-day management of the Fund. He/she should have
adequate experience in management of consultancy, preferably relevant for
export marketing and production management. If necessary, the Administrator
and/or Project Officers may spend a part of their initial orientation/training
program overseas. In addition, if necessary, they may have one short trip in
a year, probably in conjunction with one of the overseas activittes of a client.
6.07      The Board will usually invite the Administrator, Technical Advisors
and Project Officers to its meetings, and may in exceptional circumstances
even invite the client for presentation of the proposal. The proposals will
be processed within a stipulated time period on a first-come first-serve
basis, with no prior allocation of funds between services or product groups.
6.08      The Administrator will retain full documentation on all expenditures
(invoices, vouchers, etc.), available as required to support all statements of
expenditures submitted to the Bank.
Launching of the Fund
6.09      Two Technical Advisors will be recruited who will, during the
initial months, assist the Ministry in preparing a detailed action program for
the Board/Fund. Once all the steps necessary for establishing the Board and
the Fund are taken, the Board will launch the Fund through a formal publicity
campaign, which will hopefully bring the Fund to the notice of all potential
direct and indirect exporters and all potential service suppliers. This
campaign may include conferences, seminars, special supplements in press, mail
shots and TV coverage.
VII. Supervision and Monitoring
7.01      Supervision Missions by the Bank will take place regularly during
the period of this Project. These missions will include visits to individual
clients/users of the Fund, aside from meetings with the Board Members,
Secretariat Staff and Technical Advisors. These missions will have the same
access to reports and other outputs from the Fund supported activities as the
Secretariat Staff. Thus, the missions will also be obliged to preserve full
confidentiality of the information at the firm level as desired by the client.



- 56 -
ANNEX 4
Page 8 of 11
7.02      As stated above, the Fund operations will be periodically reviewed
through the Progress Reports to be submitted by the Board to the Minister of
Trade and the Bank. In aduition, the Fund accounts will be audited by an
independent and reputed Auditor acceptable to the Government and the Bank.
The Board will submit the audit reports to the Bank within nine months of the
end of the fiscal year. Finally, the Secretariat will prepare an Evaluation
Report on the export impact of the Fund and, inter alia, will make recom-
mendations regarding the future of the Fund. This report will be submitted to
the Bank for review by June 30, 1989. The Bank will assist the Secretariat in
preparing the Terms of Reference for this evaluation study that should be
completed around the middle of third year of the Project.
VIII. Operating Procedures
8.01      The operating procedures may be amended by the Board anytime, but
only with consent of the Minister of Trade and the Bank. The Board may add to
and/or elaborate/clarify the following operating procedures as deemed
necessary by its operational requirements. But the Board should keep the
Minister of Trade and the Bank informed of any major developments.
(a) Scheduling and Frequency of the Board Meetings
8.02      The Board Meetings will be held periodically; generally once a
month. The Administrator will distribute (through the Board's Chairman) an
Agenda at least one week in advance. In addition to these normal or scheduled
meetings, the Board may have unscheduled meetings as and when desired by the
Minister of Trade or the Board's Chairman. Even in the latter cases, as far
as possible, a written agenda will be distributed so that the Board Members
may contribute more effectively toward the deliberations.
8.03      The scheduled meetings will be devoted mostly to the approval of
proposals for the consultancy services needed by the export community, and in
this context, the meetings will also provide guidance to the Secretariat
regarding its broad mandate, overall functioning and generating future
proposals.
8.04      No proposal for assistance, once processed by the Administrator,
should have to wait for more than six weeks for a Board approval.
(b) Attendance at the Board Meetings
8.05      Board Members from the export community will be selected in their
personal capacity and as such will not be expected to be represented by
nominees, except in exceptional circumstances that may not exceed a few times
in a year. The government officials are also expected to follow the same
rule, though somewhat less stringently.



- 57 -
ANNEX 4
Page 9 of 11
(c) Voting Rights of Nominees and Board Decisions
8.06      In general, the Board will endeavor to take decisions through
consensus.  However, every Board Member will have a right to ask for a formal
vote. Each Board Member will enjoy equal voting rights, but the nominees may
not have the same voting rights.
(d) operational Reports
8.07      The Secretariat will operate on a planning cycle of 3 or 4 months,
and prepare a report on each planning cycle. These reports may cover all (or
any) aspects of the functioning of the Board/Fund, and will be submitted to
the Board for advice and guidance. In addition, the Secretariat, with assist-
ance of the two technical advisors, will submit an annual report to the Board,
which will be promptly transmitted to the Minister of Trade and the Bank, upon
Board's review.
(e) Confidentiality of Client Reports
8.08      The Board will honor the client's wishes for confidentiality of
business information, while simultaneously it will also guard against misuse
of the funds. Therefore, the Administrator will first reach an understanding
with the client regarding the appropriate degree of confidentiality necessary
from his/her business point of view. He should then authorize appropriate
access to these reports. In general, the concerned Technical Advisors and
Project Officers will have access to those reports though for restricted use
only, which will include scrutiny and analysis necessary to ensure that the
funds were appropriately used but will preclude photocopying any business
sensitive material without prior written permission of the client. As stated
above, the Bank supervision mission for the Export Development Project will
have the same access as the Board to the client reports and any other
documents relevant from the viewpoint of effective Bank supervision.
(f) Conflict of Interest
8.09      Board Members (or nominees) must declare any personal interest in
proposals sent to them for approval, no matter how slight. -They should then
either voluntarily abstain from the meeting during consideration of that
proposal, or request the Board to be included on the grounds that personal
interest is very slight or too distant. It is important that the Board
functions in a way that potential clients approach the Board without any fear
of transmitting business information to undesirable persons.
(g) Criteria for Approval of Service Suppliers
8.10      See above paragraphs 6.03 and 6.04.
8.11      The Service Suppliers will not be subject to any nationality
restrictions, nor their billing rates be subjected to Government regulations.
(h) Format of Application/Proposal
8.12      The Board will consider for approval only those proposals that are
complete and submitted in accordance with the prescribed format of application
for this purpose. This format will be worked out by the Administrator,



- 58 -
ANNEX 4
Page 10 of 11
assisted by the Senior Technical Advisors, as soon as feasible.
(i) Proposal Processing Schedule
8.13      From initial expression of interest in preparation of a proposal for
using the Fund facilities to the date of its submission to the Administrator,
the time elapsed should not exceed 12 weeks. The median should be around
eight weeks.
8.14      The Senior Technical Advisors will normally submit their technical
evaluation and recommendations for Board consideration within two weeks of
their receiving the proposals for formal review.
8.15      As indicated in (a) above, Board approval will then be within six
weeks.
vi) Fast-Track Processing
8.16      Proposals requiring up to US$10,000 Fund contribution will be pro-
cessed through a "Fast-Track" process within two weeks. This process will
only require the Administrator's approval (without going through a Board
meeting).
8.17      These decisions will be reviewed by the next Board meeting, which
may not over-rule them though it may provide guidance for future decisions.
8.18      As usual, the Technical Advisors will evaluate these proposals also
and make recommendations for Board's consideration.
(k) Coordination with Export Quality Upgrading and Training Programs
8.19      The Secretariat should ensure that the funds earmarked for the
Quality Upgrading and Improvement Program (see above para. 2.31) and the
Exporter Training Program (see above paras. 2.42 and 2.43) are available to
the potential users with the same ease as those earmarked for the
International Marketing and Production Management.
8.20      In this regard, all the technical advisors, besides assisting and
advising their respective agencies in the Ministry of Trade (e.g., ESB, DGFT
and Secretariat General), will maintain close collaboration with each other.
The two ESB Technical Advisors will not have primary responsibility for
processing proposals concerning Quality Upgrading and Training programs; their
technical advice, however, should be welcomed by the other Technical Advisors.



59_
ANNEX 4
Page 11 of 11
Export Support Board
Orsanization Chart
Minister of Trade
Export Support 'Board
Chairman
(Private Sector)
Members
- Direct Exporter
- Indirect Exporter
- Supplier of Export Services
- To be specified later
jSenior Technical Advisors
- Export Marketing                               _
- Production Management
i MOT   (ESB)
Secretariat
Administrator
(ESB)
Senior Technical Advisors       .                 Project Officers
-  Training                                      -  Export Marketing
-  Production Management
MOT (Secretary General)                       -  Economist/Financial Analyst
.-  To be specified later
.                 Support Staff
Senior Technical Advisor    --------
Quality Upgrading
MOT (DGFT)
Line Responsibility
--   -       Advisory role



INDONESIA
UPOaT DEVEL4FUHZT PROJECT
Exoorter Training Development Progra.
Terget 8rouP                           Number of events   Duration   Aprs. no. of
Subject of training event/courses                            main                       - ssoieated                       & type of training  per event  participants
1. Training of Trainers                                       - - Staff of local training institutlona  ------              Two aeries of     3 waeks/          35
four workshops    workshop
tl. Training of Exporters and Service Institutions
a. Workshops for Export ComunLty Snior Staff
Export proceduren and docuentation                   Supervisory staff &         MOT/PPEN and other minli-           Two workshops       I week         40-50
Export pre- and post-shipment financing              mlddle-lovel executives   triee' steff, and "other"             Two workshops       I week         40-50
Export credit guarantee and insurance                of mediu  to large          export-oriented business            Two.'vqrkshops      I week         40-50
Export standardization and quality control           (direct 6 indirect)         co munity Including consulting   Two workshops          I week         40-50
Export shipping aud freilght services                exporters, & export         firm                                Two workshops       I week         40-SO        a'
Export product development and adaptatlon            service institutions                                            Tvo workshops       I week         40-50
Export trade terms (e.g. incoterms)                  including banke,                                                Two workshops       I week         40-50
Export costing and pricing                           insurance and shipping                                          Two workshops       I week         40-50
Export trade informatLon and documentation           companies                                                       Two workshops       I week         40-50
b. Workshops for Export ComaunitZ
Senior Executives
Export marketing strategy and plan formulation  Middle-level and senior   NOT/3PEN and other .inistrLes             Two workshops       I week         30-40
Export pricing policy                               executives of medium to   managers & "other" export-            Two workshops       I week         30-40
Legal aspects of forelgn trade                      large (direct & indirect) oriented business comeunity           Two workshops       I week         30-40
Settlement of trade disputes                        exporters, and export       Including consulting firms          Two workshops       I week         30-40
DasLc  arketing concepts                            service institutions                                            Two workshops       I week         30-40
Export market research and selectlon                                                                                Two workshops       I week         30-40
Economic and trade cooperation in
international trade                                                                                               Two workshjps       I week         30-40
International monetary issues
and environment                                                                                                   Two workshops       I week         30-40
Joint ventures                                                                                                      Two workshops       I week         30-40
c. Action Learning Program in Export Marketing          Small/medium (direct/       Relevant government agencles        Four workshops       I week        60-d0
indirect) exporters        & "other" business community
d. Consultan   Skills for ExPort
e-ve op-ent and Promotlon                            Fport service institu-   HOT/SPEN managers                      Two workshops       I week         20-30
Lions' executives



- 61 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 5
OBJECTIVES AND TIMEFRAME OF
KEY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE ITEMS
I. EXPORT CREDIT INSURANCE AND GUARANTEE
Objectives: This work would provide the full range of technical, management,
and training assistance to the newly established P.T. Asuransi Ekspor Indonesia.
This work would be divided into two phases. Phase I would cover assessment of
the existing program and the identification of assistance required in areas of
management, staffing, training, financial structure, procedures and fee struc-
ture. Based on this assessment a proposal for assistance to meet these needs
would be prepared.   This work would be closely co-ordinated with the on-going
technical assistance on export credit in Bank Indonesia.   Phase II would
cover the implementation of this proposal.
Implement'ng Agency: P.T. Asuransi Ekspor Indonesia
Scope of Work: This task is estimated to require about 26 staffmonths of
specialist assistance over a period of 1-4i/2years. The estimated cost is
$0.4 million.
Indicative Timetable:
Review of consultant proposal
by Government and Bank                                 11/86
Initiation of consultant work (Phase I)                   1/87
Completion of Phase I                                     3/87
Initiation of Phase II                                   4/87
Completion of Phase II                                   9/88
II. QUALITY SUPPORT NETWORK
Objectives: This task would involve technical assistance to the Ministry of
Trade to strengthen the export quality support network. The work would focus
on improving the capability of the network of accredited bodies to provide the
business community a variety of services such as quality testing of products,
advice on implementation of quality control and testing equipment, assistance
on implementing quality management systems, and information and assistance on
technological matters. This proposed assistance would have two inter-related
objectives: (a) reorientation of selected government laboratories from the
quality control to export quality assistance; and (b) revising the present
frame of regulations and incentives for export quality improvement. This
program would also include feasibility studies for a packaging technical
center, technical centers for furniture and processed food, for adopting
voluntary certification and marking systems; and introduction of micro com-
puters and accreditation of enterprises for export quality network. The
consultants would also prepare six to eight quality management demonstration
operations. (Program 1 subprogram 2 of CERLAB report) as the central element
for launching the export quality strategy. These demonstration operations
would be financed through the Export Support Fund on a cost sharing basis.



_ 62 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 5
The four product groups are likely to be: canned fruits and vegetables,
frozen fishery products, rattan furniture and basketry, and exterior
plywood. Based on a first-come first-served basis, two manufacturing
establishments - one large and one meaium/siall - would be selected in each
product area where advanced quality management systems would be introduced.
Implementing Agency: Directorate General of Foreigr. Trade (MOT)
Scope of Work: This task would involve about 75 staff months of expatriate
consultants, and 50 staffmonths of local consultants at a total cost
(including contingencies) of $1.5 million.
Indicative Timetable:
Consultants recruited                                    9/86
Completion of studies on new technical centers           6/87
Implementation                                           10/86-4/89
III. FEASIBILITY/DETAILED DESIGN OF EXPORT ESTATE
Objectives: Establishment of the feasibility and preparation of detailed
design of an export estate/zone to be located at Cakung, Jakarta. This work
would cover all standard topics of feasibility and design and would give
special attention to recommending an appropriate incentive package with regard
to access to the local market, licensing and investment procedural
simplications, and access to imported iputs at world prices. Special
attention in the design would be given to determining the appropriate use of
existing facilities at Cakung.  To the maximum extent possible, this work will
make use of the SFADCO feasibility study on a proposed estate at Pulogadung.
Status: A feasibility study was completed in 1985 for an export estate in
Jakarta by SFADCO Consultants for the Ministry of Trade. GOI is presently
considering an alternative site (CAKUNG) and management arrangements as well
as modifications in some of the basic features of the estate such as the use
of bonding. COWI Consultants (Denmark) have been recruited to advise GOI on
the various options and to recommend an approach to the CAKUNG site that
effectively meets the objectives of export promotion. This interim work is
being financed under BAPINDO V (Loan 2277-IND). This interim consultant
assistance would identify the need for additional feasibility/design work
taking into account SFADCO's previous study. Based on the COWI report,
detailed TORs for feasibility/design will be prepared.
Scope of Work: This work is expected to involve about 12 staffmonths of
foreign consultants and 310 months of local consultants at a cost (including
contingencies) of $0.8 million. It is expected that a local firm would have
the lead in the detailed design phase of work.



- 63 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 5
Indicative Timetable:
Completion of interim COWI report by consultants
and submission to GOI/Bank for review                 5/86
Completion of feasibility/design study                  6/87
IV.  STUDY OF TRADING COMPANIES POTENTIAL IN MEPORT DEVELOPMENT
Objectives: The objective of this study would be to provide a detailed plan
to develop the role of trading companies in Indonesia's export promotion
effort. A previous consultant study by W.D. Scott (Review of Indonesia
Enterprises Mobilisation for Export Development) identified a potentially
important role for trading companies in export development and made a number
of broad recommendations to pursue in this areas. These recommendations
called for development of trading companies and specialist export marketing
organisations to take a major role in export marketing for smaller and medium
scale producers. In this regard it was reeommended that of a limited number
of large trading companies handling both export and import of manufactured
products be encouraged to provide marketing services to small and medium
exporters. In the private sector, the report suggested government action to
facilitate establishment of major industrial producers as separate trading
entitites to handle their own exports as well as those of other producers. In
the public sector it was recommended that the five state-owned trading
companies provide the basis for one more large trading companies with a
special focus on manufactured exports. It was also recommended that P.T.
Sarinah be developed on an export marketing organization for handicrafts and
homewares.
This proposed study will follow-up on these recommendations and
prepare a detailed action plan for possible implementation.
Supervisory Agency:  Ministry of Trade (ATRD)
Scope of Work: This work would involve about 9 manmonths of expatriate
consultant assistance at a cost of $150 thousand (including contingencies)
Indicative Timetable:
MOT to prepare draft TOR and furnish to
Bank for review                                       10/86
MOT to recruit consultants and initiate work            12/86
Study to be furnished to Bank for
review                                                 6/87
V.   REVIEW OF GOVERNMENT'S ROLE IN EXPORT POLICY, PROMOTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Objectives: This proposed study would review and make recommendations for
improving Government's institutional support for export development with
specific reference to: (a) clearly stated and communicated priorites for
export, (b) integrated and mutually supportive policies among the various
Ministries, (c) availibility of support services, and (d) streamlining of
government procedures as they affect exporters. Among other things this study
would address:



- 64 -
ANNEX 6
Page 4 or 5
*    the potential benefits from more formal mechanisms to co-ordinate
export-related planning, policies and procedures at ministerial
level;
*   ways of enhancing the status and independence of PANJATAP, such as
operating under a Presidential decree which emphasizes the
responsibility of individual departments to implement promptly and
effectively PANJATAP decisions and recommendations;
*   clarification of the respective roles of BAPPENAS, PANJATAP, BPEN/
NAFED and ATRD in export development, policy and planning;
improving the capability to support PANJATAP discussions with
independent policy analaysis;
*   review and make recommendations on the respective roles of the ESB,
BPEN/NAFED and other agencies, such as the Ministries of Industry,
Agriculture and Forestry, in providing technical assistance and
other support services to develop export industry production
capacity, productivity and quality improvement, and ho_ these
programmes should be integrated with export marketing support
programs;
recommendations on the most appropriate organisation structure for
BPEN/NAFED; and on the professional staff numbers and skills
required to support BPEN/NAFED objectives and programmes, with
particular emphasis on the need for people with substantial
commercial and industrial experience and on the employment terms and
conditions needed to enable BPEN/NAFED to recruit and retain such
staff.
Supervising Agency: Ministry of Trade (ATRD)
Scope of Work: This month would involve about 9 staffmonths of expatriate
consultant assistance of a cost of $150 thousand (including contingencies).
Indicative Timetable:
NOT to prepare TOR and furnish to
Rank for review -                                 10/86
NOT to recruit consultants and initiate work            12/86
Study to be furnished to Bank for review                6/87
VI. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO EXPORT SUPPORT BOARD
Objectives: The main objectives of the ESB will be to manage a fund which
will extend financial assistance to the export community by soliciting
proposals for assistance, on a cost-sharing basis, in alleviating constraints
faced by an individual firm or group of firms. To assist the ESB in this



- 65 -
ANNEX 6
Page 5 of 5
task, consultants will be recruited to work with the ESB's secretariat in the
areas of international marketing and production management. During the start-
up period, the consutlants would advise the ESB on staffing, preparing
guidelines for proposals and on launching the Fund. During the operational
period the technical advisors will assume responsibilities in the areas of
export marketing and production with regard to: 1) firm-level diagnosis and
recommendations; 2) technical evaluation of proposals; 3) technical evaluation
of service suppliers; 4) coordination with technical advisors on export
quality improvement program (HOT/DGFT), and training program (MOT); 5)
coordination with the three commercial Banks participating in the project; and
6) preparation of periodic reports to the Board as well as the overall
Evaluation Report on the impact of the Fund.
Implementing Agency: Export Support Board
Scope of Work: This task would involve 72 staff-months of expatriate
assistance and 185 staffmonths of local input over a period of three years.
Total cost, including incremental operating costs and contingencies, is
estimated at $2.1 million.
Indicative Timetable:
Recruitment of consultants                               9/86
Implementation                                           10/86-10/89
Evaluation Report to be submitted to
Bank/MOT for review                                    6/89



_ 66 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1
OBJECTIVES AND TITEFRAME OF
KEY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE ITEMS
I. EXPORT CREDIT INSURANCE AND GUARANTEE
Obhectives: This work would provide the full range of technical, management,
and training assistance to the newly established P.T. Asuransi Ekspor Indonesia.
This work would be divided into two phases. Phase I would cover assessment of
the existing program and the identification of assistance required in areas of
management, staffing, training, financial structure, procedures and fee struc-
ture. Based on this assessment a proposal for assistance to meet these needs
would be prepared.   This work would be closely co-ordinated with the on-going
technical assistance on export credit in Bank Indonesia.   Phase II would
cover the implementation of this proposal.
Implementing Agency: P.T. Asuransi Ekspor Indonesia
Scope of Work. This task is estimated to require about 26 staffmonths of
specialist assistance over a period of 1-Av/zyears. The estimated cost is
$0.4 million
Indicative Timetable:
Review of consultant proposal
by Government and Bank                                 11/86
Initiation of consultant work (Phase I)                   1/87
Completion of Phase I                                     3/87
Initiation of Phase II                                    4/87
Completion of Phase II                                    9/88
II. QUALITY SUPPORT NETWORK
Objectives: This task would involve technical assistance to the Ministry of
Trade to strengthen the export quality support network. The work would focus
on improving the capability of the network of accredited bodies to provide the
business community a variety of services such as quality testing of products,
advice on implementation of quality control and testing equipment, assistance
on implementing quality management systems, and information and assistance on
technological matters. This proposed assistance would have two inter-related
objectives: (a) reorientation of selected government laboratories from the
quality control to export quality assistance; and (b) revising the present
frame of regulations and incentives for export quality improvement. This
program would also include feasibility studies for a packaging technical
center, technical centers for furniture and processed food, for adopting
voluntary certification and marking systems; and introduction of micro com-
puters and accreditation of enterprises for export quality network. The
consultants would also prepare eight quality management demonstration
operations. (Program 1 subprogram 2 of CERLAB report) as the central element
for launching the export quality strategy. These demonstration operations
would be financed through the Export Support Fund on a cost sharing basis.



- 67 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2
The four product groups are likely to be: canned fruits and vegetables,
frozen fishery products, rattan furniture and basketry, and exterior
plywood. Based on a first-come first-served basis, two manufacturing
establishments - one large and one medium/small - would be selected in each
product area where advanced quality management systems would be introduced.
Implementing Agency: Directorate General of Foreign Trade (MOT)
Scope of Work: This task would involve about 75 staff months of expatriate
consultants, and 50 staffmonths of local consultants at a total cost
(including contingencies) of $1.5 million.
Indicative Timetable
Consultants recruited                                    9/86
Completion of studies on new technical centers           6/87
Implementation                                           10/86-4/89
III. FEASIBILITY/DETAILED DESIGN OF EXPORT ESTATE
Objectives. Establishment of the feasibility and preparation of detailed
design of an export estate/zone to be located at Cakung, Jakarta. This work
would cover all standard topics of feasibility and design and would give
special attention to recommending an appropriate incentive package with regard
to access to the local market, licensing and investment procedural
simplications, and access to imported iputs at world prices. Special
attention in the design would be given to determining the appropriate use of
existing facilities at Cakung. To the maximum extent possible, this work will
make use of the SFADCO feasibility study on a proposed estate at Pulogadung.
Status A feasibility study was completed in 1985 for an export estate in
Jakarta by SFADCO Consultants for the Ministry of Trade. GOI is presently
considering an alternative site (CAKUNG) and management arrangements as well
as modifications in some of the basic features of the estate such as the use
of bonding. COWI Consultants (Denmark) have been recruited to advise GOI on
the various options and to recommend an approach to the CAKUNG site that
effectively meets the objectives of export promotion. This interim work is
being financed under BAPINDO V (Loan 2277-IND). This interim consultant
assistance would identify the need for additional feasibility/design work
taking into account SFADCO-s previous study. Based on the COWI report,
detailed TORs for feasibility/design will be prepared.
Scope of Work: This work is expected to involve about 12 staffmonths of
foreign consultants and 310 months of local consultants at a cost (including
contingencies) of $0.8 million. It is expected that a local firm would have
the lead in the detailed design phase of work.



- 68 -
ANNEX 6
Patge 3
Indicative Timetable
Completion of interim COWI report by consultants
and submission to GOI/Bank for review                  5/86
Completion of feasibility design study                   6/87
Implementation                                           7/87
IV. STUDY OF TRADING COMPANIES POTENTIAL IN EXPORT DEVELOPMENT
Objectives. The objective of this study would be to provide a detailed plan
to develop the role of trading companies in IndonesiaCs export promotion
effort. A previous consultant study by W.D. Scott (Review of Indonesia
Enterprises Mobilisation for Export Development) identified a potentially
important role for trading companies in export development and made a number
of broad recommendations to pursue in this areas. These recommendations
called for development of trading companies and specialist export marketing
organisations to take a major role in export marketing for smaller and medium
scale producers. In this regard it was recommended that of a limited number
of large trading companies handling both export and import of manufactured
products be encouraged to provide marketing services to small and medium
exporters. In the private sector, the report suggested government action to
facilitate establishment of major industrial producers as separate trading
entitites to handle their own exports as well as those of other producers. In
the public sector it was recommended that the five state-owned trading
companies provide the basis for one more large trading companies with a
special focus on manufactured exports. It was also recommended that P.T.
Sarinah be developed on an export marketing organization for handicrafts and
homewares.
This proposed study will follow-up on these recommendations and
prepare a detailed action plan for possible implementation.
Supervisory Agency. Ministry of Trade (ATRD)
Scope of Work: This work would involve about 9 manmonths of expatriate
consultant assistance at a cost of $150 thousand (including contingencies)
Indicative Timetable
MOT to prepare draft TORs and submit to
Bank for review                                        10/86
MOT to recruit consultants and initiate work             12/86
Study to be submitted to MOT and Bank for
review                                                  6/87
V.   REVIEW OF GOVERNMENT-S ROLE IN EXPORT POLICY PROMOTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Objectives. This proposed study would review and make recommendations for
improving Government's institutional support for export development with
specific reference to: (a) clearly stated and communicated priorites for
export, (b) integrated and mutually supportive policies among the various
Ministries, (c) availibility of support services, and (d) streamlining of
government procedures as they affect exporters. Among other things this study
would address:



_ 69 -
ANNEX 6
Page 4
*   the potential benefits from more formal mechanisms to co-ordinate
export-related planning, policies and procedures at ministerial
level;
*   ways of enhancing the status and independence of PANJATAP, such as
operating under a presidential decree which emphasizes the
responsibility of individual departments to implement promptly and
effectively PANJATAP decisions and recomendations;
*   clarification of the respective roles of BAPPENAS, PANJATAP, BPEN/
NAFED and ATRD in export development, policy and planning;
   improving the capability to support PANJATAP discussions with
independent policy analaysis;
*   review and make recommendations on the respective roles of the ESB,
BPEN/NAFLD and other agencies, such as the Ministry of Industry,
Agriculture and Forestry, in providing technical assistance and
other support services to develop export industry production
capacity, productivity and quality improvement and how these
programmes should be integrated with export marketing support
programs;
recommendations on the most appropriate organisation structure for
BPEN/NAFED; and on the professional staff numbers and skills
required to support BPEN/NAFED objectives and programues, with
particular emphasis on the need for people with substantial
commercial and industrial experience and on the employment terms and
conditions needed to enable BPEN/NAFED to recruit and retain such
staff.
Supervising Agency: Ministry of Trade (ATRD)
Scope of Work: This month would involve about 9 staffuonths of expatriate
consultant assistance of a total cost of $150 thousand.
Indicative Timetable:
Preparation of TORs by MOT and submit to
Bank for review                                       10/86
MOT to recruit consultants and
initiate work                                         12/86
Study to be submitted to HOT and Bank
for review                                             6/87
VI. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO EXPORT SUPPORT BOARD
Objectives. The main objectives of the ESB will be to manage a fund which
will extend financial assistance to the export community by soliciting
proposals for assistance, on a cost-sharing basis, in alleviating constrai-its
faced by an individual firm or group of firms. To assist the ESB in thl:.



- 70 -
ANNEX 6
Page 5
task, consultants will be recruited to work with the ESB's secretariat in the
areas of international marketing, production management, quality upgrading and
training. During the start-up period, the consutlants would advise the ESB on
staffing, preparing guidelines for proposals and on launching the Fund.
During the operational period the technical advisors will assume responsibili-
ties in the areas of exnort marketing and production with regard to 1) firm-
level diagnosis and recommendations; 2) technical evaluation of proposals;
3) technical evaluation of service suppliers; 4) coordinating with technical
advisors on export quality improvement program (MOT/DGFT) and training program
(MOT/CTET); 5) coordinating with the four commercial Banks participating in
the project; and 6) preparation of periodic reports to the Board as well as
the overall Evaluation Report on the impact of the Fund.
Implementing Agency: Export Support Board
Scope of Work: This task would involve 72 staff-months of expatriate
assistance and 185 staffmonths of local input over a period of three years.
Total cost, including incremental operating costs and contingencies, is
estimated at $2.1 million.
Indicative Timetable:
Recruitment of consultants                               9/86
Implementation                                           10/86-10/89
Evaluation Report to be submitted to
Bank/MOT for review                                    6/89



- 71 -
ANNEX 7
INDONESIA
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Cumulative Disbursements of the Proposed Loan
(US$ million)
Estimated cumula-
Estimated pumula-       tive disbursement:   Total estimated
Bank fiscal     tive disbursement:         TA and Training         cumulative
year/semester   Credit component /a           components lb        disbursements
FY87
First                    0.5                     0.3                  0.8
Second                   3.6                     1.9                  5.5
FY88
First                   10.2                     4.2                 14.4
Second                  19.4                     6.5                 25.9
FY89
First                   28.6                     8.7                 37.3
Second                  36.2                    11.0                 47.2
FY90
First                   42.3                    13.1                 55.4
Second                  46.4                    13.4                 59.8
FY91
First                   50.0                    13.5                 63.5
Second                  51.0                    13.5                 64.5
/a   Estimated disbursements conform with the disbursement profile for IDF
loans in East Asia and Pacific Region.
/b   Estimated disbursements reflect anticipated implementation timetable of
technical assistance and training items.



-72 -                         ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Documents Available in the Project File Index
I.   Documents Directly Related to the Project
A-1       Statement of the PBs on their Development Strategy
A-2       Overview of Participating Banks- Operations/Performance, 1984 Audits
and Annual Reports
B-1       Export Credit Insurance and Guarantee Institution (P.T. ASEI). Task
Description for consultant assistance, Decree, Subsidiary Agreement
(draft)
B-2       Export Quality Upgrading and Improvement Program:  Task Description
and cost estimates
B-3       Decree of the Minister of Trade for establishing the ESB/ESF, and
Draft Letter of Invitation including task description for technical
advisors to assist the ESB
C-1       Draft Letter of Invitation including task description for Exporter
Training Needs Program
D-1       Detailed Cost Estimates used for the TA and Training components
II. Consultant and Bank Reports/Studies
E-1  Consultants' Proposal for Bankers Training Program (Industrial Develop-
ment Authority of Ireland, April 1985)
E-2 Export Estate Feasibility Study: Final Report (Shannon Free Airport
Development Company/P.T. Encona Design Engineering, August 1985)
E-3 Export Estate Prefeasibility Study (Shannon Free Airport Development
Authority, 1984)
E-4  Review of I2donesian Enterprises Mobilization for Export Development:
3 Volumes (W.D. Scott & Co., September 1984)
E-5 Export Quality Upgrading and Improvement Program: Final Report (CERLAB,
January 1985, May 1985, August 1985)
E-6 Improving the Quality of Indonesian Exports of Fish, Fish Products, and
Shrimps, and Upgrading the Quality Control Systems (USFDA, 1983).



- 73 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 2
E-7 A Preliminary Report on tbe Quality Control of a number of Indonesian
Agricultural and Industrial Export Commodities (J.H. Broadbent, March
1983)
E-8 Preparatory Mission Consultant's Report (A. Singer, April 1985)
E-9 Training Needs and Capacity Analysis in Indonesia (ITC, April 1985)
E-10 Study on Indonesian Training Needs for Export Development: Final Report
(MOT(ATRD)/LP3ES, August 1985)
E-11 A Proposal to Strengthen IndonesiaCs Duty and Indirect Tax
Exemption/Drawback System



<>0-00 \t<: 0SouthChin 0 00 ;<<) I > CbPHIIIPP>t- t_INDONESIA 
0 '74 5 - - < <    \       S~~~~~~~ALAYSIA  J:                                 n /t
ffSaSXeRtA~~~-C                                                                                         P
-06_, -   t 9<   B !_    /Ovo Sea      0    0  g tX  r e^       W      4t>'9                       tP  A  \               t Z~~~~~
0 ] -   0  _g *, > J g 4   e                 -jJ               3                   e o n do S e o   w           ) -   ) ffi~~~~~~~~~2
;000 TJ^ : 0 C7__ 10 ct '=- _ !<;>  (:> < 4,_sx ii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~$V
~~ 0000 &121 , X iz4=?5 3t < v~~
23v                              :o.  ceonZ-7,=w



