Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10544
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE AND BETTERMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2717-IND)
APRIL 17, 1992
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriration.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Annual Average of US$ 1.00 in Rupiah
1985 (Board Approval)           1,111
1986 (Board Presentation)       1,283
1987                            1,644
1988                            1,681
1989                            1,770
1990 (Project Completion)       1,843
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACPONYMS USED
DBM                Dinas Bina Marga: Provincial Roads Department
DGH                Directorate General of Highways
DPUP               Provincial Department of Public Works
Genmerri           Generalized Model for the Evaluation of Rural Roads
HDM                (Bank Created) Highway Design Model
IRMS               Integrated Road Management System
ITB                Institute of Technology at Bandung
SAR                Staff Appraisal Report
TA                 Technical Assistance



FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C 20433
US.A
Oflie of D,ector-.C44raI
Operations Evaluation
April 17, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND TIE pRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Indonesia Highway Maintenance and
Bettement Project (Loan 2717-IND)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "P.oject
Completion Report on Indonesia Highway Maintenance and Betterment Project (Loan
2717-IND)" prepared by the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office. No audit of
this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
RQRJEiT COMPLETION REPOBT
INDONESIA
HiGHWAY MAINTENANCE AND BETTERMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2717-IND)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .                 .  .  .   i
EVALUATION SUMMARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .i
PART I      : PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.  Project Identity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
2. Project Background  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
3. Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . . 2
4.  Project Design and Organization . . . . . . . . . . 2
5.  Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
6.  Project Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
7. Project Sustainability. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
8. Bank Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..    8
9. Borrower Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
10.  Project Relationship  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
11.  Consulting Services.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
12.  Project Documentation and Data  . . . . . . . . . . 12
PART II     : PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
PART III    : STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1:  Related Bank Loans and Credit . . . . . . . . . . .  14
Table 2:  Proje;t timetable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
Table 3:  Loan Disbursements  ........ ......  .  16
Table 4:  Project Implementation .      . . . . . . . . . . .   17
Table 5:  Project Costs and Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Table 6:  Project Results . . . ..... . ..  . . .19
Table 7:  Status of Covenants . . . . . . .       .  .   .   . 20
Table 8s  Use of Bank Resources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
IBRD  19491R1    Transportation Network
IBRD  19492R     Highway Maintenance and Betterment Project;  Sumatera
IBRD  19493R     Highway Maintenance and Betterment Project; Java and Bali
iBRD  19494R     Highway Maintenance and Betterment Project; Kalimantan and
Sulawesi
IBRD  19598R1    Highway Maintenance and Betterment Project; Timor
rThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
|of their offiial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPQRT
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE AND BETTERMENT PRO.JECT
(LOAN 2717-IND)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Repor. (PCR) for the Highway
Maintenance and Betterment Project in Indonesia, for which Loan 2717-IND in the
amount of US $ 300 million was approved on June 12 1986. The loan was closed on
December 31 1990 as scheduled. It was fully disbursed and the last disbursement
was on April    1991.
The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division of the
Country Department V of the Asia Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary,
Parts 1 and III). The Borrower was sent Parts I and III and requested to prepare
Part II but no reply was received.
Preparation of the PCR was based on information contained in the
Staff Apraisal Report, the Loan Agreement, supervision reports, consultants'
progress reports, Borrower's progress reports, correispondence in the project
files and internal Bank memoranda.



INDONESIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE AND BETTERHENT PROJECT
__(LN 2717-IND)      _
EVALUATION SU¶ffAnY
Project Objectives
The project's main objectives were to (i) improve the planning,
design and execution of highway investment and maintenance programs, in
particular by establishing a pavement management system; (ii) help GOI pursue
its strategy of giving priority to maintenance and betterment of its highway
network; and (iii) improve road transport regulations and strengthen
institutional capacity.
Implementation Experience
The civil works and equipment procurement comp6nente were
implemented satisfactorily. There were hunCreds of contracts -hich were
executed very close to appraisal schedule. In many cases, bid64ng was ahead of
schedule. The program of periodic road maintenance was expanded substantially
with Bank approval and disbursements almost quadrupled due in part to the
Government giving out all works out on contract to local contract rs  for
which Bank's share was 70' compared to 20% for works by force account. The
shortage of local counterpart funds may have propelled the Government into
contracting out civil works. The administration of procurement especially for
the civil works was laborious but on the whole there were not many serious
problems (paras. 5.1-5.7). The implementation of consultancy services was
also satisfactory (paras 11.1 and 11.2).
Project Results
The physical progress of the project was satisfactory and the
targets set at appraisal were more than accomplished. The Bank project which
was only a relatively small part of the Government's total program of road
improvements, contributed to the considerab,. improvement of the quality of
the national and provincial road networks during the project period. Economic
rates of return of the project's various components were about the same as in
the SAR. The development of a strong contracting and consulting industry,
which the project supported, could also prove to be one of the most long
lasting and beneficial effects of Bank involvement in the transport sector
(paras. 6.1 to 6.3).
The project's primary institutional objective, the establishment
of an integrated road management system (IRMS) was mostly achieved. It could
not have been achieved without the assistance of Bank staff who virtually
directed the consultants work (para. 6.4).



ii
Project impact on institutional and technical development was
mixed. Some TA services produced very good results. Others were
disappointing. This can be related to the insufficient time spent in
supervision of these services (para 6.5).
Project Sustainability
The prospects are good that benefits achieved under the project
would be sustained, particularly in the long term, because of (i) the
establishment of the IRMS and improvement in planning capabilities; (ii) the
increase in funding of road maintenance, which the project helped bring about;
(iii) the shift from force account work to contracting out for the execution
of road maintenance; and (iv) the real although lesser than expected
strengthening of the institutions. Little progress occured in road transport
policiei but the project paved the way for better defined measures now under
implementation under the follow-up project (paras 7.1 and 7.2).
Findings and Lessons Learned
Project implementation experience calls for reducing the degree of
control exercised by the Bank in the supervision of procurement, particularly
in local competitive bidding. A different approach to control of procurement
and contract administration now tried with the follow up project could be as
effective and could have saved large amounts of Bank staff supervision time
(paras 5.2, 5.6 and 5.8).
The Loan's high disbursement percentage for road maintenance works
by contract was a powerful incentive for GOI to increase maintenance
expenditures and to contract out the works (paras 5.3 and 5.4).
Major institutional developments such as the establishment of a
rational planning/programming process for road maintenance and rehabilitation,
which was pursued over almost three Bank highway projects in the 1980s require
much time and considerable Bank staff input. The Bank should therefore select
carefully its objectives, pursue only what it has the resources to achieve and
expect success only through continuous action over a series of projects (para
6.4).
As also shown by the two previous highway projects, once
implementation is underway, procurement issues and monitoring of physical
progress tends to take precedence and, without a conscious effort and proper
allocation of staff time, improving overall sector management and resolving
sector issues is likely to be given second priority. Better progress reports
by the borrower and more detailed aide-memoires and supervision reports by the
Bank would have helped maintain a focus on broader sector issues (para 8.3).
An abrupt move into contracting out of tasks previously executed
by government, periodic road maintenance in this case, is likely to create
major quality problems. Large training programs and well understood quality
control procedures need to accompany the change (para 9.2).



iii
Only a few key matters should be convenanted and others for which
he evaluation of progress can only be more judgemental should be included in
a more flexible action plan which would constitute a 'road map" of what
progess is expected by both parties (para 12.1).
Reporting requirements should be agre   before project
implementation and compliance followed up closely during supervision. Propez
resources should be given for that purpose to the implementation agency's unit
in charge of reporting (para i2.2).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE AND BETTERMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2717-IND)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
i. Project Identity
Project Name: Highway Maintenance and Betterment Project
Loan No      : 2717 - IND
RVP Unit    : Asia Region Country Department V
Country      :Indonesia
Sector       :Transport
Subsector   : Highways
2. Background
2.1 At the time of project appraisal in October 1985, the Bank had already
financed 14 projects in the transport sector. The majority (8 projects including
1 rural roads project) covered the highway subsector which absorbed the bulk of
Bank lending to the sector and amounted to about US $ 753.0 billion.   Road
transport remains today the dominant mode of transport in the islands with over
half the freight transport and about three quarters of the passenger traffic.
2.2 The sector development objectives were to keep pace with Government plans
for economic growth, which were aimed at steering the economy away from its
dependance on oil through diversification of the manufacturing sector, expansion
of export trade and settlements in the outer islands of the archipelago, and to
improve overall efficiency of the sector. In the highway subsector, it meant the
improvement of the national and provincial road networks, the improvement of road
access to rural areas, strengthening of the institutional capacity to fund and
maintain the road system and modernizing the regulatory policies governing road
transport.
2.3 The first systematic approach to the development of the highway sub-sector
began with the Fifth Highway Prr ect (Loan 1696 - IND, May 1979) when the Bank
attempted to introauce the Government to the application of economic criteria in
the preparation of highway investment and maintenance programs and to engage the
Government in a dialogue on overall sub-sector strategy and a range of sub-sector
issues. The issues included the improvement of sector organization and
management, overhaul of the road traffic and road transport and licensing laws,
rationalization of the assessment and collection of road user charges,
elimination of fuel price subsidies and enforcement of vehicle dimensions and
axle load controls.
2.4  Bank involvement in the highway subsector became broader and deeper in the
two projects that followrd, namely, the Highway Betterment Project (Loan 2404 -



2
IND, April 1984) and the project under review in this PCR. The Bank's attention
hud already shifted from financing civil works only to training and strengthening
institutiona at central and provincial goverrrnent levels. With this project, the
Bank now sought to involve itself in the whole of the Government's highway
expenditure programs and to contribute to improving performance of the sub-
sector. The Bank was edging towards sector type lending operations which became
a reality in the ongoing Highway Sector Project (Loan 3133 - IND, December 1989).
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.1 Prolect ObJectives. The first objective was to improve the planning, design
and execution of highway investment and maintenance programs, in particular by
establishing and operating a road pavement management system which was calibrated
for Indonesian road condiLions. It necessitated the continuation of assistance
given in earlier projects to develop a realistic data collection and processing
system to provide the basis for the application of the pavement management
system. A second objective was to assist the Government to pursue its highway
sector strategy of giving priority to maintenance and upgrading (betterment) of
the national and provincial road networks. Thirdly, the project also aimed at
improving legislation to regulate road transport and traffic and _trengthening
institutional capacity particularly for road maintenance.
3.2 Project Description. The project consisted of:
(a) Civil Works
(i) periodic maintenance works on about 6,600 kms of national and
provincial roads,
(ii) betterment of about 1900 kms of intercity national and provincial
roads,
(iii) repair of about 2200 m of bridges, and
(iv) replacement of about 7000 m of defective bridges;
(b) Procurement of (i) road maintenance equipment, (ii) laboratory equipment for
quality control, (iii) automatic traffic counters and mobile weigh scales,
and (iv) equipment for vehicle testing;
(c) Consulting services to (i) design and supervise the civil works, (ii)
improve highway management, (iii) improve road maintenance planning, (iv)
improve management of oad transport and traffic, (v) draft revisions to road
transport and traffic regulations, (vil develop the capabilities of local
contractors and consultants, and (vii' prepare and implement highway safety
measures; and
(d) Overseas training.
4. Project Design and Organization
4.1 The project civil works were programmed, designed and implemented mostly in
accordance with DGH's own "state of the art" procedures which were a result to
a good extent of the preceding Bank projects commenced in the late sixties, to



3
rehabilitate and improve the national and provincial road networks which had
seriously deteriorated after decades of neglect. Prior to the Fifth Highway
Project, much -if the selection of roads included in DGH's programs was based on
obvious road priorities rnud ad hoc collection and processir of road data mainly
relating to traffic. The first program to be designed following a methodology to
systematically screen and evaluate road priorities was financea under that
project.
4.2 Tha Highway Betterment Project, which followed the Fifth Project, sought to
refine the methodology employed to evaluate the rehabilitation and improvement
programs and design a country wide data collectio.i and processing system that was
relevant to the planning needs of the country. A screening model was
substantially completed under that project in accordance with procedures and
criteria agreed with the Bank. Yet, although it was a useful tool to rank road
priorities, it did not address the requ4.rements of road mai  -nan - planning and
was insufficient to decermine the optiitium balance of roa    habilitation and
maintenance expenditures. It remained tc develop the screening mode into a road
pavement manaLement system in which both rehabilitation and maintenance programs
would be subject to uniform economic prioritization criteria and which would
enable the Government to respond in a rational way to budget trimming demands.
4.3  How to do this could not be fully agreed during appraisal because of the
then weakness of DGH's planning department. However, a strategy was agreed when
project implementation started and after DGH's planning department had been
strengthened. To nrepare these developments, the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR)
could have discussed the work that had already been done on a varietyt of
management systems by technical assistance consultants in earlier projects and
elaborate on the steps to be taken and the definition and scope of additional
technical assistance that would be needed to achieve what was a main project
objective and a logical development of the preceding two Bank-financed projects.
Reference could have also been made to the HDM-III model which made feasible the
evaluation of economic needs and the use of uniform prioritization criteria. The
model was used later in the project.
4.4 For the first time, this project included assistance to implement a large
maintenance program. It also provided a strong incentive to use private
contractors for that purpose (the disbursement percentage for contract work was
set at 70X against 202 for force account work).   Tl}s was possible because the
Government's capacity to mb.ntain its road networks had heen steadily improving
in particular through technical assistance to the central and provincial
governments financed under successive Bank projects. The project's size also
reflected a stepping-up of the road betterment program in order to put the
national and provincial road .'tworks in a condition to benefit from the improved
maintenance efforts. The roW' betterment programs were well prepared and were
timed so that the Bank could participate in financing a second slice of the
Government's Fourth Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita IV, 1984/85 - 1988/89) -
the first slice was being financed under the then ongoing Highway Betterment
Project. The project also fitted into Bank's plans to move early into sector type
lending before a full fledged sector loan.
4.5  A weakness in project design was the absence of an assessment of the
sector's training needs - the shortage of qualified and experienced manpower at



4
all levels is a key problem ia the sector - in order to prepare a training
comporent in the context of an agreed overall training program. The training
component was narrow in its scope, and provided funding to meet ad hoc requests
for training overseas. In order to ensure that priority tra'ning needs are met,
the training component for such type of project should be required to be fitted
into an overall training program.
+. 6   A  process  of  devolution  of  road  administration  powers  (planning,
construction and maintenance) to the provincial governments had been started
during implementation of the previous project but the provincial road agencies
still depended for the development and maintenance of their r:oads on the
technical support of the Directorate General Highways (DGH) located in the
central government. To help DGH fulfill its role, technical assiscance services
were provided in key areas. The reorganization of the sector administration and
the smooth relationships between DGH and the provincial highway departments
enabled an efficient and fast preparation of the project and its cowj,.etion close
to schedule.
5. Project Implementation
5.1  Because of the character of the project as a near sector type lending
operation, Bank staff had agteed with the Government at appraisal on a broad
framework of rules to govern project execution. The rules, which had been
developed in earlier projects, set the criteria for sub-project selection and
design and procurement procedures. Agreem.ients were reached on the first phases
of the road betterment and bridge replacement programs and annual periodic
maintenance programs. Documentation for bidding for civil works had been approved
before negctiations by which time contractor prequalification had also been
completed. Bidding for civil works commenced soon afterwards and the contracts
for the first phases were awarded on schedule. Project execution began
immediately after loan effectiveness with no significant problems.
5.2   Bidding for subsequent phases also took place close to the appraisal
schedule. In many cases, bidding was even ahead of schedule. There was a major
over commitment for all categories of civil works contracts which was eventually
paid by GOI and, to a lesser extent, the follow up Highwa; Sector Project which'.
GOI expected to be ready earlier on.   Total length of rcads covered by the
betterment contracts amounted to about 2766 kms compared to the appraisal
estimate of 1900 kms. Bridge replacement contracts had been signed for 17,791 m
compared to 7000 m scheduled for construction at appraisal. Periodic maintenance
reports do not give details of lengths of road sectiens involved and type of work
executed but records show that disbursements on periodic maintenance by contract
more than quadrupled under the project and about 6,000 km of roads received
periodic  maintenance  under  the  project.         This  relatively  successful
implementation from the administrative point of view shows adequate experience
on the part of the Government with Bank procurement procedures. This may call
for reducing the degree of control hitherto exercised by the Bank in the
supervision of procurement particularly in LCB.
5.3 Although Bank supervision reports recorded many instances of construction
delays, overall, disbursement figures ran well ahead of appraisal estimates in



5
FY 1988 (144 Z) and FY 1989 (119 Z). Actual disbursement on periodic maintenance
programs were also much higher than planned. There were two reasons for this.
First, the Government began to execute almost all the works by contract thus
responding to Bank pressure during project preparation and the incentive
mentioned in para 4.4 above (which implied a much higher disbursement percentage)
and second, the Government was increasing budget allocations for periodic
maintenance works in preference to betterment works.
5.4 Of the potential risks s'.died by the Bank at appraisal, the most important
was tbe risk that che Governm:nt would be unable to provide counterpart funds for
the project. The shortage 3f local funds may have propelled the Government
initially into executing periodic maintenance by contract rather than by force
account because of the larger contribution by the Bank for works executed by
contract and may have also played a role in the Government's decision to expand
the periodic road maintenance programs. The lesson learned is that changes in
agreed programs are more likely to occur when the Government is short of local
funding and that these changes (which can be an opportunity for positive change)
should be subject to scrutiny during projp t implementation.
5.5 In its supervision of the project, the Bank gave priority to procurement
matters with the result that almost all correspondence in the files relate to
procurement. The absence of any real issue in procurement of works and goods
under ICB conditions and the fact that many of the issues raised by the Bank,
relating to LCB and other methods of procurement, were finally explained by the
Government to Bank's satisfaction poses the question of whether Bank staff went
too far in devoting so much time on procurement matters.
5.6 Although the loan agreement provided for post review of the bidding and
contract award process for civil works contracts estimated to cost less than US
$ 3.0 million and there were about 500 such contracts awarded under LCB
conditions, in practice, there was little difference between post review and
prior review in the sense that Bank staff scrutinized all contract awards. Much
Bank staff time could have been saved in post review cases if (i) Bank
communicated with the Government only in the event that it did not agree with a
contract award, all other contract awards to be regarded by the Government as
automatically valid, (ii) Government submission of documentation had been limited
to two conformed copies of contract and a copy of the bid evaluation (in detailed
form only if the Government had awarded to a bidder other than the lowest bidder)
and (iii) Bank reviewed in detail only those contract awards not made to the
lowest bidder. This approach is being partly applied under the ongoing Highway
Sector Project where post review of procurement and contract administration is
also done in a random basis.
5.7 Moreover, the Bank might have also required the Government not to submit for
Bank's approval every modification and variation of a contract but only those
modifications and variations that were 'substantial', i.e. those that would
increase the original contract price by more than 15 Z or that might adversely
affect the economic rates of return regardless of their cost implications.
Procurement issues of a sensitive nature such as Bank concern about the
Government not following LCB procedures agreed with the Bank at appraisal (for
example, open bidding and public opening of bids) and doubts about the
authenticity of documents should be discussed confidentially and checked in the



6
field during supervision missions or handled through the Resident Mission. Some
of these lessons have already been incorporated in the supervision of the ongoing
Highway Sector Project.
5.8 The project suggests that, since the Government faces a risk in post reviews
of contract awards equal to that ir. prior reviews because the Bank will always
refuse disbursements against contracts awarded in violation of Bank procurement
guidelines, the Bank may no longer insist on prior review in most procurement in
countries with sophisticated institutions and a good understanding of Bank
procurement policies and procedures except for the purposes of determining that
bid documents and bidding procedures are acceptable to the Bank. The matter of
prior or post review of contract awards may be left to the Government to decide
and the review of LCB contracts should be done preferably in the field. Such a
change would encourage the Government to police its own conduct and ensure that
procurement processes and documentation comply strictly with Bank guidelines
because the consequences to the Government of not doing so in the form of delays
and inconveniences would far outweigh those to the Bank. The responsibility for
ensuring that bid documents and bidding and contract awards are in accordance
with Bank procurement guidelines may be entrusted to the Government's project
ccordinator whose position may be strengthened so as to assume a supervisory role
over agencies that are involved in procurement in Bank-financed projects. The
Bank should study whether DGH has reached the point where such approach to
procurement would be beneficial.
6. Project Results
6.1 The physical progress of the project was satisfactory and the targets set
at appraisal were more than accomplished. Although the project represented only
a small part (12 Z) of the Government's total expenditures on highways during the
project period, overall progress is evidenced by the improvement in stability
of the national and provincial roads during that period. The average roughness
of the network (by vehicle-km) decreased for example from 6.3 in 1988 to 5.4 in
1990. The process is continuing under the Highway Sector Project and it should
be only a few more years before most of the road network can be brought to a
stable condition that can be sustained by normal maintenance activities.
6.2   It was not possible to recalculate the economic rate of return of the civil
works financed under the project mainly because Bina Marga has now abandoned the
GENMERRI model and Road Maintenance Management System (RMMS) and uses a totally
different approach to the programming of its road works based o the Bank's
Highway Design Model. Traffic data have also proven quite unreliable in recent
years and would not be an adequate basis for a precise revaluation of project
benefits.   Since project costs were probably much lower than estimated at
appraisal (1989 average costs were below the SAR's base costs) but traffic growth
is also likely to have been lower until the recent surge in non-oil exports and
rapid GNP growth, economic rates of return are likely to have remained about the
same as estimated at appraisal.
6.3 All periodic road maintenance contracts (417) and all bridge replacement
contracts (58) were executed by local contractors. The latter contracts were



7
awarded under ICB conditions. Out of the 68 contracts for road betterment works
only 6 were executed by foreign or foreign/local joint ventures. Fifty three of
the contracts were awarded under ICB conditions.   The project impact on the
construction indus_.ry has thus been significant as with the previous projects.
Foreign consultants also provided modest technical assistance to the industry
under the project following similar assistance under the Fifth Project. Equally,
the civil works contracts offered opportunities to local consultants for
employment as supervising consultants. A core team of foreign consultants
provided needed technical assistance.   The  improvement  of the Indonesian
contracting and consulting industry could prove to be one of the most long
lasting and beneficial effects of Bank involvement in the highway sector.
6.4   Success in achieving the primary institutional objective, namely, the
establishment and operation of an integrated road management system (IRMS) was
difficult but there is finally a workable system in place, which was used in the
preparation of the Highway Sector Project. The history of technical assistance
to improve planning and budgeting for highway expenditures clearly shows that a
long period of time spanning several projects and a major input requiring
considerable staff time by the Bank is required to achieve a main institutional
development of this kind. The difficulty of the task was almost continuously
underestimated by the Bank during the 1980's.   Assuming that the ongoing
consultancy under the Highway Sector Project continues as successfully as it has
started, it will have taken almost ten years and several hundreds of man x months
of   consultancy    services    to   establish    sophisticated   tools    for
planning/programming/budgeting of road works within DGH.  The focus was also
continuously on the technical and economic parts of the system and not
sufficiently on the institutional side, which remains an issue today with the
consequence, in particular, that unreliable data in parts of the country still
limits the direct usefulness of the systems. Yet, the role played by the Bank
in helping DGH establish the conceptual framework for the systems, define the
work to be done and supervise the consultants, was probably major. The lesson
of experience is that major institutional developments should be expected to
require much time and considerable Bank staff input. The Bank should therefore
select carefully its objectives, pursue only what it has the resources to achieve
and expect succese only through continuous action over a series of projects.
6.5 Project impact on institutional development due to technical assistance
services for management assistance to the provinces, management support to local
contractors and consulting engineers, quality control and monitoring, design
monitoring and administration and training are much more difficult to evaluate
because the SAR did not always say precisely what needs were to be fulfilled, and
there are few written materials in the files recording progress in these
services. Given the Bank's focus on implementation of work (para 8.3), it was
obviously difficult to give to all TA services the supervision attention that
they required.   Some of the technical assistance  (design, monitoring and
administration TA services for example) appear to have produced very good
results. Other services (management assistance to the provinces) have had only
limited results.   The TA services on road transport did produce new draft
regulation, which could not possible have been implemented within the time frame
set in the SAR.
6.6 There was lot of criticism in Bank supervision reports of the poor quality



8
of civil works carried out by local contractors, especially regarding periodic
maintenance. The service life of project inv,"tments is indeed likely to be less
than anticipated.   In the absence of ad. .ate objective information,  it is
difficult to assess the impact on project benefits. The issue is discussed in
more details in para 9.2
7. Project Sustainability
7.1 The sustainability of project benefits, which accrue primarily to vehicle
operators as a result of improved road driving conditions, will depend on the
ability of the Government to maintain the improved road sections and to
intervene in a 'imely manner to strengthen the road pavement or otherwise improve
the roads as traffic reaches threshold limits. The capacity of the Government to
plan and program roadworks including road maintenance works has been
substantially improved by the establishment of the integrated road management
system. Although funding for transport as a whole has been smaller than desirable
as a percentage of total public funding for development, funding for road
maintenance is now being budgeted at levels which are adequate to meet
maintenance requirements. The project has also seen a shift in Government policy
to execute road maintenance works by contracting out to local contractors rather
than by force account. The quality of the works carried out by local contractors
(including routine maintenance) has been found,in many instances, to be not
satisfactory but it is likely to improve as DGH and local consultants and
contractors gain experience and competence. In any case, the quality of the works
done under contract is generally better than that of works carried out by force
account.
7.2 The Government's own organizational and managerial capabilities have been
enhanced by the still ongoing reorganization of the sector started during the
eighties which included better allocation of planning, programming and
implementation responsibilities between the central and provincial government
agencies and the strengtheiing of central and provincial government institutions
by more than a decade of technical assistance and training under successive Bank
projects. The prospects therefore are good that   project benefits would be
sustained, particularly in the long term. The Govenrnent also plans to introduce
new legislation to govern road transport and traffic which were drafted by
consultants financed under the project and originating from studies financed
under the Fifth Highway Project on a variety of road topics such as vehicle
dimensions and axle load control, road transport industry regulations and road
safety. When it matecializes, it would be evidence of long term sustainable
benefits achieved through the Bank's highway projects of the 1980s in Indonesia.
8. Bank Performance
8.1   The project was identified less than a year after the previous Highway
Betterment Project was approved by the Board in April 1984. The project was
prepared, negotiated and brought to the Board in 15 months. The Bank was,
therefore, responsive to Government positions and their cooperation enabled the
processing of the project in a fast and efficient manner. It was possible because
the Bank was pursuing limited goals in project preparation and policy development
(although not  in institutional development).   In the main,  the Bank was
continuing a project that was ongoing. Experience with the previous projects had



9
shown that policy development work should be more f 'cussed and responsive to
Government's perceived needs   and limited so as to avoid preparation and
implementation delays.
8.2 The Bank was thus giving priority in project preparation to the civil works
components to which a greater part of the loan was allocated. The preparatory
work was concentrated on the preparation of the periodic road maintenance,
betterment and bridge replacement programs. The preparation of some technical
assistance services such as the formulation of steps to establish the IRMS and
the assistance to DBMs were left until after the project had been negotiated at
a point when there was much pressure to start implementation. The pilot programs
to improve management of maintenance by force account in three provinces were
deleted from the project because the contracting out of most mainten nce in these
provinces had made them obsolete.
8.3 Bank's emphasis on the project's physical components continued during
project implementation. Field supervision was focussed almost exclusively on the
execution of civil works and aide-memoires, left with the Government, discussed
construction problems observed during site visits to a few contracts. There was
insufficient time spent to (i) monitor status of compliance with special loan
covenants which stipulated several deadlines, (ii) supervise the work of
technical assistance consultants (except for the planning and programming work),
(iii) ascertain priority training needs for purposes of identifying overseas
training requirements, (iv) follow up on sector matters such as, for example, the
distribution of road user charges which was a key issue at negotiations and (v)
discuss policy adjustments. Project impact depends just as much on the execution
of the civil works as on the work of the technical assistance consultants, the
success of the training component and progress with resolutiorn of sector issues.
As with the two previous highway projects, the lesson of experience is that once
implementation is underway, procurement issues and monitoring of physical
progress tend to take precedence and that, without a conscious effort, improving
overall sector management and resolving sector issues is likely to be given
second priority. More time of an economist should have been allocated to the
supervision of this project. Better progress reports by the borrower and more
detailed aide-memoires and supervision reports by the Bank (para 12.2) would also
have helped maintain a focus on broader sector issues. More specifically, the
implicit decision by the bank to provide only limited supervision of TA services
could also have been discussed implicitly in-house and made clearer to the
borrower, with the requirement that their own supervision arrangements be
improved.
9. Performance of the Borrower
9.1  The Government has continued to prepare and execute Bank-financed projects
in  an  expeditious  manner.   Preparation  of  bid  documents,   contractor
prequalification and the bidding and evaluation processes were carried out in a
satisfactory manner even though this was a challenge given that several hundreds
of contracts were administered during the project period. The civil works were
executed within the project period albeit after several contract extensions.
9.2   As mentioned in para 6.6, the quality of works, particularly periodic
maintenance work, was often poor. A good part of this is due to the insufficient
r  P7



10
quality of supervision under this project, particularly at DGH's and DBMs'project
managers' level. Given the shortage of fully qualified staff and insufficient
concern for the quality of works within parts of the institution, DGH might nave
b'en well advised to move less abruptly into periodic maintenance by contract and
vast training effort and more generalized quality control procedures should at
least have arcompanied this change. Some of the most important lessons of this
experience, the need for a quality assurance mechanism in particular, have been
incorporated in the ongoing Highway Sector Project.   Problems of quality of
output are unavoidable in an enterprise that expands fast and becomes more
sophisticated while relying less on expatriate experts as DGH was doing during
the 1980s. Resolving these problems will continue to be one of DGH's (and may
be its) biggest challenges in the future.
9.3    The Goverrnment also pursued a policy of entering into contracts not
exceeding one year for maintenance works and not exceeding two years for other
works. Construction periods could have been underestimated in order to permit
signing of contracts with the above constraint and extensions of many contracts
may have become inevitable placing an administrative burden on both Government
and Bank staff. As a result of concerns expressed by the Bank, the policy has now
been changed to two years for maintenance contracts and three years for
betterment contracts.
9.4  In the absence of a project document prepared by the Government to support
its application for a new loan (actually, there was no formal loan application),
the identification and preparation of the project convey the impression that the
Government was primarily interested in funding for the civil works and
procurement of equipment and materials. While the Government furnished the Bank
with details of the road maintenance, betterment and bridge replacement programs,
there was no paper detailing its institutional development goals and a plan for
the employment of technical assistance experts. Neither were there details of an
overall training program prepared by the Government with targets of personnel to
be trained under the project together with a timetable and an indication of the
assistance that would be required from the Bank. All in all, as with the previous
projects the Government's own emphasis was on the physical components of the
project. For future projects, the Government should be encouraged to prepare
for Bank's review a project document that describes the Government's view of
project objectives and project concept with details of funding and assistance
needed. The production of a project document would be analogous to the
Government's preparation of Part II of the PCR ar,d would present the Bank with
a written record of the project to be appraised by the Bank from the Government's
perspective.
10. Project Relationship
10.1 The relationships between Government, the Bank, consultants and contractors
were always satisfactory. Considering the hundreds of contracts submitted to the
Bank for approval and the hundreds of addenda which followed afterwards and the
correspondence that was generated as a result, there were few dissensions over
procurement matters and fewer complaints of delays in Bank approvals (from mid-
June 1989, contracts to a value of less than Rp 500 million were reviewed by the
Resident Mission). The success of the establishment of the integrated road



11
management system could not have been possible without the consultants and Bank
specialist staff working closely together and without the cooperation of the
Government.
11. Consulting Services
11.1 Thirty six contracts for consulting services for a total value of US $ 54.0
million were approved by the Bank for financing under the project. The base
appraisal estimate of the cost of consulting services was US $ 48.5 million
(including quantity contingencies on supervision work and price contingencies).
About half the increase in the costs of consulting services was due to increase
in construction supervision costs and a significant sum for extension of services
for quality control and rock asphalt study. A separate research study was
undertaken by consultants into the feasibility of extracting bitumen from
naturally occurring rock asphalt and using the extracted bitumen in place of
imported bitumen in conventional asphalt mixes. The rest of the increase was
scattered over the other services. The large increase in construction supervision
costs was partly due to extensions in construction periods and partly to the
increase in the number of civil works contracts committed under the project.
Most of the services were provided by joint ventures of foreign and local
consultants. Foreign consultants carried out the rock asphalt study.
11.2 Twenty seven contracts covered design and construction supervision services
(as well as assistance to the DBMs in the case of three contracts). However, the
quality of works executed by some local contractors was found to be
unsatisfactory and some responsibility has to be borne by the supervising
consultants including the core teams in the provinces. The most difficult
assignment was  the  establishment  of the IRMS which could not have been
successfully accomplished without the assistance of Bank staff. The rock asphalt
study has produced very promising results on the use of Asbuton in road pavement
works. The development of a workable specification for road pavements constructed
in asbuton should result in its acceptability in foreign aided projects. The use
of the material could be competitive with conventional asphalt mixes where
roadworks are in proximity to the island source of asbuton. The cost of shipping
the asbuton material from its source is a crucial factor in the choice of
asbuton. The outcome of the research conducted into the feasibility of extracting
bitumen from asbuton has shown that the technology is available to do so but its
competitiveness with imported asphalt or use of asbuton in its natural state will
remain doubtful until there is a substantial increase in the international price
of oil.
12. Project Documentation and Data
12.1 It is rarely that a Borrower observes all the deadlines laid down in the
Loan Agreement and the Bank is always constrained to agree to extensions and
changes. There were 13 deadlines in the Loan Agreement.   The few that were
adhered to related to submission of annual programs of civil works and the
appointment of the project coordinator. The submission of documents to comply
partly with some of the covenants was also mostly informal. This turn of events
seriously devalues the Loan Agreement and places it at par with the non-legal
documents. A better practice would be for only a few key matters to be deadlined



12
in Loan Agreements and others for which the evaluation of progress can only be
more judgmental to be explained in the Appraisal Report and summarized in a
relatively flexible action plan which would constitute a "road map" of what
progress is expected by both parties. Incidentally, it might have helped if the
Loan Agreement provided for agreement with the Bank on the Project Coordinator's
terms of reference.
12.2 Before the start of a project of this magnitude involving hundreds c.f civil
works contracts and 36 consulting services contracts, there should have been an
agreement with the Government on reporting requirements. The reports received by
the Bank consisted of construction progress reports and other reports prepared
by consultants as part of their service contracts. Project reporting was at best
fragmentary and scattered over a variety of consultants reports. The Government
sent from time to time executive summary reports which dealt with civil works,
consultants contracts and equipment.   Bank supervision reports did not give
details of project execution and it must have been difficult at any point in time
to ascertain the overall status of the project including compliance with loan
cov3nants. Data for the PCR was not readily available in the project files and
a fresh review of project progress and results had to be undertaken at project
closure.  The fact that after 1986 the inclusion of a detailed status of project
execution was no longer required in Bank supervision reports is at least partly
the reason for this state of affairs.   The role of the "status of project
execution" should have been fulfilled by the progress reports but unfortunately
the borrower never submitted adequate progress reports and, in any case, it was
only in the new 1989 supervision guidelines that the Bank made clear how
important progress reports were for adequate Bank supervision.   The lesson
learned which has been carried into the follow up Highway Sector Project, is that
both Government and Bank should have agreed at negotiations on a simplified
format for individual construction progress reports and the submission of a
consolidated project progress report, preferably on a quarterly basis. The
consolidated report should cover not only physical progress but also the status
of other project components and status of compliance with loan covenants and
related sector matters. Poor reporting under this project is also to a large
extent due to the deliberate choice of entrusting project administration to DGH's
own services without creating a project management unit.   Yet, the task cif
preparing the reports could have been assigned clearly to DGH's Project
Coordinator and this office should have been given the resources necessary to
carry out this relatively demanding task. The preparation of audit reports was
also a problem.   SOE and Special Account audit reports were late and no
consolidated opinion was ever produced concerning project accounts based on the
very large amount of subprojects audit reports prepared during implementation.
How to fulfill the audit requirement could have usefully been agreed at
negotiations.



- 13 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE AND BETTERMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2717-IND)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
The Borrower was sent Parts I and III and requested to prepare Part II but
no reply was receivea.



- 14 -
PROJEgCT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE AND BETTERMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2717-IND)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans and Credits /a
Loen/C-edi t
Loan/Credit            Title                      Amount                    Purpose                                        approved    Status
(d Million)
Cr. 154-IND    First Highway                       28.0          Highway rehabilitation and maintenance                      1969      Completed
Cr. 260-IND    Second Highway                      34.0         Highway construction                                         1971      Completed
Cr. 380-IND    Third Highway                       14.0         Highway construction. maintenance and stud;es                1473      Completed
Ln. 1236-IND   Fourth Highway                     130.0         Hi2hway betterment, technical assiatance and                 1975      Completed
institution building
Ln. 1696-IND   Fifth Highway                      123.2         Highway betterment, bridge replacement, technical            1979      Completed
asistance, studios and institution building
Ln. 2049-IND   Jakarta-Cikampek                    84.0         Toll road construction                                       1981      Completed
Ln. 2083-IND   Rural Roads Development            100.0         District roads improvement end maintenance, and              1982      Completed
institution building
Ln. 2404-IND   Highway Betterment                 240.0         Highway betterment, rehabilitati,n, bridge                   1984      Completed
replacement, technical assistance and
institution building
Ln. 2717-IND   Highway Maintenance                300.0         Highway maintenance, betterment. techn                       1980      Completed
and Betterment /b                               assistance and institution building
Ln. 2881-IND   Second Rural Roads                 190.0         District roads improvement and maintenan          id         1987      Ongoing
Development                                     institution building
Ln.3133-INDO    Highway Sector                    350.0          Improving overall efficiency of the highway                 1989      Ongoing
subsector with package of policy reforms,
civil works and technical assistance
/   Only projects in the highway subsector.  Projects in other subsectora of transport not included
Subject of this PCR.



- 15 -
2. Project Timetable
Date                 Date                 Date
Item                          Planned              Revised              Actual
Identification                 2/85                                      2/85
Preparation                                                              5/85  /a
Appraisal Mission             10/85                                     10/85
Loan Negotiations              4/86                 3/86                 5/86
Board Approval                 6/86                 5/86              6/12/86
Loan Signature                                                        6/26/86
Loan Effectiveness                                                     9/8/86
Project Completion          6/30/90                                  12/31/90
Loan Closing               12/31/90                                  12/31/90
/a  Bid documents for first phase of civil works and contractor
prequalification completed.
Comments: The issues raised in the initial project brief issued in July 1985
cites the main issues as (i) the decline in share of transport
(particularly affecting roads) in public development funding plans,
(ii) the Government's intention to apply regional equity
considerations in subproject selection, (iii) budgetary allocations
for highway maintenance not in line with expenditure planned and
(iv) the need for coordination with urban and transmigration
projects. The issues paper following the Bank appraisal confirmed
the issues raised by the initial and only project brief. The
decision memorandum regarded the inadequacy of maintenance funding
as the major issue. There was thus consistency in the Bank's
identification of issues during project preparation. However, the
distribution of road user charges became an issue during loan
processing and the submission by Government of a report on the
subject was made a condition of negotiations. The report was not
fully satisfactory but the matter was not pursued further.
3. Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements ($ million)
FY87      FY88       FY89       FY90      FY91
Appraisal estimate            20.0      115.0      225.0      290.0     300.0
Actual                        14.7      165.7      268.2      284.6     300.0
Actual as Z of estimate          73       144        119         98        100
Date of final disbursement:  June 3, 1991



- 16 -
4. Project Implementation
A, ro I se Iv Idmte .      .      ol Fst :  Is          _   Artu3.l
St r-t Co 00                                 I S tu rt Complete
Periodie m intenance of roads                                  4/1/86      5/31/89                                    4/1/86    12/31/90 lb
Road Betterment:    Phase I                                   2/15/87      2/18/89         2/26/87      7/15/89      2/26/87      3/17/90
Phase II                                3/31/87      3/31/89         3/19/87      9/29/89      3/19/87       8/-/90
Phas  III                               7/15/87      7/15/89         7/13/87      7/26/90      7/13/87    12/31/90
Phase IV                                      --           --        2/10/88      10/2/90      2/10/88    12/31/90 is
Bridge Replacement: Ph.e. I                                   2/.5/87      8/30/88         2/20/87      9/16/88      2/20/87      1/16/89
Phase II                                6/15/87      1/15/89          3/2/87      3/22/89       3/2/97      10/9/89
Pha  III                                      --                     6/30/87    11/28/88       6/30/87      2/22/89
Phase IV                                      --           --         2/-/88       8/9/89       2/-/88    12/31/90 L/
Fausilment                                                     4/1/87    10/31/87
ionoI flnv SrYvice eo
Technicel A.aietonce for 26 DBMa                              10/1/86      4/30/89        I1/-/86        1/-/90        3/-88    12/31/90
for DCH planning                       10/1/86      10/1/87          7/-/88       7/-/89       3/-/88      I2/-/89
for DCH desipn                         12/I/86      12/1/88 }
for DCH quality control                                      }       1/-/87       9/-/89      10/-/86       6/-/90
end contract sdministr-abion}
for OCH contractors and                7/15/86    12/31/87           7/-/86       3/-/88      3/16/87      2/16/89
consul tants
for 0OH rock asphalt study              9/1/87       4/1/86          1/-/87      12/-/89      5/25/88      4/25/89
for supervision of road                11/1/86    12/31/89          11/-/86      12/-/89      10/-/86     12/31/90 Ld
betterment and bridgework.
Overseas Traini nl                                            12/1/87    12/31/89
a Based on signed contracts.
Program substantially increased.
A few works not completed. Financing after 12/31/90 under Highway Sector Project (Loon 3313-IND).
Continuing under Highway Sector Project.
5. Project Costs and Financing
A.
A. Civil Works
Periodic maintenance of roads and             117.6      60.6    178.2       86.9    136.2      223.1    95.6    155.9    251.5
bridge repair
Betterment of roads                            67 4    147 S    215.0       31.3      69.3      100.6    24.6       57.3      81.9
Bridge replacement:  Subatructure              25.9      1;J)    42.9       28.8      22.2       51.0    24.1       16.1      40.2
Materials                1.0      18.3      19.3 }
E.   0.8      36.8       37.6      -       29.2      29.2
C.  Technical Assistance and Overasoo Training  7.1          40.2      47.3       6.6      35.5       42.1      4.5      41.5     46.0
T oe l                                    220not 0i e c0 o              1_4 4    30 0        454 4   1488    300 0    44r8 c
Doe  not Include commitments an controctsa carrlod Into the Highway Sector Project (Loon 3313-IND)



- 17 -
5. Project Costs and Financing (cont'd)
B. Prolect Financing
(Loan Agreement)     Revised Estimate /a         Final
IBRD Loon
1. CiviI Wort...
(a) Periodic Maintenance of
roads and bridges
(i) by Force Account      20,000,000      20      1,600,000    20   }                 20
(Ii) by Contract           B6,OOO,000      70    138,000,000 8   } 166,900,00    e8
(b) Bettorment of Roads       133,700,000      70     63,600,000    70      57,800,000     70
(c) Replacement of bridge
substructures             14,600,000      40     22,000,000    40      16,100,000     40
2. Equipment and materials          82,200,00 66-100 Lb 37,000,000 65-lOOLb  29,200,000 66-100 Lb
8. Consultants' Services           32,000,000     90     85,500,000    90      40,300,000      90
4. Overseas Training                  600,000    100         600,000   100      1,200,000    100
5. Unallocated                     30,000,000             6,000,000    -
Total                      800000.00             300.000.000           300.000.000
Domestic Funds
1 Civil works
(a) Periodic maintenance of
roads and bridges
(i) by Force Account   } 86,500,000                                    95,600,000
(iT) by Contract        }
(b) Betterment of Roads        76,900,000                                   24,600,000
(c) Bridge Replacement         18,600,000                                   24,100,000
2. Equipment and materials            800,000                                           -
3. Consultants' services         }                                              4,600,000
3 16,400,000
4.  Overseas Training            }
5. Unallocated                     41.800,000                                           -
Total                     220.000.000                                  148.800.000
k Reallocation of Loan Proceeds in September 1988.
Procured abroed: IOO, Ex-factory Indonesia: 96X, Procured locally: 68X



- 18 -
6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Appraisal            Estimate at
Indicators                                   Estimate             Closing Date
Periodic Maintenance of Roads
- Surface dressing                           3,000 km                 Limited
- Overlays                                   2,900 km             about 6,000 km
- Graveling                                    700 km                 Limited
Bridge Repairs
Road Betterment                              1,900 km                  2,767 /a
Bridge Replacements                          7,000 m                  17,791 /a
Road Network in Stable Condition
/a Balance of contract sums not financed under the project carried over into
Highway Sector Project (Loan 3313-IND) or financed by GOI own resources.
B. Economic Impact
Appraisal           Estimate at
Estimate           Closing Date
Overall ERR (Z)      Overall ERR (Z)
Periodic Maintenance                               96                 about
Road Betterment
- Java                                             75                  the
- Other areas                                   21 - 40
Bridge replacement                                 40                  same
Overall Project                                  >60



?. Status of Covenants
Covenant                           Subject                                     Deadline                          Status
Section 3.01(a)   Government commitment to project objectives,                    None                         Complied with
administration, execution and financing
Section S.01(b)   Implementation Program
-  carry out periodic maintenance program for           March 31, 1987       Carried over into FY1987/88 program.
FY198B/87                                                                 Program for FY1986/87 reduced from
2,186 km to 1,445 km
-  carry out Phase 1 of road betterment program             As agreed                       Complied with
-  carry out Phase 1 of bridge replacement program          As agreed                       Complied with
-  furnish to the Bank for its review and approial      December 31, 1986                   Complied with
the periodic maintenance programs for FY1987/88      and December 31,
and FY1988/89                                        1987 respectively
-  furnish to the Bank for approval Phases 2 and 3      October 31, 1988                    Complied with
of road betterment programs                          and December 31,
1986 respectively
-  furnish to the Bank for approval Phase 2 of the      December 31, 1986                   Complied with
bridge repair and replacement program
-  employ competent, qualified and experienced staff            --                          Complied with
and management to supervise staff                            --                          Complied with
-  maintain a project coordinator in DGH                October 31, 1986                    Complied with
-  appoint a project liaison coordinator in DGLT
Section 3.02      Procurement of goods, works and services                     k3 agreed                      Complied with
Section 3.03      (1)  Furnish to the Bank for its review, the               June 30, 1987     Consultant's draft submitted about one
proposed Vehicle Code, Traffic Code and Public                          year late in mid-1988
and Commercial Road Transport Codes and drafts
of decrees and instructions required for
enforcemont of sucii codes
(2)  Issue and onforce such codes, decrees and                  --
instructions                                                           Not done.  Not realistic to impose a
deadline because of the legislative
processos entailed. Consultant's drafts
of implementing decrees and regulations
finalized by September 1988
Section 3.04      Government shall allocate a minimum of 35% of its                --          Not fully complied with for FY1986/87.
budget for national and provincial roads for                                 Complied with for FY1987/88 and 1988/89
FY198C/87 and FY1987/88
Section 3.05      (1)  Establish terms of reference satisfactory to        October 31, 1980                 Not complied with
the Bank to restructure and simplify the
organization, administration and execution of
road maintenance activities on a pilot basis
(2)  Coimence implementing the restructuring and        January 31, 1987                 Not complied with
simplification programs
(3)  Expand results to other provinces                  December 31, 1987                Not complied with



Covenant                            Subject                                       Deadline                            Status
Section 3.06       'i)              Finalize design of DGH's pavement         December 31, 1986   System was finalized in December 1989 but
management system and establish                                requires improvements, now in process.
maintenance policies satisfactory to                           Preliminary system was employed for the
the Bank                                                       FY1989/90 Budget.  Maintenance funding has
been on average adequate since then.
(2)             Introduce the system province by          December 31, 19L8
province
(3)             Apply such policies to establish                                             Not complied with
annual provincial and maintenance
and betterment programs and budgets              --
and provide funds accordingly
Not complied with
Section 4.01(a)   Maintain project records and accounts in accordance                 --                           Complied with
with sound accounting practices
Section 4.01(b)   (1)               Audit project accounts for each              December 31       Only audits of a large number of
fiscal year and furnish to Bank               annually         subprojects were submitted to Bank without
certified copy of audit report                                 any consolidated opinion
(2)             Other information concerning project
accounts and audits as requested by              --
Bank
Complied with
Section 4.01(c)   Maintain separate accounts of all expenditures              Until at least       Loan was closed on December 31, 1990
included in statements of expenditures and audits         one year after
thereof and retain for inspection by Bank staff            receipt by Bank
of audit report
for the fiscal                                                               0
year in which the
loan was closed



8.  Use of Bank Resources                     - 21 -
A. Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Stage of Project Cycle                          Planned       Revised      Final
Through Appraisal                                                            35
Appraisal through Board Approval                                             22
Board Approval through Loan Effectiveness                                     -
Supervl-sion                                       27             89        138
Total
B. Missions
Stage of                    No. of   Days in  Specialization   Performance   Type of
Project Cycle  Month/year  Persons   Field   Represented /a  Rating Status  Problems
Through Appraisal
Identification      2/85         1        7            H
Preparation         5/85         2        7           E,H
Appraisal          10/85         3       21          E,2H
Appraisal through
Board Approval
Post Appraisal    11/85          1        3            E
Board Approval
Through Effectiveness
Supervision /b
I             6/86         1         7           H                 1
II             10186        3        10       2H,lE,1SE            -/c
III              2/87        2        14           2H                1            -
IV              7/87        1        14           1H                1
V             11/87         1       14           1H                1
VI              4/88         1        3           1H                1
VII              7/88         1        7           1H                1
VIII             10/88         2        7           2H                1
IX             11/89        1         7           E                 1
/a  E = Economist; H = Highway Engineer: SE   Specialist Engineer.
Lb  Supervision missions include more than one project.  Figures for days in field
reflect time allocated to this project.
/c  Back-to-Office Report only by Specialist Engineer.



IBRD 19491RI
TRANSPORTATION NETWORK
ORUNEI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RR 
MALAYS IA5orabsc;tXl    - *  a    &                        M AL AYS I-A      2                                                                                                                   --  INTERNCTIONL BA0N I
<~~~~~~~~~~~~A    ;WA  t  I    M    i. . . BAzN I
d                 ,  .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I </ . ~ _X,;  A   I  /  At A  V  r X   V  ~  G>IAA
,t/A Ib Aocst. v Sa rm.s11.                                                                                                                                                                                  6   M    k    6.  ,
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                                                                             o    ,~   p    -.   SG. .-0   00   ,e   FFWAo 5
ArUSTRALIAAL
'or~ ~ ~            '70                       A ' W5 :7  - '
°C<,  s   - ~~~~~~~~r_x   .L  MJrvrJ~~~.1                                                                                                    "
t _.  S   W-                                                                              ,  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PIL



IBRD 19492R
ow.@                                           
t-lmD   V ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ V*                                                       MA     AY'        -                                        o
"        \   > ,                     \           M~~~ A L A Y S IA
N I AS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fiN10 
\ktS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U M A   T, E   R. 
*<<.~ ~~~~~~N SIN  t                                    APORE5s
Al~ ~~~~~~t$t   v       A   P  RE 
INDONESIA                                           /                 E -   \t  >  .81NTAN
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE                                                                                                                      BNK
AND BETTERMENT PROJECT
SUMATERA
PEOPOIOD PROJECT
HIOHWAY BTTERMENT IPKNA II
v  BRIDGE REPLACEMENT PASE II
PREEVIOSCI PROJECTS              fR 2W N                                                                                                     B
~~~~~~~~~~C.2DIND.Nsl Be nT
CONSTRUCTION AND IMPROVEMENTS LOAN 1230 INO.
-        NATIONAL HIGHWAYS           (LOAN TT  IND
R  P ROVINCE ROADI
------  LOCAL ROADS
RAILWAYS
4,~  PORTS
lK    AIRPORTS
-   -   MPOVINCI OUNDARI"
-. -    INTERNATIONAL tOIUNDARISS                                                                                               J   A    W     A
KILOMETERS °           W                       100X CO    q
MILES O        60   X   OO       lEO       204       25             Nrm STi,_   -_
Re_ _R     .N>S __ *@_EI _~ 115 bS b  awn bIS
W_ns 04Wb 1_. _aUSin laid ladmr __11. am  a          a 1w_-
MAY 1986



IBRP 19493R
SUMATERA                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INDONESIA
SUMATERA                                                                                                         HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE AND BETTERMENT PROJECT
JAWA
1        JAICARTIAPDN
se~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~'7 >. i0,                                                                 Lni - .    .fi 
t0*   l          i0$I    - z X                                                                                                         aL
JAw      - 
JAWA  aEC!oDg-   , --    -   -                                                                                                   -,n - Y    in it it n-



r -   PRUhi!,    .                                                                                                                 irp|[jeF85 _ __ ;Ub-tNDCN  SI
tEEN ib L A Y SVA" X/'                   @  o-etrr~C4t   -e                    y .  S  z.                                                         HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE AND BETTERMENT PROJECT
Ax1        ,A> KALIA-TAN.                                                     8UNEIr  / 0             ,                                                                          KALIMANTAN  ANZD  SULAWESI
C-  SUUAtN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Si  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ >  \    I\                                                                           P~~~~~~~~~~~~RQJtCT
,'  K,,> _,                                               OIOR b ,; st h   11IArA     '..- .                         ' *
\1,        >At} 14/VT., ' -    qi                                 ,,      >5                 j $,                                                                                            ftI/THW   OETTERMENT IPHASE I1
eV17,hA L5Ejb  -._. IAB                       /,                                a' ;.                                                                                            B X   r  -  c     .  ERiDGE 5EP/ACEMEIITPIPDAM T    II
-.ot  : . .   X                               t                                                                    CONSTRWCTION ANN ID ROVZIENT$ $CLORI TSR (NO
"AlIONAL 11I011WAVS
rh . (                                 A                                                       Tr]dulvif_ - -. ---  PeROvicE POADS
LOCAL ROADS
|.  M   A    L    A   Y   S I  A                        ,                             -PORTS
..PORTE
P-
,      f                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~Too1//0/Ieder                                                        PR FOVI/ICE EOL/NDARIES
ev   2-,    _   ,  --,        )                           _                                                                        -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- INTER/,A7I/EJAL. RB//NEARCS
EIJnk  .X-A  tli IX     A--NM  T  A   N                  ,        BnskI.aarg                                       Toh       §7-ti)                                    A/CNN
2          U-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~,
to'i n                                   ng                S -y'                             >4             -                                                                                                                                               Cji>  ibg   
kt>'            _             / /       s ol VE !>                  Toka                                                                        CT\    6fDz -1                                       3  BAlr/ok
F-                                                     WpaptS,     - .  \   ;  I   /    < 4ffStpa pa n                         <iGImpe       t                 Tu:..
*>nan ooNCIov mt S¢S>. ~I                                   l        Tmo./ ,t  ~- /S
K.M       -k                                                                                                          S ULAW   E  S I
,-"  At                             "~~ A    A ~         ooo SOoooA
fxPait uo,ssosi soo                                    K     >oko2y.             -    etp                 24/                                Mago/,conetI                         t
-  O'OC/1 00  _c                                                                                P/g!,                                                P,qK                WpEoERSt                 b___
MuFs 5OA                            I&         Zia        2&                                                                            a    E q'0bss
t  wk                                                A .4   V   4      5   t   A                                                   ,_sk,,,n       /tsn' L amuro                  I A R,hl                                                  5Y
0000m0.wS/,                                        z>   x
B~~~~ ..    __  ___  10    209 _    TB5
MAY 1705j



/./   NUSA TENGGARA BARAT                                                                                                                        K
r  //          NUSATENGGAR~~~~ABARAT
0'~ ,.PENINdSULA                                                      /                                          FLORES                                                                           /
/   sfe-vn    s.emb.i.                               5mb         0t2' Liu0flnj                                              Jno~
! x-          Pl Leon-gr                         HL.         W                    Tiroto                                                                                                         / TIMoR
l   tt   Jexewth enaslanzyh             /                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Endc  Nd...                                       TiM  
(PUL4AUlOMBOK                          PULAU   SUMBAWA                                                    NUSA        TEMNGGAR            TIMUR                                                       I
Son NEA       TIM OR
INDONESIA                                                                                                                        Ku
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE AND BETTERMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                 T.blolo
TIMOR                                                                                       Seb     P SAWU
PROJECT:
-       Highway Betterment (Phase 1)                                                                                                       p ROfl
,    Bridge Replacement (Phase 1)                                                                                                        BRdOom
National Highways
Provfnce Roads
Province Boundaries
- --  International Boundaries
0                 IOd               20D               300 KiICMETERS                    Or ual. 0'
0             50             20D           1ISO            200MLES                     -Lo op  _b= o        12h
ir  1r1~Zonrg       |2'        I



