Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6066-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INI)ONESIA
HIGHWAY MA1;4TENANCE AND BETTERMENT PROJECT
May 23, 1986
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Transportation Division
Thi douet ba a rmtrltd dibutos an ma be and bY recipknt oIy In te peonem e of
teir oMei dute. Us contet may aw  othrwie be dUsed witout Wold Bak autorizdan.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00        =  Rp 1,100
Rp 1,000,000   =  US$909
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AMC           -  Asphalt Mixing Center
Asbuton       -  Natural rock asphalt from Buton Island
ASEAN         -  Association of South-East Asian Nations
CIPTA KARYA   -  Directorate General of Human Settlements
BAPPENAS      -  National Planning Agency
DBM           -  Provincial Highway Directorate
DGH           -  Directorate General of Highways
DGLT          -  Directorate General of Land Transport
DPUK          -  Local government department of public works
DPUP          -  Provincial government department of public works
Genmarri      -  Generalized Model for the Evaluation of Rural Road Improvements
SOI           -  Government of Indonesia
HRS           -  Hot rolled sheet (type of pavement overlay)
HRTS          -  Highway and Road Transport Study
INPRES        -  Special programs governed by presidential decrees
Jasa Marga    -  Indonesian Toll Road Corporation
KFAED         -  Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
MHA           -  Ministry of Home Affairs
MOC           - Ministry of Communications-
MOF           - Ministry of Finance
MPW           - Ministry of Public Works
OECF          -  Japanese aid agency
PMS           -  Pavement Management System
PUSDIKLAT     -  Ministry of Public Works Training Department
RBO           -  Regional Betterment Office (of DGH)
Repelita      -  Indonesian National Five Year Development Plan
SEKNEG        -  State Secretariat on Procurement Matters
SEP           -  Sufficiency Engineering Proposal
SFD           -  Saudi Fund for Development
SFO           -  Screening Feasibility Office (of DCH)
SOE           -  Statement of Expenditures
UNDP          -  United Nations Development Programme
USAID         -  U.S. Agency for International Development
Vpd           -  vehicles per day



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
-   -          INDONESIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE AND BETTERMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Sumary
Borrower:          Republic of Indonesia
Beneficiaries:     Ministry of Public Works (MPW) and Ministry of
Communication (MOC).
Amount:            US$300.0 million equivalent
Terms:             20 years, including a five year grace period, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description:     The project would support .OI's objectives of:  (a) improv-
ing highway maintenance; (b) restoring and upgrading parts
of the existing national and provincial roads network
including its bridges; (c) improving highway planning and
management particularly at the provincial level; (d) revis-
ing regulations regarding roads and road transport; and (e)
preparing and implementing highway safety measures.
The project would provide for: periodic maintenance of
some 6,600 km of national and provincial roads and repairs
of some 2,200 m of bridges; betterment of some 1,900 km of
national and provincial roads; and replacement of some
7,000 m of bridges. Equipment would be provided to improve
the efficiency of road maintenance in 26 provinces and for
design and quality control of road construction and mainte-
nance works. The project also includes components for
technical assistance services and overseas training.
The project would provide substantial economic benefits to
large areas of the country, improved capacity for planning,
construction and maintenance of highways as well as
assistance in decentralizing those functions. There are no
unusual technical or other risks associated with this
project, but severe budgetary constraints may result in
delayed implementation and consequent delays in the accrual
of benefits.
This document has a rstited distribution and may be used by recipients only in the peormanwe
of thr offkial duties. Its contents may not otherwie be disclosed without Worl Bank authoriation.



Estimated Cost:                                     Local   Foreign   Total
-US$ million -----
Civil works
Periodic maintenance of roads and repair
of bridges                                   66.5       80.3    146.8
Betterment of roads                            75.9       89.1    165.0
Bridge replacements                            18.6       29.1     47.7
Subtotal                                    161.0      198.5    359.5
Equipment                                            0.8       14.4     15.2
Technical Assistance and Overseas Training           16.4      23.7     40.1
Total Base Costs (April 1986 prices)            178.2     236.6    414.8
Contip4encies
Physical                                           20.8      27.6     48.4
Price                                              21.0      35.8     56.8
Subtotal                                       41.8       63.4    105.2
Total Project Cost                             220.0      300.0    520.0
(of which taxes and duties)                    (18.1)              (18.1)
Financing Plan
IBRD                                                 -      300.0    300.0
GoI                                               220.0        -     220.0
Total                                          220.0      300.0    520.0
Estimated Disbursement:    Bank FY    87      88      89     90     91
US$ million --
Annual      20     95    110      65     10
Cumulative  20    115    225    290    300
Rate of Return:           Over 60X    -
Staff Appraisal Report:   Report No. 6066-IND, dated 05/23/86
Maps                       No. IBRD 19491, 19492R, 19493R, 19494R and 19598R



INDONESIA
-BICWAY MAINTENANCE AND BETTERMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I. THE tRANSPORT SECTOR
A. The Transport System and National Development ............       1
B. Sector  2ssues.............................. ,.,  -, 6           2
C.  Bank Sector Support  2trategy............................       2
D.  Experience under Previous Bank Financed Highway Projects        3
}I. THE ROAD SUBSECTOR
A. Highway Network and Traffic ..............................I      3
B. Road Transport Indu4try.. 66........... 66666                    4
C. Administration, Staff and Training, Accounts and Audits..        6
D. Planning, Design and Construction........................        7
E. Road Maintenance .............. .........* 6     .6...........        , 8
F. Highway Development Programs and Financing...............       11
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives         ..................... -                      14
B. Project Scope ..........  666....... -                          14-
C. Project Description......... .............................6     15
D. Cost Estimates.......6.6.6.6.6........660.9666666.666.66.6666.19
E.  Financing....      .. ...................... 6666664...        21
F.  Implementation and Procurement ..........................., 22
C. Disbursements        ......... ,6,66666666666966666             24
H. Accounts, Auditing and,Reporting........................*       24
1. Status of Preparation.........................                  25
J.  Environmental Aspects                 .............66.         25
IV.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A* General2..................................................      25
B. Periodic Maintenance Program.............................       26
C. Betterment Program......666666666666666.666666666666666.666.26
D. Bridge Replacement Programe... ...o         664...66666....6666e  26
E.  Economic Returns and Risks ...............................     27
F.  Beneficisries .......................................6666666.......    28
F.                                                                28
V.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ......................      29
The report is based on findings of an appraisal mission consisting of Messrs.
S.0. Sigfusson (Senior Engineer) and Mr. R. Burns (Economist) which visited
Indonesia in September/October 1985.



- iv -,      ,        ,..
Page No.
ANNEXES
1.    Design Philosophy for Pavement Overlays........................,, 31
2.    Outline of Model for Economic Evai             uation                  33
3.    Project Implementation Schedule..............................    36
4.    Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File......    39
SUPPORTING TABLES
2.1   Length of Roads by Administrative Classification and
Geographical Distribution, 1984                                      41
2.2   Summary of the Type and Condition of Pavements, 1983........           42
2.3   Summary of the Type and Condition of Bridges, 1 984.... 4.....         43
2.4   Condition of and Traffic on Arterial and Collector Roads
in March 1983 ............44
2.5   Registered Motor Vehicles, 1972-83.............................    45
2.6   Traffic Growth by Province...... .*............ ..e...... e            46
2.7 Summary of Actual, Budgetted and Planned Highway
Expenditures During Repelita IV....................*.....    47
2.8   Breakdown of Actual, Budgetted and Planned Highway
Expenditures During Repelita IY                                      48
3'.1  Periodic Maintenance:  Program for 1986/87.8 6 1 8700*00"00*00..       50
3.2   Program for Bridge Repair                    .                          51
3.3   Betterment Program, Phase I......                                      52
3.4   Bridge Replacement Program          ..............................    53
3.5   List of Equu                  i      p     m      e     nt.            54
3.6   Cost    E       siae55
3.7   Schedule of Estimated Disbursement...sbursem..........ent.....         56
4.1   Economic Analysis of Phase I Betterment Subprojects*............    57
4.2   Regional Distribution of Betterment Subprojects.................    58
4.3   Economic Analysis of Bridge Replacement Subproject9jects.......         59
CHARTS
1.    Organizational Structure of the Directorate General of Highways
(DGH) .............                                                  60
2.    Organizational Structure of Provincial Public Works Department
(DPUP) .................                   ' '                       61
3.    Organizational Structure of Directorate General for Regional
Development (DGRD)-              .................-          .         62
4.    Typical Organizational Structure of a Kabupaten-Public Works
Department (DPUK) .........                                            63



MAPS
IBRD 19491     Transportation Network                       '
IBRD 19492R    Highway Maintenance and Betterment Project; Sumatera
IBRD 19493R    Highway Maintenance and Betterment Project; Java and Bali
IBRD 19494R    Highway Maintenance and Betterment Project; Kalimantan and
Sulawesi
IBRD 19598R    Highway Maintenance and Betterment Project; Timor



INDONESIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE AND BETTERMENT PROJECT
I.* TE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. The Transport System and National Development
1.01      The Indonesian economy grew at 8.2% from 1976 to 1981 when the rate
dropped to 2.12, reflecting the effects of the worldwide recession and reduced
oil export revenue. During the same period the transport component of GDP
grew at a rate roughly twice that of GDP.  These growth rates have been
achieved with relatively modest public sector participation in recent years.
Since 1979 the share of transport in total development budget has been about
11-12X and is projected at approximately the same level through the 80s. This
level of funding is more typical of developed countries (at 10-14X) than LDCs
(up to 201) suggesting that public infrastructure is intensively utilized and
marginal improvements could result in substantial gains in efficiency.
1.02      As in most archipelago nations, the transport system of Indonesia is
predominantly bimodal with road and sea transport having complementary rather
than competing roles, while rail and air transport have only minor roles.
Roads dominate with an 821 share of total passenger transport and 701 of
freight, while the shares of shipping are 21 and 271 respectively. However,
the use of transport modes varies widely among the islands. In Java, for
instance, freight movement is 96Z by road and accounts for about 801 of all
freight movement by road in Indonesia.  Intraisland freight traffic in
Indonesia, excepting Java, is mostly handled by coastal shipping with a 571
market share and virtually all interisland freight moves by ship while for
passengers it is roughly 24Z by air and 76X by ship.
1.03      The major national planning tool is the 5-year plan (Repelita).  The
15-year period 1969/70-83/84, was covered by Repelitas I, II, and III while
the current plan, Repelita IV, covers the period 1984/85-88/89.  Repelitas I
and II provided 171 and 161, respectively, of total expenditures for trans-
port, dropping to 12Z for Repelita III. Over 751 of transport expenditure
during Repelitas I and II was for roads - an attempt to reduce the large
backlog for this subsector and to reflect its dominance in the national
transport system --  but this was cut to 431 in Repelita III, while shares for
railways were trebled, and for sea transport and civil aviation doubled.
Funding of transport and the shares of the modes have remained at about these
levels through the two first years of Repelita IV but a reversing trend is
emerging in the austere budget for 1986/87. Despite the dominant importance.
of roads to national CDP growth and the large backlog of projects with very
high economic rates of return, the budget for roads has been reduced relative
to the other modes during the last 5-6 years. The large drop in oil prices
that started in late 1985 will greatlj influence GO budget in the next few
years and the about 501 cuts in local funds for transport development in
1986/87 is a likely indication of the level of local funding in the near
future.



-2-
1.04      Four major institutions are responsible for policy setting,
regulation, administration and public funding of transport. These are the
Ministries of Communication (MOC), Finance (MOF), and Public Works (MPW), and
The National-Planning Board (BAPPENAS). MOC is responsible for transport
planning of all modes other than roads, and is also responsible for most of
the policies governing road transport, The Directorate General of Highways
(DGH) of MPW is responsible for the planning, construction, maintenance, and
administration of roads in the national and provincial networks and, because
of its technical expertise, exerts considerable influence over lower class
systems also.
B.  Sector Issues
1.05      The major issues are: (a) the adequacy of public sector investment
in transport and the appropriate modal balance; (b) inadequate sector manage-
ment and intermodal coordination; (c) Government subsidies to cover state
enterprise deficits; (d) regulation of the transport industry; (e) the lack of
adequate and effective road maintenance; (f) utilization of rail capacity with
special emphasis on passenger movements in Java and freight operations in
Sumatra; and (g) improved efficiency of the maritime and ports subsector. All
of these issues are, or have been, the subject of consultant studies, and
efforts are already underway or being formulated to implement the recommenda-
tions of these studies. The most notable recent successes in terms of actual
implementation have been the removal of the vehicle fuel subsidy through
substantial price increases-and the reorganization of the ports and customs
procedures throughout the country. Both initiatives took considerable poli-
tical courage and demonstrate the willingness of GOI to take difficult policy
decisions in the sector to improve efficiency and coordination.
C. Bank Sector Support Strategy
1.06      The Bank's approach to transport development is geared to assist GOI
to develop the sector to serve transport growth in line with economic
development trends and to reduce transport costs through improvements in
physical infrastructure as well as fiscal and regulatory policies and manage-
ment arrangements. The aim is to establish gradually an efficient transport
system which is demand-responsive and financially self-supporting.
1.07      The Bank's ongoing and proposed sector assistance program has four
main components: (a) general sector development policies and management;
(b) road development and maintenance; (c) maritime transport development; and
(d) railways improvement. As an integral part of all ongoing and proposed
future transport lending operations, the Bank will assist MOC in reviewing
and, where necessary, revising existing transport development-and regulatory
policies and related arrangements, in support of GOI's overall economic,
fiscal-and social policies. In this contest, and for the highway subsector,
the Bank is assisting GOI in reconciling the objectives of economic efficiency
and regional equity within the framework of limited resources by strengthening
and upgrading key-routes in the system and devising low-cost improvements to
others, while establishing efficient maintenance policies and arrangements.
Specific assistance is also being provided to strengthen MOC's sector manage-
ment capabilities.



-3-
D.  Experience under Previous Bank Financed Highway Projects
1.08      The Bank has assisted Indonesia's transport sector through four
maritime projects (two shipping and two port projects), one railway project,
two fertilizer distribution projects and eight road projects. Starting in
1969, the Bank's participation has been particularly comprehensive in the road
subsector:  five highway projee-s, a rural roads development project, a toll
road project and a highway betterment project. The eight highway loans and
credits have totalled US$739.2 million (US$569.2 for highways and US$85 mil-
lion each for rural roads and toll roads) representing on average some }0X of
annual expenditures on roads.
1.09      Of the eight road projects financed by the Bank, five have been
satisfactorily completed and Project Performance Audit reports prepared for
the first three and a Project Completion Report for the fourth. The Project
Performance Report for the Second and Third Highway Projects (Sec. M81-4,
dated January 6, 1981) found that the second project had minor delays and cost
overruns, while the third had significant delays because of mobilization
problem in a very remote area and unusually wet weather and increased con-
struction costs. The Project Completion Report, dated June 15, 1984,for the
fourth project found that: (a) construction delays were significant (about
two years) due mostly to the weak local construction industry; (b) cost
overruns were minor; (c) traffic increases were much greater than expected at
appraisal resulting in underdesigned works; and (d) maintenance was inade-
quate. Furthermore, the Highway Betterment Project (Ln. 2404-IND) is pro-
gressing on schedule and experience so far indicates that local capacity for
planning, designing and implementing large hithway programs has improved
significantly in volume and quality but further improvement is required.
There have, however, been some delays in MOC's compliance with covenants
regarding vehicle weight control (para. 2.04) and assessment of the impact of
new tax laws on road user charges (para. 2.06). Lessons learned from previous
projects have been reflected in the design of the proposed project.
II. *THE ROAD SUBSECTOR
A.  Highway Network and Traffic
2.01      Indonesia has a relatively limited road network of some 135,000 km
of classified highways (Table 2.1).  The coverage of the main highway network
appears generally adequate for the country's present and medium-term transport
needs. Most of the system was built some 40 years ago to low standards: the
roads are narrow, lack adequate drainage, are easily flooded on the lowlands,
pavements are badly deteriorated, and bridges are substatdard.  The upkeep of
the network was neglected until intensive improvement efforts began in 1969.
However, due to rapid increases in traffic volume and loadings it has been
estimated that about 70S of the network is still in need of rehabilitation
(Tables 2.2, 2.3 and 2.4). The basis for such estimates is however poor, as
existing inventories and condition records are unreliable. This will improve
considerably in 1987 with the completion of a pavement management system
combined with a new system for road inventories and condition surveys designed



-4-
under the Highway Betterment Project and to be implemented under the proposed
project.
2.02      In step with a 172 annual average increase in the motor vehicle
fleet (Table 2.5), road traffic has grown rapidly during the last decade
especially during 1973-78 when the domestic price of fuel was low. The annual
growth rate during 1972-81 was about 142 with an average of over 20% between
1973 and 1978 but a more modest rate of 4X from 1978 to 1981 (Table 2.6).
Growth rates vary considerably among provinces, from over 252 in the oil
producing provinces of Aceh and East Kalimantan to less than 10  in some of
the others. The highest traffic flows are on approach roads to the cities of
Jakarta, Surabaya and Bandung in Java, and Medan in North Sumatra, where
volumes range between 15,000 and 40,000 vehicles per day (vpd).  On Java,
major national roads typically carry 4,000-10,000 vpd, provincial roads 1,000-
4,000 vpd, and district roads up to 1,000 vpd; on most of the other islands,
typical volumes would be between 600 and 4,000 vpd. Road traffic accidents
are a serious socioeconomic problem in Indonesia with about 11,000 fatalities
reported annually. Studies-financed under previous highway projects have
identified inadequacies in laws and regulations regarding vehicles and
traffic, in their enforcement by the police and in other areas. Measures for
improvement are being implemented under the Highway Betterment Project and
would be continued under the proposed project (see para. 2.06).
B.  Road Transport Industry
2.03      Commercial road transport is estimated to account for 70% of all
freight transportation in Indonesia. MOC vehicle inspection data for 1980
covering 158,000 trucks indicate that 50% of these were for hire and 50% were
for own account. Supply and quality of services are adequate. Government
trucking regulations cover operations in urban areas, weights and dimensions,
licensing for interprovincial routes on Java, vehicle inspections and tariff
ceilings. Given little or no barriers to entry into the industry and the
degree of competition that exists in most areas, actual charges are usually
below the tariff ceilings.
2.04      Vehicle weights enforcement was solely the responsibility of MOC's
Directorate of Land Transport (DGLT) until recently when control by mobile
scales was transferred to the police. Enforcement has improved significantly
over the last two-years but is still not fully satisfactory mostly because of
confusing regulations. In 1982, recorded detection rates of overloading had
become exceptionally low with an average of about four violations per 1,000
weighings. The main reason was illegal fees levied by weigh station person-
nel. In order to eliminate this practice, GOI abolished all enforcement in
early 1983.  However, random checks at 18 sites carried out by consultants in-
1982 showed that while overloading was common (302 of heavy vehicles were
overloaded), actual axle loads were moderate with less than 1% exceeding 10
tons, about 5% exceeding 7 tons and 18X exceeding 5 tons.  In addition to
illegal fees, enforcement has been complicated by low fines and confusing
legislation governing the excessively restrictive and out of date legal axle
load limits, ranging from 1.5 tons to 8.0 tons. Since 1984, and in accordance
with a covenant of the loan agreement of the Highway Betterment Project, DGLT
has been carrying out random checking at about 100 permanent weighing stations



-5-
and-this number will increase to 150 before mid-1987.  This checking is done
in the presence of a magistrate who levies fines on the spot and makes
offenders off-load excess loads.: In addition, as a further deterrence, DGLT
charges offenders an administrative fee and revokes vehicle licenses and
escorts vehicle to nearest inspection station for license renewal. DGLT's
statistics show these measures to be so successful that overloading has been
significantly reduced. Further improvements in enforcement will result from
revised legislation (para. 2.06), including increased fines. At negotiations,
COX agreed to monitor closely the effectiveness of enforcement and, in consul-
tation with the Bank, take corrective action as required. Furthermore, the
Bank will review with G01 its vehicle weight and axle load controls in
connection with revisions of the regulations for traffic and road transport
(para. 2.06),
2.05      Buses carry about 90% of passengers transported and some 75% of
passenger-kms travelled. Intercity passenger transport is provided primarily
by private bus companies. State-owned bus companies also provide most urban
bus services, some interurban services, and subsidized pioneer (perintis)
services ir remote areas where operations are not commercially viable. Bus
transport is highly regulated, including structure of companies, route licens-
ing and scheduling, fleet size and tariffs. Tariffs generate adequate
revenues for interurban bus companies, while intraurban bus services still
require substantial, but decreasing, subsidies as fares have been gradually
increased over the last few years.  It is expected that all subsidies to the
state-owned Jakarta City bus company (PPD) will be phased out before the end
of 1987.
2.06      Except for the basic Traffic Law No. 3 of 1965, which is very
general, existing regulations governing transport and traffic are based on a
Dutch regulation of 1936 and therefore do not meet the requirements of
today. Studies have made recommendations for improving the services and
efficiency of the road transport industry through changes in government
policies and regulations. The recommended policy changes have generated
widespread interest in government and GOI is presently in the process of
developing a comprehensive road transport legislation consisting of four legal
codes: the Highway Code, Traffic Code, Vehicle Code and a Public and
Commercial Road Transport Code that together would complete the legislation
required to implement adequately the Traffic Law No. 3 of 1965. The new
Highway Code was issued in May 1985 and the Vehicle and Traffic Codes have
been drafted as part of the Highway Safety Program and are being discussed in
the various ministries and agencies. HOC now intends to draft the last
regulation, the Public and Commercial Road Transport Code, and the decrees and
instructions required to implement thc codes.  Also, a land transport
development plan, addressing route structure, the feasibility of increasing
axle loads on select routes and terminal and transit facilities for freight
and passengers, is being prepared by consultants and its conclusions will be
incorporated into the appropriate codes.  The proposed project will assist
government in drafting the remaining code and the decrees and instructions
required for implementation of all the codes.  At negotiations, GOI agreed
that it will: (i3 by June 30, 1987, submit for Bank review and comment its
proposed Vehicle Code, Traffic Code and Public and Commercial Road Transport
Code and drafts of decrees and instructions required for implementation of the



-6- 
codes; and (ii) as soon as possible and no later than June 30, 1988, issue
and implement the three codes taking into account the Bank's comments. The
Bank will continue its dialogue with GOI on desirable changes in sector
policies and has agreed, through its economic and sector work, to assist GOI
to maintain a feasible program for the implementation of such changes.
C.  Administration, Staff and Training, Accounts and Audits
2.07      Administration of the highway network is carried out by the Public
Works agencies of the various tiers of government (Charts I to 4). At the
central level, the DCH has primary responsibility for the road subsector.
Other road agencies are'the provincial public works departments (DPUP) and
district public works departments (DPUK). An Indonesian Toll Road Corporation
was established in 1978 to develop and operate toll roads.
2.08      DCH is responsible for the design and execution of most major road
works in Indonesia. It also coordinates the betterment, maintenance and minor
construction programs which are carried out by the DPUPs. It also operates a
national highway equipment pool.  There is still considerable lack of highway
management capacity, particularly at the provincial and district levels.
Institutional and functional responsibilities for highway development and
operations are defined in broad terms in the road law of 1980 and a further
step in establishing a well-defined highway management structure was the
issue, in May 1985, of detailed regulations under the road law setting out the
institutional and functional responsibilities at all levels of government.
2.09      The various provincial public works functions are handled by separ-
ate departments within the DPUPs; for roads it is the Dinas Bina Marga
'DBM). These departments are being established in the large provinces where
administrative capabilities are already well developed, while in most other
provinces staff and equipment continue to be shared for the various functions
of the DPUPs until sufficient managerial skills are developed for effective
provincial highway management. In order to ameliorate the shortcomings in
highway management at the provincial level, DCH has established Regional
Betterment Offices (RBOs) which design and,supervise highway betterment
schemes, but these will be phased out as provincial highway management
improves. -The proposed project would provide assistance in developing highway
management skills at the provincial level.
2.10      The steadily-increasing volume of work and quality of engineering
imposes, strains on DGH as well as the DPUPs and DPUKs. DCH's permanent staff
has increased by some 10X annually over the last five years while the number
of nonpermanent employees has more than doubled over this period. Total DCH-
staff now exceed 8,000 some 4,000 of whom are permanent, with,about 1,500
professionals (about 1,000 engineers).  Despite substantial efforts to expand
and upgrade staff, the shortage of qualified personnel remains an important
problem for road authorities at all levels. Training continues to be a major
element in DCH manpower management through both MPW's overall training activi-
ties and specific DCI programs.
2.11      DGH's accounting procedures are adequate.  Accounts are audited both
internally and externally. Internal auditing of DGH is done by the KPW's



Inspectorate General which reports directly to the Minister. Projects for
audit are initially selected on a random basis, supplemented by follow-up of
projects with problems detected earlier. External auditing is done by the
State Auditors and is sound.
D.  Planning, Design and Construction
2.12      The MOC is responsible for overall transport sector planning,
including intermodas coordination with inputs from line ministries and
agencies.  This function has been lacking but MOC's sector planning capabili-
ties are being developed under ongoing transport projects (para. 2.14). DCH
is responsible for the planning of national and provincial roads, while the
Ministry of Home Affairs is responsible for planning the development of
district roads, with technical assistance from DGH as required.  Planning of
toll roads is done by OGH, while the role of the Indonesian Toll Road Corpora-
tion is as yet limited to operation and maintenance. MPW's Directorate
General of Human Settlement (Cipta Karya) plays a minor role in coordinating
efforts in long range planning of regional development carried out by MPW's
various directorates.
2.13      The main organization for highway planning remains, however, DGH's
Directorate of Planning which periodically collects data on traffic, including
origin-destination surveys. These data are complemented by systematic annual
road and bridge condition inventories covering all national and provincial-
roads. The planning methodologies applied by DCH's Directorate of Planning
for national and provincial roads are basically sound.  Reliable procedures
have been developed for screening and ranking highway betterment proposals.
These procedures are however too sophisticated and expensive to use for the
many hundreds of initial road link screenings undertaken annually. The
Highway Betterment Project is assisting in developing a simple and less costly
screening/ranking process in conjunction with the establishing of a nationwide
pavement management system (PMS) and associated road Inventory and pavement
condition and traffic surveys. The proposed project wil? assist in finalizing
this work and in the setting up of and training DCH staff for a unit in the
Planning Directorate to continue and maintain the PMS on a national basis,
thus effectively integrating highway maintenance into the planning process.
2.14      Completion of the PMS in 1987 and the integration of roads in trans-
migration and other development schemes into the classified networks
(para. 2.32) will provide a satisfactory basis for highway planning for the
next several, years while betterment of the existing highway system remain the
major elements of road expenditures.  However, as traffic is expected to
increase between 4 and 6 times over the next 15 years, large increases in
capacity will be required. This would require extensive improvements of a
existing roads and some new roads in the most densely populated areas. New
roads will also be required for future rural development and transmigration
schemes and in areas with low road coverage. More extensive planning will be
required and the coordination of different modes becomes very important. This
extended planning effort is being prepared in MOC (including a national
transport development guide) under the National Ports Development Project
(Ln. 2577-IND) and would involve, inter alia, the Ministries of Public Works,
Home Affairs, Agriculture and Transmigration.



-8-
2.15      DGH's design work is the responsibility of the Directorate of
Planning.  With about 580 employees, including those of the eight RBOs, this
office has demonstrated its capacity to produce acceptable designs for a broad
range of highway and bridge construction, and to supervise a large volume of
design work by consultants as well. Design work at thc provincial and dis-
trict levels is the responsibility of the DBMs and DPUKs respectively, while
DGH, upon request, provides technical assistance to both for design of roads
and bridges in their programs.
2.16      Responsibility for highway construction lies with DGH's three
Regional Operation Directorates for national roads and some major works on
provincial highways; with DPUPs for provincial roads and some minor works on
national roads; and with DPUKs for kabupaten roads.  The works are executed
unler a variety of arrangements. Most typical for minor construction is the
use of small contractors who supply labor and local materials but use equip-
ment and manufactured materials supplied by the respective road authority.
Some ten years ago, Indonesia had a relatively small number of experienced
contracting firms capable of executing major road works, and DGH therefore
used mainly foreign contractors for such jobs. Since then local capability
has developed so that there are now registered some 250 "A" class (with no
upper limit of contract price) and some 13,000 "B" class (eligible to bid on
contracts up to US$450,000) local contracting firms in Indonesia. In addi-
tion, there are many thousand small contractors, registered as class "C"
(eligibility ceiling of US$100,000) providing unskilled labor and production
and transportation of materials for larger contractors and government
agencies.
2.17      GOI has long recognized the need to improve the capabilities of
local contractors and has provided assistance by arranging short-term lending
to small- and medium-sized firms at concessional rates, and training of con-
tractors' personnel. Previous highway projects have provided limited
technical assistance for contractors engaged on road works and this assistance
will be continued under the proposed project. The long-range development of
Indonesia's construction industry was the subject of a study sponsored by the
United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) in 1976/77 and the
Bank undertook a sector review in 1981 identifying problems in the construc-
tion, legal and regulatory fields. The Bank is discussing with GOI further
development of the industry with main focus on revision of and relief from GOI
regulations regarding the industry, restructuring MPW's Construction Industry
Development Bureau and improved availability of credit and equipment to local
contractors.
E.  Road Maintenance
2.18      Maintenance of national and provincial roads'is carried out by the
DBMs, partly with provincial funds, but mostly with funds supplied by central
government through the budgets of DGH and the'Directorate General of Regional
Development in MHA. Recent studies have found that during the past several
years, only a part of the national and provincial roads network has received
some maintenance, mostly inadequate. DOH records indicate that at the end of
1984 about 70% of the network was still in unmaintainable condition.



-9-
2.19      The studies also found that coverage of routine maintenance is
uneven and inadequate and that periodic maintenance'is essentially not carried
out with the consequent accelerating deterioration and shortening of the life
of the roads.
2.20      Although COI intended to place increased emphasis on road main-
:tenance during  Repelita IV, the annual maintenance budgets have consistently
been much lower than allocations in the original plan. In 1984/85, expendi-
tures were 65% of the planned allocation and in 1985/86 the budget is 57X of
the planned allocations.  During these years, total maintenance expenditures
will average less'than US$1*700 per km which is very low, even for systems in
a fairly good condition.
2.21      In spite of reduced allocations during the last few years, physical
targets have remained virtually unchanged with the unfortunate consequence
that DCH has been designing some road betterment works for a life of only five
years or less, thus straining future maintenance efforts still further. In
the proposed austerity budget for 1986/87, allocations for maintenance of
national and provincial roads are increased relative to new construction and
betterment which have been cut to.the minimum required to sustain ongoing
contracted works (Tables 2.7 and 2.8). In view of the severe financial
constraints, and until the pavement management system, in 1987 and 1988,
gradually will provide a better basis for assessment of needs, this level of
funding for maintenance is considered adequate (see also para. 2.23). There-
fore, at negotiations GOI agreed, for each of its fiscal years 1986/87 and
19a7/88, to allocate at least 35X of the budget for national and provincial
roads towards maintenance of those roads.
2.22      In addition to inadequate funding, studies have identified many
deficienc.es in the organization, administration and execution of road mainte-
nance: (a) through organizational changes during the last three years,
responsibilities for maintenance have been combined with those for other
functions thus diffusing *equired attention (and diluting efforts of technical
assistance) but also creating overlapping of duties; (b) excessive efforts are
used in collecting and processing information and in planning, programming and
budgetting; (e) excessively detailed and rigid budget allocations; (d) long
delays (up to six months-) in the release of funds to the executing unit after
the budget has been approved resulting in most works being carried out during
the wet season; (e) classroom training of staff is ineffective (attendance is
decided mostly by rank rather than need) and very little on-the-job training
takes place; (f) shortage and uneven distribution of strategic materials such
as asphalt; (g) extremely cumbersome procurement procedures, even for very
minor expenditures; (h) inadequate equipment with inadequate maintenance and
lacking deployment procedures; and (£) inadequate supervision and monitoring
of output but excessive financial control.  To address these deficiencies,
improvement programs, including technical assistance and training and
provision of equipment for surface dressing operations, were-started on a
small scale ir. seven provinces under the Fifth Highway Project and expanded
and extended to 14 provinces under the Highway Betterment Project with the
intention of covering 26 DBMs (excepting only DKI Jakarta) under upcoming
projects before the end of Repelita IV. As a conclusion of this plan, the
proposed project would finance technical assistance to the first 14 DBMs for



- 10 -
about 12 months and the remaining 12 VBNs for about 30 months with special
emphasis on improving efficiency and introducing more cost-effective
maintenance methods and techniques.  Furthermore, terms of reference for-
intensive restructuring programs to address the deficiencies describes above
in three provinces are being prepared partly under the Bank's sector work and
partly under ongoing technical assistance and, at negotiations, GOr agreed
that DCH will: (i) by October 31, 1986, establish terms of reference satis-
factory to the Bank to restructure and simplify the organization, adminis-
tration and execution of road maintenance activities on a pilot basis in the
provinces of South Sumatra, &ast Java and South East Sulawesi with the
assi3tance of technical advisors financed under the Project; (ii) beginning
January 31, 1987, implement the restructuring and simplification programs in
such provinces; and (iii) by December 1987, expand the results of this effort
to other provinces in accordance with a plan satisfactory to the Bank.
2.23      To improve and rationalize further the planning and execution of
periodic maintenancelrehabilitation/betterment, DGH has employed consultants
under the Highway Betterment Project to prepare a Pavement Management System
(PMS) for the national and provincial roads in 14 provinces in Java and
Sumatra.  The system would eventually be extended to all of the 27 provinces
of the country and will be a reliable tool to analyze on a regular basis the
status of the network and estimate the costs involved in its maintenance and
upgrading. Design of the basic system is expected to be completed in mid-1986
and the proposed project would assist in finalizing work on the PMS and
associated maintenance strategy and standards and in establishing a permanent
unit in the Planning Directorate to maintain the PMS on a national basis as
well as setting up the system in 26 DBMs. At negotiations GOI agreed that it
will: (i) by December'31, 1986, finalize the design of DCH's pavement manage-
ment system and establish maintenance policies satisfactory to the Bank to be
applied through the pavement management system; (ii) from January 1, 1987
through December 31, 1988, introduce the pavement management system province
by province; and (iii) as the pavement management system is introduced, apply
such maintenance policies to establish on an annual basis provincial main-
tenance and betterment programs and associated budgets, and provide funds for
such programs accordingly.
2.24      The DPUKs are responsible for maintaining all kabupaten roads; where
the DPUKs lack the organizational capability or where there is no public works
organization, maintenance is carried out by the DPUPs.  The Rural Roads
Development Project is addressing road maintenance improvements in 25
kabupatens (and projects financed by the Asian Development Bank (ADS), the
Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan (OECF) and the US Agency for
International Development (USAID) in another 70 kabupatens) by provision of
equipment, workshops, technical assistance and extensive training; this assis-
tance is planned to be expanded under future Bank, ADB and OECF projects to
some 60 additional kabupatens.  MHA has agreed that at least 152 of all
kabupaten road funds would be allocated to maintenance and that this &mount
will gradually increase as required to maintain adequately the kabupaten road
system.



- 11 *- 
F. Highway Development Programs and Financing
2.25      Within the context of each Repelita, special provisions are inade for
highway development and maintenance. Under Repelitas I and II (1969/70-
1978/84), about 13% of the development budget was utilized for highways.
GOI's policy for the highway sector during the period of the first two
Repelitas emphasized improvement of existing infrastructure rather than
network expansion. Although budget allocations for highways under Repelita
III (1979/80-1983/84) substantially increased in absolute-terms over those in
Repelita II, the highway sector's share in the total development budget
declined drastically to 5.3% of the total. During this period the focus of
highway development was shifted slightly as GOX put increasing emphasis on low
class rural roads as an explicit component of its broader rural development
strategy but the main emphasis remained on achieving a gradual and balanced
improvement of the existing road network. Virtually all national and provin-
cial roads in critical condition were improved and the length of roads in
stable condition increased from 4,000 km to 14,500 km. Maintenance, however,
was largely neglected.
2.26      The plan for Repelita IV (1983/84-1988/89) allocated Rp. 4,220
billion for national and provincial roads (then about US$4.2 billion with
about US$1.2 billion expected from foreign aid). While the major target was
to have 60X of the network in maintainable condition by the end of the plan
period, emphasis on maintenance was increased significantly. These targets
have been"reduced significantly as every annual budget has been decreased: in
1984/85 tqtal expenditures were 961 of those planned and the 1985/86 and
1986/87 "' budgets are 76% and 56% respectively of the plan figures; reduc-
tions for maintenance are even greater. In the austere budget for 1986/87,
funding for national and provincial roads has been reduced by some 13%
compared to the previous year (Tables 2.7 and 2.8): construction of new roads
by 76Z and betterment works by 22% while maintenance has been increased by
some 10x. At the same time, allocations to district roads have been increased
by some 27% over the previous year. Under the circumstances, this is an
adequate shift and reflects GOI's declared emphasis on the preservation of
existing roads and the development of low -class district roads. Tables 2.7
and 2.8 show present status of actual, budgetted and planned expenditures for
roads during Repelita IV; those shown for 19871/88 and 1988/89 are very
unlikely to materialize.
2.27      In the 1986/87-budget for national and provincial roads, about
ap 256 billion (about US$230 million) or nearly 80% of the total budget
amount, is expected to come from external sources compared to 22Z and 25%
respectively in the previous two years. This represents an increase of 117%
over the previous year and is considered too optimistic; an amount of Rp
200 billion (about US$180 million) would be more likely to'materialize.- The
1/   Total budget amounts for 1986/87 are not firm because provincial budgets
for roads have not been confirmed at the time of this writing.  However,
as these budgets are small even significant changes would not materially
affect comparisons.



- 12 -
proposed project, together with the ongoing Highway Betterment Project, would
be expected to contribute close to 50X-(about US$90 million) of the external
funds with about 17Z from each of ADB and OECF and lesser amounts from
bilateral sources.  The Bank's contribution to the 1981/87 program for
national and provincial roads would thus be about 30% of the total program
cost and this share would be expected to continue for the following two to
three years.
2.28      Allocations for periodic maintenance of national and provincial
roads. in the 1986/87 budget indicate that the proposed project would be
contributing to=about 50% of such maintenance works, while virtually all of
the betterment works would be externally funded. This indicates that in
1986/87, and most likely the following two or three years, most of the
programs for periodic maintenance and betterment of national and provincial
roads would be carried out under externally assisted projects and in
accordance with technical and economic standards satisfactory for the Bank.
Also, under the constrained budget foreseen for the next few years, GO does
not intend to initiate any new construction or betterment works except under
externally financed projects, although a few ongoing works will be completed.
2.29      Assuming that the severe budget constraints of 1986/87 will remain
for a few years, it seems unlikely that GOI will reach its goal of improving
national and provincial roads so that 601 of the network would be in
maintainable condition by the end of Repelita IV; a figure of 45-502 would be
more realistic, leaving some 25,000 km for improvement after 1988/89.  Unless-
roads are given higher priority in the development budget, and in view of the
increased requirements for maintenance funds, it appears unlikely that all
existing national and provincial roads will be in satisfactory condition until
the end of the century.
2.30      Some 200 km of toll roads are planned to be constructed during
Repelita IV in and around Jakarta, Surabaya, Bandung and Medan; financing
would mostly be through bond issues and from foreign aid (the Bank, the Kuwait
Fund for Arab Economic Development (KFAED) and the Saudi Fund for Development
(SFD)) passed on from GOI as equity. Toll roads are in general planned to be
built where capacity increases are required on high-volume (over 20,000 vpd)
roads. Total estimated cost is Rp 540 billion (US$491 million or US$2.5
million per km). The only contribution from the development budget is an
allocation for land acquisition, Rp 99 billion (US$90 million).
2.31-    District (kapubaten) road expenditures are financed through the
Inpres Programs (special programs governed by presidential decrees) of the
first (Inpres Jalan) and second order (Inpres Kapubaten).  Inpres Jalan is
entirely used for roads and has been of the order of Rp 80 billion over the
last 2 years (see Table 2.7) but was-increased to Rp .130 billion in the          -
1986/87 budget mostly to start improving long neglected transmigration roads
(see also para. 2.32). Inpres Kabupaten is for general purposes, but it is
estimated that some 50-60% of the funds are used -for road instruction. If
this trend continues, altogether some Rp 330 billion (US$300 million) would bo
spent annually on the kabupaten road network of some 80,000 to 100,000 km.
About 70% of the network is in poor condition and quality of construction is
still low. Institutional and implementation problems are being addressed



- ls -
under several ongoing projects (para. 2.24).  As substantial expansion of the
network will be required soon, it is unlikely that all of the network will be
in satisfactory condition before the end of the century.
2.32      During the period 1981/82-1984/83 it is estimated that some 12,000
km of roads and 14,000 km of tracks were built within transmigration schemes
and a significant length of-roads of various standards have also been built in
other development schemes. More such roads are inclulJed in planned schemes.
Most of these roads are eventually (usually at the enl of the project period)
absorbed into the classified networks (some 05Z would become district roads)
and their upkeep becomes the responsibility of the appropriate road authority.
'As the majority of the roads are built to inadequate standards and maintenance
-has usually been grossly neglected, their condition at the time of hand-over
is in most cases so deteriorated that reconstruction is necessary. The road
authorities are, however, rarely given extra funds for such reconstruction or
subsequent maintenance. The Rural Roads Development Project is assisting in
carrying out an inventory of these roads (starting with transmigration
schemes) in order to identify the size and scope of the problem and provide
recommendations for a more effective integration of these roads into the
classified networks and the public highway program.
2.33      As a part of the preparation of the Land Transport Development Plan
(para. 2.06), consultants are investigating the feasibility of upgrading key
routes within the national and provincial roads network so that larger (multi-
axle) and more efficient trucks than presently allowed can be used. Prelimin-
ary results indicate that such trucks could yield substantial economies of
scale and reduce the costs of transport and of maintaining roads. While GOI
supports this strategy, it also attaches high priority to equitable provision
of a reliable system of national and provincial roads throughout the country.
The problem is to reconcile the objectives of economic efficiency and regional
equity within the framework of limited resources. One solution is to upgrade
and strengthen the key routes in the system and to devise low-cost improve-
ments for others. The proposed project would promote such strategy.
2.34      In 1980/81 and 1982/83, it is estimated that road users contributed
-41% and 68% respectively of the full financial cost of road investments and
maintenance with private cars subsidizing motorcycles, buses and trucks.  GOI
has recently taken several measures to increase the contributions from road
users. One is the increase in fuel prices, the second is a major reform of
the tax law which has brought about substantial increases in the taxes on road
vehicles and simplified collection-procedures to reduce the possible scope for
evasion and underpayment, and third, tolls on toll roads and toll bridges have
also been increased by over 100% recently. These changes have significantly
increased road user contributions to government revenues both through rate
increases and throuih more efficient collection so that road user contribu-
tions in 1985/86 are estimated-to have-fully covered highway expenditures.
Cost recovery is, however, influenced by oil price movements and during
negotiations COI agreed to monitor and update information on road user charges
on an annual basis. GOI also agreed to examine relative user contributions in
depth.



- 14 -
III.  THE PROJECT
A.  1bjectives
3.01      The project is designed to continue and complete work started under
previous projects, particularly the Highway Betterment Project, to provide the
-basis for a realistic assessment of the condition of the national and provin-
cial road network and establishing a pavement management system with adequate
maintenance policies and to improve the planning, design and execution of
large road programs.
3.02      The project would thus assist GOT to pursue its highway development
strategy of satisfactory maintenance and extensive restoration and upgrading
of the national and provincial road networks. The project would also
contribute to improving regulations for road transport and traffic and the
planning procedures, technical standards and implementation arrangements for
highway betterment, but special emphasis would be on furthering efficient
management and effective arrangements for highway maintenance.
B. Project Scope
3.03      The project would consist of:
(a) Civil Works. Periodic maintenance of some 6,600 km of national and
provincial roads and repair of some 2,200 m of damaged bridges;
betterment of some 1,900 km of intercity national and provincial
roads; and replacement of some 7,000 m of defective, high priority
bridges on major roads.           -
(b) Equipment. Procurement of maintenance equipment to complement
existing fleet and other minor equipment for improved maintenance
operations; laboratory equipment for the design and quality control
of maintenance and betterment works;- automatic traffic counters;
mobile weigh scales; and equipment for vehicle testing.
(c)  Technical Assistance.  Engagement of local and foreign consultants
to:  (i} design and supervise major road and bridge works;
(ii) improve highway management at the central and provincial levels
and develop cost-effective road maintenance and construction
techniques and procedures; (iii) improve road investment planning;
(iv) improve management of road transport and traffic; (v) draft
revisions to regulations regarding road transport and traffic; (vi)
develop the capabilities of local contractors and consultants; and
(vii) continue the preparation and implementation of-highway safety
measures.       -
(d) Overseas Training. Provision of overseas training for some 30
highway officials.



- 15 -
C. Project Description
Periodic Maintenance
3.04      This component comprises a three year program of periodic mainte-
nance of national and provincial roads and repair of bridges. Included will
be 170-180 sections, of lengths from 3 to 100 km, of roads in various parts.of
the country where:  (a) pavement deterioration is still moderate and can be
corrected by relatively simple measures such as bituminous surface dressing
(about 3,000 km) or a single 3 cm hot rolled sheet (fRS) overlay (about 2,900
km); or (b) where low cost pavements of earth and gravel need improvement to
engineered gravel standards (about 700 km). Traffic volumes vary between 70
and 40,000 vpd. Although designed and executed as described below for the
betterment component, works will be of much smaller scale and cost. Selection
of works is based on economic criteria (par&. 4.02); the first year-program,
1986/87, of about 2,200 km has been agreed (Table 3.1) and during negotiations
it was agreed with GOI that DGH would submit by December 31, 1986 and 1987,
for Bank review and approval its proposals for the fiscal years 1987/88 and
1988/89 respectively for the program of periodic maintenance. The bridge
repair program has been agreed and comprises some 40 bridges of total length
of about 2,200 m (Table 3.2) completed in 1976-78 that have seriously cracked
decks. Repairs would be done mostly by plate bonding methods.
Road Betterment
3.05      The 1,900 km of betterment works will include some 45 sections of
seriously deteriorated national and provincial roads with lengths varying
between 20 and 90 km, in various.parts of.the country, selected on the basis
of economic criteria (see Chapter IV). Works will be carried out-on existing
alignment except where realignment of short sections is required to eliminate
known safety hazards. Traffic volumes vary bet*een 500 and 21,000 vpd. Dur-
ing construction, minimum inconvenience to traffic will be achieved by, having
works carried out in one lane over a relatively short section at a time, while
the two-way traffic alternately uses the other lane. Works will be designed
for a ten-year lifetime in accordance with minimum betterment standards agreed
with GOI during project preparation (Annex 1) and would generally comprise, as
required, improvement of side and cross drainage and repair, widening and
strengthening of pavements and shoulders. -Some 30% of pavements need widening
and all pavements will be strengthened by bituminous overlays, with thick-
nesses varying between 3 cm and 15 cm (7 cm and 20 cm where a regulating
course is required to correct uneven surface and/or pavement camber) designed
on the basis of existing condition (measured deflection under load) and
traffic volume and loadings projected for the next 10 years.
3.06      While pavements are accurately designed and quantities defined, the
simple nature of other elements (improvement of drainage and widening and
strengthening of shoulders) and the cost of surveying make detailed design and
quantification uneconomical and contracts will contain only provisional quan-
tities based on random samples and averages-from completed contracts. Design
of these elements will be carried out on site as work progresses with survey-
ing, setting-out and measuring of quantities done concurrently. As the cost
of these elements is generally only 10-20% of total cost of works, even rela-



- 16 -
tively wide variations in quantities will have little effect on final costs.
The works will be carried out in three phases; the first phase program of
about 434 km has been agreed with GOI (Table 3.3 and maps), and during negc-
tiations it was agreed with GGI that DGH would submit by October 31, 1986 and
December 31, 1936 for Bank review and approval its proposals for the second
and third phases respectively of the betterment works program.
Bridge Replacement Program
3.07      The bridge replacement program will comprise some 150 bridges in
various parts of the country with an average length of about 45 meters.
Bridges included in the program are creating traffic bottlenecks for one or
more of the following reasons: severe load limitations because of low initial
design loads or advanced structural deterioration; width restrictions; and
hazardous hydrological conditions. Bridges will be designed by DGO with some
assistance from local consultants to agreed standards with 20 tons maximum
axle loads and 45 tons gross vehicle weights. Most of the new bridges will
have prefabricated steel superstructures that have proved very economical and
appropriate under Indonesian circumstances. Selection of bridges for replace-
ment is based on economic criteria and the first phase construction program of
82 bridges with total length of about 4,300 m (Table 3.4) has been agreed with
DGK. During negotiations it was agreed with GOI that, by December 31, 1986,
DOGH would submit its proposal for the second phase of the program, comprised
of some 60 bridges of about 2,700 m total length, for Bank review and
approval.
Equipment
3.08      The proposed project would provide equipment:  (a) to improve the
efficiency of road maintenance in the provinces that will be provided with
technical assistance under the project (para. 3.09); (b) for laboratories to
improve the design and quality control of hot-mix bituminous surfacings and
other betterment and maintenance activities; (c) for about 100 each automatic
traffic counters and mobile weigh scales.; and (d) equipment for the vehicle
testing facility of the Directorate General of Land Transportation (DGLT) in
Bali. The laboratory equipment would be allocated to 26 DPUP laboratories to
upgrade and complement existing equipment. The list of equipment was agreed
with GOI at negotiations and is shown in Table 3.5.
Technical Assistance
3.09      General.  The project would provide for technical assistance
services totalling 4,905 man-months, 1,717 man-month of foreign and 3,188 man-
months of local consultants' services,, with supervision of civil works
accounting for nearly half-of the man-months, while-the remainder would be
divided between strengthening DGH's planning, design and administrative
functions; improving maintenance operations of the DBMs; and supporting the
DGLT. The significant number of consultants is required because recruitment
and training of professionals by the DGH and the DBMs lags behind the increas-
ing demand for improved and expanded operations. GOI's objectives are to:
(i) ensure high engineering quality of works supported under the project; and
(ii) develop local capabilities in order to reduce significantly the need in



- 17
the future for consultancy support in general and foreign technical guidance
in particular.  Terms of reference are available on the Project FiLe.
3.10      DBMs.  Maintenance of the national and provircial road network is
carried out by the DBMs. In view of the increased focus on maintenace in all
pares of the country, DGH will strengthen 26 DBMs. The proposed project would
finance technical assistance to develop their maintenance capabilities and, in
liaison with the affiliated RBOs, to facilitate also the gradual transfer of
technical and administrative responsibilities for major roadworks from the
central to the provincial level. Extension of ongoing assistance would be
provided during the first 18 months of the project to the 14 DBMs (North, West
and South Sumatra, Aceh, Jambi, Bengkulu, Lampung,'West, Central and East
Java, Yogyakarta, Bali and North and South Sulawesi) financed under the first
Highway Betterment Project until October 1986, and assistance to the remaining
12 DBMs (Riau, West, Central, South and East Kalimantan, Central and Southeast
Sulawesi, West and East Nusa Tenggara, Maluku, Irian Jaya and Timor Timur)
would be provided for a period of 30 months. In addition to assisting in
improving the present activities of the DBMs, including the design, execution
and supervision of periodic maintenance works, the technical assistance would
specifically focus on the implementation of the Pavement Management System
(PMS) and resulting maintenance activities i.ncluding: the introduction of
inexpensive measures such as single and double bituminous surface dressings;
improving the use of asbuton; improving the operations of the 24 existing
asphalt mixing centers (AMCs) in operation; and establishing of new AMCs.
Also, specific intensive programs would be introduced in three provinces,
South Sumatra, East Java and South East Sulawesi, in early 1987 to assist, on
a pilot basis, in restructuring and simplifying the organization,
administration and execution of routine and periodic maintenance activities
(para 2.22). In addition, the consultants would carry out the study of the
maintenance standards and financial policies associated with the PMS. The
consultants would furthermore be responsible for the formal supervision of all
periodic maintenance works financed under the project, whether carried out by
contract or force account. For the twenty six DBMs some 1,500 man-months in
total would be required for technical assistance and supervision services over
a period of about three years: 666 man-months of foreign and 834 man-months
of local consultants' services.
3.11      DCH for Planning Directorate.  The Planning Directorate requires
assistance to:  (i) establish a mechanism for coordination and monitoring of
planning and programming work in the central office, the RBOs and the DBMs;
(b) develop guidelines and manuals for the collection, processing and analysis
of road data to match systems being established-under the Highway Betterment
Project; (c) set up a long-term manpower development and training program for
the Planning Directorate; (d) design and conduct training programs for 40-50
middle and junior level professionals; and (e) define and arrange overseas -
training for some 30 middle and higher level professionals.  The proposed
project would provide technical assistance to DGH's Planning Directorate for a
total of about 87 man-months, 60 man-months of foreign and 27 man-months of
local consultants' services.
3.12      DGH for Design, Contract Administration and Quality Control.  With
assistance under previous highway projects, DGH has been revising and comr-



- 18 -
puterizing design work for its betterment and periodic maintenance operations
and setting up a system for contract administration and quality control of
these operations. Good progress has been achieved especially in developing
appropriate design of pavement thicknesses and mixes of asphaltic overlays and
in establishing an effective system of quality control and a part of design
and control work has already been transferred to the most advanced DBMs.
Further assistance is, however, required for a period of about 30 months in
order for all of the DBMs to effectively adopt the established systems and
procedures and assume their role for design and quality control and for DGH's
Planning Directorate to consolidate and enhance its responsibility for setting
standards and policies and for coordination. The proposed project will there-
fore provide some 363 man-months of technical assistance over a period of
about three years; 203 man-months of foreign and 160 man-months of local con-
sultants' services. In addition, about 200 man-months of local consultants
services are required to assist DGH in designing a part of the betterment and
bridge replacement programs.
3.13      DCH for Study of Rock Asphalt.  The natural rock asphalt (asbuton)
has been used by DGH in its natural form as an overlay for maintenance opera-
tions with mixed results, but work financed under previous projects indicates
that the material has good potential provided DGH develops improved methods of
utilizing and controlling the quality of the rock asphalt. This requires
improved testing methods and specifications for use in overlays for maintenace
and betterment works and also an investigation to determine whether extracting
the bitumen from the rock asphalt at the source (the island of Buton) might be
a more economical way of utilizing this natural resource. For this purpose,
the project would provide 67 man-months of technical assistance, 38 man-months
of foreign and 29 man-months of local consultants' services.
3.14      DGH for Contractors/Consultants.  With assistance under the Fifth
Highway Project DGH has been providing local contractors and consultants with
foreign experts to improve the financial and technical management of the firms
and their contract works. While received with suspicion in the beginning,
many firms have now requested such assistance and the proposed project would
provide about 190 man-months of foreign experts' services to assist local
firms contracted by DCH for the design and construction of road works.
3.15      MOC for Revision of Transport Related Regulations and for Highway
Safety. Studies under previous highway projects have made recommendations for
changes in government policies and regulations in order to improve the
services, efficiency and safety of road transport (para. 2.06). MOC plans-to
draft revisions to laws and regulations regarding road traffic, road transport
industry and vehicles as well as manuals for implementation. The proposed
project will provide some 34 man-months of foreign technical experts and
another 40 man-months for local lawyers familiar with these matters.
3.16      With technical assistance under the Fifth Highway Project, MOC's
Directorate General of Land Transport (DGLT) has been preparing a comprehen-
sive Highway Safety Program. All of the basic studies have been completed and
implementation of recommendations has started. MOC plans to continue imple-
mentation of programs for: (a) vehicle inspection and testing system;
(b) driver licensing and vehicle registration (in preparation of the pending



- 19 -
transfer of responsibility for vehicle registration from the police to MOC;
and (c) driver education and testing. Preparation of further programs, such
as traffic education in schools and an accident-prevention program would also
be included. The proposed project would provide some 190 man-months of tech-
nica'. assistance, 116 man-months of foreign and 74 man-months of local con-
sultants' services.
3.17      Under the Fifth Highway Project technical assistance was provided to
strengthen training programs at DGLT's Land Transport Colleges at Bekasi and
Tegal. Foreign experts provided by University College Lonuon, prepared and
taught courses for university graduates and technicians in transport planning
and management, traffic engineering, public transport administration and data
collection and analysis; and trained instructors for these colleges and other
DCLT training centers. Further assistance is required for about two years and
the project would provide some 78 man-months of foreign experts.
3.18      Supervision of Construction.  Supervision of betterment works and
bridge replacement works will be carried out by local consulting firms that
will strengthen their staff by foreign experts as required. Due to the widely
scattered locations of road and bridgeworks and as the rapid deterioration and
the time lapse between original design and implementation requires that the
supervising consultants in many cases revise road design, the cost of super-
vision is somewhat higher than usual for such works; it is estimated that the
1,900 km of betterment works will be let in some 45 contracts and that the 150
bridges to be constructed would be let in some 40 contracts. Supervision of
these 85 contracts would require a total of 2,292 man-months, 332 man-months
of foreign and 2,040 man-months of local consultants# services during a period
of about four years.
Overseas Training
3.19      Indonesian universities are now capable of basic training in most
fields related to transport engineering and economics.  It would, however, be
very beneficial for middle and higher level DCH officials to receive formal'
and informal postgraduate training overseas mostly in transport planning but
also in highway administration and project management.  The project therefore
provides for such training for some 30 DCH officials (see para. 3.11).         -
D. Cost Estimates
3.20      The total project cost, including contingency allowances is esti-
mated at Rp 572.0 Yillion or US$520.0 million (including US$18.1 million for
taxes and duties)._   Total cost includes:  (a) physical contingencies of 15X
of base cost on road betterment and bridge replacement works but IOZ on other
civil works and supervision; and (b) price contingencies on foreign component
of 7.2Z during 1986, 6.8% during 1987 and 1988, 7.0% during 1989 and 7.1%
during 1990 and on local component of 6% during 1986 through 1990. Foreign
21   Includes US$17.0 million of identifiable taxes and duties on civil works
and US$1.1 million taxes on services of consultants.



- 20 -
exchange component is estimated at US$300.0 million or 58X of total cost.
Detailed cost estimates are given in Table 3.6 and siummarized below:
Estimated Costs
Foreign
Local   Foreign   Total    exchange 8S
US$ million--- x         of total
Civil Works
Periodic maintenance of roads
and repair of bridges                 66.5      80.3    146.8       55
Betterment of roads                      75.9     89.1    165.0       54
Bridge replacement                       18.6     29.1     47.7       61
Subtotal                              161.0    198.5    359.5       55
Equipment                                   0.8     14.4      15.2      95
Technical Assistance and Overseas
Training                                 16.4     23.7     4041       59
Total Base Costs                      178.2    236.6    414.8       57
Contingencies
Physical                                 20.8     21.6     48.4       57
Price                                    21.0     35.8      56.8      63
Subtotal                              41.8      63.4    105.2       60
Total Project Cost                   220.0    300.0    520.0        58
3.21      The base-costs-are estimated as of April- 1986 and have been derived
as follows:.
(a)  Civil Works.. The estimates are based on updated bid prices of
similar works in the Highway Betterment Project and cost of force
account works from 1984/85.  Periodic maintenance-by bituminous
overlays is estimated to cost US$40,900 (Rp 45 million) per km when
-  done by contract, but US$31,800 (Rp 35 million)-when done by force
account reflecting the exclusion of depreciation of equipment pro-
vided under previous highway projects; bituminous surface dressing
is estimated to cost US$11,400 per km (Rp 12.5 billion); improvement
of earth/gravel roads is estimated to cost US$13,700 per km (Rp 15
million); betterment is estimated to cost on average US$86,800
(Rp 96 million) per km; and bridge replacement is estimated to cost
on average a total of US$6,800 per m (Rp 7.5 million).



- 21 -
(b) Equipment. Cost of equipment for maintenance operations and for the
laboratories is based on recent quotations updated to April 1986
price levels.
(c)  Technical Assistance.  A summary of the required consultancy
services and their cost is tabulated below:
Foreign       Local                Base
consultants  consultants  Total      cost
--- - - - man-months ------- US$ million
TA for DBMs (including supervision
of periodic maintenance)             666            834     1t500      11.4
TA for DCH for planning                 60             27        87       1.1
TA for DGH for design                                 200       200       1.1
TA for DCI for quality control and
contract administration              203            160       363       5.4
TA for DGH for contractors/
consultants                          190              -       190       2.5
TA for DGH for rock asphalt study       38             29        67       0.7
TA for MOC                             228            114       342       3.8.
Supervision of betterment
and bridge works                     332          2,040     2,292      13.6
Overseas training of DGH
professionals                          -              -         -       0.5
Total                            1,717          3,188     4,905     40.1
E. Financing
3.22      The proposed Bank loan of US$300.0 million would finance the foreign
exchange component or about 58% of total project cost (about 60% of total cost
excluding taxes and duties). The GOI would finance the remaining US$220.0
million equivalent, or about 42% of the total estimated project cost, through'
annual budgetary allocations to DGH: (a) US$82.5 million equivalent from the
central government budget; and (b) US$137.5 million equivalent from provincial
budgets.
-  -  -   F.  Implementation and-Procurement        -         -
3.23      Except for technical assistance to and a minor equipment component
for MOC, which will be coordinated by one of DGLT's managers, DGH will be
solely responsible for project execution. Implementation will be through
DGH's permanent organization with the assistance of a project liaison unit
that also coordinates progress reporting. Based on experience gained under
previous highway projects, the implementation capacity of DCH and the DBMs,



- 22 -
all assisted by qualified consultantsp is considered adequate to execute the
project.  Project implementation period is expected to be about four years.
3.24      Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:
Total
Project element                              ICB      LCB      Other      cost
---------- (US$ million)     
Periodic maintenance of roads
and repair of bridges                               59.4    118.8 /a   178.2
(40.6)   (20.0)~  (60.6)
Road betterment                             215.0                         215.0
(147.5)                       (147.5)
Bridge substructures                         36.5      6.4                 42.9
(14.5)    (2.5)               (17.0)
Bridge materials                             19.3                           19.3
(18.3)                        (18.3)
Equipment                                    17.3                           17.3
(16.4)                        (16.4)
Technical assistance (including super-                          47.3       47.3
vision) and overseas training                                (40.2)     (40.2)
Totals                                  288.1     65.8    166.1       520.0
(196.7)   (43.1)   (60.2)    (300.0)
/a     Force account.
Note: Figures include physical and price contingencies and those in
parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
3.25      Civil works for periodic maintenance and bridge repairs would mostly
be carried out by force account (US$118.8 million) under the direction and
control of the DBMs supported and supervised by technical assistance under the
project. However, such works in Java and, to a lesser extent, in Sumatra,
that are of a size attractive to qualified local contractors, or can be pack-
aged to such a size, would be processed under contracts through LCB to the
extent the construction industry will absorb, presently estimated at about a
third (US$59.4 million)-of total works. Implementation of this component
started in April 1986 and would extend through April 1989.  Retroactive
financing would therefore be required in the amount of US$6.0 million.-
3.26      Civil works for the road betterment (US$215.0 million), would be
procured under contracts through ICB in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines
for Procurement.  Most betterment contracts will be of the order of
US$3-5 million, a size which should encourage local competition. Contrac-
tors would be eligible to bid on one or several contracts, but total number of



-23-
contracts any contractor can be awarded is determined through the prequalifi-
cation procedures. Tendering would be carried out in three phases, each with
a duration of about two years. Tendering for the first phase, amounting to
about 25S of the value of all betterment contracts under the project, will
start in June 1986 and bids will be submitted in August 1986 with implementa-
tion expected to start in February 1987. The second phase would be tendered
by November 1986 and the third phase by January 1987.
3.27      About 85Z of all bridge substructures (US$36.5 million) would be
procured-through ICB-and whenever feasible contracts will be grouped into
US$4-5 million packages. Because of isolated locations and small size of
works, substructures of about 25 identified bridges (US$6.4 million).with a
total contract price of about US$5.0 million will be procured through local
competitive bidding; this is satisfactory as experience shows that foreign
contractors are not interested in bidding for these works. As most of the new
bridges have been designed with prefabricated steel superstructures and on
pile foundations of steel pipes and new culverts have been designed of corru-
gated metal pipes, it has been agreed, in order to take advantage of economies
of scale, that DCH procure all such superstructures, piles and culverts
through ICB in one or more lots (US$19.3 million) and provide them as ready-
made materials (para. 3.29) to the contractors for erection and finaliza-
tion. Tendering of bridge substructures would be carried out in two phases
each of about two years duration: for the first phase (about 60X of total
contract value) in June 1986; and for the second phase by January 1987. Con-
struction period would extend from about February 1987 through January 1989.
3.28      Bidding documents for civil works contracts estimated to cost
US$3.0 million equivalent or more (some 601 of all betterment and bridge
replacement works financed under the project) would be subject to the Bank's
prior review and approval; other documents would be available for review,
together with bid evaluation, after award of contracts. Concerned GOI
agencies have cleared bidding documents for the first phases of betterment and
bridge works.
3.29      Except for about five specially equipped flatbed vehicles with a
total price of not more than US$0.15 million, which may be procured through
local shopping, all equipment, including spare parts (US$17.3 million) and
bridge materials (US$19.3 million), will be procured following ICB procedures
and all documents will be subject to Bank's review and approval prior to
invitation for tender.  Delivery of equipment is expected-to take place during
early to late 1987.
3.30      Consultants would be appointed in accordance with Bank guidelines
and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and GOI's assurance to
this effect was obtained at negotiations.- Concerned GOI agencies have cleared
terms of reference (including compensation terms and numbers of man-months for
local land foreign staff) and short lists for all technical assistance
contracts.
3.31      A detailed implementation schedule (Annex 3) was agreed with GOI at
negotiations.



- 24 -
G.  Disbursements
3.32      The loan funds would be disbursed on the following basis:
(a) Civil Works. 70% of the total expenditures of contracted road and
bridge repair works, 40% of total expenditures of contracted bridge
replacement works, and 20% of total expenditures of road and bridge
repair works when carried out by force account.
(b)  Equipment and Bridge Materials*  100l   of foreign expenditures for
directly imported items; or 95% of local expenditures (ex factory),
of locally manufactured items; or 65% of expenditures of locally
procured items.
(c) Consulting Services for Supervision and Technical Assistance.
90% of exponditures.
(d) Overseas training. 100% of expenditures.
Expenditures for civil works for periodic maintenance to be carried out under
force account and expenditures for overseas training would be reimbursed on
the basis of statements of expenditure (SOE). Supporting documents will be
retained by DGH for inspection by Bank staff during project supervision
missions. The schedule of estimated disbursements is presented in Table
3.7.  Reimbursement requests would be submitted by the agencies to the
Ministry of Finance every three months or when expenditures total US$100,000,
whichever is sooner.  While the standard disbursement profile is eight years,
it is expected that loan disbursement will be completed in about'five years
because: (a) tender documents have been standardized and tendering procedures
have been streamlined to facilitate early tendering and signing of contracts
(bids for first phase betterment works will be submitted in August 1986); (b)
contracts are smaller than in previous projects (maximum construction period
of about two years); (c) the practice of withholding retention money during
the one-year maintenance period has been replaced with a bond or guarantee of
equal value; and (d) DGH's project liaison unit is being strengthened. This
assessment is supported by recent experience under the Fifth Highway Project
which, without the benefit of early procurement and preparatory activities,
has just been completed in about 6.5 years and the Highway Betterment Project
where experience so far indicates an even shorter project period.
H. Accounts, Auditing and Reporting
3.33      In the past, DCH has kept detailed accounts for Bank projects.
However, compliance with audit requirements has not been timely. As a result
of recent discussions with the Bank, steps are being taken to ensure full
compliance and at negotiations agreement was reached with GOI thst: (i) DGH
will keep separate accounts for each component of the proposed project;
(ii) the project accounts, including documentation for SOEs, will be audited
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and that their detailed audit
report will be submitted to the Bank within nine months after the end of each
fiscal year; and (iii) DGH would prepare a detailed project completion report
and submit it to the Bank not later than six months after the closing date.



- 25 -
I.  Status of Preparation
-3.34-    DCH has completed and the Bank has agieed the selection of roads for
the 1986/87 periodic maintenance program of some 2,200 km in 25 provinces.
Preliminary programs have been established for 1987/88 and 1988/89 but final
selection of roads for these porgrams will be submitted -for Bank review on
December 31, 1986 and 1987 respectively.
3.35      Feasibility studies have been carried out by DGH's Planning Directo-
rate with the assistance of the RBO consultants who have also carried out
engineering surveys of the road links during the last few years while bridges
have been designed by DON. DGH is employing the consultants C. Corne &
Associates (New Zealand) to review and revise the engineering on the basis of
the agreed betterment design standards (Annex 1) and a group of local consul-
tants, financed under the Highway Betterment Project, is assisting in revising
bridge design. These reviews were completed for the first phases of road
links and bridges in mid March 1986 and April 1986 respectively. Similar
reviews for the second phases would be completed by June 1986 and September
1986 respectively and for the third phase of road works by October 1986.
Contract documents have been standardized and agreed with the Bank and
tendering of first phases of betterment and bridge works is expected to start
in June 1986.
J. -Environmental Aspects                -
3.36      The project is not expected to have any adverse environmental
effects. Works-are mostly-improvements of roads-and bridges on existing
alignment with minimal requirements for additional land; works would include
improved side and cross drainage, widening and strengthening of shoulders and
pavements, overlays on old pavements and the provision of bituminous surfac-
ings on gravel roadts, all of which would improve conditions along the road
through reducing dust and noise and the possibility of flooding.
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.  General            -          --
4.01      The project would assist DGH in pursuing its basic highway develop-
ment strategy for Repelita IV, i.e. to maintain, restore and upgrade national
and provincial roads, with the aim that 60% of the network is in stable
condition by the end of the plan period compared to about 25% at present. In
parallel, arrangements would be instituted for improved maintenance of the
restored network, while the project would also contribute to further
improvements in highway management at all levels.  The three principal
components of the project that are amenable to conventional economic
evaluation are: (a) periodic maintenance of deteriorated roads; (b) the
betterment program for inter-city trunk roads; and (c) the bridge replacement
program.



- 26 -
B.  Periodic Maintenance Program
4.02      Screening for works to be undertaken in the periodic maintenancel
upgrading program is based on first year benefit analysis to ensure a minimum
first-year return of 15X. Priorities are established according to a physical
index relating traffic and expected surface improvement (proxy for benefits)
to measures of width and thickness of the overlay (proxy for costs). The
selection process is also designed to ensure efficient equipment utilization
in a (rolling) three-year program for each province. As a final check, the
physical indices are translated into simplified first year benefit measures
using a standardized vehicle cost/road/surface relationship and average cost
estimates per km of road. Considering the large number of small sections
involved, the procedure is acceptable.
C. Betterment Program
4.03      The Indonesian procedures for selecting intercity trunk routes for
improvement or betterment have evolved over the past several years, and now
consist of a logical series of steps initiated by the Screening Feasibility
Office (SFO) of the Planning Directorate in Jakarta, with engineering support
from the RBOs. Road links are passed through three successive evaluations,
with links meeting a minimum economic test (a 15X return) approved for the
next stage of engineering work, with the third and final evaluation based on
final engineering design and resultant cost estimates.  The methodology used
for economic evaluation is described in Annex 3. Consultants financed under
the first Highway Betterment Project are refining this methodology further and
also developing simplified methods for screening of-subprojects in conjunction
with the pavement management system. A similar revision is underway by
consultants financed under the Rural Roads Development Project in order to
include value-added development benefits for rgads providing access to
transmigration and other development schemes.J
D.  Bridge Replacement Program
4.04      A simplified screening procedure for analyzing the hundreds of
substandard bridges being considered for replacement under this component of
the project has been developed during preappraisal and made operational on
DGH's computer system. A basic four year scenario is considered for each
bridge in which replacing the bridge in year one is compared with replacing it
in year four. The benefits of replacement in year one are compared with
delaying capital expenditure for four years. The benefits of immediate
replacement are the avoided diversion/suppression cost associated with
structural.failure (if likely), the avoided load restriction costs (if any) on-
the bridge, the avoided speed change costs (if any), and the reduced mainte-
3/   For further details see:  Economic Appraisal of Rural Roads, Simplified
Operational Procedures for Screening and Appraisal, by H.L. Beenhakker
and A.N. Lago, World Bank Staff Working Papers, No. 610, 1983.



-27-
nance costs.  For the initial crude screening, capitai and maintenance costs
are on a per meter basis and the avoided vehicle operating costs are all
reduced to a function of existing traffic volumes. A 15% discount rate is
used and benefit/cost ratios and net present worth are employed as the
measures of effectiveness of the investment. All bridges passing the initial
screening with capital costs in excess of US$165OOO (normally trusses as
opposed to girders) will be subjected to a more refined version of the
screening analysis in which average costs and characteristics are replaced
with estimates specific to the particular structure. Given the number and
size of the investments and the dataavailability this is considered appro-
priate and acceptable.
E.  Economic Returns and Risks
4.05      The periodic maintenance program for 1986187 covers about 2,200 km
on national and provincial roads and consists of 530 km of gravel improvement,
436 km of surface dressing and 1,220 km of hot mix overlays with estimated
economic life of 3, 5, and 7 years respectively. An economic analysis was
carried out on a randomly selected sa*nple of 1,030 km of the'program. The
benefits are derived from reduced vehicle operating costs calculated for
motorcycles, cars, buses and trucks and are based on actual traffic counts in
1984. A modest traffic growth rate of 5% per year has been assumed.
Individual internal economic rates of return (IRR) for maintained road
sections range from 14% to 395Z depending on the level of traffic. Assuming
that the sample is representative, the entire periodic maintenance program
wrould have an overall weighted IRR of 96%.
4.06      The first phase analysis of the betterment subprojects is set forth
in Table 4.1. It covers 11 separate subprojects with a total length of 434 km
and an investment of Ip 51.4 billion (US$46.5 million). Thus, the average
Phase I subproject is a 39 km stretch of road betterment costing US$4.2 mil-
lion. The IRR varies from 15X to 92% with the weighted average of 38%. This
analysis assumes a zero value for passenger time savings.
4.07      In Table 4.2, the Phase I program and the tentatively proposed
programs for phases II and III are set forth in a provincial format in order
to address the issue of regional equity and its economic costs. The weighted
average IRR for subprojects in Java is 75%, while in other areas it ranges
between 21% and 40%. There is no question that the investments with the
lowest rates of return could be reallocated to much higher return subprojects
in Java as the benefits of reducing congestion on Java are quite
substantial. From an equity point of view, this is not an acceptable proposi-
tion.  Given that the average rate of return for the whole betterment program
is estimated at about 281, and 25% when subprojects on Java are excluded, the
economic price for pursuing the equity objective is considered reasonable and
acceptable. Furthermore, the projects with the lowest rates of return provide
direct support for development schemes related to agricultural development and
transmigration.
4.08      The results of screening 223 bridges with a total length of 10,682
meters are set forth in Table 4.3.- One hundred sixty-two of the bridge



- 28 -
replacements, totaling 7,511 meters, yielded rates of return of 151 or
greater. The median rate of return for all bridges that passed the screening
process was 40X. In terms of rejection rates, Kalimantan had the highest with
52% of the screened investment having rates of return less than 15%, followed
by Sulawesi with 321 rejection rate and Sumatra with 30%. After screening,
Sumatra and Sulawesi have roughly equal shares of bridge replacement invest-
ments accounting for 79% of the total.
4.09      The phasing of betterment works minimizes the risk of implementing
projects that are not economically justified. The proposed subprojects are
carefully screened on the basis of econoAic criteria (rate of return to assess
overall economic-worth and first year benefits to determine optimal timing)
before inclusion in the phased program.  Road betterment priorities are there-
fore subject to adjustment in the light of changed circumstances. The results
of a detailed and sophisticated risk analysis carried out for the Highway
Betterment Project apply equally to the proposed project. Based on these
results it is estimated that under the most likely combination of adverse
factors -- construction costs 25% above estimates, mairstenance costs 20 above
and vehicle operating costs savings 25% below estimated values -- the odds of
obtaining an overall economic rate of return of less than 15% are less than
one in ten (10% probability).  Under the most favorable circumstances -- con-
struction costs 50% below estimates, maintenance costs 20% below estimates and
vehicle operating cost savings 25% above estimates - the probability of
obtaining a rate of return in excess of 301 for the various road sections is
between 15% and 100%. The fairly high traffic volumes on the project roads
(base ADT of 500 to 10,000 vpd) almost guarantee a satisfactory rate of return
even if there is no increase in traffic over time.
4.10      Road betterment works to be financed under the project will be
constructed to engineering standards consistent with a ten year design life
which is considered the technically and economically acceptable minimum.
However, during the last few years DCH has in several cases designed and
constructed pavements for lives as short as five years resulting in premature
deterioration and loss of investment. There is some risk in that, if restric-
tions on budget allocations become severe, DGH may be tempted to maintain
physical targets for the length of road works to be completed and lower engin-
eering standards. In order to protect the investments under the project,
agreement-was reached with GOI during negotiations that design standards
agreed and used for Phase I betterment works will be adhered to for works of
later phases.
P.  Beneficiaries
4.11      Since Indonesia's intercity trucking-and bus industry is compet-
itive, maintenance and improvements of the main intercity highway network will
directly benefit the modern commercial and industrial sectors of the economy,
through reducing costs for delivery of inputs, inland distribution of imports,
collection and movement of products for export and for the domestic market.
They will also improve labor mobility and promote passenger movements.
Eventually and indirectly the reduction in transport costs will benefit
producers and consumers alike by favorable trends in the prices the former can



- 29 -
get for their products and the latter have to pay for their purchases.  As the
works are not directed to serve any well-identified or organized beneficiary
group and the benefits and beneficiaries can be characterized as national in
character. In the remoter provinces, the improved roads would serve as the
main arteries to rural development and transmigration projects.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMKENDATIONS
5.01      During negotiations agreement was reached with GOI:
(a)  that it will by June 30, 1987* submit for Bank review and approval
its proposed (i] Vehicle Code, Traffic Code and Public and Commer-
cial Road Transport Code and drafts of decrees and instructions
required for implementation of the codes; and (ii) as soon as
possible and no later than June 30, 1988, issue and implement the
three codes taking into account the Bank's comments (para. 2.06).
(b)  that for both 1986/87 and 1987/88 it will allocate at least 35Z of
the budget for national and provincial roads towards maintenance of
those roads (para. 2.21);
(c)  that DGH will:  (i) by October 31, 1986, establish terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank to restructure and simplify the
organization, administration and execution of road maintenance
activities on a pilot basis in the provinces of South Sumatra, East
Java and South East Sulawesi with the assistance of technical
advisors financed under the Project; (ii) beginning January 31,
1987, implement the restructuring and simplification programs in
such provinces; and (iii) by December 31, 1987, expand the results
of this effort to other provinces in accordance with a plan
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 2.22);
(d)  that it will:  (i) by December 31, 1986, finalize the design of
DGH's pavement management system and establish maintenance policies
satisfactory to the Bank to be applied through the pavement manage-
ment system; (ii) from-January 1l  1987 through December 31, 1988,
introduce the pavement management system province by province; and
(iii) as the pavement management system is introduced, apply such
maintenance policies to establish on an annual basis provincial
maintenance and betterment programs and associated budgets, and,
provide funds for such programs accordingly (para. 2.23);
(e)  that DCH will submit:  (i) by December 31, 1986 and 1987 for Bank
review and approval its proposals for the fiscal years 1987/88 and
1988/89 respectively for the periodic maintenance program
(para. 3.04); (ii) by October 31, 1986 and December 31, 1986 for
Bank review and approval its proposal for the second and third
phases respectively of the betterment works program (para. 3.06);
and (iii) by December 31, 1986 for Bank review and approval its
proposals for the second phase of the bridge replacement program
(para. 3.07);



- 30 -
($)  that consultants will be employed on terms and cotnditions satis-
factory to the Bank (par&. 3.30);
(g) on an implementation schedule for the project (para. 3.31);
(I) that a detailed audit report on project accounts, including SOEs,
will be submitted to the Bank annually within nine months after the
end of each fiscal year (para. 3.33); and
(i) that the design standards and methods agreed and used for betterment
works of the first phase program will be adhered to for works of
later phases (paras. 3.05 and 4.10). .
5.02      On the basis of the above agreements, the project is suitable for a
Bank Loan of US$300.0 million equivalent to the Republic of Indonesia for a
period of 20 years, including a grace period of five years, at the standard
variable interest rate.



-31-                            ANNEXl
Page 1 of 2
IIDONESIA
HIGHNAY  AXNTENOCE AND BETTERMENT PROJECT
Design Philosophy for Pavement Overlays
The design philosophy and policies developed during the Highway Betterment
Project (Loan 2404-IND) shall, in general, be adopted and further developed
during the Highway Maintenance and Betterment Project. Major aspects of the
philosophy which have been agreed between Bina Margs and the Bank, and which
will not be altered without Bank concurrence, are as follows:
1.   Field Engineering
The engineering design work shall be executed rapidly using the wide-
interval field data collection procedures developed in the Highway
Betterment Project. Equipment and budget resources for fine-tuning and
updating the designs during implementation will be incorporated in the
construction contracts and design changes found to be necessary will be
facilitated by an efficient computer-aided process of design reviews
which unifies the process of approval of construction change orders.
2.   Overlay Designs
The pavement overlays for betterment works shall be designed for a 10-
year life using the HRODI methodology and the high-durability asphalt mix
design methodology developed by the project laboratory during the Better-
ment Project. Pavement levelling material, where required, shall be
placed as a separate layer in betterment works, but may be placed as an
integral part of the total overlay in the case of the lower cost periodic
maintenance/rehabilitation works. The full design depth of overlay shall
be placed within the designated construction period and in no case shall
placing of the high-durability surfacing be deferred into a future
program. Design standards and typical designs are given in the attached
diagram.
3.   Contract Doctaentation
The standardized contract documents developed during the Highway Better-
ment Project will used, with appropriate up-dating following each bidding
pbase to improve their applicability to local conditions and to resolve
problems encountered.



INDONESIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE AND BEflERMENW PROJECT
Standards bor Bement Wod*s
c~~~cmt
k AADJ         Minbnmn WkIftcd     -.
at Mlddb d     Po~wsw01/Shesd/9r                     RSQI*Sd                   T~vpI~01OvSS3cnNRn0 _on
DwU lb               m          Rouges  Decilan  Chn             :
__.,:-  -  -  ..... _
1200 -300.                      (QA - 6)   1.5mm o        1     3    IrOt I)  er
10 Ye De             450 5                
I x 106 Equtv.3cnHQS i 3
Sbrnck~d  Am                      (AC) H4)     01 h    52.0%    4 cm AI1                           r
(RCI4)   3Onwn OLS.0%  8 con or More Othed Rock                        4
_  EJlW As R                           :       8*
Fair    Moderate    ~3cmr HAS
(RCI-* 6    i.5nwn 0-1.0%  5 cm AID Loe"In Where Needed
=00                     (ACI * 8)  G1.5mm__- St 
lOYear Design         0/1.0
3 x 106 Eqi$lnt                                                  3cn HRS
Sktandad Axls.Bo                             Hgh                Scm AIR 
(RA= 4)   30mm      0524%   8 cmr  a re d Cd   PoRodc                         5
. aEqAc4tAs R*%d                               8+
.  R    loleA 4cmAGwhtlConc                   (AC)               _
(ROC  6)   1.5mm     0-10%     ScmNBt4aVWhsNddod
MM 110- 20Lt10                                                                                                  SttoQedRoup IeS
10 Yea Deson
8x`06Equsalt         , 70/10
SkoldCdAses-                                                     4cmAC                                           4
Soad      HiOh               ScirA
(Ra -y4)   aonui    0L20        cnrmmoatuowdAed
or Eq%&fV AseRqubs                             a
Note~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
Design  oveday tNic*tsE sn ocorance w4tl HRONa metodg (see Optk 0Po.wrwVOv  Degn hi inldOnle'                         °
CP. Come. 4th REAAA Cor,weno 1983). rum elfctce  wtum  connt (acing W#wm 4xwOed the no aggrequthes)
to be* 68% ta HR 63%  rAC & 565% *O AID & AT Levesg (by weh of tot n*l                                    1od t*,093I



33           ~ANNEX 2
Page i of 3
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE AND BETTEhMRNT PROJECT
Outline of the Model for Detailed Economic Analysis of Subprojeets
The GENMERRI model considers the economic costs of given road
states, during a specified period of years.
Each model run cotapares two states-called "existing" and "improve-
ment" by comparing the two resulting cash flows year by year. The resulting
net cash flow is then considered the net benefit of the improvement.
For each road state, the following costs are considered by GENMERRI:
1.   Road construction cost
2.   Road maintenance costs
3.   Vehicle operating costs, including time costs
4.   Passenger time costs (optional)
5.   Special benefits
GEN9ERRI includes at the end of the analysis period a
6.   Residual value
Fundamental to the determination of vehicle operating costs, is the calcula-
tion-of vehicle speeds and traffic density. These two entities are calculated
on the basis of a set of engineering road characteristics and a set of traffic
characteristics.
Thus, the model consists of the following four main components, as shown on
the next page.
-    Calculation of traffic density
(Based on traffic description and road description)
Calculation of speed
(Based on traffic description, road description and the calculated
traffic density)
Calculation of vehicle operating costs
(Based on the road description, unit vehicle operating costs, and
the computed traffic density and speed)



_ 34                           ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 3
-    Cost and benefit calculations
(Based on the calculated vehicle operating costs and input of other
costs, special benefits and residual values)
Outpi-t from a computer run of CENERRI consists of a number of tables giving
detailed information on the traffic characteristics, the speed distributions
and the economic evaluation of the improvement. In addition, vehicle
operating costs per km are output for existing and improvement options.



*                             -~~~~~~~~~~35-
ANNEX Z
TgE GD1REURI XIODEL STRUCTURE                              'age 3 of 3
GENMERRI MODEL STRUCTURE
GENERAL
m  /      /@ CALCULATIONS
Source: Adapted from 1984 report by the consultants
Hoff 6 OvergErd



_ 36 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 3
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE AND BETTERMENT PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
Implementation
Project Item                                        Start         Complete
I.   Civil Works
A.   Periodic Maintenance Program
1.  Agreement with Bank on 1986/87 program   01/15/86       05/06/86A
2.   Implementation of 1986/87 program by
force account and contracts             04t01/86     05131/87
3.   Agreement with Bank on 1987/88 program   12/31/86      02/28/87
4.   Implementation of 1987/88 program by
force account and contracts             04/01/87     05/31/88
5.   Agreement with Bank on 1988/89 program   12/31/87      02/28/88
6.   Implementation of 1986/87 program by
force account and contracts             04/01/88     05/31/89
B. Betterment Program
1.  Preparation, review and approval of
tender documents - Phase I              11/01/85     02/15/86A
Phase II            03/15/86      06/15/86
Phase III           05/05/86      09/30/86
2.   Agreement with Bank on Phase I works      11/20/85     03/05/86A
Phase II works    05/15/86      06/30/86
Phase III works   06/30/86-    10/15/86
3.   Prequalification of contractors           12/31/85     04/15/86A
4.   Tendering of Phase I                      06/30/86      08/30/86
5.   Phase I bid evaluation, MPW, SEKNEG
and Bank approval and award of
contracts                               09/01/86     01/15/87
6.   Construction of Phase I                   02/15/87     02/15/89
7.   Tendering of Phase II                     07/30/86     09/30/86
8.   Phase II bid evaluation, MPW, SEKNEG
and Bank approval and award
of contracts                            10/01/86     02/27/87
9.   Construction of Phase II                  03/31/87     03/31/89
10.  Tendering of Phase III            -       10/31/86     01/15/87
11.  Phase II bid evaluation, MPW, SEKNEG
and Bank approval and award
of contracts                            01/16/87     06/15/87
12.  Construction of Phase III                 07/15/87     07/15/89



-37                            ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 3
Implementation
Project Item                                         Start        Complete
C.   Bridge Replacement Program
1.   Agreement with Bank on works in Phase I  01110/86       05/05/86A
Phase II works   05/31/86      09/30/86
2.   Preparation, review and approval of
tender documents                        01/10/86      03/05/86A
3.   Tendering of Phase I                      06/30/86      08/30/86
4.   Bid evaluation, MPW,.SEKNEC and Bank
approval and award of contract          09/01/86      01/15/87
5.   Construction of Phase 1                   02115/87      08130/88
6.   Preparation, review and approval of
tender documents for bridge materials  03/31/86       05/31/86
7.   Tendering, bid evaluation, MPW, SEKNEEG
and Bank approval and award of
contracts for birdge materials          06/01/86      10/31/86
8.   Delivery of bridge materials              04/01/87      10/31/87
9.   Tendering of Phase II                     11/30/86      01/31/87
10.  Bid evaluation, MPW, SEKNEG and Bank
approval and award of contracts         02/01/87      03/31/87
11.  Construction of Phase 11                  06/15/87      01/15/89
II.  Procurement of Equipment for Maintenance,                              -
for Quality Control of Maintenance and Better-
ment Works, for Automatic Traffic Counting and
for Vehicle Testing Equipment
1.   Prepare lists of equipment and obtain
Bank approval                                01/31/86      05/05/86A
2.   Prepare bid documents, obtain Bank
approval and advertise                       02/15/86      06/30/86
3.   Tendering, evaluate bids, MPW, MOC, SEKNEG
and Bank approval and award of contracts   -06/30/86       11/30/86
4.   Delivery                                        04/01/87     10/31/87
III. Technical Assistance Contracts
1.   TORs and shortlits agreed with SEKNEG and
Bank                                         03/05/86      04/25/86
2.   Invitation, submission and evaluation of
proposals, MPW and Bank approval and
negotiations                                 05/15/86      09/15/86
3.   MPW and Bank approval, contract awards
and Bappenas approval                        09/15/86      09/30/86
4.   Implementation
(i)  TA for 26 DBM                           10/01/86      04/30/89
(ii)  for DGH for planning                    10/01/86      10/01/87
(iii)  for DCH for design                      12/01/86      12/01/88
(iv) for DGH for quality control and
contract administration               09/01/86      12/31/88
(v) for DGH for contractors and
consultants                           07/15/86      12/31/87
(vi)  for DGH for rock ashalt study           04/01/87      04/01/88



-38                               ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 3
Implementation
Project ItaF                                         Start        Complete
(vii)  for supervision of contracts               -    -
for betterment and bridgeworks        11101/86      12/31/89
(viii) for NOC for legislation                 06101/86      06/01/87
(ix) for MOC for licensing and
registration                          06/01/86      06/01/88
(s) for MOC for training centers            07/01/86      07/01/88
IV.  Overseas Training
1.   Define Program and agree with Bank              11/01/86     01/31/87
2.   Implementation                                  02/01/87     12/31/89
May 1986



- 39 -
ANNEX 4
page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE AND BITTERMENT PROJEC(
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Documents, Reports and Studies Related to the Project
I.'       National Urben Development Study Report T.l.101C3, Transportation
Policies and Programs, Summary of Main Findings, UNDP/UNCUS, September 1985.
-2.        Directorate General of Highways, Law No. 1311980 on Roads.
3.        Republic of Indonesia, Government Regulation No. 26 of 1985
concerning Roads.
4.        Halcrow Fox and Associates, St. al., Highway and Road Transport
Consultancy Project, Final Reportas
Volume IA and B: Vehicle Weights and Dimensions Implementation Study,
Volume 2:         Road User Charges Implementation Study,
Volume 3:         Vehicle Operating Cost Model Study,
Volume 4:         Road Transport Industry Study, and
Volume 5:         Road and Traffic Legislation Study.
5.        Louis Berger International, Inc., Review of Highway Maintenance
-Practices in the Provinces of East Java and Vest Sumatra, Final Report,
December 1985.
6.        A Framework for Pavement Investment Decisions in the Indonesian
Highway Network, Coz, John B., 1985.
7.        Directorate General of Highways Report on Prequalification of
Contractors for IBRD Highway Betterment II Project, January 1986.
8.        Directorate General of Bina Narga, Highway Betterment Services,
Econmic Evaluation for IBRD Betterment II, Phase I; January 1986.
9.        Directorate of Highways, IBD Highway Betterment II Project,_
Proposal for Bridge Replacement Programme; January 1986.
10.       Directorate General of Highways, List of Periodic Maintenance
Projects for 1986/87, 1987/88 and 1988/89; April 26, 1986.
1I.      Directorate General of Highways, List of Highway Betterment II Pro-
gram, Phase IA, IB, IIA and II; April 26, 1986.



- 40 -                ~ANNE  4
Page 2 of 2
12.       Directorate General of Highways, List of Bridge Replacements,
Phase I Program, Tentative Proposals for Phase 1I; April 26, 1986.
13.       Project Brief, Issues Paper and Decision Memo of 07t05/85, 10/30/85
and 11(26/85 respectively.t
14.       General Procurement Notice; Development Forum, May 31,1985.
B.  Selected Working Papers'
1.        Economic Analysis of a Sample of the 1986/87 Periodic Maintenance
Program, 03/31/86.
2.        Hoff and Overguard A/S & Indec and Associates, Ltd., a series of
Discussion Papers and Working Papers on Road Maintenance, Pavement
Deterioration, Screening Procedures, Highway Data Base, Vehicle Operating Cost
Models, Traffic Count Systems, and coordination of Planning Efforts;
November 1985 through March 1986.
3.        DCI, TOR for TA to 26 DBMs.
4.        DCG8  TOR for TA to three Pilot Provinces.
5.        DCH9, TOR for TA to Planning Directorate.
6.        DGCI, TOR for TA for Quality Control and Contract Administration.
7.        DCI, TOR for TA for Rock Asphalt Study.
8.        DCH, TOR for TA for Contractors and Consultants.
9.        MOC, TOR for TA for Road Transport Legislation.
10.       MOC, TOR for TA for Highway Safety.
11.       MOC, TOR for TA for Training Centers.
12.       Procurement Unit comments on Issues Paper and YC and CC of UAR and
Mr. Stern's comments on Decision Memo.
May 1986



-   -41-                                                         Table 2.1
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE AND BETtMENT PROJECT
LenRth of Roads by Adinnistrative Clasilfication
and Geographical DsltrIbution. 1984 /a
Popu-
National   Provincial  District               Distribution       lation  Vehicle  Land
Region                     Province           roads        roads        roads    Total       N4P      D         1980    fleet   area
--(kq) -tX)(km)                                                       (Z)
Java                West Java.                    824         1,975     9,519    12,318       5.4    11.5
Central Java                 383         1,881      8,404    10,668       4.3    10.1
Yogyakarta                    36           367      1,424      1,827      0.8      1.7
East Java                    536         2,964      7,893    11,393       6.7     9.5
Subtotal             1,779          7,187    27,240    36.206    17.2    32.8          61.9    64.7    6.9
Sumatra             Aceh                          493         1,921     4,878      7,292      4.6      5.9
North Suatra                 846         2,611      4,988      8,445      6.6     6.0
West Sumatra                 689         1,132      3,527      3,348      3.5      4.2
Riau                          98         2,156      1,879    54,133       4.3      2.3
Jambt                        339         1,441      1,157      2,937      3.4      1.4
South Sumatra                699         2,724      3,596      7,019      6.6     4.3
Bengkulu                     134           919      1,029      2,082      2.0      1.2
Lampung                      342         1,672      1,717      3,731      3.9     2.1
Subtotal             3.640        14.576    22,771    40.987    34.9    27.4           29.0    20.2   24.9
Kalimantan          West Kalimantan               458        -1,817     2,011    -4,286       4.4      2.4
Central Xalimanta            143           620      1,216      1,979      1.5     1.5
South Kalimantan             299           805      1,648      2,752      2.1     2.0
Fast Kalimantan              380         1,156        152      1,688      2.9     0.2
Subtotal              1,280        4.398      5,027    10,705    10.9        6.1        4.6     4.6   28.3
Sulawesi            North Sulawesi                823         1,162     2,698      4,883      4.2      3.2
Oentral Sulavesi             837         2,423      1,360      4,620      6.3     1.6
South Sulawesi             1,018         1,197      6,060      8,475      4.6     7.3
Southeast Sulawesi           188         1,R71      4,502      6,561      3.9     5.4
Subtotal             2.R66          7.053    14,620    24,539    19.0    17.5           7.1      5.q    9.9
Irian Jaya          West Itrian                    -          1.744     1,232    2?97h        3-3      1.5        0.8            22.2
Other Islands       Bali                          566           212     3,244      4,n22      1.5      3.9 t
West Nuca Tenggara           518           578      2,512      3,600      2.1     3.0 1
East Nusa TenRgara-        1,112         1,618      5,054      7,784      5.2     6.1 1      6.6      4.6    7.R
Maluku                       641           970        930      2,541      3.1      1.1 }
Timor Timur                  584           871        524      1,979      2.8     0.6 )
Subtotal             3,421         4,249    12,264    19.934    14.7    14.7
Total                12,986        39,207    83.154   135,347   100.0   10n.o         100.0   100.0  100.0
Percent                 9.6          29.0      61.4      100.0
/a  Excluding municipal roads (some 4,000 km).
Source, Directorate General of Highways, October 1985.



_ 42 _.  .           . -      .   Table 2.2
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY MAINrENANCE AND BETTERMENT PROJECT
Svmary of the Type and Condition of Pavements 1983
Pavement
typetconditlon          National      Provincial      District       Overall
__e(X)
Paved                      76           56             30             41
Gravel                     22           21             23             22
Earth                       2           23             47             37
Total                  1o0          100            100            100
Condition /a
Stable condition           54           32             25             31
Unstable condition         39           48             28             33
Critical condition          7           20             47             36
Total                  100          100            100            100
/a  Stable indicates a roadway condition that by regular naintenance can be
kept adequate for the type and volume of traffic using the road while
unstable indicates a rough pavement condition with high vehicle operating
costs and requiring frequent attention to prevent further deterioration,
and critical condition indicates badly deteriorated and often impassable
roads.
Source:  National and Provincial Roads:  Data Statistik Jalan, 1983.  District
Roads:  Statistical Yearbook of Indonesia, 1983.
December 1985



Table 2.3
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE AND BETTERMENT PROJECT
Summary of the Type and Condition of Bridges 1984
Bridges                    On national  On provincial  On district
type/condition                   roads         roads          roads       Total
(Z)           (X)            (%)
Type
Steel truss                     19.60         10.15           5.63       12.36
Steel girder                    63.57         45.03          74.35       50.42
Concrete slab                    6.16          2.70           4.28        3.63
Arch concrete                    2.53          2.36           1.06        2.38
Steel truss suspension           0.74      -   0.67           0.00        0.67
Steel truss bailey              4.045          3.19           9.94        3.55
Temporary bridge                 2.51         35.12           2.86       .26.03
Others                           1.36          0.79           1.88        0.96
Total                       100.00        100.00         100.00      100.00
Condition
Very good                       11.63          8.12          10.88        9.09
Good                            68.99         40.72          49.96      .48.22
Fair                            11.75          9.22          15.08        9.99
Bad                              4.14          5.83          11.07        5.50
Very bad                         0.53           1.90          9.99         1.71
Extremely bad                    2.97         34.20           3.03       25.49
Total                       100.00        100.00         100.00      100.00
Source: DGH, December 1985.



- 44 -                                            Table 2.4
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE AND BETTERMENT PROJECT
Condition of and Traffic on Arterial and Collector Roads In March 1983
ADT
Pavement                                201-   1,001-   3,001-   8,001-   Over                  Grand
Width       Type        Condition       <200      1,00Q    3,000    8,000    20,000  20,000    Total        total
(in u)                                                                    (km) ---
W >6        Asphaltic      Good         163.3      122.1    420.9    738.4    551.2   114.6   2,110.5
Concrete      Fair           8.0        1.0      3.0      41.2      24.9     9.9       88.0
Bad           0.0        0.0      0.0      11.0       0.0     0.0       11.n
2,209.S
6 < W <4.5  Asphaltic      Good         136.2   1,051.0  1,694.5    980.0       F1.4      0.0   3,943.1
Concrete      Fair           0.0       12.3     94.5      47.2      11.9     0.0      165.9
Bad           0.0        0.0       1.0      2.0       0.0     0.0        3.0
4,112.0
' <4.5      Asphaltic      Good         338.5   1,819.1    486.2       24.4      0.0      0.0   2,668.2
Concrete      Fair          84.0      174.6     56.3       1.0       0.0     0.0      315.9
Bad          - 3.0      28.0      1.0       0.0       0.0     0.0       32.0
3,016.1
* >4.5      Macadam        Good         485.7   1,772.2  1,005.5       17.0      0.0      0.0   3,280.4
fair        599.9   1,265.7    414.4       18.5       0.0     0.e   2,298.5
Bad         230.7      313.6     76.6       0.0       0.0     0.0      620.9
6,199.5
* >4.5      Sealing        Good          38.0      173.1    325.8      94.0       5.0     n.0     635.9
Fair        149.1      170.3    260.7    177.3        5.2     0.0      762.6
Bad          82.0      147.3     46.0      47.5       7.2     0.0      330.0
1,728.5
'Z <4.5     Sealing        Good          79.4      117.9     43.9       0.0      0.0      0.0     241.2
Fair        148.3      148.6     49.0      24.6       o.0     0.0      370.5
Bad          20.0       67.1     62.0      14.0       0.0     O-.Q     163.1
774.8
Gravel        Good       1,358.9      673.2    104.0       0.0       0.0     o.n   2,136.1
Fair      2,no4.4   1,066.0    236.0        0.0       0.0     0.0   3,306.4
Bad       1,519.5      965.6    286.0       5.5       0.0     0.0   2,776.6
8,219.1
Earth         Good         367.9       56.0      0.0       0.0       0.0     0.0      423.9
Fair        381.1       48.5       3.0      0.0       0.0     O.0      432.8
Bad         234.9       54.0      3.0       1.0       0.0     0.0      292.9
1,149.6
Totals                     Good       3,398.1   7,039.4  6,479.2  3,340.3    884.5   138.2  21,270.7
Fair      3,441.0   3,554.9  2,200.0    599.7    152.5  - 12.6   9,965.7
Rad       2,122.4   1,722.9    639.4    108.0        11.2     0.0   4,603.9
Grand Total                8,961.5  12,313.2   9,318.6  4,048.0  1,048.2    150.835.840.3  35,840.3
Source:  DGH, October 19RS.



Table 2.5
- 45 -
INDONESIA
RIGHWAY MAINTENANCE AND BETTERMENT PROJECT
Registered Motor Vehicles 1972-83 /a
Total
Cars                                    Total  =                   motorized
Year          and Vans       Buses        Trucks        4-wheel   Motorcycles /b    vehicles
1972           277,210       26,488      131,175        434,873        615,220       1,050,093
1973           307,739       30,368      144,060        482,167        720,056      1,202,223
1974           337,789       31,439      166,457        535,685        944,734       1,480,419
1975           383,661       35,103      196,416        614,580      1,191,771       1,806,951
1976           420,488       39,840      222,310        682,638     1,417,228       2,099,866
1971           497,335       48,089      278,979        806,403      1,704,964      2,529,367
1978           520,652       55,548      311,048        887,248      1,898,424      2,785,672
1979           577,345       69,545      383,645      1,030,538     2,266,183       3,296,728
1980           645,784       86,887      479,134      1,211,805      2,773,666      3,925,471
1981           711,751      104,503      574,413      1,390,667     3,198,281       4,588,948
1982           791,019      134,430      651,104      1,582,553     3,764,442       5,346,995
1983/c         823,335      145l772      688,816      1,657,923     3,920,440       5,578,363
Average Annual Growth Rate
1972-73            11.2        14.7          9.8           10.9           17.0            14.5
1973-74             9.4         3.3         15.3           11.1           31.3            23.1
1974-75            13.3        11.7         18.1           14.7           26.1            22.1
1975-76             9.4        13.4         13.3           11.1           18.9            16.2
1976-77            18.3        20.9         25.7           18.1           20.3            20.4
1977-78            4.8         15.4         11.5           10.0           11.3            10.2
1978-79-           10.4        25.2         23.5           16.2           19.4            18.3
1979-80            12.0        25.0         24.7           17.6           22.4            19.0
1980-81            10.2        20.3         19.8           14.8           15.3            16.9
1981-82            11.1        27.6         14.5           13.8           17.7            16.5
1982-83 /d          8.2        16.9          9.6            9.5            8.3             8.7
1972-82            11.1        17.6        -17.5           13.8           19.8            17.5
1977-82             9.7        22.8         18.7           14.5           17.2            16.2
1980-82            10.6        24.4         17.1           14.3           16.5            16.7
/a  -Military and diplomatic vehicles are not included.  The figures include scrapped
vehicles for which statistics are not obtainable.                             -
/b   Includes motirizes three-wheel vehicles.
T7   Mid-1983 figure.
7d_  Extrapolated from mid-1983 figures.
Source:  Directorate of Traffic, Indonesian Police, June 1985.



- 46 -                                                     Table 2.6
INDONESIA
HIGIWAY MAINTENANCF AND BETTERMRNT PROJECT
Traffic Growth hy Pro-vnce
Average
compounded
growth        Average ADT
rate (I)    weighted by km
Province                        1973   1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981    1973-81           1981      Iq82
 _ _ _ _ _ ---- __(ADT}-
Aceh                             166    201    226    163    585    519   -847  1,058  1,145          27.1          835       R64
Riau                             244    241    367    367    503    616    654    651    773           15.5       1>147    1,402
West Sumatra                     393    434    513    450   5O    664    846  1,123  1,271            15.R       1,133       952
North Sumatra                    746    767  1,095    929  1,226  1,386  2,25R  2,386  2,303           15.1          520      626
South Sumatra                    167    200    297    314    389    498    563    662    836          22.2          342       308
Jambi                             82     99    112      Q9    14R    202    243    246    300          17.6         42n       364
Rengkulu                         141    104    103    163    10S    306    295    359    453           14.0         918    1,003
Lampung                          993  1,193  1,260  1,496  2,015  2,453  2,212  2,367  2,517           12.3       1,398       438
Total Sumatra              430    471    585    572    810    974  1,247  1,491  1,272           14.5          972       813
West Java                      2,222  3,769  3,475  4,333  4,908  4,901  5,109  5,638  5,914           13.0       5,540    5,325
Central Java                   1,137  1,210  1,717  2,187  2,67  2,R30  3,nOl  3,752  1,957            16.8       3,847    3,870
ToRyakarta                     1,942      -  2,811  3,491  4,261  5,186  5,977  3,947  3,365           9.5        3,619    3,474
East Java                      1,509  1,635  1,926  2,313  2,605  3,063  3,263  3,640  3,q30           12.7       3,437    5,196
Total Java               1.596  2,006  2,269  2,808  3,224  3,502  3,706  4,102  4,364           13.4        4,20a    4,802
West Kalimantan                  181    190    240    526    867    476    566    525  1,012           24.6          7i1      766
East Kalimantan                  159    249    255    635    724    349    670  1,129  1,n2Q          26.2           262      254
South Kalimantan                 212   -396    489    519    507    758    597    724  1,177          23.a          511       511
Central Ealimantan                 -      -       -      -                     67    350    367          -          788       788
Total Kalimantan            192    295    359    550    658    590    570    710  1.124          24.7          586       618
North Sulawesi                   750    910    995    884  1,297  1,385  1,778  2,256  2,216           14.5       1,309    1,073
Central Sulawesi                 111    140    118    120    538    327    276    381    391           1R.n          368      361
South Sulavesi                   324    447    369    645    817  1,182  1,293  1,353  1,443          20.5        1,175    1,476
Sulavesi Tenggara                288    114    142       -    299       -    526    314    498          7.8         225       296
Total Sulawesi             422    544    513    660    914  1,140  1,276  1,296  1.331           15.4          765       R20
SUlf                             765    870    996  1,54R  1,526  1,641  1,662  2,171  2,844          24.4        1,963    2,450
NTE                              513    597    548    806    836    791    775    948  1,105           10.0         633       684
NTr                               74     85      72     77    182    2no    272    260    280          18.0          228      380
Muluku                             -      -  1,218  2,360  1,166        -  1,348  1,593  2,521         12.9          591      774
Irian Jaya                         -      -       -      -       -      -       -      -       -        -             -       in0
Total Other Island              -          -                                                                     -       581
Total Indonesia             5sn  1 165  1,2R7  1,596  1,807  2,171  2,24n  2,336  2.441          14.1        1.473    1,484
Annual growtb rate (7)             -   37.1   In.4   24.0   IR.9.  14.4    3.2    4.2    4.5             -            -         -
Notes:  1. Ristorical averages determined as sum of four-wheel motorized traffic {car, bus, truck) divded by number of
count stations.
2.  Method overestimates average traffic leve:s in less developed provinces (see last column) because traffic
count stations are located along links closer to settled areas with.high traffic volumes. However, they
should give a good ides of traffic growth.
Source:  Compiled by N.n. Lea Associates from various sources, March 1983.



Table 2.7.
- 47 -
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY ?tAINTENANCE AND BETTERMENT PROJECT
Summary of Actual,.BudLetted and Planned Highway
Expenditures During Repelita IV
(in Rp million)
Total
Road class/                 1984/85   1985/86   1986/87   1987/88   1988/89   Repelita
source of funds               Budget    Budget    Budget    Planned   Planned          IV
A. National & Provincial
Roads
DGH                     368,667   301,486   133,015   761,928   899,579 2,464,675
Provinces                34,522    41,839       n.a.    60,494    75,110   211,965
Foreign aid             118,704   118,044   255,710    20,790    23,625   536,873
Subtotal A           521,893   461,369   388,725   843,212   998,314 3,213,513
B.  District Roads
Inpres Jalan             80,100    87,469   130,000   142,000   155,000   594,569
Tnpres Kabupaten        136,460   151,568   168,349   186,987   207,689   851,053
Foreign aid              20,400    19,958    31,584    34,080    37,200   122,822
Subtotal B           236,960   258,995   329,933   363,067   399,889 1,568,444
C. Toll Roads
Government               12,307    10,549           0    37,152    38,796    98,804
Own income and
bond issues            39,289    47,293    99,470    71,997    74,454   332,503
Foreign aid              45,382    74,019    58,030   100,995    99,319   377,725
Subtotal C'           96,978   131,861   157,480   210,144   212,569   809,032
Total A+B+C-         855,831   852,225   876,138 1,416,423 1,610,772 5,590,989
D. Roads in Transmigra-
tion and Development
Schemes                    n.a.       n.a.      n.a.      in.a.      n.a.       n.a.
Source:  DGH, March 1986.



Table 2.8
Page I -
- 48 -
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY NAI'4TRANLE AND RET!!RMENT PROJECT
-reakdown of Actual, Rudsetted and Planned Hishway 8Xpenditures nuring Repelita IV
(in Rp millton)
Road class and source of funds/              1984/85   1985/86   1986187   1987/88/a   1988/99a         Total
expenditure category-                    Actual   lBudget      Budget    Planned      Pianned  Repelita IV
A. National and Provinctal Roads:
DON
Perindic maintenance          Local     22,429    22,681    19,752 4   115,047       192,412
Foreign        0         0    11,744 t
Subtotal                        22,429    22,681    31,496      135J047      192,412     404.(65
Routine maintenance           Local     36,157    38,135    32,017 {   81,527         70,438
Foreign      962       923      2,824
Subtotal                        37.119    39,058    34,841       81,52,      70,438      262,983
Retterment                    Local    111,994   121,772    43,124 '   283,490       326,09
Foreign  106,962    55,653    95,806
Subtotal                       218,956   177,425   134.930      2834940    326,091   1,144,894
New construction              Local    121,372    43,137      7,816      42,754       48,439
Foreign        0         n      2,696 (                 -
Subtotal                       121,372    43,137    10,512       42,754      4R,439      266,214
Bridge.replacement            Local     19,307    23,244      6,873 { 150,115        174,539
Foreign    5,045     9,460    13,882 f
Subtotal                        24.352    32,704    20,755      150.I35      174,539     402,485
Technical assistance          Local     57,40R    52,517    23,433 {    68,975        87,658
Foreign    5,735    52,n0R   106,875 4
Subtotal                        63,143   104,525   130,308       68,975      87.658      454.609
Local    168.663   301,486   113,015      7 761,928    899,579
Foreign  118,704   118,044   233,827 f
Total A                        487,371   419,530   366.842      761,928     899.579   2.935.250
D. Provincial Roads:
Provincial Governments
Maintenance                 Local     28,071    34,098       n.a./b    35,213       45,074     142,456
Foreign        0         R   - 2,123            0            0       2,323
Subtotal                        28,071    34,098      2.323      35.213      45.074      144,779
Betterment                  Local          0         0       n.a./c     7,890        9,060      16,950
Foreign        0         0    19,560       20,790       23,625      63,975
Subtotal                             0         a    19,560       28,680      12,685       80,925
Bridge replacement         Local       6,451     7,741          0      17,391       20,976      52,559
Foreign      -0          0        - t           0            n           0
Subtotal                         6,451     7,741          0      17.391       20,976      52,559
Local     34,522    41,839       n.a.      60,494       75,110     211,965
Foreign        0         0    21,883       2n,79n       21,625      66,298
Total B                         34,522    41,839    21883        81,284       98,735      278,263



Table 2.R
-    -                                       -
Road elass and source of funds/                1984/85   1985t86   1986/87   1987/88/a   1988/89/a        Total
expendieure category                      Actual    Budget       Budget    PlanneaT    Planned   Repelita IV
C. District Roads
(1) Impress Jalan
Maintenance                              0          0         0            0            0            0
Construction             Local      80,100    87,469   130,000       142,000      155,000     594,569
Foreign   20,400    19,958    31,584        34,080       37,200      143,222
Subtotal                        100,500   107,427   161584-   176.080         192,200      737,79t
Local     80,100    87,469   130,000       142,000      155,000      594,564
Foreign   20,400    19,958    31,584        34,080       37,200      143,222
Subtotal (i)                    100.500   107,427   161,584       176,080     192,200      731,791
:i± atenance             Local      34,115    37,892    42,087        46,746       51,922     212,762
Foreign        0          0          0            0           0            0
Subtotal                         34,115    37,892    42,087        46,746      51,922      212,762
Construction             Local    102,345   113,676   126,262        140,241      155,767     638,291
Foreign        a          0          n           0            0            0
Subtotal                        102.345   113,676   126,262       140,241     155,767   1,156,338
.Local    136,460   151,568   168,349       1R6,987      207,689     851,053
Foreign        0          0          0           0            .0           0
Subtotal (it)                   136,460   151,568   168,149       186,987     207,689      851,053
Local    216,560   239,037   298,349       328,987      362,689   1,446,622
Foreign   20,400    19,958    31,584        34,080       37,200      148,222
Total C                         236,960   258,995   329,933       363,967     399,882   1,588,844
D.  Toll Roads
Land acquisition                Local     12,307    10,549           0      37,152       38,796       9R,804
Foreign        0          0          0           0            0            0
Subtotal                         12.30h    10,549          0       37,152      38,796       98,804
Construction                   Local      38,389    46,393    95,420        67,667       66,544      314,413
Foreign   45,382    74,n09    58,010       100,995       99,319      377,725
Subtotal                        83,771   12(,412   153,430        168,662     165,863      692,138
Routine maintenance            Local         0on        90O     1,350        1,610        2,S10        7,270
Foreign        0          0          0           0            0            n
Subtotal                            900       900      1,350        1.610       2,510        7,270
Periodic maintenance           Local           0          0     2,700        2,700        5,400       10,800
Foreign                              0 n0                     o0           0
Subtotal                              0-        0      2,700       -2,700       5,4G0       10,800
Local     51,596    57,842    99,470       109,129      113,250      431,287
Foreign   45,382    74,019    58,010       100,995       99,319      377,725
Total D                          96,978   131,861   157,480       210,124     212,569      809,012
Total A+B+C+D                  855,831   852,225   876,138   1,416,423   1,610,772   5,611,369
/a Allocations shown are the original Repelita TV amounts. Actual allocations are, however, expected to be
similar to those of the 19R6/87 budget.
-lb  Not yet available, but expected to be in the order of Rp 40 billion.
77 tot yet available.
Source:  DGH, March 1986.



Table 3. 1
-50-
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE-AND BETTERMENT PROJECT
Periodic  saintenance:  Program for 1986/87
Gravel     Bituminous surface dressint Hot rolled
improvement      Single        Double          sheet      Total
Province                         --                  -  km
D.l. Aceh                                                      -           43.5       43.5
North Sumatra                    -             44.0            -           86.4       130.4
West Sumatra                     -             40.0            -           32.4        72.4
Riau                                              -                           -           -
Jambi                         96.0                             -           45.0       141.0
Bengkulu                      77.0             49.0            -           25.0       151.0
South Sumatra                                     -            -           65.3       65.3
Lampung                                                        -           33.0        33.0
Total Sumatra           173.0            133.0            -          330.6      636.6
DKI Jakarta                      -                -                        21.9        21.9
West Java                        -                _                       377.0       377.0
Central Java                     -                -         90.0           47.6       137.6
D.I. Yogyakarta                  -                -            -           28.8        28.8
East Java                        -                -         65.0           21.3       86.3
Total Java                  _                -        155.0          496.6      651.6
West Kalimantan               50.0                -            -           15.0       65.0
Central Kalimantan            50.0                -         14.2            7.3       71.5
East Kalimantan                  -                -            -           12.0        12.0
South Kalimantan                 -              6.6          2.6            6.6        15.8
Total Kalimantan        100.0             6.6          16.8           40.9      164.3
Bali                             -             76.0                           - -      76.0
West Nusa Tengara                -             36.0            -           11.6       47.6
East Nusa Tengara             -                   -            -           24.3       24.3
Total Nusa Tengara          -            36.0                         35.9       71.9
North Sulawesi                                    -            -           44.0        44.0
Central Sulawesi            -                     -            -           18.7        18.7
South Sulawesi                                    -         13.0            8.0       21.0
Southeast Sulawesi           117.0                -            -          143.0      260.0
Total Sulawesi          117.0                          13.0          213.7      343.7
Maluku                        95.0                -            -           58.0       153.0
Irian Jaya                    45.0                -                        15.5       60.5
Timor Timur                      -                -            -           28.7       28.7
Grand Total             530.0           251.6         184.8        1,219.9    2,186.3
Source: DGH, May 1986.



Tsble 3.2
-=51 -
INDONESIA
HICHWAY MAINTENANCE AND BETTERMENT PROJECT
Program for Bridge Repairs
Province/name                           Completlon      Gross         Estimated costs
of bridge       Location    Spans    month & year    aria    Materials   Labor    Total
(m)                     (m )    ---- (Rp million)
West Java
Cimanuk           SMD 31  2x50+29        04/77          704      114.3     17.2     131.5
Ciasem           JKT 126     50+29       11/76          352  -   57.2       8.6      65.8
Bugel            JKT 135      - 32       07/77          224       36.4      5.5      41.9
Cilutung        CRB 50.2   3x36+58       09/77          768      124.7     18.7     143.4
Kanei            CRB 8.7     50+29       09/77          352       57.2      8.6      65.8
Ciparingatan     JKT 138     30+48       06/76          213       15.8      2.4      18.2
Kali Jaga          CRB 3     36+58       07/76          256       18.9      2.8      21.7
Sasak Beusi      JKT 1I5     39+62       02/76          277       20.5      3.1      23.6
Terate           Cilegon     58+58       02/77          258       18.9      2.8      21.7
Subtotal                    486                    3,404      463.9     69.7     533.6
Central Java
Ampel             PKL 10     50+29       05/76          352       26.0      3.9      29.9
Pait            PKL 10.4  2x36+58        03/77          512       37.8      5.7      43.5
Deji              PKL 30     50+29       11/76          352       26.0      3.9      29.9
Blorong           SMG 25     50+29       08/77          352       26.0      3.9      29.9
Tajum II          EMS 25   3x50+29       02/78        1,056      171.5     25.7     197.2
Mertoloyo          TGL 0     50+29       08/77          352       26.0      3.9      29.9
Tuntang           SMR 21     41+15       08/77          288       21;2      3.2      24.5
Kalipan           PKL 60        32       10/77          224       36.4      5.5      41.9
Pedes            TGL 115     50+29       05/76          352       26.0      3.9      29.9
Jurug I            SYA 4   4x41+15       09176        1,152      187.1     28.1     215.2
Banger             SMG 5     21+34       W5/76          149       11.0      1.7      12.7
Kali Gave          SMG 2      2x32       11/76          448       33.0      5.0      38.0
Kall Konang       SMG 27     36+58       05/77          256       18.9      2.8      21.7
Kali Pangi       SMG 153     41+65       11/76          288       21.2      3.2      24.4
Temperak          SMsO 58    50+29       01/77          352       26.0      3.9      29.9
Wonokerto         SMG 20     27+43       07/77          192       14.2      2.1      16.3
Kuumisik   -     PKL 105     50+29       09178          352       26.0      3.9      29.9
K. Keruh        PWL 128   2x39+62        07/78          475       35.1      5.3      40.4
Taman Sari         Yogya        50       06/77          350       25.R      3.9      29.7
Subtotal                  1,123                   7 854       795.2    119.5    914.7
East Java
Boma             SBY 278     41+15       05/76          247       18.2      2.7      20.9
Bayeman           SBY 88      2x32       07/76         .448       33.1      5.0      38.1
Bogor Kerep      SBY 149     27+43       11/77          192       14.2      2.1      16.3
Kayem I           SBY 92     24+38       04/77          171       12.6     19       14.5
Munjungan              -     27+43       08/77          165 -   12.1        1.8      13.9
Cincin            SBY 75- 5x50+29        07/78        1,760 -    129.9     19.5     149.4
Bangkalingan     SBY 272     24+38       09/78          171       12.6      1.9      14.5
Curah Kalak      SBY 217     27+43       07/77          192       14.2      2.1      16.3
Jeruk               PSLG     50+29        -/77          352       26.0      3.9      29.9
Subtotal                    538                    3,698      272.9    40.9      313.8.
Total                     2.147                   14,954    1,532.0    230.1   1,762.1
Source-  DCH, March 1986



Table 3.3
-52 -
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE AND BETTERMENT PROJECT
Betterment Program, Phase I
Pave-   Cost    Ma.jor
Traffie              ment     in      source
ADT 1984   Length   width    US$   of local
Link no.      Location            (vpd)      (km)     (i)    (mln)  financing /a
DI Aceh               01 019     Takengon - Uning           455    48.7      4.5      5.83    DIP
North Sumatra         03 050     Pematang Siantar-
Aek Silau Bridge        2,121    48.2      4.5      4.99   DIPDA
Jambi                 11 011     Muara Tembesi -
Cempaka Bridge        1,420    50.0      4.5     56.3    DIPDA
South Sumatera        15 035     Lahat - Simpat Air
Dingin                1,282    30.1      4.5      2.92   DIPDA
15 040     Simpat Air Dingin -
Pagar Alam            1,468    20.4      4.5      1.97   DIPDA
15 038     Pagar Alam-Tanjung
Raya                  1,962    51.0      4.5      4.51   DIPDA
West Java             22 031     Bogor - Jasinga         10,806    48.0      7.0      4.09    DIP
22 014     Gandria - Bogor        21,152    31.0      7.5       3.44    DIP
East Kalimantan       34 010     Samarinda - Sambera        484    42.5      4.5      5.66    DIP
South Kalimantan      36 007     Amuntai-Kelua-             958    35.0     45        4.50    DIP
36 029     Pasir Panas
East Nusa Tenggara   44 055      Kupang - Desao           1,711    29.0      6.0      2.99    DIP
Total                                                        433.9              46.53
/a  DIP - from central grovernment budget
DIPDA - from provincial government budgets
Source: DGH, May 1986.



Table 3.4
- 53 -
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE AND BETTERMENT PROJECT
Phase I of Bridge Replacement Program
No. of          Total            Estimated cost
bridges        length (m)          US$ million
Aceh                              4                460                 3.50
North Sumatera                    5                290                 2.21
West Sumatera                     4                130                 0.93
Riau                             10                465                 3.47
Jambi                                                                   -
Bengkulu                          8                420                 2.93
South Sumatera                   13                485                 3.40
Lampung                           -                  -
West Java                         7                400                 2.76
Central Java                      2                170                 1.12
Yogyakarta                        4                575                 3.13
East Java                         3                170                 1.22
West Kalimantan                   -                  -                  -
Central Kalimantan                                   - -
East Kalimantan                  11                328                 2.36
South Kalimantan                  2                 45                 0.32
Bali                              4                180                 1.19
West Nusa Tanggara                -                  -                  -
East Nusa Tanggara                1                 30                 0.20
Timor Timur                     - -                                     -
North Sulawesi                    2                 95                 0.70
Central Sulawesi                            -                           -
South Sulawesi                    2                 82                 0.99
Southeast Sulawesi                -                  -                  -
Malukku                                              -
Irian Jaya                        -                  -                  -
Total                    82             4,325                 30.43
Average length                   53m
Source: DGH, May 1985.



Table 3.5
- 54 -
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE AND BETTERMENT PROJECT
List of Equipment
No. of      Estimated cost in US$'000
units       Unit price      Total price
For Maintenance
Asphalt mixing plant                      10             200           2,000
Asphalt finisher                          13              50             650
Tandem roller                             44              40           1,760
Wheel loader                              50              35           1,750
Track loader                              10              60             600
Impact stone crusher                      42              70           2,940
Asphalt sprayer, self-propelled           44              20             880
Chip spreader, tail gate                 88                4             352
Air compressor and hammers                50               5             250
Motor grader                              13              50             650
Flatbed with crane                         5              30             150
Asphalt kettle, 6000 1                    18              30             540
Asphalt recycling equipment               I.             100             100
Cold milling machine                       1             200             200
Subtotal                                                           12,822
Spare parts for above and
existing equipment                                                     2,800
For Planning
Portable weigh scale                     100               2             200
Automatic traffic counter                100               1             100
Subtotal                                                              300
For Vehicle Testing (MOC)                                                  500
Laboratory Equipment                        11               20            220
Total                                                              16,642
Source:  DGH, May 1986.



Table 3.6
- 55 -
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE AND BETTEl1ENT PROJECT
Cost Fstimate /a
Local    Foreign  Total    Local    Foreign  Total    Foreign in
--  (Rp billion) ----            (USS million) ---lb   X  of total
A.  Civil Works
Periodic maintenance of roads:
- surface dressing (3,nOO k1m)             14.6      21.1     35.7      13.3      19.2     32.5         59
- overlays (2,900 km)                      52.9     62.0    115.0       48.1      56.4    104.5         54
- gravel (700 km)                           4.9       4.1      9.0       4.5       3.7      8.2         45
Bridge repair                                 n.6        .2?     1.8       0.6       1.0       1.6        65
Road betterment (1,900 km)                   83.5      98.0    181.5      75.9      89.1    165.0         54
Bridge replacements (7,000 m)                20.5      32.0     52.5      18.6      29.1     47.7         61
Subtotal A                              177.1    218.4    395.5    161.0    198.5    359.5            55
B.  Equipment                                     0.9      15.8      16.7      0.8      14.4      15.2         95
C. Consultancy Services
Technical assistance:
- to 26 DBMs (including super-
vision of periodic maintenance
works)                                    5.0      .7.5     12.5       4.6       6.8      11.4        60
- to DGH for planning                       0.2       1.0      1.2       fl.2      0.9       1.1        78
- to DGH for design                         1.0      0.2       1.2       0.9       n.2       1.1        20
- to DGIH for quality control and
contrAct administration                   2.3      3.6       5.9       2.1       3.3      5.4         62
- to DGH for contractors & coneultants   0.5         2.2       2.7       0.5       2.0      2.5         80
- to DGH for rock asphalt study             0.1     (0.7       0.8       0.1       0.6      0.7         An
- to MOC                                    0.9       3.3      4.2       n.8       3.0      3.8         80
- Supervision of road betterment
and bridge works                          7.      7.0      14.9       7.2       6.4     13.6         45
- Overseas training of DC¢H pro-
fessionals                                  -      0.6       0.6        -       n.5       0.5       1n
Subtotal C                               17.9     26.1      44.0   - 16.4      23.7      40.1         59
.Total Base Cost                         195.9    260.3    456.2    178.2    236.6    414.8            57
D. ContinRencies
Physical /c                                22.9     3n.3      53.2      20.8      27.6     48.4         57
Price Id                                   23.1     39,4      62.5      21.0      35.8     56.8         63
Subtotal D                              46.0      69.7    115.7       41.9     63.4    105.2          60
TOTAL PROJECT COST                      242.0    330.0    572.0    220.0    300.0    520.0            58
/a  Prices as of April 1986.
7T  US$1.00 P Rp 1,100.00
77  15% on road betterment and bridge works and 1n% on other civil works and supervision.
7W  On base costs and physical contingencies.  Estimate of price increases carried out at following rates:
1986      1987       1988       19R9       1990
Foreign:          7.2%       6.82      6.8%       7.0%       7.1%
Local:            6.0T       6.n2      6.0T       6.0%       6.0%
Source:  Mission estimates, May 1986.



Table 3.7
- 56 -
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE AND BETTERMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
(in US$ million)
Bank fiscal
year and                           Cumulative
semester                          disbursements
1987
December 31, 1986                             0.0
June 30, 1987                                20.0
1988
December 30, 1987                            55.0
June 30, 1988                               115.0
1989
December 31, 1988                           175.0
June 30, 1989                               225.0
1990
December 31, 1989                           260.0
June 30, 1990                               290.0
1991
December 31, 1990                           300.0
Nission estimates, May 1986.



Table 4.1
- 57 -
INDONESIA
HIGRWAY MAINTENANCE AND BETTERMENT PROJECT
Economic Analy8i8 of.Phase I Betterment Subpro3ects /a
Province              Link no.      Length      1984 AADT     Investment      IRR
(km)      (Veh/day)      (Rp bln)       (Z)
DI Aceh               01019-00       48.7           455          6.64          23
North Sunmatera       03050-01       48.2         2,121          5.48          33
Jambi                  11011-01      50.0         1,420          6.19          34
South Suimatera        15035-01      30.1        1,282           3.21          23
15040-01      20.4         1,468          2.17          15
15038-01      51.0         1,962          4.96          19
West Java              22031-01      48.0        10,806          4.49          89
22031-02      31.0       21,152           3.78          92
South Kalimantan      36007-01       35.0          958           4.95          26
East Kalimantan       34010-00       42.5           484          6.23          32
East Nusa Tenggara    44055-01       29.0         1,711          3.29          39
Total            1links        433.9                       51.39         38
/a Details and calculations in the Project File.
Source:  DGH, May 1986



Table 4.2
- 58 
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY-MAINTENANCE AND BETTERMENT PROJECT
Regional Distribution of Betterment Subprojects
Tentative
poposal                Share    Weighted
for Phases                 of     average
Province                  Phase I    II and III    Total       total       IRR
__________-- (km)                            M~ ---
Sumatera
T AXceh                   48.7             -        48.7                  23
North Sumatera            48.2          158.0      206.2                  25
Riau                        -            95.0       95.0                  20
Jambi                     50.0             -        50.0                  34
Bengkulu                    -            85.0       85.0                  25
South Sumatera           101.5           65.0      166.5                  26
Subtotal             248.4          403e0     651.4       36.4        25
Java
W-le st Java                 79.0           20.0      99.0                  75
Subtotal              79.0           20.0      99.0        5.5        75
Kalimantan
East Kalimantan           42.5          122.0      164.5                  30
West Kalimantan             -            60.0       60.0                  20
Central Kalimantan          -            61.0      61.0                   15
South Kalimantan          35.0           67.0      102.0                  22
Subtotal              77.5          310.0     387.5       21.6       25
Nusa Tenggara
West Nusa Tenggara          -            90.0       90.0                  23
East Nusa Tenggara        29.0           76.0      105.0                  21
Subtotal              29.0          166.0     195.0       10.9        21
Sulawesi
North Sulawesi              -            10.0       10.0                  30
Central Sulawesi                         99.0       99.0                  17
South Sulawesi              -           161.0      161.0                  26
Southeast Sulawesi          -           132.0      132.0                 -23
Subtotal               0.0          402.0     402.0       22.5        24
Malukku                                    55.0       55.0       3.1        40
Total                433.9        1,356.0   1,789.9      100.0        28
-Source. DGH, May 1986.



Table 4.3
- 59 -
INDONESIA
RIGRWAY HAJNTENANCE AND RETTERMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis of Bridge Replacement Subpro.jects
Numher     Total    Number       Total    Average   Median       Total     Share of
bridges     length  bridges       length    lenRth    IRR         cost     Total cost
Province                   analysed   (meters) accpeted   (meters)  (metersl   (M)         (US$  In)       (2)
Aceh                             3       150         3         150        50        63         1.1
Sumatra Utara                    7       440         7        440         63        54         3.2
Sumatra Barat                    3       140         2          75        38        41        0.5
Jambi                            7       456         0           -         -         -         -
Bengkulu                        8        745         6        745         93        4n        5.4
Lampung                         15       615        11         360        33        16        2.6
Subtotal Sumatra          43      2,546       31       1,770         57       41        12.8         23.4
Java Barat                       5       335         5         335-       67        46         2.4
Java Tengah                     25       92n        25        920         37        52         7.0
Java Timur                      12       810        12       8190         6R        40        5.9
Subtotal Java             42    26            42       2,065         49       46        15.3         27.9
Kalimantan Barat                31     1,355        25        875         35        39        6.4
Kalimantan Selantan             38     1,245        12         305        25        39        2.2
Kalliantan Timur                 4        85         4         85         21        91        0,6
Subtotal Kalimantan       73      2,685       41       t,265         31       36         9.2         16.8
Subtotal Bali             2         55        2          55         2R       31         0.4          0.7
Nusa Tenggara Barat              5       170         5         170        34        43        1.2
Nusa Tenggara Timur              4       160         3         135        45        17        1.0
Subtotal Nasu Tenggara   9         330        8         305         38       31         2.2          4.0
Sulawesi Utara                  7        190         6        130         22       100        0.9
Sulawesi Tenggara                7       200         1         20         20        21        0.1
Sulawesi Tengah                32      2,230        23      1,520         66        29       11.1
Sulawesi Selantan                8       381         a        381         48        53        2.8
Subtotal Sulawesi         54      3,001       38       2,051         54       38        14.9
Totals                   223    10,6R2       162       7.511         46       40        54.8        100.0
Source: DOR; November IQ5.



INDONESIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE AND BETTERMENT PROJECT
Orgonizational Structure of the Directorote General of Highwas (DGH)
Directorate General
of HVIgas
C s r e c t o r a t e   i, ~ D i re c to rt e oD ieat e   t f a tD ie c to r at e   c i  D e c Or fe C
PlanningVbnRlmplermentation  Implerentation                                c
Planning           Development            (West Region)         (Central Region)         (East Region)
Adminstratidmin         Ainistration         AdmInistration         AdminKration   .                      |rrrortion
Dvvision             DDssion                 D                           n                  Dion                    Division
Sub-Directorate       SUb-Directorate        Sub-Directorate        Sub-Directorate         SL&")lrecorae           &Hk&ft
Of rolnning           of Decnlopmentcal  |                          Of Techtnical           o -|  =
Screenng            SU DDirbcDirectoa te |                                                  SUb-D,rcKo Sr  |
F-easibility Office    of Wepst Regio                                                                                 Ofadell  tWs Jra&c  utus  at MaterIls
Jakartd Region      Region
aSuDrtorni teing      ibro re       |         Sub-Directorate       Sub-Dirctorate          SuDi     ate 
Su- iretrt        Suof  etrt               tc  etrlJv                                  q~ &~jj Central Regio  dSumatraRin  ofCetalae  Java  Regionuk
Su Directae      SbDrcoaeSbDrcoae                              Sub-Directorate         SbOrccrr                u-ietrt
o -. ,                                                    .                                                       . ,- - tmcfte 
Funded  ~~  of East Region  ~~Region                      Bali Region          Eost Timor Regiont
~~ ~~ ROoak                       at~~~o toc'ul Roaid    ot Local Road           CaLoa Ro
De. ..lopme nt !    I De telopmentDeeOpmnt
Sub-Directorate
of Accounts
Source Minrtry ot Public iVoks
October t985



INDONESIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE AND BETTERMENT PROJECT
Organizational Structure of Provinciol Public Works Deportment (DPUP)
PrZncidP~'ln$o                                        ~ineo
RSdk Woft
S~ton  SecfI~n  Sect.3n        Section      Sub-ction Of                                    Subhop    Ofction  SectIof
~~~~~~uldino                                           L                                                                             eonsntn ...R aer ele
Seet         o o                                     SbOisec  t     |                                utDmo                                          Sb  hono
SOu.e  mn^ o. rA.t_r Works
October 1986
WOrld ok   X1I



INDONESIA
HIGHWAY MAINENANCE AND BETIERMENT PROJECT
Organkational Structure d Dectooae General
fr Regonal Devebpmen (DGRD)
obwoKft CoarMmKstrofor
(DGRD),
SsvertorBd.
. .         Di~Oeotaote Genso for
Su-Mectorate of                DetiF ~   ~ectoralie  oq su.Odrcsorto 
DKotuatendO a    t0 
Pn>uftiol                           .aba ot nTo wn                      RnaktO
kilfitalnDevoiopment                                cwek*~met               SettemetmAentr
Su,)Fetrt Of            %A)rctrl df              Sietonof Aua Of          S-)lectionrof  e, ofSu-              lvf
Setono.Scio  fKotmntan, Ball,       Sulwi. Mo.Au &
Sumatrohea A.so            Jova Ama                   NTT & Ecst limor       tican Joyo
Source: Ministry of Home Affairs
October 1985                                                                                         Wordd Bor*-30193A



INDONESIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE AND BElTERMENT PROJECT
TVal Organzonal Stuctn d
a Kabupaen Pubic Wot Deo           (DPUK)
PUUIc Waks
Dffice d
AftM                  AffOUSD~  Ahef
Bu4dkV                   wMinkworm.~~~~~~~~~~Reor
,, I~OflninQIIBu~nQl .                  lntecStlLn
- Scuice Minis  ~tvyt: hWds
Octorler 19S5
WcldBut,*-301935



IBRD 19491
.-OL¶-   THAILAND        '                                                                                                                       PHILIPPINESONE$A
: PHLPIN                                                                        TRANSPORTATION NETWORK
5N -  --                       / go                         /                                                      -   MAJOR ROADS
\   BRUNRI                                                                                                                                         - - ALWAYR
MALAYSIA                             N                           RUE                    -  A                                                                                                                     - .
S\\SI   *C<iut-tUP  - /             \                                I       <                                                                                                                             --  INOERRATIRAL SO.ARARICS
- ,A,,, ,M,6 - /                                                     MALAYSIA    )
SINGAPORE         5      T7   ,H. J                                                                                                       -                  "4' MA  4
K         A          IV  r A   4-
T-gl~4                                                                      
;*5004                                                -               SI/A WES/ -                            -t   -    * EPU,AUAN SfA
. ~~~-                                                                                                                                       -  r                  &.- ""U
U                             -   --                              5                           U;AX.               VA                                    - ;)5VAW S  I
t} t ' LtRNF=s                                                     WF RJA AA |                                                                                                           JY
ao+,, ~~"A.                                              .-_,  b°s<
w\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WSW                                                          - 4t
oF«  '   i       X       C.4                                      o      Tm      w      _       _      aW                '
5U^A~~~~~-  C-                          rA                     i'S   OT               A      S b^6a  
FA~~~~       ~~~            if    WA S__MFA__
AUgs MIs. MOO MODEM'S ATMY MAR   NiA                                                                                                                                                                                                          MARCi4 I



IBRD 19492R
SqIAWW ~   ~    .WW
;M    A   L- A                                      ,%zLr;*S 
NSINIGAPORE/
S  i                                                      ,                                         . WLA                   , I8IANJ^tX ie L~~~~~~INTA
'.t V ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\8 M  A  A T E RI                                                                                            0A
SIBERUT                    \-,SANGKA
A                    ~~~~BELITUNG
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE
AND BETTERMENT PROJECT
SUMATERA
-  ammAV BETTERMENT IPMAES I
V  BRIDGE REPLACEMENT (PHASE 11
PREVIOUS PROJECTS         R 2  IND
CONSTRUCTION AND IMPROVEIIENTSILOAX 12IIIND
WtATIDNA). NID)IAYS         1LOAN IBI fiNO
-- POIIIE ROAmS
-              * @s<_LOCAL ROADS,
RAILWAYS
AIRROR11
-   -   PROVINCE -OUNOARIE&
t-.  I NATIONAL \OU..ARIESA
KILOMETERS                                          , l,                                             , . 1,,
MILES II       60       15        6        200      25                                           h IPR     PWYlbWMm~~RR                        I
<~~~~I .IM   d 7                                       i- BE~lbTN
I HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE                                 -             "   -'                        ^e too'       5,
MAY s986



taRD 19403A
°*                         '  ' 1        INDONESIA
SUMATERA  '                                              *wRv                                     HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE AND BETTERMENT PROJECT
JAWA
/ A  L t   s ,   .4        r / .nrL SDT  wNs s 
JAKARTA.,                                                                                                 AIr^"nLOtal
4: DRtL                                w                                                   _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pRUOSljCT O.2 l
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                '   E      tM  S  l l
1-1FY IAnw  l _  X
..  M I  l  s a   A1A U rA
JAWA ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~ -- ¶ <V7-
IS AI  SISI                I ,ooe A=. tyr
'½   A      Oh. K *..A ...t_



IBRD 19494t
t  ~~~~~~   .   ' *HltlWINES   :   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~                                                                               idO°  oi
'-.                               -. RRIUEINP"                                 3 '_                                                                                                                             INDONEStA
,MA L  SIl                                     .'--," ,                                                                                                                       - HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE AND BETTERMENT PROJECT
-   .x        , . -_        -.s                      so           ,-:,_;                 -~ '.                                                                                             KALIMANTAN  AND  SULAWESI
, KALIMANTAN4   -RUNEIj 
SULAWESI    -                                                                                                                                                                                q ROECT
* 3 ' SlJLAWgSI - - - P . lrtlAx                                                                                                                                   HIGHWAY RETTERMENT iPHAS 1II
.  ff   > /  j                     . p (._>                            - . .                                                        v        BRIDGE  REPLACEMENT IPHASE t)
-..                                                                                                                                                                                                 . IAWA _, = Rn i                 m:C= ' - D PREVIUS PROJECTS  (CR. 2ELt RDf
-       CONSTRUCTION AND IMPROVEMENTS LOAN 1236 IND,
.100                                    -,  .                    -~   -J     .                    .,>  *                                                                                                   NATIONAL UIGUIVAYS            tLOAN lORE INO.
_1,                               '-'                                                      _____  ( : Ttr;uqPRtOVINCE ROAOS
T                                                                                                               LOCAL1o  ROADS
.        0       ~~~~M   A    L    A   Y    S   I  A                                                                                                                                              PO   ..t ARPoTS
AC    AIRPORTs
*1_, . --f~                                                                                                                       * birGrede 0 'E -; -    P ROVINCE BOUNDARIES
S                            T.oio,O    .                               /                                                          -. -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
"N\
S.                       -   -ka   K A LS I MANTAN                                                                                 r  *,                                                      ,                                       ;  
Snglooon                               ~~~~~~~~P..IO0b%              A- N~IM TN A      N
P00800             00000.      S,nl,,,,                 -                                          '         /R01l                                                           d'o
M-    ' atonesqlt-N~(                                        v                      t s                      s        (,                                 Z u 
'\u00O  Sukra  j                                                                            pGaaa lruutAo   '                                                                                      9nk
9                         fJur             KuMlcuRp -                                                                  SE0a S1Mr>                       XaNePo                         
-  p,..rp* a~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.d
fw rnwHot       bd. 5 P  q                                   ,v0 If M-irn                                         M00re tno0klig) 8asusua 
ftflrilr ~ ~ ~ .7v               *'   Ip~                                                                                                                                             fV A.R.
vw~~~~ -rV   /v                                                            0                                                                                                             WemprI
vo     .p..                                        ~l0,                                            /jangbndJ                                                             Mfier9pnde  E,m'fk 
KlLOMETE.S °1 0 IC0 0 200    S    3010   400  & t  Jm
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ U1 LLESE   
.OO B40                       EJ8..*0  100       11i0                                                                                                                                 10100 110*8 on-
Pore~~~~~o
80  mows, 800.  -.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~uwp~d                                                                           I~d 
*0110111                                                                                                                                                              r20.                                                               126°Ap
'00IowwR,01                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MA £ 2
I 0.~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
0  100  200  300  450 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~MY1



IBRD 19598R
116  II~~~~~~~~~~~~~                   -                                                                                                        BaIJNEI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,  PIIIu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PINES~~~PUPIE
MALAYSIA                           -
- -              a."zIIA Mp
fi4-
NUSA TENGGARA BASAT                                    !                                                                                                                                                         jA.
S-   ....Wwc0fi'C-                                                                                                a                           mOW
TIMOR
Lenansqu   huu  pgrado    /            ~~~Tlilrt                         k                      Gk          Ndo-'                                                                        T
NUSl TJ                    NUSAlanwh           Ndw                                      N                                  TIMUR
PULAULOMBOK                            PULAU SMBAWA                                                          NUSA   T                   NUSA   TENGGARA   TIMUR                                                 ok- ww
s      TIMOR
-loQ                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~SUMBA   f-                                                                                                                                          1
INDONEStA                                                              o    w                                                                                                                                      lej
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE AND BETTERMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                                                    T.WlOl       ,n
TIMOR                                                                                                                               P.b  P S4WU                   Bali
PROJECT:
Highway Betterment (Phase 1)                                                                                                                                           ROTI
v    Bridge Replacement (Phase 1)
-       National Highways
-    Province Roads
Province Boundaries
-international Boundaries
weo                200                 acOlLOaBlRS
0~~~~~~ .
O               0           50                           150            iSo              20AILES
116'                                                                                  12'                                                                 122                                         124'
MAY 1986 .



