Decauss of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4330-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$300.0 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR THE
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE AND BETTERMENT PROJECT
May 23, 1986
This document has a resLricted distribuLion and may be used by recipients only in the performance
or their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency unit   =  Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00   =  Rp 1,100
Rp 1 Million   =  US$909
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1-March 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADB            -  Asian Development Bank
Asbuton        -  Natural rock asphalt from Buton Island
BAPPENAS       -  National Planning Agency
DBM            -  Provincial Highway Directorate
DGH            -  Directorate General of Highways
DGLT           -  Directorate General of Land Transport
DPMJ           -  Indonesian Road Research Laboratory (of DCH)
DPUK           -  Local government department of public works
DPUP           -  Provincial government department of public works
DWT            -  Deadweight tons
GoI            -  Government of Indonesia
INPRES         -  Special programs governed by presidential decrees
MHA            -  Ministry of Home Affairs
HOC            -  Ministry of Communications
MOF            -  Ministry of Finance
MPH            -  Ministry of Public Works
OECF           -  Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan
PMS            -  Pavement Management System
RBO            -  Regional Betterment Office (of DGH)
SEKNEG         -  State Secretariat for Procurement Matters
SOE            -  Statement of Expenditures
UNDP           -  United Nations Development Programme
USAID          -  United States Agency for International Development
Vpd            -  vehicles per day
REPELITA       -  National Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita I,
1969-74; Repelita II, 1974-79; Repelita III,
1979-84; Repelita IV, 1984-89; Repelita V,
1989-94)



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE AND BETTERMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Republic of Indonesia.
Beneficiaries:     Ministry of Public Works (MPW) and Ministry of Communica-
tions (Moc).
Amnunt:            US$300.0 million equivalent.
Terms:             Payable in 20 years, including five years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description:     The project would support the Government of Indonesia's
(GOI) objectives of: (a) improving highway maintenance;
(b) restoring and upgrading parts of the existing national
and provincial roads network and its bridges; (c) improving
highway planning and management, particularly at the pro-
vincial level; (d) revising regulations regarding roads and
road transport; and (e) preparing and implementing highway
safety measures. As part of Indonesia's road program under
the Fourth National Five-Year Development Plan (1984-89),
the project would provide for periodic maintenance of some
6,600 km of national and provincial roads and repair of
some 2,200 m of damaged bridges; betterment of some
1,900 km of national and provincial roads; and replacement
of some 7,000 m of bridges. Equipment would be provided to
improve the efficiency of road maintenance in 26 provinces
and for design and quality control of road construction and
maintenance works. The project also includes components
for technical assistance services and overseas training.
The project would provide substantial economic benefits to
large areas of the country, improved capacity for planning,
construction and maintenance of highways, as well as assis-
tance in decentralizing those functions.
Project Risks:     There are no unusual technical or other risks associated
with this project, but severe budgetary constraints may
result in delayed implementation and consequent delays in
the accrual of benefits.
This documnent has a rstricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfomrance |
of their official duties. ls contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                                       Local   Foreign   Total
--- (US$ million) ---
Civil works
Periodic maintenance of roads and
repair of bridges                             66.5       80.3    146.8
Betterment of roads                              75.9      89.1    165.0
Bridge replacements                              18.6      29.1      47.7
Subtotal                                     161.0      198.5    359.5
Equipment                                            0.8      14.4      15.2
Technical Assistance and Overseas Training          16.4      23.7      40.1
Total Base Costs                                 178.2     236.6    414.8
Physical contingencies                                20.8      27.6      48-.4
Price contingencies                                   21.0      35.8      56.8
Total Project Cost /a                            220.0     300.0    520.0
Financing Plan:
IBRD                                                  -      300.0    300.0
Gor                                                220.0         -     220.0
Total                                            220.0     300.0    520.0
Estimated Disbursement:    Bank FY         1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
--==-- =Uss million)-
Annual           20      45      110      95        10
Cumulative       20     115      225     290       300
Rate of Return:            Over 60%
Staff Appraisal Report:   Report No. 6066-IND, dated May 23, 1986.
Maps:                      Nos. IBRD 19491, 19492R, 19493R, 19494R, 19598R
/a Includes US$18.1 million in taxes and duties.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA FOR
THE HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE AND BETTERMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of US$300.0 million to help
finance the Highway Maintenance and Betterment Project. The loan would have a
term of 20 years, including 5 years grace, at the standard variable interest
rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report, entitled "Indonesia:  Policies for Growth and
Employment" (No. 5597-IND, dated April 23, 1985), was distributed to the
Executive Directors on April 30, 1985. Annex I gives selected social and
economic indicators for the country.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is a highly diverse country spread across
an archipelago of more than 13,000 islands with a land area of about two mil-
lion kmf. It now has a population of over 158 million, growing at about 2.2%
p.a., and is the world's fifth most populous nation. The country has a diver-
sified resource base, with plentiful primary energy resources, significant
mineral deposits, large timber potential and a developed system of agricul-
tural commodity production and export. A high proportion of these primary
resources are located on the sparsely populated islands of Sumatra and
Kalimantan, while two thirds of the population lives on Java, which has areas
with some of the highest rural population densities in the world. About a
quarter of the population lives in urban areas, and the current rate of urban
population growth is about 4% p.a.  The 1983 estimate of GNP ?7r capita is
US$560, which places Indonesia among middle-income countries.-
Macroeconomic Developments and Resource Management
4.        During the 1970s, the Indonesian economy grew at almost 8% p.a.
This growth was associated with rapid increases in public expenditures, total
investment and savings. Following the turbulence of the mid-1960s, the
Government of Indonesia took effective action to restore macroeconomic stabi-
lity, liberalize the economy, rehabilitate infrastructure, and provide incen-
tives for domestic and foreign private investment. However, the dominant
external influence was the huge expansion, and significant variability, in
foreign exchange earnings from oil. Net earnings from oil and LNG exports
rose from US$0.6 billion in 1973/74 to US$10.6 billion in 1980/81, when the
1/ On the basis of the World Bank's system of country classification and
Atlas methodology for calculation of GNP.



current account enjoyed a surplus of US$2.1 billion. Oil and LNG also pro-
vided about 60% of budget revenues by 1980/81 and helped finance a sustained
increase in demand. The pattern of expenditures helped foster diversified
growth. Of particular note has been the support for agriculture through
investment in infrastructure and support services. This supported an agricul-
tural growth rate of almost 4% p.a. and led to the recent achievement of self-
sufficiency in rice. Manufacturing also enjoyed a high growth rate during the
1970s (of about 14% p.a.), although this was from a very low base and predomi-
nantly oriented toward the protected domestic market.
5.        Since 1981, the economy has been buffeted by unfavorable external
developments, especially for oil. Accordingly, the external terms of trade
have deteriorated by 18Z over the past four years. In response, the
Government acted decisively to stabilize the economy and provide a basis for
longer-term structural adjustment. Related measures included: (a) restraints
on public investment and reductions in budget subsidies; (b) maintenance of a
flexible exchange rate policy (following a major devaluation in March 1983);
(c) wide-ranging structural reforms in the taxation and financial systems; and
(d) a major reorganization of customs, ports and shipping operations. These
measures have had a positive impact on the balance of payments, with the
current account deficit reduced from US$7.2 billion (8.5% of GNP) in 1982/83
to an estimated US$2.0 billion (2.6% of GNP) in 1985/86. Domestic inflation
has also been reduced to less than 5% in 1985. However, this stabilization
process has involved a heavy cost in terms of lower investment and growth.
Since 1981, GDP growth has averaged only 2.6% p.a.; adjusting for population
growth and the terms of trade loss, per capita incomes have fallen. The
industrial sector has been particularly hard hit, with low rates of capacity
utilization and emerging financial problems in many enterprises.
6.        The economic outlook for Indonesia is dominated by the recent
collapse and uncertain prospects for world oil markets. Preliminary
indicators are that Indonesia's net oil/LNG export earnings could fall by
almost 60% during 1986/87. Because of the cautious management strategy
adopted by the Government in recent years, Indonesia is better placed than
most oil exporters to cushion the short-term impact of lower oil revenues.
External reserves stand at over US$10 billion (equivalent to nine months of
imports) and another US$2 billion is available in undrawn commercial
credits. However, the Government is still legitimately concerned about the
impact of a prolonged shortfall in oil revenues. Despite tight controls over
public external borrowing in recent years, the debt service ratio had reached
25% by 1985 and will rise further (even without new borrowing) over the next
few years. The scope, therefore, for additional borrowing to cover the
resource gap is limited. Instead, the Government has opted for further
cutbacks in government expenditure. Already, an austerity budget has been
announced for 1986/87, with total expenditure budgeted to decline by 7% (22%
for development expenditure). With continued prudence and some recovery in
oil prices, the current account deficit could be brought back to less than 3%
of GNP over the next three years. However, economic performance would remain
highly constrained, with CDP growth close to 2% p.a. and declining per capita
incomes.



-3-
Policies for Crowth and Adjustment
7.        As already noted, the Indonesian Government, faced with lower oil
revenues, is acting to maintain balance of payments and domestic financial
stability through demand restraint. However, over the medium term,
Indonesia's ability to achieve its goals of sustainable growth with equity
will depend crucially on the skill with which it manages the transition from
oil dependency toward a more diversified, semi-industrial economy. Some of
the elements of this strategy, including structural reforms in the taxation
and financial systems, are already in place. However, successful ad5ustment
will require continued action in three key policy areas: management of the
public investment program (and improvements in the regulatory/policy environ-
ment for private investment), rationalization of the external trade regime and
development of the financial sector.
8.        The projected import constraint imposes serious limitations on the
rate at which Indonesia can undertake new investments over the next few
years. At the same time, some reallocation of resources towards regional
development and the social sectors might be justified, in order to reduce the
import content of investment while still meeting the Government's equity and
employment objectives. It is therefore important that mechanisms are estab-
lished to facilitate orderly and rational adjustments to the public investment
program. Possible options include preparation of multiyear expenditure plans
(at least for the larger projects), identification of a care program of high
priority projects and strengthening of project appraisal/selection proce-
dures. The Government is also considering ways to improve project implemen-
tation, so that investment returns can be realized more promptly.  Given the
budgetary constraints, it is expected that the private sector will be called
upon to play an increasingly important role in capital formation.  To
encourage this process, the Government recently announced simplifications in
investment approval procedures and a major internal reorganization of the
Investment Coordinating Board. These measures were followed, in May 1986, by
a package of regulatory reforms to make Indonesia more attractive to foreign
investments.
9.        The recent decline in the price of oil has clea-ly demonstrated the
importance of reducing the economy's heavy dependence on a single source of
foreign exchange and, more generally, the need to rationalize the external
trade regime. The Government has set a target of doubling non-oil exports in
nominal terms over the next five years. This target should be attainable
provided that economic recovery in the industrial economies is sustained,
Indonesia's access to those markets is not constrained by protectionist
measures and, most importantly, Indones.La follows appropriate trade and
exchange rate policies. The Government has already introduced a range of
export promotion measures intended to improve export incentives, ensure ready
access to finance for exporters, raise product quality and enhance marketing
capacity. Most recently, in May 1986, the Government announced a policy
package designed to ensure that exporters would have access to raw materials
and intermediate inputs at international prices. However, over the longer
term, there is no effective substitute for comprehensive trade reform. On the
import side, Indonesia's trade regime has historically been characterized by a
predilection for high tariffs and quantitative restrictions. In March 1985,



-4-
the Government announced a major reduction in the range and level of nominal
import tariffs. However, other actions, including increased use of import
quotas/bans and regulations requiring higher local content in production, have
served to promote some potentially costly and uneconomic investments which
could prove counterproductive to the export drive.
10.       The Government's decision to move towards a more liberal financial
environment raises a number of issues relating to resource mobilization,
financial intermediation and credit allocation. Over the longer term, as the
scope for subsidized credit is reduced, the banking system will have to play
an increasingly important role in mobilizing domestic resources. However,
during the transition period, some potential conflicts between the resource
mobilization and credit allocation objectives could arise. For example, the
increase in deposit rates following the recent financial reforms, while
encouraging resource mobilization, has also led to high real lending rates
which have tended to dampen investment and credit demand. This in turn may
restrain economic activity. It is therefore important to find ways to reduce
the high intermediation costs of banks. Consideration should also be given to
other ways of mobilizing financial resources, including development of a
capital market, expansion of the banking network (especially in rural areas)
and selective relaxation of restrictions on private banks (combined with
increased bank supervision).
Incomes, Employment and Human Development
11.       Indonesia's physical, human and economic resources are very unevenly
distributed among its main regions. Java, for example, accounts for almost
50% of Indonesia's GDP and 62% of its population, but only 7% of its land
area. Although all five of the country's main regions experienced rapid per
capita growth in the 1970s, regional differences in output tended to widen.
To a large extent, differences in performance are associated with the impor-
tance of the mineral sector, particularly petroleum. However, there are two
important processes at work in Indonesia which enable the benefits of growth
to be more evenly spread than indicated by output trends. The first of these
is migration. Between 1971 and 1980, 4.3 million people (or 16% of the natur-
al increase in population) resettled permanently in provinces outside those of
their birth. Approximately 1.7 million people moved from Java to the Other
Islands, o.- whom one million were resettled through the official transmigra-
tion program. There has also been substantial rural-urban migration both
between and within provinces. The second process is the redistribution of
income through the government budget. Regional variations in per capita con-
sumption are much less pronounced than differences in per capita output. This
is largely due to the impact of taxation on the oil sector.
12.       An analysis of household expenditures indicates that Indonesia's
rapid economic development has been accompanied by significant progress in
reducing poverty. Between 1970 and 1980, the proportion of the population
living in poverty declined from 57% to 40%; the decline was particularly rapid
in the Other Islands and in urban areas. The core of the poverty problem con-
tinues to be in rural Java, where landless laborers form a large, and possibly
rising, proportion of the population and where, for most of the 1970s, there
is little evidence of any rise in real agricultural wages. However, there was



- 5 -
a significant rise in real agricultural wages around 1980-81 associated with
the sharp increase in rice output and booming overall economic growth.
Increases in rural nonagricultural and urban wages also occurred at the begin-
ning of the 1980s. Despite the slowdown in economic growth and stabilization
measures since 1982, the limited available evidence suggests that wages and
incomes have held up, partly as a consequence of continued agricultural
growth.
13.       In the future, the availability of productive employment will be a
key determinant of income distribution. The labor force is expected to grow
at about 2.32 p.a. over the next decade, while economic growth will be lower
than in the 1970s. The resultant squeeze in the labor market could lead to
stagnant or declining labor income, especially in rural areas and the urban
informal sector. Given the balance of payments constraint facing the country,
Indonesia's employment outlook depends crucially on the pattern of economic
growth, and in particular the extent of labor absorption in the commodity-
producing sectors. Although over the long term the structural shift in
employment away from agriculture should continue, this sector will still
account for half or more of total employment and the growth in agricultural
incomes will be an important determinant of job opportunities elsewhere in
nonfarm activities. This will require continued priority to agriculture in
the form of supportive pricing and investment policy, with some shift in
emphasis toward the Other Islands. On Java, attention will need to be paid to
issues of agricultural diversification and the pace of mechanization. With
respect to the industrial sector, the development of an efficient, relatively
export-oriented pattern of production can also contribute to significant labor
absorption in the medium to long term, especially in Java; this will involve a
continuing major role for small-scale firms. If a favorable evolution of the
employment situation is to occur, there will also need to be an appropriate
pattern of public expenditure and supportive policies for the urban informal
sector; finally, the transmigration program can make a substantial contribu-
tion, provided it is closely coordinated with complementary agricultural
investment programs, in tree crops, water resources and livestock development.
14.       There has been substantial progress in extending the provision of
social services throughout the population. Universal enrollment in primary
education has been virtually achieved and the enrollment rate in secondary
schools is now about 35%. However, the weak educational base of the popula-
tion continues to be a major obstacle to rapid economic development and a
substantial further expansion of secondary and tertiary education will be
necessary as well as a major effort to raise the quality of the whole system.
In the health sector, there has been a large expansion in facilities, notably
at the subdistrict level, but continued investment and an improvement in
quality will be necessary to increase effectiveness. This will have to be
complemented by a major expansion in water supply and sanitation if the
improvement in indices of mortality and morbidity during the 1970s is to be
maintained. By 1981, only 18% of the rural and 40% of the urban population
had access to safe water, compared with government targets of 60% and 75%,
respectively, for 1990.



-6-
External Capital Flows
15.       The recent improvement in Indonesia's balance of payments situation
is evidence of the Government's commitment to manage short-term economic
shocks. The ongoing program of economic reforms should also help to hold the
current account deficit to sustainable levels over the medium term, despite
the impact of lower oil revenues. Even so, continued resource transfers from
abroad will be essential to sustain modest GDP growth (2% p.a.) over the next
three years. Staff projections indicate that new public medium- and long-term
(MLT) borrowing will have to average about US$4.8 billion p.a. from 1986/87 to
1988/89, including about US$2.4 billion p.a. of official development assis-
tance and the balance from import-related credits and untied borrowing.
Indonesia is well placed to arrange the necessary financing on reasonable
terms; the Government's record of economic management is good and a comfor-
table cushion of external reserves has been rebuilt over the past two years.
16.       Total public debt outstanding at the end of 1985 is estimated at
US$28 billion, with an additional US$15 billion of undisbursed commitments.
Of the total debt disbursed and outstanding, official assistance (including
nonconcessional multilateral aid) accounts for 48% and obligations at variable
interest rates for only 21%; there is no short-term public debt. The average
maturity of public MLT debt at the end of 1985 is estimated at 16 years. The
Government continues to manage its external debt quite prudently. Until 1981,
Indonesia had succeeded in maintaining its public debt service ratio, based on
gross exports, at below 10%. However, because of the sharp drop in oil export
receipts over the past three years, the ratio rose to about 20% in 1985. With
the projected levels and composition of borrowings and export earnings,
Indonesia's public debt service ratio would rise to about 28% in 1986 and then
gradually decline in later years. With private MLT debt included, the total
debt service ratio would rise from 25% in 1985 to around 33% in 1986 and
then decline again. While debt management will require careful attention in
the coming years, the projected debt service ratios are not excessive by
international standards.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA 2/
17.       As of March 31, 1986, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits total-
ling US$896.59 million (less cancellations) and 107 Bank loans amounting to
US$8,149.54 million (less cancellations). IFC commitments totalled
US$163.2 million. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and
IFC investments as of March 31, 1986. The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1983 was
13.1%, and the Bank's share of debt service 10.3%, compared with 13.3Z and
7.9%, respectively, in 1982. From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia
2/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Manpower
Development and Training Project (No. P-4149-IND), circulated under cover
of R86-120 dated May 9, 1986, and approved by the Executive Directors on
May 29, 1986.



was made through IDA. Due to the country's improved creditworthiness follow-
ing the comodity and oil price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group's
lending in the remainder of the 1970s was through IBRD loans, with a modest
amount of IDA lending being justified primarily on poverty grounds, as the per
capita GNP was well below the IDA cutoff level. IDA lending was discontinued
in FY80. Given the critical importance of agriculture (including transmi-
gration) for employment, food security and exports, over one third of Bank
Group-assisted projects have been in this sector. In addition, loans and
credits have been extended to virtually all other sectors of the economy,
including transportation, education, urban development, water supply, rural
development, industrial development financing (including small-scale
industry), power, telecommunications, population and nutrition, and technical
assistance.
18.       During Repelitas I (1969-74) and II (1974-79), and in line with the
objectives of these first two Five-Year Plans, a high proportion of Bank Group
lending was directed initially toward the rehabilitation and then the expan-
sion of infrastructure and production facilities. Special attention was also
given to meeting the shortage of skilled manpower and technical assistance
needed for preinvestment studies and project execution. Repelita III (1979-
84), published in early 1979, stressed the need for continued high growth and
stability, but departed from previous plans by placing special emphasis on
more equitable income distribution and poverty alleviation. This focus, which
was fully in line with the conclusions of the Bank's economic work, required
greater attention to employment generation (particularly in the industrial
sector) and to improvements in basic public services. While Bank lending was
already consistent with these objectives, increased emphasis has been given to
these pricLities. However, the adverse economic developments that occurred in
the latter half of the plan period and the measures taken to address them, led
to a reshaping of development objectives for Repelita IV (1984-89). These
emphasize restoring growth of incomes and employment while continuing finan-
cial prudence, promoting structural change toward a more diversified economy,
and maintaining efforts to improve income distribution and alleviate
poverty. This shift in focus has underscored the need to follow through on
reforms that have already been initiated, seek increased efficiencies in the
economy, mobilize domestic resources to finance needed investments and recur-
rent expenditures, and foster a policy environment conducive to the achieve-
ment of required changes.
19.       The Bank has geared its lending and economic work program to address
these needs and to maintain a high level of resource transfer. The approach
is to continue to emphasize the ongoing dialogue on economic policy that has
been a cornerstone of the Bank's relationship with the Government for many
years, and to coordinate discussion of maLroeconomic issues with advice on
institutional and policy reform in important sectors and subsectors, coupled
with lending operations and technical assistance that meet priority needs and
support institutional improvements in specific areas. Emphasis in economic
work is being given to trade and industrial issues, development of the finan-
cial system, and public resource management. In the lending program, agricul-
ture continues to receive the most attention. However, the program is broadly
based, and includes increasing emphasis on education and human resource deve-
lopment. Continued attention is being given to power and energy, where the



- 8 -
Bank is concentrating on policies to diversify Indonesia's energy base,
rationalize pricing and improve sector planning. In transportation, the Bank
is focussing on efficiency improvements in the maritime sector and on improv-
ing the national network of highways and rural roads. In urban development
and water supply, lending is being directed more and more to developing inno-
vative low-cost solutions, providing for cost recovery and strengthening local
institutions, in order to minimize demands on the government budget and decen-
tralize the responsibility for addressing basic needs. In all, the Bank's
lending program is intended to contribute about 20% of Indonesia's capital
requirements during the next 3 years and is expected to be an important
catalyst in attracting other funds. Where possible, we are seeking also to
widen the impact of Bank lending through technical assistance, as well as
complementary investments and coordinated policy dialogue with other donors.
This is especially true in our lending programs for power, urban development,
water supply and transportation.
20.       Tiqre has been an improvement in the last few years in the disburse-
ment ratio _' from a low of 13Z in FY80 to over 17% in FY85. The poor FY80
ratio was in large part merely a result of the rapid increase in commitments
during the FY77-79 period, when total Bank/IDA commitments to Indonesia
increased by 122% compared to a Bank-wide increase of 83%. However, it also
reflected implementation difficulties arising out of the Government's budget-
ary, procurement and payment procedures, as well as the severe shortage of
mnagerial and technical manpower in Indonesia. A number of steps have been
taken by the Government and the Bank to address these issues. Several special
Bank missions have visited Indonesia to analyze the problems and make recom-
mendations for simplifying budgetary and financial procedures. The Government
and the Bank have also instituted formal and regular joint review procedures
to identify general and project-specific problems and work out corrective
measures. Procurement seminars were held in Jakarta in September 1979,
November 1981 and May 1984. As a consequence of these joint initiatives, the
government has taken measures to streamline some of the complex budgetary and
financial procedures affecting project implementation. In addition, in order
to reduce disbursement delays due to initial project implementation difficul-
ties, many operations are now being presented for Board consideration at a
later stage in the project cycle. The combined effects of all of these acti-
vities are reflected in the increase in disbursements from US$206 million in
FY79 to US$728 million in FY85. It is nevertheless clear that continued
efforts to improve project implementation and the pace of disbursements are
required, as Indonesia continues to show a disbursement ratio below the Bank-
wide average. A number of initiatives are underway. The Bank is helping the
Government in a special effort to identify problems in the construction indus-
try with a view to developing appropriate remedial actions and policies, as
weaknesses in the domestic contracting industry have been identified as one of
the major causes of implementation problems in Indonesia. Efforts are also
underway to develop standardized tender documents in order to speed the
procurement process, and to improve project monitoring and land acquisition
3/  The ratio of actual disbursements during the fiscal year to the
cumulative undisbursed amount at the beginning of the fiscal year.



- 9 -
procedures. It is the Bank's and the Government's intention to devote conti-
nued attention to these and other aspects of project implementation in the
coming year, in order to ensure that maximum benefit is realized from the
Government's investments, Bank-assisted and other.
Part III - THE ROAD SUBSECTOR
The Transport System
21.       As in most archipelagic nations, the transport system of Indonesia
is predominantly bimodal with road and sea transport having complementary
rather than competing roles, while rail and air transport have only minor
roles. Roads dominate with an 82% share of total passenger transport and 70%
of freight, while the shares of shipping are 2% and 27% respectively.
However, the use of transport modes varies widely among the islands. In
Java, for instance, freight movement is 96% by road and accounts for about 80%
of all freight movement by road in Indonesia. Intra-island freight traffic in
Indonesia, excepting Java, is mostly handlcd by coastal shipping with a 57%
market share and virtually all inter-island freight moves by ship while for
passengers it is roughly 24% by air and 76Z by ship.
22.       Since 1979 the share of transport in the total development budget
has been about 11-12%, and is projected to remain at about this level through
the 1980s. This level of funding is more typical of developed countries (10-
14%) than developing countries (up to 20%), suggesting that public infra-
structure is intensively utilized and marginal improvements could result in
substantial gains in efficiency. The share of roads in transport expenditures
has been about 43% in Repelita III and the first two years of Repelita IV,
which is low considering the dominant importance of roads to GDP growth and
the large backlog of projects with very high economic rates of return.
23.       Four major institutions are responsible for policy setting, regula-
tion, administration and public funding of transport. These are the
Ministries of Communication (MOC), Finance (MOF), and Public Works (MPW), and
The National Planning Board (BAPPENAS). MOC is responsible for transport
planning of all modes other than roads, and is also responsible for most of
the policies governing road transport. The Directorate General of Highways
(DGH) of MPW is responsible for the planning, construction, maintenance, and
administration of roads in the national and provincial networks and, because
of its technical expertise, exerts considerable influence over lower class
systems also.
24.       The major issues in the transport sector are: (a) the adequacy of
public sector investment in transport and the appropriate modal balance;
(b) inadequate sector management and intermodal coordination; (c) Government
subsidies to cover state enterprise deficits; (d) regulation of the transport
industry; (e) the lack of adequate and effective road maintenance; (f) utili-
zation of rail capacity with special emphasis on passenger movements in Java
and freight operations in Sumatra; and (g) improved efficiency of the maritime
and ports subsector. Recently significant steps have been taken by GOI to
remove the vehicle fuel subsidy through substantial price increases and to



- 10 -
reorganize ports and customs procedures throughout the country. Both initia-
tives took considerable political courage and demonstrate the willingness of
GOI to take difficult policy decisions in the sector to improve efficiency and
coordination.
Bank Sector Support Strategy
25.       The Bank's approach to transport development in Indonesia is geared
to assist GOI to develop the sector to serve transport growth in line with
economic development trends and to reduce transport costs through improvements
in physical infrastructure as well as fiscal and regulatory policies and
management arrangements. The aim is to establish gradually an efficient
transport system which is demand-responsive and financially self-supporting.
In the roads subsector, the Bank strategy is to assist GOI in: (i) recon-
ciling the objectives of economic efficiency and regional equity under con-
strained resources by upgrading key routes in the system and devising low-cost
improvements to others, while establishing efficient maintenance policies and
arrangements; (ii) improving road planning, design and funding to ensure
resources are allocated to high priority works designed to appropriate stan-
dards; (iii) strengthening local level implementation and management capa-
bilities; and (iv) improving the regulatory environment and cost recovery.
Highway Network and Traffic
26.       Indonesia has a relatively limited road network of some 135,000 km
of classified highways. The coverage of the main highway network appears
generally adequate for the country's present and medium-term transport
needs. Most of the system was built some 40 years ago to low standards: the
roads are narrow, lack adequate drainage, and are easily flooded on the low-
lands; pavements are badly deteriorated; and bridges are substandard. In 1984
it was estimated that 70X of the network required rehabilitation.
27.       In step with a 17% annual average increase in the motor vehicle
fleet, road traffic has grown rapidly during the last decade, especially
during 1973-78 when the price of fuel was low. The annual growth rate during
1972-81 was about 14% with an average of over 20% between 1973 and 1978 but a
more modest rate of 4% from 1978 to 1981. Growth rates vary considerably
among provinces, from over 25% in the oil producing provinces of Aceh and East
Kalimantan to less than 10% in some of the others. Road traffic accidents are
a serious socio-economic problem in Indonesia with about 11,000 fatalities
reported annually. Studies financed under previous highway projects have
identified inadequacies in laws and regulations regarding vehicles and
traffic, in their enforcement by the police and in other areas. Measures for
improvement are being implemented under the Highway Betterment Project (Loan
2404-IND) and would be continued under the proposed project.
Road Transport Industry
28.       Commercial road transport is estimated to account for 70% of all
freight transportation in Indonesia. MOC vehicle inspection data for 1980
covering 158,000 trucks indicate that 50% of these were for hire and 50% were
for own account. Supply and quality of services are adequate. Government



- 11 -
trucking regulations cover operations in urban areas, weights and dimensions,
licensing for inter-provincial routes on Java, vehicle inspections and tariff
ceilings. Given little or no barriers to entry into the industry and the
degree of competition that exists in most areas, actual charges are usually
below the tariff ceilings.
29.       Vehicle weights enforcement has improved significantly over the last
two years but is still not fully satisfactory mostly because of confusing
legislation governing the excessively restrictive and out of date legal axle
load limits, ranging from 1.5 tons to 8 tons, and reorganization of respon-
sibilities between MOC's Directorete General of Land Transport (DGLT) and the
police. While overloading is common. actual axle loads are, however, moderate
with less than 1% of axles exceeding 1i tons, about 5% exceeding 7 tons, and
18X exceeding 5 tons. These problems should be reduced through steps to be
supported through the proposed project to revise and simplify transport and
traffic regulations, and measures being taken by DCLT to increase random spot
checking. During negotiations GOI confirmed that enforcement would be moni-
tored closely and that information on monitoring results would be provided
regularly to the Bank.
30.       Buses carry about 90% of passengers transported and some 75% of
passenger-kms travelled. Inter-city passenger transport is provided primarily
by private bus companies. State-owned bus companies also provide most urban
bus services, some inter-urban services, and subsidized pioneer (perintis)
services in remote areas where operations are not commercially viable. Bus
transport is highly regulated, including structure of companies, route
licensing and scheduling, fleet size and tariffs. Tariffs generate adequate
revenues for inter-urban bus companies, while intra-urban bus services still
require substantial, but decreasing, subsidies as fares have been gradually
increased over the last few years. All subsidies to the state-owned Jakarta
City bus company are expected to be phased out before the end of 1987.
31.       Existing regulations governing transport and traffic are too general
or outmoded. Studies have made recommendations for improving services and
efficiency of the road transport industry through changes in legal codes for
highways, traffic, vehicles and public and commercial road transport. The
Highway Code was issued in May 1985 and the Vehicle and Traffic Codes have
been drafted. MOC now intends to draft the last regulation, the Public and
Commercial Transport Code, and the decrees and instructions required to imple-
ment all four codes. Also, a land transport development plan is being
prepared by consultants, addressing route structure, feasibility of increasing
axel loads on specific routes. and terminal and transit facilities for freight
and passengers. Its conclusions will be incorporated in the revised regula-
tions. At negotiations assurances were obtained from GOI that it will submit
by 'une 30, 1987, for Bank review and comment, its proposed Vehicle Code,
Traffic Code and the Public and Commercial Road Transport Code, and related
drafts of decrees and instructions, and by June 30, 1988 issue and implement
these regulations.



- 12 -
Administration, Staff and Training
32.       Administration of the highway network is carried out by the Public
Works agencies of the various tiers of government. At the central level, the
DGH has primary responsibility for the road subsector. Other road agencies
are the provincial public works departments (DPUP) and district public works
departments (DPUK). An Indonesian Toll Road Corporation was established in
1978 to develop and operate toll roads.
33.       DGH is responsible for the design and execution of most major road
works in Indonesia. It also coordinates the betterment, maintenance and minor
construction programs which are carried out by the DPUPs, with funds from the
central governmen:, and operates a national highway equipment pool. There is
still considerable lack of highway management capacity, particularly at the
provincial and district levels. Institutional and functional responsibilities
for highway development and operations are defined in broad terms in the road
law of 1980 and a further step in establishing a well-defined highway manag-
ement structure was the issue, in May 1985, of detailed regulations under the
road law setting out the institutional and functional responsibilities at all
levels of government.
34.       The various provincial public works functions are handled by
separate departments within the DPUPs; for roads it is the Dinas Bina Marga
(DBM). These departments are being established in the large provinces where
administrative capabilities are already well developed, while in most other
provinces staff and equipment continue to be shared for the various functions
of the DPUPs until sufficient managerial skills are developed for effective
provincial highway management. In order to ameliorate the shortcomings in
highway management at the provincial level, DCH has established Regional
Betterment Offices (RBOs) which design and supervise highway betterment
schemes, but these will be phased out as provincial highway management
improves. The proposed project would provide assistance in developing highway
management skills at the provincial level.
35.       The steadily increasing volume of work and quality of engineering
imposes strains on DGH as well as the DPUPs and DPUKs. DCH's permanent staff
has increased by some 10% annually over the last five years while the number
of nonpermanent employees has more than doubled over this period. Total DCH
staff now exceed 8,000 some 4,000 of whom are permanent, with about 1,500
professionals (about 1,000 engineers). Despite substantial efforts to expand
and upgrade staff, the shortage of qualified personnel remains an important
problem for road authcrities at all levels. Training continues to be a major
element in DCH manpower management through both MPW's overalL training activi-
ties and specific DGH programs. Recent manpower planning studies have
concluded that the effectiveness of training provided is limited and the
Public Works Manpower Development Project (Loan 2258-IND) is assisting MPW to
correct training deficiencies.
36.       The main organization for highway planning is DGH's Directorate of
Planning, which periodically collects data on traffic, including origin-desti-
nation surveys. These data are complemented by systematic annual road and
bridge condition inventories covering all national and provincial roads. The



- 13 -
planning methodologies applied by DGH's Directorate of Planning for national
and provincial roads are basically sound. Reliable procedures have been
developed for screening and ranking highway betterment proposals. These
procedures are, however, too sophisticated and expensive to use for the many
hundreds of initial road link screenings undertaken annually and the Highway
Betterment Project (Loan 2404-IND) is assisting in developing a simple and
less costly screening/ranking process.
37.       DGH's design work is the responsibility of the Directorate of
Planning. With about 580 employees, including those of the eight RBOs, this
office has demonstrated its capacity to produce acceptable designs for a broad
range of highway and bridge construction, and to supervise a large volume of
design work by consultants as well. Design work at the provincial and
district levels is the responsibility of the DBMs and DPUKs respectively,
while DGH, upon request, provides technical assistance to both for design of
roads and bridges in their programs.
38.       Responsibility for highway construction lies with DGH's three
Regional Operation Directorates for national roads and some major works on
provincial highways; with DPUPs for provincial roads and some minor works on
national roads; and with DPLTKs for district roads. The works are executed
under a variety of arrangements. Most typical for minor construction is the
use of small contractors who supply labor and local materials but use equip-
ment and manufactured materials supplied by the respective road authority.
39.       The DPUKs are responsible for maintaining all district roads; where
the DPUKs lack the organizational capability or where there is no public works
organization, maintenance is carried out by the DPUPs. The Rural Roads
Development Project (Loan 2083-IND) is addressing road maintenance improve-
ments in 25 districts by provision of equipment, workshops, technical assis-
tance and extensive training. Projects financed by the Asian Development Bank
(ADB), the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan (OECF) and the United
States Agency for International Development (USAID) are providing assistance
in another 70 districts. GOI has agreed that at least 15% of all district
road funds would be allocated to maintenance and that this amount will
gradually increase as required to maintain adequately the district road
system.
Road Maintenance
40.       Maintenance of national and provincial roads is carried out by the
DBMs, partly with provincial funds but mostly with funds supplied by central
government, through the budgets of DCH and the Directorates General of
Administration and Regional Autonomy in the Ministry of Home Affairs (MBA).
Maintenance has been inadequate and at the end of 1984 about 70% of the net-
work was still in ulnmaintainable condition. Although GOI intended to place
increased emphasis on road maintenance during Repelita IV, the annual mainte-
nance budgets have consistently been much lower than allocations in the origi-
nal plan, while physical targets for betterment works have remained virtually
unchanged, thus straining future maintenance efforts still further. In the
austerity budget recently approved for 1986/87, allocations for maintenance of
national and provincial roads have been increased substantially (to about 36%



- 14 -
of budget as compared to 20-25% in previous years) while new construction and
betterment have been cut to the minimum required to sustain ongoing contracted
works. In view of the severe financial constraints, and until the Pavement
Management System in 1987 and 1988 will gradually provide a better basis for
assessment of needs (para. 42 below), this level of funding for maintenance is
considered adequate. Therefore, at negotiations assurances were obtained that
for both 1986/87 and 1987/88, GOI will allocate at least 35% of the budget for
national and provincial roads towards maintenance of those roads.
41.       In addition to inadequate funding, studies have identified many
deficiencies in the organization, administration and execution of road mainte-
nance. To address these deficiencies, improvement programs, including techni-
cal assistance and training and provision of equipment for surface dressing
operations have recently been started in 14 provinces, financed under the
Highway Betterment Project (Loan 2404-IND). The proposed project would
finance technical assistance to 26 DBMs and would place special emphasis on
improving efficiency and introducing more cost-effective maintenance methods
and techniques. Furthermore, at negotiations assurances were obtained from
GOI that DGH will: (a) by October 31, i986, establish terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank to restructure and simplify the organization,
administration and execution of road maintenance activities on a pilot basis
in the provinces of South Sumatra, East Java and South East Sulawesi with the
assistance of technical advisors financed under the Project; (b) beginning
January 31, 1987, implement the restructuring and simplification programs in
such provinces; and (c) by December 31, 1987, expand the results of this
effort to other provinces in accordance with a plan satisfactory to the
Bank.
42.       In order to further improve and rationalize the planning and execu-
tion of pavement intervention and periodic mqintenance, rehabilitation, and
betterment, DGK has employed consultants under the Highway Betterment Project
(Loan 2404-IND) to prepare a Pavement Management System (PMS) for the national
and provincial roads network. The system will be a reliable tool to analyze
on a regular basis the status of the network and estimate the costs involved
in its maintenance and upgrading. The proposed project would assist in fina-
lizing work on the PMS and associated maintenance strategy and standards and
in establishing a permanent unit in the Planning Directorate to maintain the
PNS on a national basis. In addition, studies of road maintenance funding and
budgeting processes will provide a basis for establishing appropriate finan-
cial policies to accompany the introduction of the PMS. At negotiations
assurances were obtained that GOI will: (a) by December 31, 1986, finalize
the design of DGH's PMS and establish maintenance policies satisfactory to the
Bank to be applied through the PMS; (b) from January 1, 1987 through
December 31, 1988, introduce the PMS province by province; and (c) as the PMS
is introduced, apply the maintenance policies to establish on an annual basis
provincial maintenance and betterment programs and associated budgets, and
provide funds for such programs accordingly.
Highway Development Program and Financing
43.       The plan for Repelita IV (1983/84-1988/89) allocated Rp. 4,220 bil-
lion for national and provincial roads, about 5% of the total development bud-



- 15 -
get.  While the major target was to have 60X of national and provincial roads
in stable condition by the end of the plan period, and emphasis on maintenance
was increased significantly, budget allocations for the first two years have
been much lower than planned. In the austerity budget for 1986/87, funding
for national and provincial roads (excepting toll roads) has been reduced by
about 13% compared with the 1985/86 budget. Construction of new roads has
been cut by 76Z and betterment works by 22Z, while maintenance has been
increased by 10%. At the same time, allocations to district roads have been
increased by some 27% over the previous year. Under the circumstances, this
is an adequate shift and reflects GOI's declared empihasis on the preservation
of existing roads and the development of low class district roads. Nearly 80%
of the 1986/87 budget for national and provincial roads is expected from
external sources, compared with 22-25Z in recent years. The proposed project
together with the ongoing Highway Betterment Project (Loan 2404-IND) would
contribute about 50% of the expected external funds, with about 17% from each
of the ADB and OECF, and lesser amounts from other bilateral sources. Alloca-
tions for periodic maintenance indicates that the proposed project would con-
tribute to about 50Z of such works, while nearly all betterment works would be
externally funded. Under the constrained budget foreseen for the next few
years, GOI does not intend to initiate any new construction or betterment
works except under externally financed projects, although a few ongoing works
will be completed. Thus it is likely that the programs for periodic mainten-
ance and betterment of national and provincial roads over the next several
years would be carried out under externally assisted projects and in accor-
dance with technical and economic standards satisfactory to the Bank.
44.       In 1980/81 and 1982/83, it is estimated that road users contributed
about 41% and 68% respectively of the full financial cost of road investments
and maintenance with private cars subsidizing motorcycles, buses and trucks.
GOI has recently taken several measures to increase the contributions from
road users through: (a) increases in fuel prices; (b) increases in taxes on
road vehicles and simplified collection procedures; and (c) tolls on toll
roads and toll bridges. These changes have significantly increased road user
contributions to Government revenues both through rate increases and through
more efficient collection so that road user contributions in 1985/86 are
estimated to have fully covered highway expenditures. Cost recovery is, how-
ever, influenced by oil price movements, and during negotiations GOI confirmed
that: (i) information on road user charges would be monitored and updated
regularly; and (Ci) relative user contributions would be examined in depth.
Previous Bank Assisted Highway Projects and Lessons Learned
45.       The Bank has assisted Indonesia's transport sector through eight
road projects, four maritime projects, one railway project and a fertilizer
distribution project. The total amount of the eight loans and credits for
road development is US$754.2 million; of these five have been satifactorily
completed. The Project Performance Report for the Second and Third Highway
Projects (Credits 260- and 338-IND, Sec M81-4, dated January 6, 1981) found
that the second project had minor delays and cost overruns while the third had
significant delays because of mobilization problems in a very remote area and
unusually wet weather and increased construction costs. The Project Comple-
tion Report, dated June 15, 1984, for the Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1236-



- 16 -
IND) found that: (a) construction delays were significant (about two years)
due mostly to the weak local construction industry; (b) cost overruns were
minor; (c) traffic increases were much greater than expected at appraisal
resulting in underdesigned works; and (d) maintenance was inadequate.
Furthermorr-, the Highway Betterment Project (Loan 2404-IND) is progressing on
schedule and experience so far indicates that local capacity for planning,
designing and implementing large highway programs has improved significantly
in volume and quality, but further improvement is required. There have also
been some delays in MOC actions concerning vehicle weight control and assess-
ment of new tax laws on road user charges, due to shifts in responsibilities
and a delay of one year in implementation of the new value-added tax law.
Lessons learned from previous highway projects have been reflected in the
design of this proposed project.
46.       The strategy that has guided the Bank's involvement in the highway
subsector has been to support rehabilitation and selective expansion of the
network, adoption of appropriate technical standards and economic criteria for
road investments, institutional strengthening of DGH, and improvement of the
regulatory environment and cost recovery. The proposed project would build
upon previous experience by expanding coverage of the betterment program that
meets standards satisfactory to the Bank to all provinces, addressing highway
maintenance on a programatic and nationwide basis, substantially strengthening
provincial level highway organizations, and furthering codification of
improvements in the regulatory environment.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
47.       The project was prepared by DGH with consultant and Bank staff
support. The project was appraised in September 1985. The Staff Appraisal
Report (No. 6066-IND) is being distributed separately. Negotiations were held
in Washington from May 5, 1986 through May 9, 1986. Mr. Suryatin
Sastromijoyo, Director General of Highways, led the Indonesian Delegation.
Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
48.       The project aims to continue and complete the work initiated under
previous projects, particularly the Highway Betterment Project (Loan 2404-
IND), to improve the planning, design and implementation of large road pro-
grams by creating the basis for a realistic assessment of the condition of the
national and provincial road network, and establishing the Pavement Management
System with adequate maintenance policies. The project would assist r0I to
pursue its objectives of:  (i) improving highway maintenance; (ii) rebsoring
and upgrading parts of the national and provincial road network and its
bridges; (iii) improving highway planning and management, particularly at the
provincial level; (iv) improving regulations for road transport and traffic;
and (v) preparing and implementing highway safety measures. The project would
consist of the following components:



- 17 -
(a) Civil Works. Periodic maintenance of some 6,600 km of national and
provincial roads and repair of some 2,200 m of damaged bridges;
betterment of some 1,900 km of inter-city national and provincial
roads; and replacement of some 7,000 m of defective, high priority
bridges on major roads;
(b) Equipment. Procurement of maintenance equipment to complement the
existing fleet and other minor equipment for improved maintenance
operations; laboratory equipment for the design and quality control
of betterment and maintenance works; automatic traffic counters;
mobile weigh scales; and equipment for vehicle testing.
(c) Technical Assistance. Engagement of local and foreign consultarts
to: (i) design and supervise major road and bridge works; (ii)
improve highway management at the central and provincial levels and
develop cost-effective road construction and maintenance techniques
and procedures; (iii) improve road investment planning; (iv) improve
management of road transport and traffic; (v) draft revisions to
regulations regarding road transport and traffic; (vi) develop the
capabilities of local contractors and consultants; and (vii)
continue the preparation and implementation of highway safety
measures; and
(d) Overseas Training. Provision of overseas training for some
30 highway officials.
Periodic Maintenance
49.       This component comprises a three year program of periodic mainte-
nance of national and provincial roads. Included would be about 170-180 sec-
tions of lengths from 3 to 100 km, of roads in various parts of the country
where: (a) pavement deterioration is still moderate and can be corrected by
relatively simple measures such as bituminous surface dressing (about 3,000
k-m) or a single 3 cm hot rolled sheet overlay (about 2,900 kmi); or (b) where
low cost pavements of earth and gravel need improvement to engineered gravel
standards (about 700 km). Traffic volumes vary between 70 and 40,000 vpd.
Although designed and executed as described below for the betterment
component, works will be of much smaller scale and cost. Works that have a
first year economic rate of return of less than 15% are not included in the
periodic maintenance program; the first year program for 1986/87 of about
2,200 km has been agreed. During negotiations it was agreed with GOI that DCH
would provide by December 31, 1986 and 1987, for Bank review and approval its
proposals for the fiscal years 1987/88 and 1988/89 respectively for the
program of periodic maintenance. The bridge repair p:ogram has been agreed
and comprises some 40 bridges of total length of about 2,200 m completed in
1976-78 that have seriously cracked decks. Repairs would be done mostly by
plate bonding niethods.



- 18 -
Road Betterment
50.       The 1,900 km of betterment works would include some 45 sections of
seriously deteriorated national and provincial roads with lengths varying
between 20 and 90 km, in various parts of the country, selected on the basis
of economic criteria. Works would be carried out on existing alignment except
where realignment of short sections is required to eliminate known safety
hazards. Traffic volumes vary between 500 and 21,000 vpd. During construc-
tion, minimum inconvenience to traffic would be achieved by having works
carried out in one lane over a relatively short section at a time, while the
two-way traffic alternately uses the other lane. Works would be designed for
a 10 year lifetime in accordance with minimum betterment standards agreed with
GOI during project preparation and would generally comprise, as required,
improvement of side and cross drainage and repair, widening and strengthening
of pavements and shoulders. Some 30% of pavements need widening and all
pavements would be strengthened by bituminous overlays, with thicknesses
varying between 3 and 15 cm (7 and 20 cm where a regulating course is required
to correct uneven surface and/or pavement camber) designed on the basis of
existing condition (measured deflection under load) and traffic volume and
loadings projected for the next 10 years.
51.       While pavements are accurately designed and quantities defined, the
simple nature of other elements (improvement of drainage and widening and
strengthening of shoulders) and the cost of surveying make detailed design and
quantification uneconomical, and contracts would contain only provisional
quantities based on random samples and averages from completed contracts.
Design of these elements would be carried out on site as work progresses with
surveying, setting-out and measuring of quantities done concurrently. As the
cost of these elements is generally only 10-20% of total cost of works, even
relatively wide variations in quantities would have little effect on final
costs. The works would be carried out in three phases. The first phase
program of about 434 km has been agreed with GOI. During negotiations it was
agreed with COI that DGH would submit by October 31, 1986 and December 31,
1986 for Bank review and approval, its proposals for the second and third
phases respectively of the betterment works program.
Bridge Replacement Program
52.       The bridge replacement program would comprise some 150 bridges in
various parts of the country with an average length of about 45 meters.
Bridges included in the program are creating traffic bottlenecks for one or
more of the following reasons: severe load limitations because of low initial
design loads or advanced structural deterioration; width restrictions; and
hazardous hydrological conditions. Bridges would be designed by DGH with some
assistance from local consultants to agreed standards with 20 tons maximum
axle loads and 45 tons gross vehicle weights. Most of the new bridges would
have prefabricated steel superstructures that have proved very economical and
appropriate under Indonesian circumstances. Seleccion of bridges for replace-
ment is based on economic criteria and the first phase construction program of
82 bridges with total length of about 4,300 m has been agreed with DCH.
During negotiations it was agreed with GOI that by December 31, 1986 DGH would
submit for Bank review and approval its proposal for the second phase of the
program, comprised of some 60 bridges of about 2,700 m total length.



- 19 -
Eguipment
53.       The proposed project would provide equipment:  (a) to improve the
efficiency of road maintenance in the provinces that will be provided with
technical assistance under the project; (b) for laboratories to improve the
design and quality control of hot-mix bituminous surfacings and other better-
ment and maintenance activities; tc) for about 100 automatic traffic counters
and 100 mobile scales; and (d) equipment for the vehicle testing facility in
Rali of the Directorate General of Land Transport. The laboratory equipment
would be allocated to 26 DPUP laboratories to upgrade and complement existing
equipment. The detailed list of equipment was agreed with GOI at
negotiations.
Technical Assistance
54.       General.  The project would provide for technical assistance
services totalling 4,905 man-months (1,717 man-months of foregn and
3,188 man-months of local consultants' services), with supervision of civil
works accounting for nearly half of the man-months, while the remainder would
be divided between strengthening DGH's planning, design and administrative
functions; improving maintenance operations of the DBMs; and supporting the
DGLT. The significant number of consultants is required because recruitment
and training of professionals by the DGH and the DBMs lags behind the
increasing demand for improved and expanded operations. GOI's objectives
which would be supported by the technical assistance to be provided, are to:
(a) ensure high engineering quality of works supported under the project; and
(ii) develop local capabilities in order to reduce significantly the need in
the future for consultancy support in general and foreign technical guidance
in particular.
55.       DBMs.  In view of the increased focus on maintenace in all parts of
the country, DGH will strengthen 26 DBMs. The proposed project would finance
technical assistance to develop their maintenance capabilities and, in liaison
with the affiliated RBOs, to facilitate also the gradual transfer of technical
and administrative responsibilities for major roadworks from the central to
the provincial level. Extension of ongoing assistance would be provided
during the first 18 months of the project to the fourteen DBMs (North, West
and South Sumatra, Aceh, Jambi, Bengkulu, Lampung, West, Central and East
Java, Yogyakarta, Bali and North and South Sulawesi) financed under the High-
way Betterment Project (Loan 2404-IND) until October 1986, and assistance to
the remAining twelve DBMs (Riau, West, Central, South and East Kalimantan,
Central and Southeast Sulawesi, West and East Nusa Tenggara, Maluku, Irian
Jaya and Timor Timur) would be provided for a period of 30 months. In addi-
tion to assisting in improving the present activities of the DBMs, including
the design, execution and supervision of periodic maintenance works, the
technical assistance would specifically focus on the implementation of the
Pavement Management System and resulting maintenance activities including:
the introduction of inexpensive measures such as single and double bituminous
surface dressings; improving the use of asbuton; improving the operations of
the 24 existing asphalt mixing centers in operation; and establishing of new
centers. Also, specific intensive programs would be introduced in three
provinces in early 1987 to assist, on a pilot basis, in restructuring and



- 20 -
simplifying the organization, administration and execution of routine and
periodic maintenance activities (para. 41). In addition, the consultants
would carry out the study of the maintenance standards and financial policies
associated with the PMS. The consultants would furthermore be responsible for
the formal supervision of all periodic maintenance works financed under the
project, whether carried out by contract or force account. For the twenty six
DBMs some 1,500 man-months in total would be required for technical assistance
and supervision services over a period of about three years (666 man-months of
foreign and 834 man-months of local consultants' services).
56.       DGH for Planning Directorate.  The Planning Directorate requires
assistance to: (i) establish a mechanism for coordination and monitoring of
planning and programming work in the central office, the RBOs and the DBMs;
(b) develop guidelines and manuals for the collection, processing and analysis
of road data to match systems being established under the Highway Betterment
Project; tc) set up a long-term manpower development and training program for
the Planning Directorate; (d) design and conduct training programs for 40-50
middle and junior level professionals; and (e) define and arrange overseas
training for some 30 middle and higher level professionals. The proposed
project would provide technical assistance to DGH's Planning Directorate for a
total of about 87 man-months (60 man-months of foreign and 27 man-months of
local consultants' services).
57.       DGH for Design, Contract Administration and Quality Control.  With
assistance under previous highway projects, DGH has been revising and com-
puterizing design work for its betterment and periodic maintenance operations
and setting up a system for contract administration and quality control of
these operations. Good progress has been achieved, especially in developing
appropriate design of pavement thicknesses and mixes of asphaltic overlays and
in establishing an effective system of quality control and a part of design
and control work has already been transferred to che most advanced DBMs.
Further assistance is, however, required for a period of about 30 months in
order for all of the DBMs to adopt effectively the established systems and
procedures and assume their role for design and quality control and for DGH's
Planning Directorate to consolidate and enhance its responsibility for setting
standards and policies and for coordination. The proposed project would
therefore provide some 363 man-months of technical assistance over a period of
about three years (203 man-months of foreign and 160 man-months of local
consultants' services). In addition, about 200 man-months of local consult-
ants services are required to assist DGH in designing a part of the betterment
and bridge replacement programs.
58.       DCH for Study of Rock Asphalt.  The natural rock asrhalt (asbuton)
has been used by DGH in its natural form as an overlay for maintenance opera-
tions with mixed results, but work financed under previous projects indicates
that the material has good potential provided DGH develops improved methods of
utilizing and controlling the quality of the rock asphalt. This requires
improved testing methods and specifications for use in overlays for maintenace
and betterment works and also an investigation to determine whether extracting
the bitumen from the rock asphalt at the source (the island of Buton) might be
a more economical way of utilizing this natural resource. For this purpose,
the project would provide 67 man-months of technical assistance (38 man-months
of foreign and 29 man-months of local consultants' services).



- 21 -
59.       DCH for Contractors/Consultants.  With assistance under the Fifth
Highway Project (Loan 1696-IND) DCH has been providing local contractors and
consultants with foreign experts to improve the financial and technical
management of the firms and their contract works. While received with
suspicion in the beginning, many firms have now requested such assistance and
the proposed project would provide about 190 man-months of foreign experts'
services to assist local firms contracted by DGH for the design and construc-
tion of road works.                               v
60.       MOC for Revision of Transport Related Regulations and for Highway
Safety. Studies under previous highway projects have made recommendations for
changes in government policies and regulations in order to improve the
services, efficiency and safety of road transport. MOC plans to draft changes
to laws and regulations regarding road traffic, road transport industry and
vehicles as well as manuals for implementation. The proposed project would
provide some 34 man-months of foreign technical experts and another 40 man-
months for local lawyers familiar with these matters.
61.       With technical assistance under the Fifth Highway Project
(Loan 1696-IND) DGLT has been preparing a comprehensive Highway Safety
Program. All of the basic studies have been completed and implementation of
recommendations has started. MOC plans to continue implementation of programs
for: (a) vehicle inspection and testing system; (b) driver licensing and
vehicle registration (in preparation of the pending transfer of responsibility
for vehicle registration from the police to MOC); and (c) driver education and
testing. Preparation of further programs, such as traffic education in
schools and an accident prevention program would also be included. The pro-
posed project would provide some 190 man-months of technical assistance
(116 man-months of foreign and 74 man-months of local consultants' services).
62.       Under the Fifth Highway Project (Loan 1696-IND), technical assis-
tance was provided to strengthen training programs at DCLT's Land Transport
Colleges at Bekasi and Tegal. Foreign experts provided by University College
London, prepared and taught courses for university graduates and technicians
in transport planning and management, traffic engineering, public transport
administration and data collection and analysis; and trained instructors for
these colleges and other DGLT training centers. Further a,sistance is required
for about two years and the project would provide some 78 man-months of
foreign experts.
63.       Supervision of Construction.  Supervision of betterment works and
bridge replacement works would be carried out by local consulting firms that
would strengthen their staff by foreign experts as required. Due to the wide-
ly scattered locations of road and bridgeworks and as the rapid deterioration
and the time lapse between original design and implementation requires that
the supervising consultants in many cases revise road design, the cost of
supervision is somewhat higher than usual for such works; it is estimated that
the 1,900 km of betterment works will be let in some 45 contracts and that the
150 bridges to be constructed would be let in some 40 contracts. Supervision
of these 85 contracts would require a total of 2,292 man-months (332 man-
months of foreign and 2,040 man-months of local consultants' services during a
period of about four years).



- 22 -
Overseas Training
64.       Indonesian universities are now capable of basic training in most
fields related to transport engineering and economics. It would, however, be
very beneficial for middle and higher level DCH officials to receive formal
and informal training overseas, mostly in transport planning, but also in
highway administration and project management. The project would therefore
provide for such training of some 30 DCH officials.
Project Cost and Financing
65.       The total project cost, including contingency allowances is esti-
mated at Rp 572.0 billion or US$520.0 million (including US$18.1 million
duties and taxes) of which US$300.0 million is the foreign exchange cost.
Total costs are in April 1986 prices and include: (a) physical contingencies
of 15% of base cost on road betterment and bridge replacement and 10% on other
civil works and supervision; and (b) price contingencies calculated on the
foreign component of 7.2Z during 1986, 6.8% during 1987 and 1988, 7.0% during
1989 and 7.1% during 1990; and on the local component of 6% through 1990. The
proposed Bank loan of US$300.0 million would finance the foreign exchange comr
ponent of the project, representing about 58% of total project cost (about 60%
of total cost net of duties and taxes). Of the GOI contribution of
US$220 million equivalent, US$137.5 million is expected to be provided by
provincial governments, and the remaining US$82.5 million equivalent would be
financed from the central government budget. Retroactive financing of
US$6 million would be provided from April 1, 1986 to support the periodic
maintenance program.
Implementation and Procurement
66.       DCH would be solely responsible for project execution except for
technical assistance and minor equipment for HOC which would be coordinated by
DGLT. Implementation would be through DGH's permanent organization with the
assistance of a project liason unit that also coordinates project reporting.
Based on experience gained under previous highway projects, the implementation
capacity of DGH and the DBMs, all assisted by qualified consultants, is consi-
dered adequate to execute the project. Project implementation period is
expected to be about four years. Procurement arrangements are summarized in
the table below:



- 23 -
PROJECT EXPENDTTURES BY PROCUREMENT CATEGORY /a
(USs millions)
Total
Category                                     ICB      LCB     Other       cost
Periodic maintenance of roads and
repair of bridges                                     59.4    118.8 /b   178.2
(40.6)   (20.0)      (60.6)
Road betterment                             215.0                         215.0
(147.5)                       (147.5)
Bridge substructures                         36.5      6.4                 42.9
(14.5)    (2.5)               (17.0)
Bridge materials                             19.3                          19.3
(18.3)                        (18.3)
Equipment                                    17.3                          17.3
(16.4)                        (16.4)
Technical assistance and Overseas Training                      47.3       47.3
(40.2)     (40.2)
Totals Cost                             288.1     65.8    166.1       520.0
(196.7)   (43.1)   (60.2)    (300.0)
/a     Including taxes
Tb     Force account.
Note:  Figures include physical and price contingencies and those in paren-
theses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
67.       Civil works for periodic maintenance and bridge repairs would mostly
be carried out by force account (US$118.8 million) under the direction and
control of the DBMs supported and supervised by technical assistance under the
project. However, such works in Java and, to a lesser extent, in Sumatra,
that are of a size attractive to qualified local contractors, or can be pack-
aged to such a size, would be processed under contracts through Local
Competitive Bidding (LCB) to the extent the construction industry will absorb,
presently estimated at about a third (US$59.4 million) of total works. Imple-
mentation of this component started in April 1986 and would extend through
April 1989.
68.       Civil works for the road betterment (US$215.0 million) would be pro-
cured under contracts through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement. Most betterment con-
tracts will be of the order of US$3-5 million, a size which should encourage
local competition. Contractors would be eligible to bid on one or several
contracts, but total number of contracts any contractor can be awarded is
determined through the prequalification procedures. Tendering would be
carried out in three phases, each with a duiration of about two years. Tender-



- 24 -
ing for the first phase, amounting to about 251 of the value of all betterment
contracts under the project, would start in June 1986 and bids would be sub-
mitted in August 1986 with implementation expected to start in February
1987. The second phase would be tendered by November 1986 and the third phase
by January 1987.
69.       About 85% of all bridge substructures (US$36.5 million) would be
procured through ICB and whenever feasible contracts would be grouped into
US$4-5 million packages. Because of isolated locations and small size of
works, substructures of about 25 identified bridges with a total contract
price of about US$5.0 million would be procured through local competitive
bidding; this is satisfactory as experience shows that foreign contractors are
not interested in bidding for these works. Tendering of bridge substructures
would be carried out in two phases each of about two years duration:
tendering for the first phase (about 60% of total contract value) would start
in June 1986; and for the second phase in November 1986. Construction period
would extend from about February 1987 through January 1989.
70.       Bidding documents for civil works contracts estimated to cost
US$3.0 million equivalent or more (some 60% of all works financed under the
project) would be subject to the Bank's prior review and approval; other docu-
ments would be available for review, together with bid evaluation, after award
of contracts. Concerned Government agencies have cleared all bidding docu-
ments for the first phases of betterment and bridge works. Except for
specially equipped flatbed vehicles with a total price of not more than
US$150 thousand, which may be procured through local shopping, all equipmcnt,
including spare parts (US$17.3 million) and bridge materials, including prefa-
bricated steel superstructures, steel pipe piles and culverts (US$19.3 mil-
lion), would be procured following ICB procedures, and all documents would be
subject to the Bank's review and approval prior to the invitation for
tender. Delivery of equipment is expected during the first half of 1987.
Consultants would be appointed in accordance with Bank guidelines and on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Concerned government agencies have
cleared terms of reference and short lists for all technicai assistance
contracts.
Disbursements
71.       Disbursements for civil works would be:  70% of total expenditures
for contracted road and bridge repair works; 40% of total expenditures for
contracted bridge replacement works; and 20% of total expenditures for roaa
and bridge repair works carried out by force account. Disbursements for
equipment and materials would be 1001 of foreign expenditures for directly
imported items; 95% of local expenditures (ex factory) of locally manufactured
items; and 65% of expenditures of locally procured items. For technical
assistance and overseas training, disbursements would be respectively 90% and
1OO% of expendit'ires. Expenditures for force account works and for overseas
training would be reimbursed on the basis of statements of expenditure (SOE)
certified by the superzising consultants. Supporting documents would be
retained by DGH for inspection by Bank staff.



- 25 -
Accounts, Auditing and Reporting
72.       In the past DCH has kept detailed accounts for Bank projects.
However, compliance with audit requirements has not been timely. As a result
of recent discussions with the Bank, steps are being taken to ensure full
compliance. At negotiations assurances were obtained from GOI that DCH would
keep separate accounts for each project component; and that project accounts,
including documentation for SOEs, would be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank and that their detailed audit report would be submitted
to the Bank within nine months after the end of each fiscal year. DGH would
prepare a detailed project completion report and submit it to the Bank not
later than six months after the closing date.
Status of Preparation
73.       DGH has completed and the Bank has agreed the selection of roads for
the 1986/87 periodic maintenance program of some 2,200 km in 25 provinces.
Preliminary programs have been established for 1987/88 and 1988/89 but final
selection of roads for these programs would be submitted for Bank review on
December 31, 1986 and 1987 respectively. Feasibility studies have been
carried out by DGH's Planning Directorate with the assistance of the RBO
consultants who have also carried out engineering surveys of the road links
during the last few yeazs while bridges have been designed by DGH. DGH is
employing the consultants C. Corne & Associates (New Zealand) to review and
revise the engineering on the basis of the agreed betterment design standards
and a group of local consultants, financed under the Highway Betterment Pro-
ject (Loan 2404-IND) is assisting in revising bridge design. These reviews
were completed for the first phases of road links and bridges in mid March
1986 and April 1986 respectively. Similar reviews for the second phases would
be completed by June 1986 and September 1986 respectively and for the third
phase of road works by October 1986. Contract documents have been standar-
dized and agreed with the Bank and tendering of first phases of betterment and
bridge works is expected to start in June 1986.
Environmental Aspects
74.       The project is not expected to have any adverse environmental
effects. Works are mostly improvements of roads and bridges on existing
alignment with minimal requirements for additional land; works would include
improved side and cross drainage, widening and strengthening of shoulders and
pavements, overlays on old pavements and the provision of bituminous surfac-
ings on gravel roads, all of which would improve conditions along the road
through reducing dust and noise and the possibility of flooding.
Benefits and Risks
75.       The periodic maintenance program for 1986/87 would consist of 530 km
of gravel improvement, 436 km of surface dressing and 1,220 km of hot mix
overlays with estimated economic life of 3, 5, and 7 years respectively. An
economic analysis has been carried out on a randomly selected sample of
1,030 km of the program. The benefits are derived from reduced vehicle opera-
ting costs calculated for motorcycles, cars, buses and trucks and are based on



- 26 -
actual traffic counts in 1984. A modest traffic growth rate of 5% per year
has been assumed. Economic rates of return for maintained road sections range
from 14% to 395X depending on the level of traffic. Assuming that the sample
is representative, the entire periodic maintenance program would have an over-
all weighted return of 96%.
76.       Procedures for selecting inter-city road sections for betterment
have evolved in Indonesia over the past several years, and now consist of a
logical series of steps initiated by the Screening Feasibility Office of DGH's
Directorate of Planning, with engineering support from the RBOs. Road links
are passed through three successive evaluations, with links meeting a minimum
economic test (a 15% economic return) approved for the next stage of engineer-
ing work, with the third and final evaluation based on final engineering
design for a 10 year pavement life and resultant cost estimates. The main
benefits from road betterment arise from reductions in road user costs and
road maintenance costs. The economic returns on works in the betterment
portion of the project a.e estimated at 15-92%, with a weighted average of
38%, assuming a zero value for passenger time savings.
71.       Because the bridge replacement program involves a large number of
structures, selection of these is based on a first-year return analysis, with
a 15% minimum. The median rate of return for all bridges that passed the
screening test in the first-year program is 40%.
78.       Some risk is attached to the project, in that, if restrictions on
budget allocations become severe, DGH may be tempted to maintain physical tar-
gets for the length of road works to be completed by lowering engineering
standards, particularly for road betterment. Lowering of standards is incon-
sistent with GOI's goal of upgrading the network to a stable condition and
will be more costly in economic terms in most instances. In order to minimize
the risk of such lower standards, during negotiations assurances were obtained
from GOI that the project will be carried out in conformity with appropriate
highway engineering, administrative and financial practices.
79.       A principal risk in most construction projects is the adverse effect
of delays in execution on economic viability. In the proposed project, such
risks are considered minimal: the bidding process for the first-phase of the
program is imminent and advance preparations for the second- and third-phases
are also well in hand. Furthermore, the estimated returns in this case are
sufficiently attractive that there is little risk of any of the components
turning out to be economically unjustified due to any delays that could be
reasonably foreseen.
80.       By lowering transport costs, improvements to Indonesia's main inter-
city highway network would directly benefit the modern commercial and indus-
trial sectors of the economy, through reducing costs for delivery of inputs,
inland distribution of imports, collection and movement of products for export
and for the domestic market. They would also improve labor mobility and pro-
mote passenger movements. Eventually and indirectly the reduction in trans-
port costs would benefit producers and consumers alike by favorable trends in
the prices the former can get for their products and the latter have to pay
for their purchases. Roadside service activities would grow to serve the



- 27 -
additional traffic induced by lower transport costs, providing additional
employment and income.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
81.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and recounend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 23, 1986
Washington, D.C.



- 26 -                *                 ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6 pages
sxoffi>MIA                        u     zeu       c       u | ,a,m
mmT                      (NM  UUNTl *IWIXA 
noISk zi.1   ianauk  326   aIIOU   S      1 No
a   Ca     197iA   UTSl. me         M       F M           LU. M X   a
TOTA .                                 1      919.3      1919.3
UCUOJIIUL                         290.5       307.1       315. 
_         S  CUElS)                    ..          .. S50.0                   1011.1                   1675.9
CSILOSmu 0 OIL EQUYLIT)           u.0         96.0       191.0             56.6                     993.6
w e M InL m.uisn
POP    AI.ID-R (t711WUIOI)  94460.0   116201.0   155669.0
UUU POHLATON C OP TOAL)            14.6        17.1        24.1              35.9                     67.7
POPULATIO  PRDJUOTIO
nPOPOLaiO  lI nu 2000 (NXLL)                            212.0
TmSnA  POnTIOU (CULL)                                   36.0.
IPOPULATIO  IUSUAON                                       1.6
ronaso  .MT
na sq. M.                        49.3        60.3        61.1              06.9                       .0
PSt SQ. M. Amt. LAD             319.3       376.4       463.4            1591.2                     91.1
0-14 in                          40.7        4.0                          3.* 2                    3635
13-6  us                         34.2        33.4       535.               57.7                     57.1
63 AM AIM                         3.0         2.5         3.3               3.3                      4.2
vruzou 1maY01 EATS CS)
TOTAL                              2.1        2.0         2.2               2.3                      2.4
OLD"                               3.                                                                3.7
C050  15RS amt(   ramS)            44.2        41.0        34.0              30.1                     30.9
CaDS 06*25 ATZ tru 7HOUS)           22.9       17.6        12.6               9.4                      I.0
0305  RSPROOUCTIOU EATS              2.7        2.7         2.1               1.9                      2.0
PAIILS FLAII
ACMPTlU.  AL  (tSoW7)              .        161.1      3051.0 J.
US  (Z O KAUIW    WINU)            ..         ..         5.0               36.3                     43.3
FOO  M    NO  W       =
In= O oro n0.mPR. P55L CAPIT
(1919-71-100)                      93.0       102.0       123.0             124.4                    109.6
PS CAPUTA lOWLT OF
CALOSISS (S OP o IRfIUUm  )       79.0       92.0       112.0             113.7                    113.2
uzaz     CORAl (0 DA   )         34.0        41.0        33.0              60.3                     69.4
OP MM0  MD1A AND PULE             6.0        6.0         7.0              14.1                     34.2
CRILD (AM  1-4) DaI  aT           21.9        1l.1        13.0               7.2                      4,6
Lin Ci?  U  S    (TRSIl)           41.2        47.0         3.3              60.6                     64.6
IMPAT MDRT. ETS CPSI 253)          150.0      121.0       101.0              64.9                     39.7
AcSuS TO SaP WAURit CIwo,)
TOTAL                              ..         3.0        23.0               4.0                    56.3
U                                  ..        10.0        40.0              57.6                     76.3
RUL                                .          1.0        13.0              37.1                     44.2
ACC135 TO UT3A DISPOSAL
(2 OP POPULATION)
TOL                               ..         13.0        23.0              50.1                     36.3
UM                                 ..        19.0        20.0              32.9                     7!.4
RURAL                             ..         14.0        24.0              44.7                     23.3
POPULAION PER PRTSICI           46780.0    26510.0    11330.01            7n13.7                   1909.7
Po. PSI NmIll nu13               4310.0 /f  7660.0       2300.0            2464U.                    606.2
ior. MR wDrnra -
TOTAL                           1360.0     1650.0      1720.0 L          1112.1                    362.0
UBAN                             230.0        ..        700.0             651.4                    422.0
RURL                               ..         ..       3160.0            2596.9                   2716.7
AnasIOS PS HOSPITAL 36               ..         ..          ..               41.1                     27.5
A151*0 S6  OP 00610OL
TOTAL                             4.4         4S.
U1AN                              4.9         3.3
RURAL                             4.3         4.7
ARESv    DO. OF PRURWS/Po0@
TOTAL                              ..         1.5
BA..                                          1.6
RURAL                             ..          1.3
P nRUTA  OF DOCLLxICS vxTs LIcr.
O0TAL                              ..         ..
mm                                 ..         ..          .                  ..
RURAL                             ..



ANNEX I
- 29 -                                          Page 2 of 6 pages
INDONESIA             - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHECT
IHDONESIA                           REFERENCC GROUPS (CIdCHTED AVE C8GS)
MOST                    (HOST RECCN ESTIMALTE) /b
RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
196zoL     197Ok CESTIATE_         ASIA & PACIFIC         LAT. AMERICA 6 CAR
ADJUSTED ENIRLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:  TOTAL                  71.0       77.0       100.0              100.7                   106.7
HALE                  86.0        83.0       106.0             104.4                   108.5
FEMILE                58.0        71.0       94.0               97.2                   104.6
SCONDARYs TOTAL                   6.0       15.0        33.0              47.8                     44.2
KALU                   10.0       20.0       38.0               50.6                    42.7
FCIALE                 3.0        10.0       27.0               44.8                    44.9
VOCATIONAL (2 OF SECONDY)          20.4       22.1        13.9              18.4                     13.3
PUFL-TEACIMR RATIO
PRIMARY                          39.0       29.0        29.0              30.4                     29.9
SECONDARY                        14.0       13.0        16.0              22.2                     16.7
PASSENJIC CA11/THOUSAND POP         1.1        2.1         4.4 Ic           10.1                     46.0
RADIO REGCIVEIIS/TOUSAND POP        7.2       21.9       131.2             172.9                    328.3
TV RZSEIVERS/HNOUSAND POP           0.1        0.8        22.6              58.5                    112.4
NOWASPIE  ("DAILY GNUAL
INTEREST") CIRCILATION
PER TOUSND POPULATION             11.0        ..         14.9              65.3                     81.1
CDIIIA AJAL ATIENDANCEICAPITA       2.8        ..          1.0 /c            3.4                      2.4
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOlIS)      34791.0    41090.0    54417.0
FEMALE (PECENT)                  27.8       30.9        29.3              33.6                     23.6
AGRICOVTU: (PERCEN               75.0       66.0        58.0 Ic           52.2                     31.4
INDusTRy (PERCINT)                8.0       10.0        12.0 7e           17.9                     24.3
PARTICIPATION RAlE (PCRCENT)
TOTAL                            36.7       35.4        35.0              38.9                     33.5
MLE                              54.2       49.5        49.6              50.8                     51.3
FZMALE                           20.0       21.6        20.4              26.8                     15.9
ECONOMIC DEI IENDECT RAIIO          1.2        1.3         1.3               1.1                      1.3
*lCK DISERIl0TI0l
PERCENT OF PRIVATE ICOME
RECEIVED BY
XCIGES,SY Or IOUSBOLDS                                  23.5 jg
- UIZSS 20X OF OU(SEEOLDS        ..         ..          49.4             48.0
LOIIST 20X OF IOUSEIOLDS          ..         ..          6.6 7j            6.4
LO-EST 40S01 ROUJZIOLDS           ..         ..         14.4              15.5
4=TE    TAT     CO
ESTD   ABsuT PovEnT  xINCOmE
LEVL  USS PER CAPITA)
iUR                               ..       124.0 lb   124.0 /h             ..                     288.3
RURAL                             ..       106.071    106.07ii           151.9                    185.3
ESTINATED RELATI  POVERI INCDME
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
UBA                               ..         ..        119.0 /h          177.9                    519.8
RURAL                             ..          ..        98.0 7W;         164.7                    359.7
ESTIMATED POP. UELOH ABSOLUTE
POVERY INCOME LEVEL (2)
URZIN                             ..        51.0 /h    26.0 /b            23.5
RURAL                             ..        59.071;    44.0 7ii           37.8
MIOT AVAIABL
NOT APPLICABLE
NO T Z S
/-   Tb. group *voregas for *chb Idicator are population-ighted oritbetic mans. Coverage of countriea
asog the indicators dopnds on availability of data and lo not uniform.
/b   UolA-e othervtsi  noted. "Data for 1960" refer to any year betveen 1959 and 1961; "D-ta for 1970" between
1969 and 1971; and data for "Most Racent Eatiwte" between 1981 and 1983.
/c  19B0  /d 1977; /a 1979; /f 1962; I 1976; /h 1980 prices.
JUNE. 1985



--36.-                                     ANN I
Page 3 of 6 pages
DEWNMMOMC OF SOCIAL INDICATOS
Nows Aeuogh Ike da - drwn from sourgnilY judpd dtms thoraaI du .d mollable, lisEd also be nmdl {ithey may no he lnmeinly
compable heua of te lack of etadadd ddaidon end conps ud by dilumit cuot. In collecting t dalU. Th data ea no     ume  lo
deecribe ordern o mantude. iali ten  awdl cn damctrie waei  _nep d Htrain etn counui.
ThM mdreme wuup tam II) them .me county pu of OI subjwt couot ed (2) a coaety oop wih swha higw avep nie dmn h cousty
gpop of tu mbje cfhntry n(le   for 'High In   Oil Uhpnre' poup whereMMdh lecoNMiedNort Abtle aW Mdle ir_rchoem hecae or e-rong
ecio.cultudt aUSdj). In the refr. growp deW the evempo art populaCaa wughed adtmei me fr o l takeo and Iben  ony whe majority
ofthecomtre in a pop ha dew for that idkictO. Snce the coverag ofdcoorim among th inlwdepmdson the avaiellity of data nd lanFM uniform,
caution must be eercied in reating everaps arone irdicator to anoter Tbue autan ore uomee in comparing thwehlue ofoe indlotor at a ne among
the coutry end rri_ raon
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                        Crude AtiEso (per thetmo-Number oflive births in th year
Teot-Total surface area comprising land area and dnd waters;  per thouand of mid-year populiton; 1960. 1970. ad 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 d ta.                                    Cr Deah isr  (pe ahamad)-Number of deaths in the year
AgviEturi-Estimate of agricultural ara used temporarily or    per thousand of tnid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permanenly for crops, pastures market and kitchen gardens or to  Grow, ReprA& . R ter-Averag number of dauhtrs a woman
fie r.low. 1960, 1970 and 1932 data.                          wil bear in her norml reproductive period if she cxper
present ae-specific fertility rates; usually five-year avcrages ending
GNP PER CAPffA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current      in 1960. 1970, and 1983.
market prices, calculated by s-  conversmon metbod as World
Bank ArIas (193143 basis); 1983 data.                         er of acceptors obirth-control devices under auspi  of national
ENERGY CONSUMPON PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                   family planning progrm.
consumption of commercial primay enagy (coal and lignite.    FPtrey PlWdul-Voiw  (percent afrked mamul-Te pren-
petroleum. natural gs and hydro-. nucklar and geothernal elec-  tage of manrried womnn of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilogrms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practcing any form of contracqtion. Women
1982 data.                                                   ofchild-bearing age are genealy women aed 15 -49. although for
some countrines contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VfIAL STATISTICS                      .         roups.
TaelP9aupri .  JMid-Yw (tharsondfl-As of July 1;1960,1970.   FOOD AND NUTRMI1ON
and1983 data.
UrbmPepumdm  powwof rtal)Ratt of rbanto ttal  InsdexzfFeedPradscriw Pler Capita (190#-71 - hUh)-Index of per
populationubdi  (pcefcntions       of urban aemyfcco r       capita annual produtin of al food commodities Productio
populationf differeont definitrions. of60 urban area may3 dafetconar-  excludes animal feed and seed for agricuture. Food comoite
ability of data among countries: 1960. 1970. and 19S33data.   include pnmawy commodities (eg. sugarcane insead of sugar)
Pop.lli.a P-jecti-                                            which ame edible and contain nutients (eg. coffee and te are
Pbpulatim in ya' 2000-The projection of population for 2000,  exluded); they comprise cereals root crops, pulss, oil seeds.
made for eacb economy sprately. Starting with information on  vegetabes, fruits, nuts, sugarcane and sugar bes livestock. and
otad population by age and sex, fertility rates mortality rates. and  ivestock pioducts. Aggegate production of each country is based
intrnational migration in the base year 19M0 thae parameters  on national average producer price weights; 1961-65. 1970, nd
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
asumptions until the population became stationary.           PhrCaptaSVapplfCaloies -(pectfqbWuauM-Comput-
Stationary populatin-ls one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period, while age-peific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replcment levd  tion. imports less exports. a.d changes in stock. Net suppLies
(net reproduction rate- 1). In such a population, the birth rate is  exdude aninal feed, seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also  food processing, and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant, and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature, body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of dedine of fertility  age and se distribution of population, and allowing I0 percent for
rate to replacement level                                     waste at household level; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Popzdation Moarntan-ls the tendency for population growth to  hr Capita Supply of Pntei (Sram per iaye-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  percapita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achicved; that is. cven after the nct reproduction ratc has reached  as above. Requiremnmts for all countries establisbed by USDA
unity. Thc momentum of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams
the year t. given the assumption that fertility remains at replce-  should bc aninal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
ment level from year t onward. 1985 data.                     75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
ftp.leie.s Deu*y                                              averg for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqnt.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-  Supply; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data
tares) of total area; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.              Per Capit herd Spp  Fro  Admmo md hPr-Protein supply
Per sq.km. agritcultrl land-Computed as above for agricultural  offood derived from animals and pulses in grams per day; 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                         1970 and 1977 data.
fPp.lai.a Age Structue (perceatj--Children (0-14 years). work-  Chl (age 7-4) Death Rae (per rJhmad-Number ofdeaths of
ing age (15 64 years). and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.            group in a given year For most developing countries data derived
Pop*atio Gromr Rate (percearD-roral-Annual growth rates of    from life tables; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970- 3.  HEALTH
POJWlSUm  Grver Rate (pereent)-rhas-Annual growth rates       Life Expectancy at Sink (jrws)-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.      infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for aU people



ANNEU I
-31-                                 "TPge4of 6 pages
at th tim  of of It bih Wr to stay the M   throughout itn l    Aumo,Aor  ail.o - oamry, e Aecowwy-Total sudat
1960, 1970 and 1963 datL                                       rolid in prmry ad   cooday level divid  by numbe  of
4 AM          Dte (e rpff-Nubr of infat. who dlc                tacb   in the corsponding levels.
befor nihIg one yr of Op pe thouuad live births in a give
year. 196O. 1970 and 1983 dal.                                 CONSUMpnON
As  to3*   1   (FUeAo. 3f  _                  _ wh%  ^    _         qr Cm       r the.aunadpjpIId a)-a_          cur com-
'eel-Numbr of peop  (total,  ba    d a  inn) Wt mucsOsbl       pr   motor can meating      the eot puon; excludes umbul-
eaasre  to safeWW    supply (cude trete  sae wae  or           ances, hear  and militay vehicles.
untate  but uncotmint  watr uh    that from  pbrotce           a& Racer (per thoumupopolosimeji-Al typs of reive
bomol  spinp and unitary wi) a pecetae of tbhernpec-           for radio broadcst to gerawl public per thousad orpopulation;
the populations; In an urba am  o public fountin or stnodpoet  excludes un-licened recevers in countre   nd in y     whn
locatd notn morethe  1   amatr  oro  a horn ~In beW  mm2UI     rellillration of rsado met wam in effect dar for nmyear may
nuorobleacces would implytat the hon   fie or members of the   notbecmp         osmpois  n cem'oaohg
_oumihd do not have to sped a digproportionate pat of the day  o vIACal (par                         receive. forb roAdct
in fetchin the famils water eed.                               to gee  public per thoand poplai; ecludes ulied TV
Acemsto Eseiw Diqese (pem o qppegouIe.J-soidl when,            receiver in cmuinte and in yams when regimtratzo el 1` sets was
me Nril-Number of people (totaL urban, nd rural) srved by      in effecL
excrtia dmo"  as peentg or their respectiv populations.        Akvqwp  CadWmt  (per dozindpoolihe)-ShowI  te aver-
Epcret dipoal may indude the colection and dispomL with or     ae crd.tion of 'daiy  denel ites newspaper," dpefed am a
without teatmet, of human ecrta and waste-water by water-      pmodic publiton devoted pmardy to recordig genil  w.
borne qstem or the ue  of pit privies and sima installations.  It is conside to be "daily" if it Ippean at lt  four im. a wwk
A hrdI el   PM p*fen-4 pul ition divided by number of prac-    Chaini Am         Anwai   per Cqlapa Yew--Darsed on the
tiung physciasm qu e frn a medical school at uniersity lvel.   number of ticdt  old during t  year. incudin   uimon  to
Mm'elr  Nwtsq hrs.-JopWtion divided by number of              drive-i cineman  and mobile units
prating male and (male srduate nurews assitant nunes.
practical murnam and nusing auxihares.                          L       FORCE
PI   u I  er BIn d Bed-eeal wig, ed rsni-l          aon        T.ai Lakf Pie  (heusen*j)-Economically active perons in-
(totaL urban, and  ural) divided by their repective number of  duding armed rorces and unemployed but exdudig houwives.
hol bal s avilabk in picau z  pfivatu, ger.a                             c  coveng population of al ago. Definition  in
bost  and               eonter  HospItals are esnablcents             vnowcompwarbk 1960. 1970 and 1983 dat
pmanuenty staffed by at leat one physician. Eablsments prov-   Fe     (pee)-Fem nalc labor force as percentag of total labor
iding prinopafy cusd   cam are not included. Rural hospitals,    force.
bowe, include heath and medcl centers not p mnenty staffed     Ap*we_ (psreg)-Labor force in fuming,  fotry, hunting
by a physcian (but by a medical assistant. nurse. midwife. etc.)  and fishing as percenage of toul labor forcr; 1960. 1970 and 1910
which offer in-pnt accommodation and provide a limited ran     da.
or medial faclities                                            !A' '7 (perm)-Labor force in minin  construction. mnu-
A.uin'.  pr H     e Tospi  Bed-Total number of admisnions to or  fiactring and eecticity. water nd gu as pe centage of total labor
dischages frm hospitals divided by the number of beds.         rore: 1960. 1970 and 1980 data
Pwdda/rw Rare (pcrcj- .            -ferm.-n
HOUSING                                                        or actvity rae are computed as totaL male, and f(mlel bbor force
Apore Sirs of HoddY  (pme  pe hos d)-ftoed, whe,               as peaentages of total, mae and female population of all ap
_'n.d-A householdconsists of a group of individuals who shae   respectivdy. 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. Thee ar baed on ILO's
ivmg quartsm and tbh  main meas. A boarder or lodg  may or     participation rates reflecing asx str r otthe population. and
may not be included in the houshold for statsial purpos.       long time tend. A few estimates are frin national sour
Av e N_wr of Penu per Rmseorao. w*1n, ad  raS-                 Ee..eic Depdndcy Rai*-Ratio of population under 15, and
Average number of persons per room in all urban, and rund      65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings, rpectively. Dwellings excdude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                 INCOME DlSTRIBUTION
Percenqe of Dweilp whi Ekeli,rp-ro#4  mr. _ed rW-             Pocaaree of Total Disposk Inie (&or& a cal ad Mind)-
Conventional dwelins with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to perentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of totaL urban. and rural dwellings respectively,         hold income.
EDUCATION                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A4oxsed Emwlhea Raios                                          The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Pr'hwy sc/oo - toald. mak atn f      Goss , wr i  nd          levelad and should be interperted with consideahie caution.
feail enrollment of all agD at the prinmry level as percentages of  EsthardAhs    Porey &cawe LeWd (UIpe cmfa)--am
respective pimary school-age pOpUlations. While many countries  and .val-Absolute poverty income levd is that income level
conrider prnmary school age to be 6-11 yeamr others do noL The  below which a minimal nutritionaBy adequate diet plus essential
differences in country pracs in the ags and dumation of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios givaL For some coauntries with universal  rimred Rlatie Poverty faoamv  Level (USSipr cpta)-whe
education. grss enrollment may exd 100 pent sinc  ome          ond rweS-Rural relative poverty income levd is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban eved is
age.                                                           derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secwndry sdmool - toa, mak  andfemta/-Computed as above;    living in urban areas.
secndary education requires at least four years of approved pr-  E  camed hpaLartio Bbkw Absebe Rwwrylcom Leveld (pef-
mary instrcicton; provides general. vocationaL or teacher training  car).-'arhm end rmwl- PNrcent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspond-  who are absolute poor.'
ame courses are genelly excluded.
Vocationa Enofilmeit (percent of secondary)-Vocational institu-          Compartive Analysis and Data Division
twos include technical industriaL or othcr progmuns which operte       Economic Analysis and Projections Deparownt
iudependendy or as departmems of secondary institutions.                               June 1985



- 32 -                                                         cIx I
1NIEBIII - ECOUCIC INIICATUA9                                          Pap 5 of 6
Poputation    t 15.2 million (mid-19131
GNP per Capita:   15560 (193 netimatel
Annual groath rate (71 Ct constant 19B3 pricesl
Amolunt                       .----                                            --
(ailliom  U1 at                       Actual                    Est.                      PreJKcted
currult pricnl           ------------                            -- ------                     ---~~-~--
Indicator                       199t3 1991                       112      1913    1994    19B5       1996     199     12911    1919      If       199
NATIIWAL ACCIIUIITS
Brass domstic product la          11,076              7.4    -O.S       3.3      6.6      1.1      1.0       2.0      3.2     3.0       3.6     5.0
Agriculture                     19,461               4.9      1.1      1.9      5.9     3.2       2.5      2.5      2.7     3.0       3.0      3.0
Indastry                       29,457               5.0    -1.1       2.0      3.4    -3.3        1.1      2.7      3.7      2.0      2.4     2.2
Servicn                         32,152              12.1      7.4      5.3      5.3     4.0       0.0      1.0      3.0      4.0      5.0      1.0
Consumption                      59,712               11.7     2.1    -0.6       1.0      2.1    -0.9        0.9      2.9     3.5      4.4      *.1
Bross investmnet                 22,197              32.9      8.3   -10.4       6.6    -7.2   -12.3    -1.4          2.2     4.9      2.6      6.4
Exports of 6IFS                  21,949               -9.5   -10.9    14.6       4.0    -2.2       7.7       6.3     5.1       2.1     2.9       1.3
Imports of fIFS                  21,M                20.5      4.4   -11.1   -10.1    -9.9   -13.1          0.4       3.9      5.2     4.2       5.9
Gross national savings              17,567              -1.7   -11.3    12.0    23.2        0.3      14.1      3.3      2.3      3.0      2.2      2.5
PRICES
UP deflator  1983u100)                                  92      88       100     109       114      125      137      140      157      166      215
Exchange rate IRp per US$1                             632     661      909      1026     1111
Slars of GOP at  rket pricn  It)                            averge annmu   icrease (Z)
lat current prices) Ic                              tat mcstt 1993 rice)
1970     1975     1910    195     190      1995            1970-75  1975-40  110-15   9S5-90  190-5
Gross domestic product                        100     tOo       100     100      100       100               9.4      7.4     3.6      2.6       4.2
Agriculture                                  47       32       25      24       25        23               4.1      3.3      3.4      2.7      3.0
Industry                                    IB       34       41       35       35       31               12.0     9.9      0.6      2.4       1.9
Services                                    35        35      35       40       40        45               9.7      9.5     L69       2.6      1.7
Consuption                                    99       79       71       69       69       71                9.4     9.2      3.2      2.1       5.2
Gross investet                                 14      20       23       25       21       22               19.3     I2       5.0    -1.0       5.2
Ehports ofel FS                                13      23       32       26       29       25                9.2      2.9    -1.1       4.9      1.2
Imports of HFS                               -16      -22      -27      -20      -19      -19              22.2    14.0    -2.0    -0.3         4.5
6ress national savings                          9       17      25       25       29       25               23.1    14.2       3.9     5.0       2.3
As x of GDP
1970              1975             1930               19914
PUBLIC FINACE lb
Current revenues                                                                 10.1              17.4              20.9              19.6
Current esneeditures                                                             9.4               9.9               11.9              11.0
Surplus                                                                          1.6               7.5                9.0              7.6
Capital expnditure                                                               5.0               11.3              12.1              11.6
Foreign financing                                                                3.5               3.7                3.1               4.0
1970-75          1975-90            1990-95           195-90           1990-95
OTHER INDICATORS
Annal HNP oroutth rate (2!                                              7.6               7.1                3.4               2.9               4.4
Annual 6)F per capita grouth rate (12                                   5.1               4.7                1.2               0.9              2.3
Annal esergy consuaption grout! rate II)                                11.2              11.0             N.A.               N.A.              N.A.
CIIR                                                                    2.2               3.3                7.9              B.5               5.0
Marginal savings rate                                                  0.49              0.29               0.27             0.51               0.15
Import elasticitv                                                       2.9              O.B4             -0.55             -0.10               1.07
/a At market prices.
lb  Catral Goernamt only, oan April-to-larch fiscal year basis.
/c At constant prices from 19B0 on.
East Asia and Pacific Reponal Office
may 1996



- 33 -
aEtt
olmma - MUM U PAlla, ta1a, Cit.L Mg MT
P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w5 451 
tlU  millm  at cerit prinil
Pipalati.    u  155.32 MIII.0 3414-1931
NI w Wilma 5540t *|11f mitamalsl
kia                      lEt.                    frnstS
mIR  aw2   rln   Is   am   1am   am a07                                    aS    me   m1
1.  lapisn                                            23,301   19,112   2,91  21,m21   U,lt           14,1U 7   37,720   3,794   22,994   25,171   34,11n
ta  Ill a1 d LO  Igrinl                            11,111   14,74C   14,44    14,4n    12,423    7,40    *,m        11,4 t9 12,3    13,335  ai,3N
Eta Usua                                           4,31      2,3923    ,370    5,907    5,143    4,502    7,174    1,113   9,2&   30,394   31,165
Edl irs                                              235       50       412       5        412 *3             6        952    3,13      1,151    2,234
2.   gto s                                             22,U1   22,s9  23,122  31,314   14,244   15,249  13,134   37,434   19,327   22,232   32,243
Ual OI aKtm                                        5,417    4,C2    3,319    2,945    3101    3,634    3,315    3,ao0    3,15    4,211  6,124
353 fntl lirs                                     14,U51    15,12    14 ,24    1237     ae1iU O    ,99n2    36,4nc   11,455   12,111   14,03e   213,31
3tc  In                                            2,917    2,213    2,W62    2,274    2,240)    ,223    2,233    2,523    2,744    2,tr    4,732
3. kIe  SaliWa                                            434   13,671       12     3,467    2,713    12321   1,51        3,215    3,471    3,659    4,715
4.  taItrr e iCC                                       I332)  1362,31  14,529   Q3,04I5  14,132l  13,I531  14,2541  14,9n.3   31,023   15,221  44,53I
a&ht hclPl                                          3,7n    3,24        19 9U4             go4      tt3    13,06       9S    1,013        915      o1
mil rantl                                          14,4)  14J,l     13,4231  14,4611  13,7711  4,542)  15,22  15,9331  44,031  14,1111  17,343
5.  Caital granls                                          A?  1              I        s I111   10       30        150      ISO      ISO       i        1n
4.  hlsis a   arset icc_t                              12,7173  17,311Q   14,2702  31, 146    13913  21,N6l  12,5131  11,14291   1,4011  11,242   11,421
7.  irKct fwsip  imtsml                                   I342     313       1             243 2m n 7             325       42D       490     46        949
I.  Pa4ic I   I 1 a lam                                 1,3,1 2  3,1190    24in     2,2W    13,15    3S,U2    2,9144    1314    3,49           n      1,212
i.  ,taw  caitaul fstI                                    1S41     433    2,0 9            42    302     41      1149      31302  3I5         32m       345
10. Cbmqs i rn  2e 1- incuaul                             96     3,21     1 13,6113    24393    24721      4       1i1       III      o13       12     2414
3.      of ullicial rger.n                              4,154    3],04    4,t9 H     ,3 5     ,164    34t2    5,M40      5,16D 5  ,323    1,199    5, 
aWsrl. .  S                                         2.4      2.0      3.5       4.3      5.7      5. r       .4     5L0        4.5      4.1      2.7
ht furnp aists of the
boiuhq    It s lsb ft                             azz42    h521    3,444    9,571   30,504    9,46        9,60    9,461   11,311    35,217   30,3111
Tft  rwrs as _mtns of
m- -i uwts * NM                                     7.3      4.2       4.2      r.7      9.7      9.7       9.3      LS        7.9      7.3      4.7
Et7E_ CAPITAL NO MTDIc
kis  hDlwnssms                                         2,7n    4,192    4,94    3,644    3,524
Cu rmAsms L.a..                                     no       fi at               s 5       o
lalatw)                                               736      462       541      41      531
A                                                      49       70       46        34       N
ItS.                                                             I         I       39 U      1
iiAne,cmsimmal L.a.                                    3,67     3,503    4,337    3,295    2,95
IIIcial   Wtl crmditm                                 17       5317      44       *O4      121
'V                                                    314   s"    on    in    m
-a_r *il latral                                        tl      122       310      163      3i
Pr.twmrc,                                           1,3309    2,354    3,2O    1,944    1,1
-i   r*stutisq I ditA    ma                        33,171   33,335   21,117   22,11t2   242
FfiCl4_aco                                       "4,      11,113   12,311  12,314   14,974
Prlat,-iaue                                       5,311    7,42    9,        16,4"   31,t1
boome.d dmt                                        113,311   32,670   sm117M    13,1733  2S,
Mtl Sra,r
T7b3 sercnc paysats                                 2,097    2,224    2,41    3,1253    4,019
lotast                                             t4   119145)  11,223       tl,a241  31104)
Paymts n  I a  ewtrs ts                               LI      11.1      12.      34.6     1131
T4td det  swce.ti  If                                30.4    I3.4    I37         I3.4     23.4
siqrae lttrnu  lata i  Nm Lua 1       1                  LI       9.2       1.3      S.3      LI
Ifficial-rcs                                          7.3      LB        5L7      5.4      7.4
Private-Btoi                                          9.4      9.5       LI       9.6      LI
Arags lat rity of So Lu, 3yrsl                          15.3      3.2      11.1     33.       15.9
offucal     u                                        20.5     20.4       .3      20 20.9    12.7
fr1sts-wses                                         311.3     33.1    01.3        9.2      7.4
ft  I mF dat mtitAdlq it id of  I0
Itrity strts  of dit a tstuiq                                           -
bltwtiln    s .4tu.  v rs                                                             34
bbwitUn on mitkt 20 7C                                                                47
Inbred  structwm ti dat .tsladimg
stwrt  im witsin first yat                                                           4.1
/a  b a  hril-t       r  final yin bal.
ft  lIclus. firdtnigmts of d*p1 it- may bts Is iSUi              t.   offchin.l vet.
c Eclsctpinat om _ 1mtd lIes   UC anesta,
Id  At ad  f pSed.
le 61  mII rts trstbd a  yre   ti.   laports lUtud  sericus. hWt amrnam uclmdm  prnmaut of syndicatii loss in 1l
1   Is"          pr wits m _qwatid  lows.
Eat Isis ad Ptitdc   91.1 1640cm
my 179



ANNEX Ir
- 34 -                     Page 1 of 4 pages
THE STATUS-OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1986) /a
Loan/                                                        Amount (US$ million)
Credit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
number   year   Purpose                                     Bank     IDA    Undisbursed
Forty Loans and forty-four Credits fully
disbursed                                              1,971.86   777.89         -
1578    1978   Tenth Irrigation                           109.00       -        22.96
1604    1978   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders II          50.50       -        10.40
1653    1979   Third Urban Development                     53.60       -         9.14
1707    1979   Transmigration II                           90.00       -        75.49
1708    1979   Eighth Power                               175.00       -        37.34
1709    1979   Second Water Supply                         35.49       -         4.87
946    1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                  -       12.00       5.50
1751    1980   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders III         92.00       -        23.85
995    1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                          -       37.60       5.53
996    1980   National Agriculture Extension II             -       39.00      19.26
1811    1980   Fourteanth Irrigation                      116.00       -        36.55
1835    1980   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders IV          30.00       -        15.69
1840    1980   National Agricultural Research              35.00       -        35.00
1014    1980   National Agricultural Research                -       30.00       0.56
1872    1980   Ninth Power                                253.00       -        65.46
1898    1981   Smallholder Coconut Development             25.00       -        10.51
1904    1981   University Development                      45.00       -        31.26
1950    1981   Tenth Power                                250.00       -        10.97
1958    1981   Swamp Reclamation                           22.00       -        11.70
1972    1981   Fourth Urban Development                    43.00       -        19.66
2007    1981   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders V           134.00      -        80.69
2049    1982   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway                    85.00       -        66.60
2056    1982   Eleventh Power                             170.00       -        39.42
2066    1982   Second Seeds                                15.00       -         9.34
/a The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



ANNEX II
- 35 -                       Page 2 of 4 pages
Loan/                                                         Amount (USs million)
Credit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
number   year   Purpose                                     Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
2079    1982   Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and
Transport                                185.00       -        65.84
2083    1982   Rural Roads Development                      85.00       -        32.27
2101    1982   Second Teacher Training                      79.59       -        64.19
2102    1982   Second Textbook                              25.00       -        21.22
2118    1982   Sixteenth Irrigation                         37.00       -        15.66
2119    1982   Seventeenth Irrigation (East Java            70.00       -        36.31
Province)
2120    1982   National Fertilizer Distribution             66.00       -        31.35
2126    1982   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders VI           55.50       -        43.77
2153    1982   Coal Exploration Engineering                 25.00       -        14.56
2199    1982   Central Java Pulp and Paper Engineering       5.50       -         4.03
2214    1983   Twelfth Power                               300.00       -       223.08
2232    1983   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders VII         138.90       -       136.43
2235    1983   Provincial Health                            27.00       -        23.25
2236    1983   Jakarta Sewerage and Sanitation              22.40       -        19.22
2248    1983   Transmigration III                          101.00       -        54.16
2258    1983   Public Works Manpower Development            30.00       -        24.74
2275    1983   East Java Water Supply                       30.60       -        17.35
2277    1983   Fifth BAPINDO                               208.90       -       131.24
2288    1983   Transmigration IV                            63.50       -        59.14
2290    1983   Second PoLytechnic                          107.40       -       105.47
2300    1983   Thirteenth Power                            279.00       -       171.84
2341    1984   Third Agricultural Training                  63.30       -        52.43
2344    1984   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder Sugar         79.20       -        47.84
2355    1984   Second Non-Formal Education                  43.00       -        34.89
2375    1984   Second Provincial Irrigation Dev.            89.00       -        60.31
2404    1984   Highway Betterment                          240.00       -       185.23
2408    1984   Fifth Urban Development                      39.25       -        35.45
2430    1984   Third Small Enterprise Development          204.65       -        96.73
2431    1984   Second Swamp Reclamation                     65.00       -        62.73
2443    1984   Fourteenth Power                            210.00       -       196.07
1950-1  1985   Supplemental Loan for Tenth Power
(1950-IND)                                50.00       -        19.75
2472    1985   Secondary Education and Management
Training                                  78.00       -        73.58



ANNEX II
- 36 -                       Page 3 of 4 pages
Loan/                                                          Amount (US$ million)
Credit  Fiscal                                                 (less cancellations)
number   year   Purpose                                      Bank     IDA    Undisbursed
2474    1985   Upland Agriculture and Conservation           11.30      -         11.27
2494    1985   Smallholder Rubber Development II            131.00      -        131.00
2529    1985   Fourth Population                             46.00      -         46.00
2542    1985   Second Health (Manpower Development)          39.00      -         39.00
2543    1985   Kedung Ombo Multipurpose Dam and
Irrigation                                156.00      -        156.00
2547    1985   Second University Development                147.00      -        147.00
2560    1985   West Tarum Canal Improvement                  43.40      -         43.40
2577    1985   National Ports Development                   111.00      -        111.00
2578    1985   Transmigration V /a                          160.00      -        160.00
2599    1986   Science and Technology Training               93.00      -         93.00
2628    1986   Smallholder Cattle Development /a             32.00      -         32.00
26?2    1986   Second East Java Water Supply /a              43.30      -         43.30
2636    1986   Second Nutrition and Community Health         33.40      -         33.40
2635    1986   Nusa Tenggara Agriculture Support /a          33.00      -         33.00
2649    1986   Central and West Java Irrigation /a          166.00      -        166.00
Total Bank loans and IDA credits          8,149.54   896.49
Of which has been repaid                   -577.51   -23.38
Total now outstanding                     7,572.03   873.11
Amount sold to third party        28.24
Amount repaid by third party    -28.24         -
Total now held by Bank and IDA /b         7,572.03   873.11
Total undisbursed /c                                           4,053.25
/a Not yet effective.
/b Prior to exchange adjustment.
/c Includes loans not yet effective.



-37- A-EX 1
Page 4 of 4 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1985)
Fiscal                                                               Loan  Equicy  Total
year   Obltgor                             Type of businpss         -- (USs mlllion) --
1971    P.T. Semen Cibinong                 Cement                   10.6    2.5    13.1
1971    P.T. ULicex                         Textiles                  2.5    0.8      3.3
1971    P.T. Primatexco Indonesia           Textiles                  2.0    0.5      2.5
1971    P.T. Kabel Indonesia                Cable                     2.8    0.4      3.2
1972    P.T. Daralon Textile Mfg. Corp.   Textlles                    4.5    1.5      6.0
1973    P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel             Tourism                   9.8    1.6    11.4
1973    P.T. Semen Cibinong                 Cemient                   5.4    0.7      6.1
1974    P.T. Primatexco Indonesia           Textiles                  2.0    0.3      2.3
1974    P.T. Monsanto Pan                   Electronics               0.9     -       0.9.
1974    P.T. PDFCI                          Dev. fin. co*              -      0.5     0.5
1974    P.T_. Kmltex                        Textiles                  2.4    0.6      3.0
1976    P.T. Se-en Cibinong                 Ceme:-                    5.0    1.5      6.5
1976    P.T. Semen Clbinong                 Ce=ent                     -      1.1     1.1
1977    P.T. Daralon Textile Mfg. Corp.   Textiles                    0.4      -      0.4
1977    P.T. Ramaltex                       Textiles                  1.3    0.2      1.5
1979    P.T. Daralon                        Textiles                  0.9      -      0.9
1980    P.T. Papan Sejahtera                Capieal market            4.0    1.2      5.2
1980    P.T. Indo American Industries       Glass dinnerware         11.1    0.9    12.0
1980    P.T. Semen Andalas Indonesia        Cement and construc-
tion material          48.0    5.0    53.0
198215  P.T. Saseka Gelora Leasing          Capital market            5.0    0.3      5.3
1984    P.T. Semen Cibinong                 Cement                   25.0     -      25.0
Total gross comaitments                                     143.6   19.6   163.2
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled                         110.8    7.3   118.1
Total held by IFC                                            32.8   12.3    45.l
Undisbursed (Lncluding participant's portion)                 1.0            1.0



ANNEX III
- 38 -                             Paige I
INDONESIA
HICHWAY MAINTENANCE AND BETTERMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:    18 months.
(b)  Agency that prepared the project:      DCH with substantial consultant and
Bank staff input.
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:        May 1985.
(d)  First Bank Mission to prepare          May/June 1985.
the project:
(e)  Date of departure of appraisal         September 1985.
mission:
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:         October 1986.
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
GOI would:
(a) by June 30, 1987, submit for Bank review and comment its proposed
Vehicle Code, Traffic Code and Public and Commercial Road Transport
Code and drafts of decrees and instructions required for implementa-
tion of the codes; and as soon as possible and no later than
June 30, 1988, issue and implement these regulations (para. 31);
(b) for both 1986/87 and 1987/88, allocate at least 35Z of the budget
for national and provincial roads towards maintenance of those roads
(para. 40);
(c) by October 31, 1986, establish terms of reference satisfactory to
the Bank to restructure and simplify the organization, administra-
tion and execution of road maintenance activities on a pilot basis
in three provinces; beginning January 31, 1987 implement the re-
structuring and simplification programs in these provinces; and by
December 31, 1987 expand the results of this effort to other pro-
vinces in accordance with a plan satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 41);



ANNEX III
-39 -                             Page 2
(d) before December 31, 1986, finalize the design of the Pavement
Management System and establish appropriate maintenance policies
satisfactory to the Bank; introduce the system province by province
beginning January 1987 and ending by December 31, 1988; and as the
system is introduced, apply the maintenance policies to establish on
an annual basis provincial maintenance and betterment programs and
associated budgets, and provide funds for such programs accordingly
(para. 42).
(e) provide for Bank review and approval: ti) by December 31, 1986 and
1987 proposals for the periodic maintenance program for the fiscal
years 1987/88 and 1988/89 respectively (para. 49); (ii) by
October 31, 1986 and December 31, 1986 respectively, proposals for
the second and third phases of the betterment works program (para.
51); and (iii) by December 31, 1986 proposals for the second phase
of the bridge replacement program (para. 52).



lSRD 19491
,_.t,AILAND        -                  -        v'>                                                          ?    IN                              TRANSPORTATION  NETWORK
V                          '     s     5c'   (T,a  Ch.nc Sea              e"*lu5t ' 
MALAYSIA                                          y      ,~ ,         L                                                                                       #ORTS
m t  AtAYSIA
K A A "' W l AW\PA  ?/                                                                                                                    A
~~~,fl~~                                                          n   - -SRC 19



IBRD 19492R
. l                                -- 1    I  
A.. .-                                                                 V _           gi,A_,.
..j~~~q
B>~INTAN
t   ',  I  A   t,  t   s.,',   Vfi 
I&~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
WTh.   TI *S :EU                                                     'ANGKA W                ,,,'', ''.
\\\,~~~~~ A\                             WAN lEE4 EDlMAZ,,
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE~~~~LIA2USWd
AND BUTERI~~PHVIENT PROJEC
. \ - M ~WA LRAOYS                     I                                       A0
SUMATERA
4e pnI                                                                                                ;
(-----  LOA ROAD
P-;T -  PH0--- E51 f                                                          *
-    W IA 5       T        >9                    ,       '     -   r         -    _"_
,'.I                 - TIOI4L UU MAARIE-                                                                JA  WA W
fmLls D      50     100      10o     20026~I 
MAY 1986



MBD 194U3R
SJMATERA                                                                                                                            M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NONESIA
SJMATERA    i                                                                            .t/,4.                                                   HIGHWAY  MAINTENANCE AND  BETTERMENT PROJECT
JAWA
- -                                                                                                                                A A V A   S  A A   5 e A  ,  " A    A        'l
iAW   S'~                            A-A



IRD R19414R
I  R 4UK4l}  -   U WIL4RR04            prb  {/1\~                                                                                                      INDONESIA
\ \ F L Ato               S                                                                           >                                                  A' f , 87FFC OCrAM / HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE AND BETTERMENT PROJECT
sANI .  ,.,_  __   ,_      ,'.,                  -P                                                                                                                   KALIMANTAN AND SULAWESI
. .                       UEWb                             1      /h       h ,  '.                                                                                                               j o )                  -RUNEI/  PROJECT
'   J    A  i  ll              1    \,                  2         j                                                                                                              HICKIAY E40EV  ETTERVENT   AsE0 ii
0   I    ~~   -                               -                                                          ORIEOEREPLOOOOEOT P44000 0E-   -19
.9109^ I AS 6 > ; ; PREVIDLS PROJECM; CR 7KD IND~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REIOU RCJCO                                                                                             (R 90NO
b~~~ ~~~~~~~/                                                                  S                                                                                                                 (   D3ECO AOIPOEELOON 100 400.
,'                                                                                 L TV;uE_ET _   ROVNCAL ROAON
M   A   L  A   Y   S   I  A                                                                                                                                     ROADS
/,lW,S                                                                                 =   -   AIROTOU
-X ~ ru 5 K                    A                                                            IS hlA M N.  0 A N
T-r 
u    -'                           Aoooo   /                     Po/ l    I-~o -b                                                                               ;g      
.oo                                                          o00400ZS   9           <                                                                                                            E4.
- C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
KM4                                                        .                      E_iP  r  c4mJ
AAEn
4044_000        0Po,O,O,N     )rOoOoo                           -        'u lak                            -      5                                                          U L AW  E 5    I
w_m         r                                          4                Js-.oo\CE la        t '-'W                                                        t o     
K-i~- V K n I -     A I             s 4 
V  ----40-WV                                                                                                                                                                                      N
_-_                                       J~~~~~~ ~~~~~ A   V  A  S  E  A                                        OO000                    p9'z  4         L.L90 4                   R.,ho
_pp        I~S                                                                                                       TiO   0.4004 0m,,
MIEO       00      IOE       150      UG        TIC0
11E                                                          'F4'506



IBRD 19598R
i18.                                11i                                 io,                                                                    ]                *8MEI, IleUPPINE
/        NUSA TENGGARA BARAT                                                                                          s
TAMBORA                                                                         FL ORES
PENIONSULA
5A e                             /                                                T.SI~                              -_Nda TIMOR
J-m-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ EalrbITMUR
IPUJLAU LOMBOK                  PULAUJ SUAMBAWA
NUSA   Ti    NUSA   TENGGARA   TIMUR
TIM OR
INDONESIA                                                      Tdmarn.s
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE AND BETTERMENT PROJECT                                                                                          PSAWU                Y.81AW5
TIMOR                                                                                                     P. SAWU
VROJECT:
Highway Bett.e-e,t (Phase 1)                                                                                                        P ROTI
v   Bridge Replacennent (Phase 1)
National Highways
Promin.e Roads
Province Boundaries
International Boundaies
rn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s                                                   ow nW u           eLOs.Te3X88TEao
O Ns                                        IW0          150          wSOAS                     m
, l              NDAe               D
na.                               IIE                                                                                        Sr                                 so



