Document of
The World Barik
Report No: 22877-TJ
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THIE AMOUN1T OF SDR11.10 MILLION (US$13.80 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TAJKUSTA.N
FORA
SECOND POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
April 16,2002
Human Dev elopment Sector Unit
Central Asia Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 1, 2002)
Currency Unit = Somoni
TJS 1 = US$0.36
US$1 = TJS 2.80
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADE        Asian Development Bank                            MOLSP         Ministry of Labor and Social Protection
AKF        Aga Khan Foundation                               MP            Micro Project
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy                       MPC           Micro Project Commnittee
CGAP       Consultative Group to Assist the Poorest          NGO           Non Govemment Organization
DFID       UK Department of Foreign and Intermational        NSIFT         National Social Investment Fund of Tajikistan
Development
EBRD       European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.  PHRD         Population and Human Resources Development
EU         European Union                                    PIP           Project Implementation Plan
FHH        Female-Headed Household                           PPAP          Pilot Poverty Alleviation Project
FSU        Former Soviet Union                               PPF           Project Preparation Facility
GBAO       Gomo Badakhshan Autonomous Oblast                 PRDP          Pamir Relief and Development Project
GGLS       Group Guarantee Loans and Savings Program         PRSP          Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
IBTA       Institution Building and Technical Assistance Project  SCF-UK   Save The Children Fund (UK)
IDA        Intemational Development Association              SCF-US        Save The Children Federation (US)
IEC        Information, Education and Communication          SPAP          Second Poverty Alleviation Project
IDPs       Intemally Displaced Persons                       TASIF         Tajikistan Social Investment Fund (now NSIFT)
IMF        International Monetary Fund                       UNDP          United Nations Development Program
INGO       Intemational Non-Govemment Organization           UNHCR         United Nations High Conmmission for Refugees
MFI        Micro-Finance Institution                         UNICEF        United Nations Children's Fund
MIS        Management information System                     UNOPS         United Nations Office for Project Services
MOE        Ministry of Finance                               USAID         United States Agency for Intemational Developmnent
r                              ~~~~~~~~~~Vice President:  Johannes F. Linn



TAJIKISTAN
SECOND POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page
A.   Project Development Objective                                             2
1. Project development objective                                          2
2. Key performance indicators                                             2
B.   Strategic Context                                                         2
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project  2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                             3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices     10
C.   Project Description Summary                                               14
1. Project components                                                     14
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project          18
3. Benefits and target population                                         19
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                          19
D.   Project Rationale                                                         23
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection              23
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies  25
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                    26
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                       27
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                            27
E.   Summary of Project Analysis                                               28
1. Economic                                                               28
2. Financial                                                              28
3. Technical                                                              29
4. Institutional                                                          29
5. Environmental                                                          31
6. Social                                                                 32
7. Safeguard Policies                                                     33
F.   Sustainability and Risks                                                  34
1. Sustainability                                                         34
2. Critical risks                                                         34
3. Possible controversial aspects                                         36
G.   Main Conditions                                                           37
1. Effectiveness Conditions                                               37
2. Other                                                                  37
H.   Readiness for Inplementation                                              37
1.   Compliance with Bank Policies                                             38
ii



Annexes
Annex 1:      Project Design Summary                                           39
Annex 2:      Detailed Project Description                                     43
Annex 3:      Estimated Project Costs                                          49
Annex 4:      Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary                              50
Annex 5:      Financial Summary                                                52
Annex 6:      Procurement and Disbursements Arrangements                       53
Annex 7:      Project Processing Schedule                                      71
Annex 8:      Documents in the Project File                                    72
Annex 9:      Statement of Loans and Credits                                   73
Annex 10:     Country at a Glance                                              75
Annex 11:     Organizational Structure of the NSIFT                            77
MAP: IBRD 28400R



TAJIKISTAN
Second Poverty Alleviation Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
Human Development Sector Unit
Central Asia Country Unit
Date: April 16,2002                             Team Leader: Michael Mills
Country Manager/Director: Dennis deTray         Sector Manager/Director: Michal J. Rutkowski
Project ID: P008860                             Sector(s): SF - Social Funds
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Social Protection
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan    [X] Credit   [ ] Grant   [ Guarantee     [ Other:
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): 13.80 (Equivalent to SDR 11.10 million)
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                        Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: Standard                        Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan (USSm):   Source                           Local        Foreign        Total
BORROWER                                                    4.48           0.00         4.48
IDA                                                         9.47          4.33         13.80
Total:                                                     13.95          4.33         18.28
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
Responsible agency: NATIONAL SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND OF TAJIKISTAN (NSIFT)
National Social Investment Fund of Tajikistan (NSIFT)
Address: 17 Bokhtar St., 11th Floor, Dushanbe, Tajikistan
Contact Person: Mr. Sherali Zardov, Acting Executive Director
Tel: 992-372-510067          Fax: 992-372-510067          Email: office@tasif.taJik.net
Estimated Disbursements( ank FY/US$m):
FY    2002_       2003    2004      2005      2006       2007       -
Annual    0.30      2.00      3.00      3.00      3.00       2.50
Cumulative   0.30      2.30      5.30      8.30      11.30     13.80
Project implementation period: 4.5 years
Expected effectiveness date: 07/01/2002  Expected closing date:  12/31/2006
OCS PAD F-m R-w UA, 200



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
To improve the living standards of poor and vulnerable people through mnicro-projects, micro-
finance services and community empowerment in areas served by the project.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The key performance indicators for the project are: (i) an increase in poor people's access to, and
use of, social infrastructure and services; (ii) 90 percent of micro-projects fully functioning and
adequately maintained after 9 months; (iii) 75 percent of implementing agencies (communities and
sponsoring organizations) continuing activities and / or undertaking new activities after completion of
micro-projects; (iv) an increase in access to, and use of, projects and services through "sponsored" micro-
projects, especially by vulnerable groups (female-headed households, the elderly, people with disabilities,
etc.); (v) positive beneficiary assessments of experiences with participatory and collaborative planning
and implementation of projects; and (vi) an increase in poor people's (and especially vulnerable group's)
use of micro-credit services offered under the project.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: IDA/R98-105/1    Date of latest CAS discussion: 07/30/1998
Tajikistan is one of the poorest countries in the world. The country came to independence in
1991 with widespread material poverty, exacerbated by a civil war that ended only in 1997. Tajikistan is
only now emerging from the post-war emergency, and its population of 6 million people face the
enormous challenge of rebuilding the country's infrastructure and repairing its economy and system of
governance. In this context, the CAS recommends actions to achieve political stabilization and
macroeconomic growth, coupled with structural reforms. It also calls for poverty reduction strategies to
assist the poor and vulnerable, through, inter alia, the creation of employment-intensive growth; the
promotion of opportunities for a majority of the poor; the improvement of the coverage, access and
quality of social services; the targeting of assistance to the poorest group through a series of community-
based and demand-driven interventions; and the enhancement of institutional capacity. A new Country
Assistance Strategy is now being developed.
The first Pilot Poverty Alleviation Project (PPAP) was developed to address these goals. The
proposed Second Poverty Alleviation Project (SPAP) would further promote the CAS goals by helping
poor people to access basic infrastructure and services and by providing income generating opportunities.
This would be done through micro-projects, micro-finance services and community empowerment in
areas served by the project. The SPAP would also expand future opportunities for the poor and
strengthen non-government involvement in poverty reduction by building further the institutional capacity
of the National Social Investment Fund of Tajikistan (formerly Tajikistan Social Investment Fund) and
key partners, including intermediary organizations and beneficiary communities themselves.
2



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
a. Poverty.
The estimated per capita income in Tajikistan is US$170. The country has been hit hard by a
combination of civil war, economic collapse and localized natural disasters. Education and health
systems are collapsing, and most industries are going through a long and painful process of transition to a
market economy. Agriculture, a substantial part of economy, has been hit hard by a drought, and the
country is receiving considerable amounts of food aid.
The World Bank's 2000 Tajikistan Poverty Assessment suggests that 88 percent of the population
is poor, and 17 percent of the population is extremely poor. Some 44 percent of the general population is
unemployed. The number of unemployed youth and young adults is particularly high (61 percent of those
aged 16-19), and women are disproportionately jobless. Less than 50 percent of Tajik households have
access to piped water, 65 percent of households heat their homes for no more than four months per year,
and 35 percent of households must incur debt to buy food. School enrollment rates, once nearly 100
percent, have dramatically decreased, particularly among children in grades 6-11. Malnutrition is
prevalent in many parts of the country, with, for example, as much as 39 percent of children in the
Kurgan-Tube region affected with chronic malnutrition and 7 percent suffering from acute malnutrition.
While much of Tajikistan's population is poor, the direst incidences of poverty occur in the remote,
mountainous areas, where the population increasingly comprises the very young and elderly. Women are
disproportionately poor, often left caring for households as men leave the villages to search for work, or
widowed during the war. Within communities, the worst poverty is found among those without access to
social safety nets and who are unemployed (including people with disabilities, school dropouts, families
with many children, street children, and elderly people).
The Government has also been reviewing its poverty reduction strategy, and in particular has now
drafted a Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) which is now in the process of being finalized. In it,
the Government stipulates that its program to reduce poverty would be based on the following key
principles: (i) promotion of export-led and labor-intensive growth; (ii) provision of social services and
increasing access by the poor to those social services; (iii) targeted assistance to the poorest strata of
society; and (iv) improvement of governance and increasing security. To facilitate these goals, the
Governnent plans in the short-term to carry out a structural reassessment of its legislative, investment,
tax, social and other policies. These include plans to improve labor markets, agriculture, education,
health care, and economic development legislation; and to continue the rehabilitation of the country's
public infrastructure. The Government also plans to introduce far-reaching banking and public
administration reform; to strengthen communications; to improve health, education and social protection
services; and to achieve international standards on energy, sanitation and infrastructure. A specialized
division within the Executive Office of the President is responsible for monitoring and the improving the
PRSP, and for assisting the State Statistical Committee to collect and monitor living standards data.
The NSIFT has developed a poverty profile of the country through poverty mapping and social
assessments, and this is contributing to the development of a clearer picture of who is poor in the country.
Some of the main conclusions of this work are the following.
*      Poverty is defined in both rural and urban areas as difficulty or inability to provide food and
clothing.
*      While the country's civil war ended in 1997, the effects of the war are still being felt, particularly
for children who lost parents or women who lost their spouses during the war.
*      The persistent drought in the country has contributed greatly to the country's poverty.
3



*      Those who live in rural areas (estimated at 75 percent), particularly those in mountainous regions,
are most likely to be poor.
*      In the rural areas, due to the de-monetized economy, the determination of poverty is largely
related to land and livestock holdings rather than to cash incomes.
*      Most Tajiks have to rely on non-cash income derived from land, petty trading or the sale of
assets.
*      Poverty can easily result from a household head becoming ill due to loss of income.
*      While the unemployed are a major vulnerable group, there are also working poor whose income
is not sufficient to bring them out of poverty.
*      Single female-headed households are among the poorest groups, along with households whose
head is disabled and also households with many children, especially if they have young girls who
cannot contribute to the household economy by working.
*      In general, towns and cities are better-off because of easier access there to basic infrastructure.
*      The housing conditions of the poor in Tajikistan have deteriorated extensively due to lack of
funds for repair.
*      Basic infrastructure services, such as running and drinking water, are not available to many poor
rural residents.
*      The social services have markedly deteriorated throughout the country, both in terms of quality
and access.
In addition, a social assessment undertaken as part of SPAP project preparation. The assessment
confirmed the main conclusions emerging from the poverty profile. The assessment noted that urban
dwellers on average are 20 percent less likely to be poor than the majority of the population who live in
the rural areas. In general, towns and cities are better off because of easier access to basic social
infrastructure (e.g., better-quality schools and hospitals) and economic infrastructure (markets). These
facts make rural poverty a more pressing issue in Tajikistan and cause the rural and urban resident to
experience poverty somewhat differently. The following types of rural locations are particularly likely to
be poor: villages hit severely by the drought; war-affected villages; and isolated villages.
Within communities, groups of vulnerable people include:
*      Families with sick household heads. The illness of the head of a low income household can mean
almost immediate poverty. This possibility is not remote: due to recent outbreak of many
infectious and communicable diseases in Tajikistan, there are many households whose heads are
sick. The resulting poverty of the household is attributable not only to the loss of the labor of an
able family member on whose income the family depended, but also to the cost of treatment,
especially medicine, which can deplete whatever assets owned by these households.
*      The unemployed who have lost their jobs or could not find work to begin with. They include
former employees of local industries, as well as young men entering the age of gainful
employment.
*      Working poor: households with an able working member, but whose income is not sufficient to
bring them out of poverty. The majority of what these households earn, about 80 percent, is spent
on food. The rest is spent on clothing and basic facilities. The working poor are mainly
employed in the formal sector who earn on average about 20 somoni (approx. US$7) a month.
*      Farmers with limited land to cultivate and few or no livestock constitute the majority of rural
residents and are among the poor. Income from small holdings, even if households have both
irrigated and non-irrigated plots, cannot sustain a family for more than 4 to 5 months at best. The
drought of the last two years has been especially devastating for these farmers.
4



The extreme poor in Tajikistan were found to be:
*      Single female-headed households. This is partly because men are more mobile and more likely to
go to where possible work is located. Many women who head households, however, are left with
the care of their children and must rely on those employment opportunities available within the
confines of their village.
*      Disabled household head with young children. This is even worse when the children are too
young to work (below 7). The disability pension these people receive, between 5 to 7 somoni a
month, is not enough to last them more than a couple of days, even if they receive it regularly
(which not always the case).
*      Households with 5 or more children, especially if they have young girls who cannot contribute to
the household economy by working, are amongst the poorest. This is especially the case in poor
rural areas.
*      Elderly living alone. Generally, the children of these people do not have enough means to help
their parents.
b. Progress of Macroeconomic and Structural Reforms.
Tajikistan's economic performance from independence up to 1997 was heavily influenced by its
loss of transfers from the Former Soviet Union (FSU), which amounted to as much as 40 percent of GDP
in the late 1980s, and the eruption of the civil conflict in 1992. In addition, Tajikistan was hit by a
number of natural disasters, including floods, mudslides, and avalanches. The combined effect of these
developments and the break-up of the FSU was a severe contraction in measured GDP between 1991 and
1997 of about 60 percent on a cumulative basis. After the Government and United Tajik Opposition had
signed the peace agreement in 1997, the Government has made some important progress in stabilizing the
macro environment. The process of national reconciliation enabled the Government to focus on a reform
program, originally developed with the assistance of the IMF and World Bank. The authorities were
successful in controlling inflation, and reform efforts were renewed, with reasonably significant
achievements to date. As a result of this package of reforms and a more stable political environment,
GDP started to grow in 1997. The GDP growth in 2000 was 8.3 percent and during the first half of 2001
GDP grew by 10.3 percent compared to the same period last year, bringing the cumulative growth rate
between 1997 and present to in excess of 22 percent.
In order to meet the inflation and foreign reserve targets, the Government's strategy is based on
tight fiscal and monetary policies. Starting in late 1997, the Government has been able to exercise good
control of expenditures, bringing the budget deficit to under 4 percent. In 2000, budget performance
improved somewhat with the consolidated budget deficit outcome for the year as a whole at 0.6 percent of
GDP. In 2001 a national treasury was established and the Government is now developing program based
budgeting. However, with low revenues (13.6 percent of GDP) and growing foreign debt service
requirements, the fiscal situation is expected to remain difficult. Monetary policy has been characterized
by periods of tightening and loosening due to inflationary budget financing and allocation of directed
credits to state enterprises and farmers. However, recent statistics suggest that inflation is moderating
and inflation is believed to have been no more than 13-14 percent in Year 2001.
In the real sectors, the Govemment's key policy objective is to support private sector growth.
The Government is in the process of enacting laws and developing a legal and regulatory framework with
a view to create a favorable investment enviromnent and to facilitate new business entry. Small-scale
privatization was completed in 1999, and large-scale enterprise reforms were initiated. Progress was also
made in the agricultural sector, and by 2001, usage rights to about 40 percent of farmland had been
transferred to the private sector. Financial sector restructuring began in 1998, although the process was
5



slower than expected. In order to achieve growth objectives and to support private sector development,
the Government is also strengthening governance in the public as well as the private sector. To that
effect, a number of important laws related to public sector management have been enacted and public
administration reforms have been initiated.
Along with the challenges associated with extreme poverty and lack of budget, the Government
of Tajikistan needs to overhaul its social infrastructure and services. Education, health and the limited
social safety net (pension and cash transfers to the poor) are all in need of fundamental reform. Both the
education sector and the health sector have extensive physical assets, but both are overstaffed, have
lirnited budgets, and provide poor services. In addition, as responsibility for basic services lies largely
with local government, the lack of funds at local level has meant that by default, many services are
effectively privatized. In many cases, for example, children are expected to pay for schooling, and these
funds are used to pay teachers. This situation has meant an increasing gap in service provision between
the poor and the wealthier. However, in each of these sectors, the Government has adopted a number of
policy measures and has started the process of reform. The Education Reform Project (supported by an
IDA credit of $5 million equivalent) has been under implementation since August 1999 and focuses on
the retraining of teachers, on improvement plans for 20 pilot schools, institutional strengthening, and the
reform of the supply and distribution of textbooks. The Government has also made some important
changes in the health sector. A Primary Health Project became effective in Year 2000 which focuses on
piloting and is testing approaches to reorient the health services toward primary care delivery, and on
building institutional capacity to define and carry out reforms, including the rationalization of services.
Government safety nets and social protection programs, including a Cash Compensation Payment and
pension system, are badly targeted and insufficiently funded. Using the results of the Living Standards
Survey, the Government is committed to a more fundamental reform of the social protection system. A
pilot project to improve the Cash Compensation Program was recently evaluated with encouraging
results. The PPAP, which began in 1997, has also started to address some of the social protection needs
of the population (see below). Other donors such as the Asian Development Bank are also supporting the
reform and development of the social service sectors.
c. The Community Perspective.
Given the alarming conditions of poverty in Tajikistan, combined with natural disasters and the
legacy of years of civil strife, it is obvious that the Tajik population has endured considerable suffering.
The housing conditions of the poor have deteriorated extensively due to lack of funds for repair. Basic
infrastructure services, such as running and drinking water, are not available to many poor rural residents.
Social services have markedly deteriorated throughout Tajikistan, both in terms of quality and access.
Frequent cuts in electricity, if not hazardous, has made living conditions within homes very difficult.
Hospitals, schools, and other social service facilities are working with inadequate and obsolete
equipment. Unemployment is very high, particularly in rural areas, and those without arable land are
among the poorest in the country.
However, while living conditions are mostly dire, the people themselves are not helpless.
Evidence gathered from the social assessments, international aid programs, and the NSIFT indicate that,
given technical and financial assistance, communities can do much to improve their own living
conditions. This can be seen from the experience of the NSIFT itself, as community investment and the
participation of local people in micro-projects have been one of the organization's most notable
accomplishments. An extensive evaluation of the micro-project program found in particular that the
micro-projects were contributing to a positive shift in the attitudes of communities and their sense of
ownership of community projects. The evaluation also found that the beneficiaries clearly believed that
the micro-projects were benefiting their lives, both in terms of improvements in living conditions and in
freeing up time for other activities. In addition, several micro-finance and micro-enterprise schemes
6



similarly helped poor people to raise their own incomes and increase food productivity. The Aga Khan
Foundation's Agricultural Reform Program also worked with village organizations in Gorno-Badakhshan
Autonomous Oblast (GBAO) to help them build irrigation channels, thereby improving food production
and allowing farmers to grow enough food to sell at market. These achievements are an encouraging sign
that, given the right tools, communities have the capacity to address many of their own development
needs.
Lack of institutional capacity and corruption are also major problems that affect the prosperity of
the country and which hinder the process of community development. For example, the constraints
facing the judiciary make it hard for impoverished people to seek redress under the law. Insufficient
popular participation in decision-making has facilitated corruption at the lower levels. Perhaps above all,
the economic collapse in the period up to 1997, coupled with the rigidities of the inherited system of
service provision, has led to a deterioration in the standards of social services and widespread informal
payments being made to service providers. The absence of an overall body of regulations covering civil
service management, together with low pay and incentives, have resulted in low morale and motivation
among Government employees, difficulties in retaining competent staff, and distortions of reward systems
and administrative structures as ministries resort to offering a range of non-monetary benefits in order to
retain and motivate key staff. Nevertheless, the Government is beginning to implement policies to reform
the public sector and its management, including building market institutions and strengthening
transparency and accountability of the public sector. The Government realizes that the effectiveness of
reforms in all areas depend upon a sound institutional framework which is necessary for improved
governance. The Government's program covers a number of areas ranging from the audit of the budget to
civil service salaries and to the support of civil society organizations. The Govemment has also recently
compiled an Anti-Corruption Program.
d. The National Social Investment Fund of Tajikistan.
With the issues of governance and corruption severely testing the Government's ability to combat
poverty, and with local communities understandably suspicious of the ability of local governments to help
them out of poverty, the NSIFT is a particularly important tool for addressing the needs of the poor. The
NSIFT was established in 1997, with the main office in Dushanbe. The NSIFT now has additional
regional offices in Khulyab and Khodjand, which are fully equipped and staffed and provide for micro-
project implementation in these regions. A fourth office has been established in Khorog to serve the
Gorno Badakshan region. An office has also been established recently in Kurgan-Tube, and one is
planned for Gharm. In total, the NSIFT now has 42 staff, 27 in the head office and the remainder in the
branch offices. They have implemented a total of 184 micro-projects covering approximately 600,000
people (out of a population of approx. 6.2 million), mostly residing in the north and south.
The first phase of support to the NSIFT was through the PPAP which had two components. The
first component scaled up four poverty alleviation programs which were already being carried out by
international NGOs working in Tajikistan: a micro-finance program (Save the Children US), which was
eventually supported by NSIFT; support to female headed households (Save the Children UK); an
agricultural reform program (Aga Khan Foundation); and a shelter and housing rehabilitation program
(Save the Children US). Unfortunately, the shelter program was not successful, and the NSIFT eventually
had to take over the program over after the withdrawal of SCF-US. However, the other three of these
international NGO programs financed by the PPAP were successful or highly successful. In particular,
the micro-finance (also known as the Group Guaranteed Lending and Saving (GGLS) Program) was
particularly successful, and it demonstrated the need and potential for micro-finance programs throughout
the country. The micro-finance program was originally implemented by SCF-US; but when the
contractual relationship between the NSIFT and SCF-US came to an end in July 1999, the program was
transformed into a local NGO, Sitorai Najot, which the NSIFT continued to support through a grant for
7



overhead costs. By June 2001, the Sitorai Najot had worked with 351 groups (5,430 women), of which
295 remained active clients. The level of loan return was 100 percent, with an average loan of US$41
(with a range from $20 to a maximum of $300).
The second component financed the NSIFT and micro-projects. The number of micro-projects
that the NSIFT implemented and the number of beneficiaries that it reached both exceeded original
expectations. NSIFT's initial micro-project allocation was US$2.5 million, with an expected 70 micro-
projects benefiting 144,000 people. However, after a reallocation of the project credit amounting to
USSI.6 million, NSIFT was able to finance approximately 184 projects in total, covering 600,000 people
in 44 districts. As noted earlier, there was an extensive evaluation of the micro-project program in 1999,
carried out with independent, external assistance. On the positive side, this evaluation concluded that the
micro-projects met priority needs, community participation during the implementation stage of micro-
pro ects was fairly strong; the micro-projects were contributing to a positive shift in attitudes of
communities; and most micro-project committees were taking steps (together with their communities) to
attempt to address any problems relating to the micro-projects. Two-thirds of the evaluated projects were
fully functioning, with an additional 25 percent partially functioning; and the beneficiaries clearly
believed that the micro-projects were benefiting their lives.
On the negative side, however, the evaluation also found that levels of community participation
and decision-making in the micro-projects varied considerably from project to project; and that although
community participation during the implementation stage of micro-projects was strong, it was highly
variable in the other stages and appeared to depend on the size of the community, the role of the micro-
project committee and the nature of the micro-project. Women tended to lack access to information about
the development of the micro-projects and their participation was poor, and micro-project committees
worked with varying levels of success depending on the leadership style of the committee, their working
relations with the community, the size of the community and the training that they have received from
NSIFT. Less than half of the communities had implemented a viable sustainability plan after the
completion of the micro-project.
In Year 2000, NSIFT conducted a further beneficiary interview and evaluation of 56 micro-
projects, the first stage of which was conducted 1-3 months after the technical hand-over of the micro-
proj ect, and the second stage 6-9 months after that. The main conclusions were that most community
members felt the completed micro-project was a priority for them and were actually using the micro-
proj ect.  Community contributions were high (ranging between 10-50 percent), most community
members were familiar with the sustainability plan for the micro-project, and most micro-projects were
fully functioning after 6-9 months. However, it was also found that there was sometimes a lack of clear
commitment and formal understanding of who would operate and maintain the micro-projects; that in
some cases the NSIFT and community investments subsidized the better-off persons in the community
and that infrastructure financing alone was insufficient to address community needs and development
priorities.
e. Review of Experience Thus Far.
In reviewing the overall experience of the PPAP, as part of the design of the proposed Second
Poverty Alleviation Project (SPAP), it was concluded that several changes needed to be implemented for
the next phase. The design of the SPAP therefore took into account the following considerations:
*      The poorest communities and groups of beneficiaries need special outreach because the quality of
services available to them is poor and the opportunities for alleviating poverty very scarce.
*      Information, Education, and Communication (IEC) should play a greater role.
8



*      The technical quality of most micro-projects has been improving, though it remains uneven
across regions and typology of micro-projects, and sustainability remains an important issue for
follow-up.
*      The social quality of the micro-projects and level of community participation and involvement
has made progress, but requires further improvement, particularly when dealing with the poorest
groups.
*      It is important to ensure that the investments made by poor communities and the NSIFT cover all
of the relevant expenditures needed (rather than just the infrastructure costs), and that they
include well-understood and easily-implementable plans for sustainability.
*      The promotion and institutional development methodology and capacity of NSIFT staff require
strengthening.
*      Because of the existence of another Bank-financed project (the Post-Conflict Emergency
Reconstruction Project), the Karategin Valley has not been the subject of NSIFT financing, but
this region should be covered by the NSIFT in the future.
*      Most of the NSIFT's capacity in institution building, finance and procurement is centralized in
Dushanbe while a majority of the micro projects are located at a considerable distance from the
central office.
*      The operational manual for the micro-projects needs to be reviewed and revised.
*      The definition of "community" for the purposes of the project should be explained and
understood by NSIFT staff, and in particular it should allow for non-geographically proximate
groups to be considered (such as homebound elderly, female-headed households, and others who
are dispersed within a greater community).
From an institutional perspective, NSIFT's four-year history has been one of both significant
achievement and considerable problems. While the results of NSIFT's micro-project and micro-finance
programs were mostly positive, the organization itself faced many problems, beginning particularly in its
second year and continuing until recently. Financial mismanagement and the corrupt practices of some
key staff members contributed to a negative public perception of the organization. Management
weakness and staff turnover, including at the Executive Director level, were constant challenges.
However, in late-2000, the President of Tajikistan reaffirmed his personal and strong commitment to
NSIFT, signaling a better atmosphere of cooperation between NSIFT, its Board and the Government. A
new interim Executive Director was then appointed, and he undertook a vigorous program of actions to
revitalize NSIFT. Throughout Year 2001, the NSIFT largely adhered to a strict Financial Management
Action Plan. The interim Executive Director was confirmed in his position in January 2002, and the
current project's closing date was extended until the end of June 2002. This history has underlined the
need for the greatest possible transparency in NSIFT activities during the proposed SPAP. This is one of
the main reasons that the SPAP will concentrate on implementing comnmunity-based projects
implemented by conmmunity-elected local representatives, who are accountable to their constituents.
The need for timely availability of counterpart funding is an especially important lesson from the
first project. Government funding troubles were particularly acute while NSIFT was experiencing its
worst managerial and institutional difficulties, which in turn helped to exacerbate NSEFT's problems.
However, during 2001, the Government made great efforts to ensure that counterpart funding was
available, and it is expected that the Government will continue to make funding available. This is an
issue that will be closely watched after project effectiveness. A dated covenant of the project is that
counterpart funds be reviewed annually and budgeted for the upcoming fiscal year.
Contrary to some other social funds worldwide, the level of interaction between the NSIFT and
the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection (MOLSP) during the PPAP was quite low. The NSIFT's
activities spanned the responsibilities of several line ministries, since they covered education, health,
9



transport, and water/sanitation as well as social protection issues, and its poverty reduction mandate did
not fit directly into that of the MOLSP, and there was inadequate communication between the two sides.
There will be much greater collaboration between the MOLSP and NSIFT in the future, due to the
increased Government focus on poverty alleviation and social protection issues, and the recognition of the
NSIFT as a valuable data-gathering and strategy tool for the Government to use in its poverty reduction
strategy. There will also be greater opportunities collaboration between NSIFT and the MOLSP through
MOLSP representation on the NSIFT Board and through regular meetings and conferences between
NSIFT and MOLSP to discuss poverty issues.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
As noted above, since independence Tajikistan has endured a series of economic and social
shocks that have had a significant impact on households, and that have presented particular difficulties for
the poorest and most vulnerable groups. To address these issues, the PPAP focused on (i) establishing the
NSIFT, and (ii) initiating and testing pilot approaches to community investments and micro-finance.
Among the target groups were women (through agricultural projects and micro-finance), refugees
(through the shelter program) and other poor communities selected for micro project interventions.
There are now three major sectoral issues to be addressed under the proposed SPAP, which
correspond to the Government's attention to poverty alleviation:
*      How to scale-up the micro-project program, improve their quality and strengthen the sense of
ownership by community members and extend the nature and scope of micro-projects, including
how to reach new groups of particularly poor and vulnerable people, and develop partnerships
with key stakeholders;
*      How to develop further the micro-finance program; and
*      How to strengthen the NSIFT institutionally and develop partnerships.
a. Micro-Projects: the Next Phase.
Micro-project selection by the NSIFT is currently based on a targeting methodology that includes
an analysis of the geographic patterns of poverty around the country, discussions with district-level
stakeholders, and considerable community participation work with local groups and beneficiaries.
Initially, under the PPAP, there was a focus on a limited number of rayons so that the efforts of the
NSIFT staff would not be spread too thinly, but then the geographic scope of its work rapidly expanded.
The PPAP did not support activities in the Karategin Valley, since that part of the country was supported
through the IDA-funded Post Conflict Emergency Reconstruction Project. Also, the PPAP almost
exclusively supported communities and villages, not expanding its reach to other groups that were not
geographically determined (such as people with disabilities, whose numbers may be "hidden" among a
larger community). The proposed SPAP would build on the past experience of the NSIFT, but the future
strategy would also include: (i) scaling up the existing micro-project activities; (ii) strengthening the
community ownership and the quality of micro-projects; (iii) extending the nature and scope of micro-
projects, including refining the targeting strategy and selection criteria for micro-projects.
Scaling-up.
The number and reach of NSIFT activities would be expanded through the following:
*      Increasing the number of micro-projects implemented from 184 under the PPAP to about 340
under the SPAP, benefiting between 400-700,000 people.
10



*      The introduction of additional types of micro-projects that reach new groups of beneficiaries
(such as people with disabilities, the elderly, street children, and other particularly at-risk people),
with the number of such micro-projects rising to 10 percent annually by the SPAP's final year.
*      Working in new parts of the country, including areas where NSIFT has not previously worked
(especially the post-conflict region of the Karategin Valley).
*      Leveraging NSIFT resources by working with new donor partners, including in particular the Aga
Khan Foundation and UNOPS.
Strengthening the Ouality and Ownership of Micro-projects.
The strengthening of community and other stakeholders' ownership in, and the quality of, micro-
projects would be achieved through:
*      The expansion of micro-project procedures to facilitate greater community involvement, and
especially the greater use of community procurement, contracting and the direct management of
micro-projects whenever possible.
*      An increased emphasis on training, both for the NSIFT staff responsible for working directly with
beneficiaries, and for the beneficiaries themselves and the organizations used to deliver services.
*      An enhancement of the NSIFT's communication strategy to include a greater emphasis on public
awareness about NSIFT activities (particularly regarding new areas of activity), more outreach to
remote or particularly vulnerable groups of beneficiaries, keeping beneficiary communities more
informed about and involved in the micro-projects being implemented in their communities
(including the roles and responsibilities of each stakeholders, and information on whom to contact
for more information), and encouraging micro-project implementing agencies to continue
activities after the conclusion of NSIFT-funded micro-projects.
*      The provision of special funding and extra technical assistance to assist particularly vulnerable
groups.
*      Better communication: building up a more efficient network to inform the rural population about
NSIFT activities with the help of newspapers, the dissemination of information materials,
meetings and seminars.
Funding new tvpes of activities.
The extension of the nature and scope of micro-projects would be achieved through:
*      Revising the targeting indicators to take into account not only geographic resource allocation
criteria but other household poverty indicators based on social assessment and other survey data
(such as disability, infant mortality, female-headed households, etc.).
*      Refining the selection criteria to encourage interest from the poorest groups.
*      Broadening the menu of allowable projects, including services for particularly vulnerable groups,
economic and productive activities, and other projects that meet criteria to be identified by the
communities themselves.
*      Encouraging a more comprehensive approach to micro-projects, including, where possible, both
"hardware" (facilities and equipment) and, in a second tranche, "software" (including training and
services). For example, the rehabilitation of a school (walls and equipment) might be followed in
a second tranche by the establishment of a literacy program or PTA committee.
*      The creation of a matching fund facility to allow the NSIFT to match funds raised by
communities to enhance their already-implemented micro-project.
*      Increasing the range of funding to include very small projects (for example, $1,500 to purchase
sewing machines for a women's micro-enterprise group, or paying the water or gas connection
11



fees for especially poor communities) and much larger ones (for example, six or seven
communities pooling their resources together to request $100,000 for a road).
b. Micro-Finance: Developing the Sector.
One of the PPAP's successes was the development of the micro-finance program, the Group
Guaranteed Lending and Saving (GGLS) Program, which was initially run by an international NGO (Save
the Children US) but was handed over to a local NGO (Sitorai Najot) in July 1999. The NSIFT will
continue to support Sitorai Najot through a grant for overhead costs and portfolio capital, if the
management of the organization will develop and implement the plan to improve financial management.
According to its own estimates, as of 1 June 2001, Sitorai Najot had worked with 351 groups (5,430
women), of which 295 remain active clients (3,779 women). The level of loan return as of reporting date
was 100 percent, with an average loan of US$41 (with a range from $20 to a maximum of $300). The
attainments of the GGLS program are significant, given the Tajikistan context and particularly as the
program was implemented in post conflict regions; and transfer of the program to a locally-run NGO a
considerable achievement.
In the sector as a whole, in the past three years there has been growth in the number of micro-
finance activities and micro-finance institutions (MFIs) being supported by several donors. Most of the
MFls are still engaged in group lending to the poor and very poor, however some programs are targeting
products to growth micro-enterprises with larger loans, lower interest, longer terms and individual
guarantees. There are the beginnings of competition between MFIs in the main cities and surrounding
villages of Dushanbe, Kurgan-Tube, and Sogd (Khodjand). This competition is beginning to drive
interest rates down and diversify loan products even for those strictly targeting the poor, including the
withdrawal of forced savings by several of the new entrants to the market.
NSIFT could play an important role in improving the legal and regulatory environment for MIFIs
by serving as an intemal governmental advocate for micro-finance by coordinating with international
organizations working to further MFI laws, hosting briefings, meetings, trainings and site visits for key
govemment personnel. In addition, in parallel with the proposed SPAP, the Government and the Bank
are discussing a possible new financial sector project, to take place in the near future, which would
incl-Lide an apex organization to provide funding and technical support for non-bank financial
intermediaries. NSIFT's role would be one of a "stepping stone" that would provide interim financing for
micro-finance activities and technical assistance to the fledgling organization. In the meantime, there is
an urgent need to move ahead with financing for a small number of NGOs to expand their programs.
NSIFT would follow a micro-finance strategy based on these pillars: (i) capacity building to the
micro-finance unit in NSIFT and to the eligible MFI's, principally in the areas of management, business
planning, MIS, finance and accounting, introduction of new financial products, and expansion of client
base; and (ii) provision of a credit line to eligible MFI's which will meet the eligibility criteria; and (iii)
performance awards for the best performing MFI's and client groups based on competition.
c. The NSIFT: Institutional Strengthening.
In the future, the NSIFT will place considerable emphasis on capacity building activities for the
Board, as well as for the staff and senior managers. Institutional strengthening will not be a stand-alone
activity, but will rather be built into the NSIFT's annual work program and strategy. The NSIFT has
designed a training plan and it will be updated annually. Training will be particularly important in the
following areas: (i) the training of administrative and managerial staff, including in procurement,
financial management, monitoring and the management information system (MIS); (ii) MIS training for
each staff member so that they can use the system regularly in their day-to-day work; and (iii) the training
12



of field officers, "outreach" staff, and others responsible for micro-project design and supervision. In
particular, since the SPAP would finance new types of micro-projects and institute a new micro-project
cycle based on community contracting, the NSIFT outreach officers will require new or updated skills in
the area of participatory appraisal and training of communities. Capacity building activities will include
training abroad for key staff members, visits by international specialists, local seminars and site visits, and
conference participation. Links would be strengthened with other social funds active in the region, so that
there would be more cross-fertilization of ideas and knowledge. Within this component, the project's
monitoring, evaluation and management information systems would also be updated and made more
operationally relevant for the day-to-day work programs of all NSIFT staff.
To strengthen ties with Government and other organizations, and to ensure that NSIFT is guided
by the poverty-reduction priorities set by the Government, the NSIFT has been re-structured so that it has
a more accessible and representative Board that can take a more active part in the governance of the
project. The new structure of the Board includes three members from Government; three members from
NGO's (including one from an international NGO) and the Executive Director of NSIFT. The
Government representatives are likely to be the Chairman of the Board, a representative from the Ministry
of Labor and Social Protection, and a representative of the Ministry of Finance. The Board would meet
once per quarter, or more often as necessary, and would have a greater supervisory role than in the first
project, with responsibility for the overall strategy and direction of NSIFT. The organization chart of
NSIFT has been revised and is included as Annex 11.
Considerable emphasis would be placed on seeking opportunities to work with partners, including
local governments, local and international NGOs, bilateral donors, local communities, and community-
based organizations. Developing partnerships will involve an increased emphasis on consultation with
local governments, both formally (through more active involvement of the NSIFT Board) and informally
(through periodic visits by field staff to local officials). Building closer alliances with local and regional
governments will allow NSIFT to learn more about local needs and priorities, and to reflect that learning
in its activities. In turn, the Government will benefit from NS1FT expertise in poverty alleviation and
social assistance activities.
Another key issue for the proposed SPAP will be the development by NSIFT of links with other
international organizations that are already active in the field of rural development, both "on the ground"
and, potentially, through new bilateral support. The Aga Khan Foundation's Integrated Village
Development Programme is working in the east of Tajikistan and in the Karategin Valley, both areas in
which the NSIFT is expecting to expand. In addition, the United Nations Operations Programme Support
(IJNOPS) has recently designed a second phase to its Rehabilitation, Reconstruction and Development
Programme (RRDP-II). Another UNOPS-supported program with which the NSIFT could collaborate is
the Social Sector Rehabilitation Project (financed by the Asian Development Bank). Talks have begun
with the Aga Khan Foundation and the UNOPS on how to collaborate more effectively; and also on the
possibility of jointly financing some areas of NSIFT work. Jointly-funded projects will be financed if
appropriate; and cross-fertilization with projects in other countries, through study tours, conferences, and
other learning opportunities, may also be funded.
13



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The proposed project has three components:
(a)    Micro-Projects Component - provision of grants in the form of (i) Community-Based Projects
to restore basic social and economic services and infrastructure in response to local priority
needs, and (ii) Sponsored Programs to support projects provided for particular vulnerable groups;
(b)    Micro-Finance Component - provision of credit-lines to MFIs to expand existing programs to
poor groups, particularly women, and providing technical assistance and training to MFIs to
increase their capacity to effectively manage their operations;
(c)    Institutional Strengthening  and  Project Management Component -      institutional
strengthening of the NSIFT through the provision of training, technical assistance and the
monitoring and evaluation of micro-projects, and also through for operating costs.
a. Micro-Projects
This component of the proposed SPAP would develop two kinds of micro-projects:
(i)    Community-based micro-project activities. These micro-projects would build upon those carried
out under the PPAP. The objective is to improve the quantity and quality of community-based social and
economic infrastructure and services while increasing involvement of beneficiaries in the design and
implementation of those projects. The projects are aimed at poor mostly rural communities and
community groups. Projects would range from $5,000 up to $150,000, averaging approximately
US$30,000; with the possibility of several phases of implementation leading to larger and more complete
projects that include civil works, goods and equipment, services, and training in the final package of
financed items. Communities may team together to submit joint proposals. Eligible micro-projects
include the creation and rehabilitation of social and economic infrastructure and services, micro-
entrepreneurial programs, and projects that increase the institutional capacity of communities. The
implementation of community projects includes the rehabilitation and development of social and
economic infrastructure for the poorest communities, as well as projects targeted at increasing the income
of beneficiaries. Each micro-project would meet the following criteria:
*      it fits within the micro-project budget ceiling;
*      it addresses the community priority needs;
*      it promotes community organization and cohesiveness;
*      it includes a contribution from the project beneficiaries (usually 10 percent of project total cost, in
cash, materials, and/or labor; though this requirement would be relaxed for the very poorest
communities);
*      it is simple enough for the community to implement and maintain;
*      it has measurable outcomes;
*      it falls within the NSIFT strategy;
*      it does not intend to support political, military or religious activities;
*      it has an adequate training plan both for implementing agencies and (if applicable) for the NGO
assigned to deliver the micro-project activity; and
*      it includes a maintenance and sustainability plan.
14



Whenever possible, communities themselves will be responsible for all phases of the micro-
project, including preparation of the micro-project proposal, contracting (including handling payments),
implementation, and sustainability. Implementing agencies will require training on basic accounting and
administrative techniques, as well as reporting to the communities, and this will be budgeted and built
into the micro-project cycle. Upon project completion, implementing agencies will be responsible for
maintenance of the project, and, it is hoped, will begin other activities (such as soliciting other donor
financing for further development projects, or enacting follow-on activities that complement the
completed project).
(ii)   Financing sponsored new projects for especially poor and vulnerable people. The objectives of
this sub-component are to finance initiatives that address an articulated community need but the
beneficiaries for whom may be unable to apply for NSEFT financing without assistance. The majority of
applicants will therefore be sponsoring organizations, primarily NGOs. Sponsored micro-projects might
reach out to previously underserved groups, such street children, people with disabilities, or the elderly,
through community-based social services, including awareness, prevention and early detection programs,
home food delivery programs, battered women's shelters, youth centers, or daycare centers. Other
projects might work with newly-established charitable NGOs to build their capacity to serve their clients,
while others might promote vocational education and training, or the costs of training community teachers
and health workers to recognize and help victims of domestic violence. As with the larger micro-projects
category, this sub-component will fund civil works, goods and equipment, services, and training. The
maximum project size will be $50,000. Most sponsored micro-projects will be carried out by NGOs and
other intermediaries on behalf of people who are unable to formulate proposals for themselves, such as
people with disabilities, street children, the elderly, and other geographically disparate or socially
excluded groups. At present, very few local NGOs are capable of delivering services to especially
vulnerable groups, and those NGOs putting forward proposals will most likely be very inexperienced. In
such cases, a large fraction of micro-project funding will go towards building up the capacity of NGOs to
deliver such services. Increased resources will also be earmarked for outreach to targeted groups, and
community outreach efforts. Emphasis will be placed on raising public awareness of the issues facing
groups of such beneficiaries. To reflect the demand-driven nature of the project, individual training plans
will be developed on a case-by-case basis.
The sponsored micro-projects are aimed particularly at groups with the following characteristics:
*      Women and families at risk (war widows, women undergoing divorce, single parent female
headed families, abused women or other victims of domestic violence, prostitutes, etc.).
*      Disabled (mentally and physically) children, adults, and the elderly.
*      Youth at risk (youth with criminal behavior record, youth not attending school, unemployed
youth, etc.).
*      Children at risk (biological and social orphans, single-parent families, children living with
grandparents children with one or both parents living/working abroad, children suffering from
abuse, street children, beggars, children not attending school or at risk of dropping out, children
from dysfunctional families, children from poor families, etc).
*      Elderly at risk: elderly (single or couples) living alone without income or insufficient income, not
able to take care of themselves, etc.
15



The criteria for the "sponsored" micro-projects would be the following:
*      The proposed project is innovative and supports reforms.
*      It does not exceed US$50,000 (for social services projects) and US$20,000 (for entrepreneurial
projects).
*      In the case of social services, the applicant's investment could be between 0-5 percent of micro-
project costs, whether in kind, in cash, or in labor. In the case of entrepreneurial services and
infrastructure, there should be not less than 10 percent community investment.
*      The applicant has the technical and managerial capacity to manage the micro-project, or would
have such capacity with training that the NSIFT is able to supply.
*      In the case of infrastructure, the proposal must meet technical norms of the NSIFT, and there
must be written authorization or appropriate permits from the local/regional govemment for
execution of works.
*      The micro-project should have a positive, direct, and immediate impact upon the micro-project's
beneficiaries.
*      In the case of physical rehabilitation, the proposed facility should be on the balance sheet of the
local NGOs or community development committees.
*      The micro-project must have a plan, budget and schedule of operation and maintenance.
All categories of micro-projects, both community-based and "sponsored," would continue to be
targeted on the poorest communities. To receive funding, the micro-project would have to be planned and
proposed by a community or NGO based on demand from its constituencies (with "community" being
defined broadly to include not only cohesive groups, such as villages, but also groups such as socially-
excluded or marginalized people); and would have cost sharing, community communications strategy,
and sustainability plans clearly outlined in the project proposal. The support would training and IEC
activities; and efforts would be made to encourage proposals from new groups of beneficiaries, and also
to leave behind with the community implementing agencies the capacity to solicit other services and
funding after the close of NSIFT-financed micro-projects.
Institutional strengthening would not be a stand-alone component of the project, but rather would
be built into the micro-project cycle and into the NSIFT's annual work program and strategy. Whenever
possible, communities themselves will be responsible for all phases of the micro-project, including
preparation of the micro-project proposal, contracting (including handling payments), implementation,
and sustainability. Implementing agencies will require training on basic accounting and administrative
techniques, as well as reporting to the communities. Upon project completion, implementing agencies
would be responsible for maintenance of the project, and, it is hoped, would begin activities in other areas
(such as soliciting other donor financing for further development projects).
Some micro-projects would be carried out by NGOs and other intermediaries on behalf of people
who are unable to formulate proposals for themselves, such as people with disabilities, street children, the
elderly, and other geographically disparate or socially excluded groups. At present, very few local NGOs
are capable of delivering services to especially vulnerable groups, and those NGOs putting forward
proposals will most likely be very inexperienced. In such cases, a large fraction of micro-project funding
would go towards building up the capacity of NGOs to deliver such services.
Parallel to these training needs will be the improvement of NSIFT IEC activities, including (i)
within the micro-project cycle (how communication can be built into the project cycle, before, during and
after micro-project implementation; and how to solicit and use beneficiary feedback); (ii) within NSIFT
(how to share experiences among NSIFT staff, how to communicate more effectively with local
16



government and other stakeholders); and (iii) the broader public context (how to better communicate to
the public on NSIFT activities, how to reach out to new groups).
To pilot the conmmunity-based contracting and "sponsored" micro-projects approaches, a Project
Preparation Facility (PPF) is being implemented from January to June 2002. Results from the PPF will
feed into the main phase of the project.
b. Micro-Finance
The objective of this component is to support the sustainable growth of a few established micro-
finance institutions (MFI's) operating predominantly in some of the poorest sections of rural Tajikistan.
This objective would be achieved through the following two activities:
(i)    Strengthening the micro-finance unit in TASIF - through the upgrading of skills, in the areas of
evaluation of MFI's, and performance monitoring of MFI's being assisted by the credit line; and
upgrading of financial and accounting systems. The project would finance appropriate training and
technical assistance, upgrading of computers and software needed for this purpose;
(ii)   Provision of credit line: short and medium term credit lines would be provided to those MFI's
which would meet the eligibility criteria (see Annex 2);
c. Institutional Strengthening and Project Management
This component would finance the administrative, operational and capacity-building costs of the
implementing agency (the NSIFT), including staff salaries, equipment, vehicles, and operating costs,
along with training, technical assistance and evaluations. Through the project support and specifically the
capacity building activities, it is expected that by the end of the proposed SPAP, the NSIFT would have
become fully able to formulate and implement poverty strategy and alleviation efforts; and that it would
serve as a valuable resource for the Government as it develops its poverty alleviation and social assistance
agenda.
There would be two sub-components to this component. The first would be Project Management
($1.4 million). The NSIFT would be re-structured so that it has a more accessible and representative
Board which can take a more active part in the govemance of the program, and through which NSIFT
activities may be kept aligned to meet and help shape the govemment's developing poverty alleviation
and social assistance strategies. The new draft organizational chart for the NSIFT may be found in Annex
11, which shows the roles and responsibilities of the regional offices as being strengthened from the first
project. Links between local offices and local govemment would be developed by the area manager
whose job would include consultation and advice to local govemment, and through the regional steering
committees on which local govemment representatives would sit, who would review NSEFT activities in
their area.
The second sub-component would be Institutional Strengthening ($1.0 million), which would
help to develop the skills of key staff members through training programs (study tours, site visits, formal
class leaming programs, seminars and conferences) and technical assistance. Particular emphasis in the
staff training program would be placed on training in financial management, the MIS, and planning and
evaluation. Links would also be strengthened with other social funds active in the region, so that there
could be cross-fertilization of ideas and knowledge. Within this subcomponent, the project's monitoring,
evaluation and management information systems would also be updated and made more operationally
relevant for the day-to-day work programs of all NSIFT staff. This sub-component would be a key part
of the proposed SPAP, and would help to ensure that NSIFT has the staff capacity to undertake the
17



challenging set of activities with which it is entrusted, both in its day-to-day lending activities and in the
area of policy formulation.
A training plan outlining specific training activities for the year will be developed annually
throughout the life of the project, evaluating training experiences of the previous year and modifying as
necessary. This will be one of the project's dated covenants.
Indicative          Bank-     % of
Component           -       Sector         Costs    % of    financing  Bank-
(US$M)    Total    (US$M)   financi
Micro-Projects Component   Social Funds             14.39    78.7      9.96    72.2
Micro-Finance Component    Other Finance             1.46     8.0      1.46    10.6
Institutional Strengthening and  Institutional Development  2.43  13.3  2.38   17.2
Project Management Component                               _
Total Project Costs                        18.28    100.0     13.80   100.0
Total Financing Required                       18.28   100.0     13.80    100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project would continue to support the Government's ongoing reform and reconstruction
process by responding quickly to the widespread poverty challenge. The project would also continue to
capitalize on avenues for action established during the PPAP through the NS1FT, government and donor
support by working with communities, vulnerable groups, and NGOs to tackle the problems of restoring,
equipping, and maintaining dilapidated or destroyed infrastructure. Through its sponsored micro-project
cornponent, the project would further provide a small demonstration effect on how to assist particularly
vulnerable groups, who to date have received little social assistance outside of charity. There are four
particular areas where reforms will be pursued.
(i)    The project would extend further the work of the NSIFT in targeting poor communities and
groups for assistance through a targeting strategy based on geographic and proxy poverty indicators. This
work would be facilitated by the results of the survey of living standards carried out in Year 1999, the
World Bank poverty assessment of the following year, the new Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, the
social assessment done for the design of the SPAP by the World Bank, and the NSIFT's own assessments
from its community participation work, other donor agencies' data, and a beneficiary assessment to be
undertaken during project preparation. Greater outreach to especially vulnerable and poor groups would
be achieved through modified selection criteria favoring proposals from selected groups and through IEC
efforts that would raise public awareness among target groups.
(ii)   The project would continue to develop the private sector through private contracting for micro-
projects and through new productive/entrepreneurial micro-projects, and would test sponsored
community-level approaches for the maintenance of infrastructure and the provision of services.
(iii)  The project would work with other donors and the government to establish a guiding framework
for micro finance that continues to target the poorest and most vulnerable.
(iv)   Particular emphasis would be placed on strengthening NSIFT's financial and accounting
management systems, as well as the MIS system, and also in guiding other micro-finance institutions to
sound financial management and business advice. These two areas are key to NSIFT's ability to expand
its program and continuously leam from its experience on issues of cost effectiveness and targeting.
18



3. Benefits and target population:
The proposed project would target those groups classified as vulnerable poor and extreme poor,
including unemployed or working poor, war- and drought-affected villages, the disabled, the elderly, and
female-headed households. The proposed SPAP is expected to have benefits in several key areas.
a. Micro-Projects.
Based on results of the PPAP, it is expected that the proposed 340 micro-project grants would
benefit between 400,000 to 700,000 people, and that the majority of the micro-projects would benefit the
poorest people, i.e. those living in rural and particularly mountainous/remote areas and those at a
particular disadvantage (female-headed households, people with disabilities, the elderly, and other
economically and socially marginalized groups). The benefits would accrue from improvements in the
availability, regularity and/or quality of basic services and infrastructure, capacity-building through
training and technical assistance, and small income-generation opportunities. The employment effects of
the proposed project would be marginal due to the small size of the credit relative to the demand for
employment. However, the project would be expected to provide short-term earnings opportunities to
some of the unemployed and underemployed. Given the challenges of outreach to remote and isolated
groups, the project cycle may be slower than in the first project, as more time will be needed to gain
access to, and to train, remote and under-skilled communities.
b. Micro-Finance.
Micro-finance is a tool to support employment generation and increased household incomes
through self-employment and micro-business development, especially for women, who are the
overwhelming majority of the present project's micro-finance client base. The project would meet the
immediate need to provide access to credit on a wider scale than achieved under the PPA. An estimated
total of 10,000-15,000 clients are expected to benefit over four years from the new micro-finance
program. This number would more than three times the number who benefited from the pilot project.
c. Institution Building.
The NSIFT has faced the challenges of institution building and is now better able to meet its
goals of transparent and accountable processes at the community level. NSIFT's organizational structure
has experienced three fine tuning exercises as its program has expanded and evolved. Support to NSIFT,
as the implementation agency for the proposed SPAP, would move the NSIFT from a somewhat tenuous
institution to one with a strong track record of poverty alleviation; and would therefore strengthen the
country's capacity to deliver poverty targeted programs. The SPAP would continue to focus on capacity
and institution building not only for the NSIFT but also at the community/kishlak level for the micro-
project committees and other local level institutions (such as local government, mahalla committees, local
NGOs and associations) in the form of training on project management, community communication and
reporting, participatory techniques, entrepreneurship, fundraising, and other needs articulated by the
communities. The micro-finance component of the project would also lead to an increased national
capacity to target and assist poor and vulnerable groups through income generation.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
a. Institutional Arrangements.
The NSEFT would be the implementing agency for the project on behalf of the Government. The
revised regulations governing NSIFT specify the management structure and functions of the NSIFT and
19



its management bodies. The NSIFT's highest administrative authority is the Board of the NSIFT. The
Prime Minister of the country appoints the Chairman of the Board. The Board composition and functions
have been revised from those under the PPAP. In addition to the Chairman, there are two more
representatives from the Government, three representatives of NGOs with one of these to be from an
international NGO. The Executive Director of the NSIFT is also an ex-officio member of the Board.
Board meetings are to be held quarterly and can be held more often at the initiative of at least three
members of the Board.
The Board's functions include, inter alia:
*      Definition of the policy and strategy of the NSIFT.
*      Approval of the Operations Manual of the NSIFT.
*      Annual review and approval of the budget of the NSIFT.
*      Approval of the annual investment plan.
*      Approval of sub-projects above a threshold specified in the Operations Manual.
*      Approval of the management structure of the NSIFT.
The NSIFT operates under the framework of an Executive Committee (EC). The EC is headed
by the Executive Director and includes the heads of the departments within NSIFT. The EC's functions
include, inter alia:
*      Implementation of the NSIFT's objectives as defined in the Government Regulation.
*      Development and approval of terms of reference for staff and staff selection.
*      Approval of tenders conducted under the project.
*      Approval of sub-projects to be financed.
*      Submit quarterly and annual reports to the Board.
*      Organize training of staff members.
b. Implementation of Micro-Projects.
Implementation of the community-based micro-projects would continue along the lines already in
use by the NSIFT, although some changes would be introduced to the micro-project cycle to encourage
greater community ownership. Building on community participation methods already used in the PPAP,
field officers would undertake rapid assessment of the regional setting in collaboration with the regional
steering committees, develop local criteria for the selection of communities for micro-projects, and meet
with local representatives and communities (a rapid participatory assessment) to introduce the program.
The field officer would determine the type of technical assistance needed for the community to formulate
a project proposal, and would also assess whether it would be possible for the community to undertake its
own procurement and contracting arrangements (including assessment of local availability of banks or
credit unions, the existence of accounting/business skills in the community, etc.). Special outreach
activities might be required in the case of communities of vulnerable groups, such as extra meetings to
raise community awareness and discuss the sorts of projects that they are eligible to apply for, or special
transport arrangements to enable people to travel to meetings. During the community meeting to discuss
micro-project plans and development priorities, each selected community would elect a micro-project
committee, which would then select a coordinator who would be primarily responsible for the community
activities. The meeting would also be used to determine a community action plan for development
activities, part of which could be developed further by the implementation committee into a specific
micro-project proposal for funding by the NSIFT. The micro-project committee members would work
with NSIFT staff to develop a micro-project proposal for funding by the NSIFT. A sustainability plan
would be developed with each micro-project proposal, and possibilities for post-completion matching
20



grant-funded activities discussed. The costs, in terms of time and budget, of any technical assistance and
training required to undertake micro-project implementation or to train intermediary agencies would be
built into the micro-project budget and cycle. Where possible, the implementing agencies themselves
would be responsible for contracting works and for supervising implementation. A follow-up community
meeting would be held at the time of bid opening, and a possible further meeting held at the time of
micro-project completion. Micro-projects with a budget or more than $50,000 would continue to require
the World Bank's "no-objection" as well as the approval by the NSIFT Board.
In the case of "sponsored" micro-projects, selection criteria would be developed during project
preparation for proposals that help particularly vulnerable groups. These procedures for sponsored micro-
projects would allow for additional flexibility, time and training. Separate criteria governing income-
generating projects would also be developed. The micro-project needs to comply with the NSIFT's
sponsored micro-project objectives and should not duplicate services which are already provided by the
Government, or which are provided but which are not sufficient and are not reaching the targeted groups.
Duration of implementation and plans to cover operating costs after NSIFT funding is finished.
Commitment of the community, local public authorities, and state institutions to support the viability of
micro-project results.
All micro-projects would continue to be closely supervised by NSIFT staff working with the local
communities. Monitoring reports would be shared with the community, and micro-project financial
reports publicly posted for review by the community. Micro-project implementation would also continue
to be supervised by the NSIFT headquarters staff.  At the completion of each micro-project, NSIFT
would conduct an initial evaluation, and the NSIFT staff would then continue to work with the micro-
project committee to ensure the implementation of the maintenance plan and to help design possible
follow-up activities. Nine months after micro-project completion, the NSIFT would conduct a second
evaluation.
c. Implementation of Micro-Finance Component.
The implementation of this component of the project would continue to be based on the
experience of working with Sitorai Najot, but expanding the scope to include new micro-finance NGOs.
Local NGOs chosen for financing during the main phase will be selected on a competitive basis according
to agreed-upon evaluation and selection criteria, and using the standard CGAP Appraisal Format. This
competition will be organized annually. Intermediaries seeking support should be able to demonstrate
their experience serving clients, quality of services provided, and institutional sustainability, either in
current operations or through credible plans underpinned by concrete measures.
Only the poorest groups would be eligible for loans of small amounts from the MFIs. This
component would also test various other (savings led) approaches, including group lending through
village committees or micro-project committees. On an experimental basis, communities implementing
micro-projects financed under the first component would be encouraged to consider accessing micro-
loans to maximize micro-project outputs. For example, community members who have received a grant
to restore a local water supply for drinking and small plot irrigation could be eligible for micro-loans as
individuals or as a solidarity group to pay for seed and fertilizer to improve the productivity of plots and
increase household incomes. Inversely, women's groups that have received micro-finance support might
be apply for a micro-project grant to build a daycare center so that they have more time for income-
generating activities.
21



Within the NSIFT, a small Micro-finance Unit has been established with responsibility for
monitoring and evaluating the programs which would be supported under the project. Under the project,
NSIFT would also develop its MIS system and financial management systems for micro-finance lending.
d. Financial Arrangements.
The Government of Tajikistan will be the Borrower of the Credit. Project activities will be
implemented by the NSIFT. Accounts and records for the Project will be maintained by the NSIFT's
Finance Department, which will procure and implement a financial management system (FM system), as
prescribed by World Bank policy, capable of producing Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs). NSIFT
will develop and implement a new financial management manual. This manual will be reviewed and
revised as appropriate by the consultants who will implement the FM system. Books of accounts for the
project will be maintained by NSIFT based on International Accounting Standards. NSIFT will prepare
quarterly FMRs as well as financial statements for the Project in accordance with formats agreed with
IDA. These financial reports will be submitted to IDA within 45 days of the end of each quarter. The
first quarterly FMR will be submitted after the end of the first quarter in which disbursements commence,
probably around October 15, 2002. There will be annual audits of the project financial statements, as well
as semi-annual audits of the operations under the micro-projects component. Audits will be performed by
independent private sector auditors acceptable to IDA, and in accordance with International Standards on
Auditing (ISA) and the World Bank's guidelines on auditing as stated in the FARAH Handbook and other
guidance that might be provided by IDA. The reports on micro-projects will contain an opinion on the
reasonability of the amounts reported under this component. Annual audit reports will be submitted to
IDA no later than six months after the end of the fiscal year to which it relates (i.e. by June 30 of each
year). Reports on micro-projects will be submitted no later than three months after the end of the
semester to which they correspond. The cost of the audits will be eligible for financing from the IDA
Credit. There is the possibility that IDA and the Govemment might agree to appoint auditors under a
project portfolio-wide basis agreement. This will not change the basic agreements stated above.
Participating NGOs will be required to provide annual external audits of financial statements in
accordance with terms of reference agreed with IDA, by reputable external auditors acceptable to IDA. In
addition, the participating NGOs will maintain proper accounts for the micro-loans and other operations
financed by the project, including supporting procurement and disbursement documents, which would be
audited annually by external auditors acceptable to IDA.
Disbursements from the IDA Credit will be made based on traditional disbursement methods (i.e.,
frorn the Special Account with reimbursements made based on Statements of Expenditures and full
documentation, and direct payments from the Credit Account). To facilitate timely project
implementation, NSIFT will establish, maintain and operate, under terms and conditions acceptable to
IDA, a separate Special Account to be opened in a local bank acceptable to IDA. NSIFT will also open a
bank account in local currency to deposit the government's counterpart contribution.
Risks. It is recommended that the SPAP should be considered as a high-risk project because of
the difficulties in implementing projects within the Tajik context in general, and the difficult history of
the PPAP in particular. Management and accounting risks are now considered to be manageable with
(i) the progress made since the beginning of Year 2001 in instituting financial management, procurement
and accounting reforms; (ii) the carrying out in August 2001 of a financial management assessment that
rated the NS1FT as "satisfactory"; and (iii) the institution of regular 6-monthly financial management
audits by an independent firm. Nonetheless, the various risk-mitigation measures are highlighted here in
view of their importance for the successful implementation of the proposed new project, and they would
need to be monitored consistently through the course of its implementation.
22



Other project risks include the continued need for stewardship of NSIFT by a dynamic manager
who can keep staff morale high and ensure the smooth running of the operation; the adequacy of
counterpart funds being made available by the Government to the NSIFT in a timely manner; lack of
capacity of NSIFT staff to undertake significantly more projects and types of activities, some in new
fields; and lack of capacity at the community level to develop, implement, and manage their own projects.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
A social fund-type mechanism is recommended both because the NSIFT is already established,
operational and effective in implementing micro-projects and micro-finance activities, and because of the
good track record of SIFs around the world in addressing the needs of particularly vulnerable and poor
people in a demand-driven, participatory way. Alternatives to the project and reasons for rejection
include:
(a) Reformn of the social assistance svstem through the Ministr, of Labor and Social Protection.
Consideration was given to an entirely different social protection project that would have focused
on the institutional reform of the social protection system and would have been based in the Ministry of
Labor and Social Protection. Certainly there is urgent need for external support for the reform of the
social assistance system. However, this idea was rejected for the purposes of the present project for
several reasons: (i) the NSIFT institution has already been created, it would not continue without World
Bank financing, and to end its financing now would mean dismantling an organization that already has
taken several years to build; (ii) the NSIFT institution has a considerable amount of potential and is well-
suited to undertake the micro-project and micro-finance initiatives proposed; and (iii) the NSIFT enjoys a
unique position in Tajikistan, as being the only large institution focused exclusively on poverty
alleviation. While the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection is involved with social protection issues, it
does not deal exclusively with poverty issues. Given the urgent need to fund projects for the poorest
groups, the NSIFT is the most appropriate financing vehicle.
(b)    Continue work with international NGOs.
Three of the four programs funded under the PPAP were rated as highly successful, and the idea
of continuing funding through those organizations was considered. This was rejected for the following
reasons: (i) the existence of locally-available NGOs for many of the activities to be funded under the
NSIFT, especially as building local NGO expertise would contribute more effectively to the country's
development; and (ii) the proposed SPAP would anyway continue close collaboration with many of the
partners funded under the first project, regardless of whether the partners are financed or not.
(c)    Undertake a larger project.
Poverty is a serious enough problem in Tajikistan that consideration was given to funding a much
larger project. However, this idea was rejected because: (i) the absorptive capacity of the NSIFT is
limited, and it might not be able to use additional funds effectively at present; (ii) a carefully phased
program of support through NSIFT is appropriate in view of the experience under the PPAP; and (iii) a
project of the proposed size over four years would allow for the development of a more comprehensive
poverty alleviation strategy, and make it more feasible to plan a larger project later.
23



(d)    No project.
Given the difficulties of the first PPAP, consideration was given to abandoning a follow-on
project. This option was rejected for several reasons: (i) the NSIFT, though troubled in the past, is now
emerging from its problems and is equipped to handle a second phase; it has adhered to a strict action
plan to improve its financial and accounting procedures; and it has succeeded in rejuvenating itself and
rebuilding trust in its capacity to deliver aid to the poor; (ii) the first project was envisioned only as a pilot
project, to be replicated if NSTFT achieved sufficient capacity, which it has now done; (iii) the NSIFT has
received endorsement by the highest levels of Govenmment, as shown by the personal commitment of the
President and by the prominent discussion of NSIFT in the Government's recent Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper work.
(e)    Delay the proposed SPAP, and begin planning for it only after the closure of the PPAP.
This option would afford the opportunity to design the follow-on project at a slower pace.
However, it was rejected for the following reasons: (i) the momentum for the proposed new project is
becoming very strong in the Govemment and among other key partners, and there is a new credibility and
confidence in the NSIFT; (ii) considerable time and attention has already been invested in considering the
future of the NSIFT; (iii) any slowdown in planning for the second project would probably result in the
closure of NSIFT offices and loss of key staff and institutional memory; and (iv) the extent of poverty in
Tajikistan is such that new poverty alleviation efforts should begin without undue delay.
(f)    Subsume NSIFT micro-finance activities into a larger financial sector project.
A Bank-financed financial sector project is currently under preparation that would create an apex
lending organization, and the possibility of moving the NSIFT micro-finance activities to this project was
considered. The idea was rejected for the following reasons: (i) the NSIFT is ready right now to begin
implementation of micro-finance activities, and has the technical capacity and appropriate partners to
implement this work; and (ii) the small number of micro-finance NGOs doing micro-lending could easily
be supported on an interim basis through the SPAP, without compromising or prejudicing the possibility
or desirability of a more comprehensive financial sector project later. To ensure that the NSIFT activities
complement the preparations being made for the financial sector project, both World Bank teams are
collaborating closely on project design issues, including through joint missions.
24



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
-    Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                         Project                   (PSR) Ratings
.  .                         (Bank-financed projects-only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                        Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Emergency social and economic         Post-Conflict Emergency             S              S
infrastructure recovery in Karetegin  Reconstruction Project (Cr. 3037-
Valley                                TJ) (completed)
Reduction of compensation arrears. Peace  Post-Conflict Rehabilitation (Cr.  S           S
accord implementation.               3022-TJ) (completed)
Social expenditures protection.      Structural Adjustment Credit I      U               S
(Cr. 3122-TJ) (completed)
Basic education system reform.        Education Reform Project (Cr.       S              S
3214-TJ) (ongoing)
Agriculture infrastructure rehabilitation.  Farm Privatization Support    S              S
Provision of credits and community based  Project (Cr. 3240-TJ) (ongoing)
social services.
Public administration reform.         IBTA2 (Cr. 3249-TJ) (ongoing)       S              S
Disaster prevention.                  Lake Sarez Risk Mitigation         U               S
Project (Cr. 3388-TJ) (ongoing)
Primary health system reform.        Primary Health Care Project (Cr.     S              S
3324-TJ) (ongoing)
Quality of rural life enhancement.   Rural Infrastructure                 S              S
Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 3387)
(ongoing)
Support to the key elements of the    Structural Adjustment Credit II     U              S
Government's poverty reduction strategy  (Cr. 3539-TJ) (ongoing)
Support to the key elements of the    Pilot Poverty Alleviation Project   S              S
Government's poverty reduction strategy  (Cr. 2946-TJ) (ongoing)
Improvement of safety, reliability and  Dushanbe Water Supply Project
efficiency of water supply in Dushanbe.  (under preparation)
Financial sector development          Financial Institution and
Enterprise Support Project (under
preparation)
Other development agencies
AsDB                                 Social Sector Rehabilitation
Project: Health, Education, Social
Protection/Leninabad, Khatlon;
Social Safety Net TA: Social
Protection; Social Sector
Development Project: Health,
Education (planned); Micro-
finance Project
1P/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatsfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
Note: Almost all INGOs shifted their activities from humanitarian to development stage with focus on community mobilization.
25



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Lessons Learned from the PPAP
The project follows and builds upon the PPAP which began in July 1997 and was implemented
by the NSIFT and three international NGOs. Experience with the PPAP afforded many lessons, both
good and bad. Overall, the pilot project confirmed that many communities are motivated to work together
in selection and implementation of small infrastructure micro-projects, and are willing to contribute to
costs. Small private contractors emerged in response to the competitive bidding procedure used by the
NSIFT, even in remote regions, and an acceptable quality of work was produced in most cases. The most
successful projects in terms of quality, impact and sustainability were those in which the community was
directly involved in all stages of micro-project design and implementation. Along with these successes,
which will be reflected in the design of the proposed SPAP, the deep problems within the NSIFT itself
provided a wealth of leaming opportunities to be incorporated in the second phase.
a. Lending Activities
There is a need to ensure that micro-projects do not exclude the poorest through an inappropriate
level of required community contributions, and for better targeting and outreach to ensure that projects
help the very poorest. Further, it is important to involve the local government at an early stage of project
development, and to improve initial information and education activities and campaigns and other public
awareness activities. Greater outreach to the public at large, including to especially vulnerable groups of
potential beneficiaries, will help to build public trust in the goals of NSIFT, educate communities about
their role in the micro-project cycle, reduce the potential for capture of micro-projects by local elite, and
create more demand for NSIFT activities.
It is critically important for operational procedures regarding community participation, tendering
and contracting actually to be followed. It is also important for the NSIFT to ensure the accuracy of its
initial cost estimates for proposed micro-projects, particularly given the new types of micro-projects to be
funded, for which unit costs are not yet available, and also to include an accurate estimate of the time
needed for projects. Moreover, all of the requirements for a micro-project should be fully addressed (for
example, providing equipment for a school as well as the building), not just 50 percent (for example,
providing a gas heater but no piping to take the heating to local houses). When possible, a phased
approach to micro-project lending should be adopted to allow sufficient time for more complex projects
and to allow for training and capacity-building activities to take place. Micro-projects should be kept
simple enough to be designed and maintained by communities. Finally, the micro-finance component
was successful, though overhead costs were relatively high, and should be expanded through use of cost-
effective local NGOs working throughout Tajikistan.
b. Institutional
The first project showed that training is critically important at every level: within the NSIFT, to
build institutional capacity; in the communities, to ensure they are capable of implementing and
maintaining projects; and with intermediary NGOs, if used as implementing agencies, to ensure they are
equipped to deal effectively with their clients. Communities themselves generally have little capacity to
implement micro-projects without adequate training, and training for them should be built and budgeted
in the micro-project cycle.
Lack of social cohesion as a result of the post-conflict environment continues to pose challenges.
Allowing enough time to ensure widespread buy-in from stakeholders should be the focus of the micro-
26



project cycle. Care should be taken that micro-project timetables are not rushed simply for institutional
reasons, and that genuine community involvement and participation are sought and developed - even if
this takes more time.
High-level borrower commitment is of utmost importance. There needs to be clear demonstrated
commitment on the part of the Borrower through the transfer of counterpart funds to the project (perhaps
through conditions of effectiveness and/or annual covenants). Further, political interference must be
avoided when appointing key NSIFT staff. The NSLFT needs strong management and leadership, and a
strong Board that can help defend its interests. Finally, the first project demonstrated that an investment
plan for NS1FT is essential, and it needs to be updated annually.
c. Lessons Learned from Tajikistan Portfolio and from Other Social Fund Operations:
The proposed project builds on the experience accumulated through implementation of 20 IDA-
funded projects since 1993. This experience reaffirms the need to pay particular attention to issues of
governance, the necessity of investing in training staff in Bank procedures, and, because of the difficult
country context and the geographical remoteness of Tajikistan, the need to prepare early to ensure that
adequate international technical advice is available to travel to Tajikistan.
In addition, The World Bank's 15 years of experience investing in social funds worldwide also
provides lessons for the proposed project. These include the need to: (i) provide technical advice of a
high standard that builds capacity both within the micro-project cycle and in the social fund; (ii) provide
technical assistance for beneficiaries, particularly the poorest and those with little capacity, to prepare and
implement project proposals; (iii) ensure that the micro-project genuinely responds to a perceived
community need and is "owned" by the community; (iv) provide information and outreach to the
communities; (v) keep micro-projects simple enough to be designed and maintained by communities;
(vi) to involve beneficiaries as much as possible in every stage of project design; and preferably for
beneficiaries to manage the micro-project; and (vii) involve local government at an early stage of project
development to ensure commitment.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government (including the President himself) has discussed and requested the preparation of
the second project with the Bank's management, and has shown a keen interest in the development of
NSIFT and the second project. Working groups have been organized to discuss the implementation
arrangements for the new project, and counterparts have been appointed.  Conversations with
representatives from key ministries indicate a high level of interest in seeing the second project succeed.
The need for the project was confirmed in August 2001 by the State Economnic Advisor.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank brings to bear its global experience in helping design social funds and micro-finance
programs worldwide. Within Tajikistan, the Bank maintains an effective link with the Government for
policy-guidance and institutional development in poverty reduction and post-war reconstruction through
its dialogue and ongoing investment lending program, of which the proposed project is a part. The project
is an opportunity for the Bank to use its development experience and influence to catalyze more effective
collaborative networks with donors in support of the Government's reform efforts. And, finally, the
NSIFT has already provided support to many of the ongoing Bank initiatives through its experienced
staff. For example, advice in procurement procedures, recruitment policy and community level
interventions was provided during the initial phase to the project implementation units of the Post
Conflict Emergency Reconstruction Project, the Education Project and the Health Reform Project. The
27



NSIFT also assisted the Ministry of Education in recruiting engineering consultants, as well as in
estimating the costs for the refurbishment of the first four pilot schools.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
[I Cost Benefit     NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
Z Cost effectiveness
nii Other (specify)
Because of the demand-driven nature of the micro-projects, the small size of micro-projects,
and their wide-spread geographical distribution across the country, conventional ex-ante economic or
financial analysis will not be carried out at the appraisal stage. However, micro-projects to be financed
under the project are expected to yield high economic returns, because the project would finance simple
but cost-effective public infrastructure and services as financed under the PPAP (water supply, schools,
health clinics), with a small portion funding newer social and entrepreneurial initiatives. These new social
services and business opportunities for target population groups are expected to result in: (i) higher
economic productivity of vulnerable groups, particularly women; (ii) increased agricultural and economic
productivity of micro-entrepreneurs ; (iii) increased availability of preventive health and social care for
target populations; and (iv) higher-quality social care and educational opportunities for especially
vulnerable groups.
While full ex-ante economic analysis would not be carried out, a number of selection criteria
would be used to screen out overly costly investments. First, the selection of micro-projects would
primarily rely on demand from the villages and communities, which would normally be required to
provide an upfront financial contribution of 10 percent. In addition, the NSIFT would prioritize
applications from villages and communities according to several socio-economic indicators, including the
number of beneficiaries and per beneficiary investment cost. In addition, an ex-post economic analysis
would be carried out on a sample of micro-projects during the mid-term review to confirm the economic
viability of the micro-projects.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Fiscal Impact:
The Project would finance local public infrastructure; therefore, the Project would not aim to
fully recover the capital cost of infrastructure micro-projects from beneficiaries. The total estimated cost
(including taxes, estimated at $2.35 million) of the proposed Project over four years is $18.28 million, of
which $13.80 million would be IDA funding. It is proposed that the country allocation for the SPAP
should be limited to just 10 percent of total estimated costs (with IDA funding 90 percent), net of taxes,
due to the extremely limited revenue and fiscal situation of the Government. Of the proposed 10 percent
country contribution, it is proposed that roughly half would come from the Government budget, and the
other half from the beneficiary communities themselves (although in some limited cases, the poorest and
most vulnerable groups might be required to contribute less than 10 percent for micro-projects if they are
unable to provide this funding). Agreement needs to be reached with the Ministry of Finance on the
provision in the budget that would be required to cover both taxes and also the Government's counterpart
contribution to the proposed Project. During appraisal the 2002 budget allocation was reviewed against
the needs of the proposed Project and found to be sufficient. One of the conditions of negotiations is a
28



confirmation from the Minister of Finance that an adequate allocation will be included in the 2003 budget
to finance NSIFT activities. A dated covenant of the Project will be that counterpart funds be reviewed
annually and budgeted for the upcoming fiscal year.
By alleviating infrastructure bottlenecks and stimulating local economic activity, the Project is
expected to contribute to higher tax revenues for the Government in the medium and long term. In
addition, the Project would strengthen the capacity of local governments and communities to take
responsibility for local economic development, thereby alleviating over time the dependency on central
government transfers. Micro-project operations and maintenance cost would be paid mainly by local
communities or local governments. Careful attention will be given to ensuring the financial sustainability
of infrastructure micro-projects. Participating communities would be required to submit a detailed
operational and maintenance plan that includes: (i) estimate of the operations and maintenance cost; and
(ii) financial responsibility of users and local governments, including direct labor contribution. In
addition, NSIFT staff will continue to monitor the status of micro-project operations and maintenance
after micro-project completion.
3. Technical:
The NSIFT is instituting new micro-project procedures based on community procurement and
increased community participation, financing new types of projects, and reaching new groups of clients
through increased geographic coverage and outreach to particularly vulnerable groups. At present,
NSIFT requires greater technical skills to undertake community procurement, to evaluate new types of
projects, and to reach out to clients whose capacity to implement micro-projects is particularly low.
Special emphasis needs to be given to ensuring the technical and financial soundness of the
sponsored micro-projects, since they will cover new areas of lending for NSIFT. For social service-type
projects, attention needs to be paid to local norms and standards of care, with appropriate expertise being
hired to ensure project soundness and sustainability. For entrepreneurial and other productive projects,
performance standards need to be developed to evaluate micro-project impact.
There is need for a review of the willingness of the Government to put in place a regulatory
framework for the provision of micro-finance through NGOs, and for preserving access to micro-finance
by the poorest. A CGAP mission took place in February 2002 and discussed with the Government the
country's micro-finance regulatory framework and sectoral issues affecting micro-finance. Lessons from
this on-going work will be important for the implementation of the SPAP.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
In every micro-project assessment, there is need for a capacity assessment of prospective
implementing agencies (NGOs, local governments, and communities) to undertake micro-projects, and to
implement appropriate capacity-building activities as necessary. Since many micro-projects will be
undertaken almost exclusively by the implementing agencies themselves, it is especially important that
basic accounting and business management skills are present in the communities.
4.2 Project management:
There needs to be considerable emphasis placed on institutional strengthening and capacity
building activities for NSIFT staff and Board members so that they are equipped to undertake an enlarged
program of lending and an enhanced set of policy formulation responsibilities. In particular, given the
29



history of the PPAP, performance monitoring and evaluation and transparency of operations at the micro-
project level and at NSIFT need to be strengthened
4.3 Procurement issues:
The procurement capacity of the NSIFT was assessed during project appraisal and was found to
be satisfactory. Procurement will be undertaken largely along the same lines as in the PPAP. However,
the following will be done under the SPAR:
The staff of the procurement unit will have continuous training before the effectiveness of the
SPAP and also through the duration of the SPAP.
*      For any new types of goods or services to be procured under the micro-projects component, such
as equipment purchases, the procurement rules would be revised as necessary.
*      A database has been compiled on materials and labor prices, which is regularly updated. As the
NSIFT begins to finance new activities under the "sponsored" micro-projects component, the unit
cost database will need to be updated.
*      In addition, unit costs for training and capacity-building activities would also be tracked.
*      Community-based procurement is being tested in five projects using PPF funding. Based on this
experience, other communities would be allowed to participate in community-based procurement
provided that they fulfill the qualifying requirements outlined in the Operations Manual.
*      Procurement training will be systematically organized by NSIFT, built into the micro-project
cycle, and reflected in each micro-project budget as some procurement under NSIFT-financed
micro-projects would be carried out by the Implementing Agency (local government or NGOs)
that presently lack capacity and familiarity with project procurement procedures.
*      For the micro-finance component, micro-finance local NGOs would bid competitively for
contracts worth up to a total amount of US$800,000.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Tajikistan is an emerging post-conflict country with weak public financial management capacities
and high perceived levels of institutional corruption. The SPAP is to be managed by the NSIFT.
Currently NSIFT is completing implementation of the PPAP and is using a combination of a
computerized accounting system and computer-assisted records to account for the PPAP's resources,
which does not fully satisfy the entity's needs. The development of a fully satisfactory financial
management and accounting system will require some consulting assistance.
A review was undertaken in January 2001 to determine whether the financial management
arrangements within NSIFT are acceptable to IDA. These financial management arrangements include
the entities' systems of accounting, financial reporting, auditing, and internal controls.  The
corresponding financial management assessment report is included in Annex 6b. Although the NSTFT
currently satisfies IDA's minimum financial management requirements, it needs to improve its
capabilities. The NSlFT's financial management capacity is considered reasonably capable of recording
transactions and balances, supporting the preparation of regular financial statements, and safeguarding
the entities' assets. NSIFT is subject to auditing arrangements acceptable to IDA.
The draft accounting and financial flows for the Project are described in detail in Annex 6 (b).
The financial flows will comprise mainly of: (i) transfers of funds from the Special Account to the local
currency account for payment of expenses, and advances to micro-project contractors and payment of
their invoices; and (ii) direct payment from Special Account to foreign consultancy firms for technical
assistance and audit services.
30



From a financial management perspective, the Project is considered a high risk operation for the
following reasons: (i) perceived corruption risk in the country; (ii) counterpart funds risk; and (iii) weak
financial management capacity in NGOs and public sector institutions. These risks are considered as
manageable based on the experience of NSIFT with the PPAP and due to the various risk-mitigation
measures taken or to be taken. These include careful selection of eligible micro-projects, increased
monitoring through frequent supervision by IDA and semiannual audits; the Government's agreement to
provide an initial advance of the counterpart contribution and its assurances that counterpart funds will
be budgeted and provided on a regular basis; strict criteria for the selection of NGOs, appointment of
qualified financial management staff and development of internal controls satisfactory to IDA.
The project's financing plan, which includes the Credit from IDA, and the project's planned
expenditures have been realistically estimated. The micro-projects and micro-loans financed by the Credit
funds are expected to continue to bring the estimated benefits to their
5. Environmental:          Environmental Category: F (Financial Intermediary Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Experience with the PPAP demonstrates that micro-projects can have a positive environmental
effect. Under the earlier project, sufficient institutional capacity for environmental review of micro-
projects was developed in the NSIFT which will continue to be responsible for implementing the
proposed SPAP. A number of micro-projects have been for the provision of gas supply to households for
cooking and heating purposes. These have contributed to a decrease in the cutting of trees in a country
facing severe deforestation. Several of the micro-projects have been for the removal of garbage from
streets and for the development of a systematic approach to garbage disposal. To control and prevent any
possible negative environmental situations, the wastes of health centers, the wastewater of sewerage
systems, the irrigation water of agriculture infrastructure and water distribution networks will all be
disposed of in an adequate manner. The formulation of infrastructure design and the selection of
equipment for specific micro-projects takes into consideration elements to mitigate any negative impacts.
Garbage and materials used during construction are buried in authorized and controlled places. To
safeguard the environment, environmental criteria are incorporated into the appraisal of micro-projects.
Micro-projects submitted for financing would be subject to an environmental review according to
the environment section in the Operations Manual which has been reviewed in detail and found to be
satisfactory. This environmental review would identify potential micro-project environmental issues.
Based upon the significance of the environmental issues identified in this review, the beneficiary group
may be asked to prepare an environmental assessment and/or an environmental management plan
satisfactory to the NSIFT. Satisfactory completion of this requirement would be a condition of micro-
project approval.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
31



5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Various studies, including a social assessment undertaken as part of SPAP project preparation,
show that Tajikistan has a high rate of poverty and is still suffering the aftereffects of the recent civil war
in the form of ruined public infrastructure and continued poverty. Certain groups, including female-
headed households, children, and the elderly, have been particularly affected. All indicators of social
capital are low in Tajikistan, such as participation of citizens in decision making, government/civil society
cooperation, and citizens' perceptions of public institutions. Decisions at the local govemment level are
often made without participation of the community in the decision-making process, and individuals'
incentives to participate in public activities are very low. The key social issues to be addressed by the
prolect are: (i) the increasing poverty, especially in rural areas, due to effects of transition, drought, out-
migration and war; (ii) declining standards of social services due to reduced incomes of local and central
govemment, as well as communities; and (iii) the deterioration of social capital due to war and transition.
At the start of the SPAP, there will be a beneficiary assessment to help increase the effectiveness
and sustainability of micro-projects. It will (i) assess a number of existing micro-projects to strengthen
the project cycle procedures further; and (ii) work with some selected communities who will be covered
by the SPAP to understand their needs, priorities and capacities. With respect to the existing projects, the
beneficiary assessment will assess the NSIFT (how did people learn of its existence and what do they
know about it); the level of community participation in decision making regarding the micro-projects, and
implementation and maintenance; the satisfaction of the community with the micro-projects; and their
recommendation for improvements. With respect to new micro-projects, the beneficiary assessment will
analyze the characteristics, interests, aspirations and constraints of the people and communities who will
benefit from micro-projects. In general, the beneficiary assessment will try to answer the following
questions: (i) how best to reach the poor and meet their needs and priorities through different types of
micro-projects; and (ii) what are the capacities of and constraints facing the communities, community
organization, NGOs and institutions in order to best serve the intended communities. It is believed that
by tailoring the design and implementation of the SPAP to the needs and priorities of the stakeholders, the
chances for its success will increase.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Key stakeholders who will be involved in the proposed SPAP include micro-project committees
and beneficiaries; local government representatives; staff from the partner organizations of NSIFT (local
and international NGOs); program beneficiaries; private contractors; the NSIFT executive committee; and
the NSIFT staff themselves. These groups were all involved in the midterm evaluation process for the
PPAP, which forms the basis for the design of the SPAP. The NSIFT staff and its technical advisors have
contributed significantly to the formulation of the concept of the proposed SPAP. The NSIFT Board,
whose members include representatives from Government and civil society, would have an active role in
guiding the strategy and implementation of the NSIFT. Within the micro-project cycle, the key
stakeholders are project beneficiaries, who would be responsible for all stages of micro-project design and
implementation via their implementing agencies. These beneficiaries would be consulted throughout the
life of the SPAP through periodic beneficiary assessments.
32



6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Close collaboration with local NGOs and other donors is one of the underlying principles of the
SPAP. The project is based on the concept of community development with constant consultation with
stakeholders to identify and to implement projects. It collaborates directly with NGOs and with local
government to deliver micro-finance programs in particular. The NSIFT is also involved in the delivery
of technical assistance to other smaller NGOs, and will in future use local NGOs to deliver services to
beneficiaries who may be unable to formulate projects for themselves (e.g., street children, elderly
people). As mentioned above, civil society representatives also serve on the NSIFT Board.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The NSIFT has being re-structured so that it has a more accessible and representative Board
which could take a more active part in the governance of the program. In addition, the roles and
responsibilities of the regional offices has been reviewed and strengthened. Within the micro-project
cycle, NSIFT staff (or appointed NGO) would give extra training and technical assistance to those
communities, NGOs and groups who are unable to prepare and implement micro-project proposals by
themselves, and implementing agencies would receive training on business management, financial
management and accounting, and reporting techniques. More emphasis would be placed on public
awareness and outreach activities to encourage community participation in micro-projects; and when
possible, communities would be given responsibility for managing micro-projects.
6.5 How will the project monitor performnance in terms of social development outcomes?
In addition to poverty and social assessment work already carried out under the PPAP, a social
assessment have been incorporated into the project preparation work. The results from this assessment
will contribute to the development of the project monitoring and evaluation plan, and the management
information system (MIS). The social assessment would be repeated at SPAP mid-term review and
project closing to ascertain the impact of project activities on the beneficiaries and to build beneficiary
feedback into future NSIFT activities. The MIS will help to monitor project performance and will keep
track of monitoring indicators for each individual sub-project and the project as a whole.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                 Appl icability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)    ED Yes          El No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)            E Yes            3 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                             L Yes           9 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                               E Yes           2 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                           El Yes          1 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                            E Yes           1 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OPIBP 4.12)                   E Yes           1 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                       E Yes           1No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  E Yes     | No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*  E Yes           | No
33



7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
As noted above, micro-projects submitted for financing would be subject to an environmental
review according to the environment section in the Operations Manual.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The Government has signaled the importance that it attaches to the NSIFT by the personal
statements of commitment made by the President. This indication of Government support is an
encouraging sign for the sustainability of NSIFT. However, it is expected that the NSIFT will continue to
depend on external financial support for a significant period of time.
One of the key challenges of the proposed SPAP is to build further the institutional capacity of
the NSIFT so that it can make a lasting contribution to poverty alleviation in Tajikistan, both through
micro-finance and micro-project work, and through developing a base of research and expertise that the
Government can call on when designing its poverty alleviation strategy. For the NSIFT to achieve
sustainable results, training and technical assistance for staff members would be crucial.
Within the micro-project cycle, the sustainability of micro-projects would be crucial to ensuring
that development outcomes are achieved. A sustainability plan, based on the technical and financial
capacity of the community to do repairs and maintenance, would be developed for each micro-project. In
addition, ways to improve the sustainability of the micro-projects would be explicitly reviewed during the
forthcoming beneficiary assessment, and an action plan will be developed.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                  Risk Rating              Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Imnproved infrastructure will improve   M         Ernphasis on thorough community assessment and
access to services and markets                    participatory techniques during the micro-project
cycle to reassess community demand for proposal
and its feasibility.
The poorest groups are correctly        H         Utilization of poverty assessment baseline and
identified and targeted.                          strong monitoring and evaluation of
implementation and outcomes. Training of NSIFT
staff on how to work with the poorest and most
vulnerable groups. Launch of IEC campaign to
raise communities' awareness.
NSIFT avoids political pressure and     H         Continuous monitoring of micro-projects by NSIFT
bias in selection of mnicro-projects and          staff. Beneficiary assessments. Adherence to
partners.                                         micro-project selection criteria and NGO selection
criteria.
The poor make use of the social and     M         Emphasis on community participation in micro-
economic infrastructure which is                  project design and implementation.
created and then maintained.                      Adequate training and technical assistance for poor
communities. Ensuring that projects are simple
enough to be maintained by beneficiaries.
34



The most vulnerable groups are           H         Utilization of poverty assessment baseline and
correctly identified and targeted                  monitoring and evaluation of implementation and
outcomes. Training of NSIFT staff on how to work
with the poorest and most vulnerable groups.
Launch of an IEC campaign to raise communities'
awareness about NSIFT financing.
Training of implementing agencies is    M          NSIFT training plan to be developed and
sufficient to allow for effective micro-           implemented annually. Local consultants used to
project implementation.                            supplement training by NSIFT staff when required.
NSIFT staff equipped to deliver and      M         Strong emphasis on training of NSIFT staff.
procure training.                                  Implementation of training plan will be monitored
as one of key indicators of project progress.
Training of NGOs is sufficient to       M          NSIFT training plan to be developed and
allow for effective social service                 implemented annually. Local consultants used to
delivery.                                          supplement training by NSIFT staff when required.
The scale of the micro finance          M          Regular monitoring or program and size of micro
activities is sufficient to make a                 finance loans and reviews with beneficiaries to
difference to the living standards of              assess the adequacy of the loans.
the poor.
Micro-finance legal framework allows     S         Coordination of donor activities and technical
for smooth registration of micro-                  assistance support for strengthening legal
finance NGOS.                                      framework. Possible conditionality in donor-
supported policy-based operation.
Capacity building for new NGOs is       M          NSIFT training plan to be developed and
sufficient for them to be able to serve            implemented annually. Local consultants used to
clients.                                           supplement training by NSIFT staff when required.
Government remains committed to         M          Continuous dialogue with Government and NSIFT
NSIFT and its work program.                        Board about poverty reduction strategy and
effectiveness of the NSIFT
Counterpart funding is available to      H         Deposit by MOF to be a credit effectiveness
continue NSIFT activities.                         condition. Counterpart funds to be covenanted in
the legal agreement.
NSIFT remains committed to update       M          Training plan to include adequate financial
its skills in financial management and             management and procurement training.
procurement.                                       Implementation of training plan will be monitored
as one of key indicators of project progress.
NSIFT visited regularly by procurement and
financial management specialists.
NSIFT training to communities is        M          Strong emphasis on training of NSIFT staff.
effective.                                         Implementation of training plan will be monitored
as one of key indicators of project progress.
Local political interference avoided.   H          Continuous monitoring of micro-projects by NSIFT
staff. Beneficiary assessments.
Adherence to micro-project selection criteria and
NGO selection criteria.
Involvement of communities in selection and
design of micro-projects.
35



From Components to Outputs
Schedule of implementation not           M           Support for poverty reduction program may reduce
interrupted by extemal events.                      some of the socio-economic pressures.
Continuous supervision of NSIFT staff and
adherence to micro-project and NGO selection
criteria.
Needs determination process is            M          Involvement of communities in selection and
participative.                                       design of micro-projects.
NSIFT mechanisms are transparent          S          Board of the NSIFT is restructured and plays an
and effective.                                       active role in management, audits conducted every
six months; technical visits NSIFT regularly to
review progress.
NSIFT improves community based            S          Local offices work closely with NSIFT central
supervision.                                         office and supervise works and other micro-
projects adequately.
Contracting arrangements publicized within and
outside the commnunity.
Overall Risk Rating                      H
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
Security situation in the country.
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Risk             Type     Risk             Risk Minimization Measure
of Risk   Rating
The NSIFT has             M         H      An Acting Executive Director was appointed in early 2001,
struggled with                             and he has been addressing management problems quickly.
management and                             He was confirmed in his position in January 2002 and it is
governance issues,                         expected that the management issues will continue to be
including corruption.                      addressed.
This led eventually to
significant differences                    The Government and Bank management have discussed the
between government                         problems of the first project in great detail, and have
and the World Bank on                      reaffirmed their commitment to a second project. The
the management of the                      design of the SPAP has been done in close consultation
PPAP, which are only                       with the NSIFT staff, the NSIFT Board and the
now being addressed                        Government, including through an intensive-learning ICR
and mitigated.                             for the PPAP.
Audit reports are now up to date and new staff are being
hired for an internal audit unit. An international financial
management consultant will be hired to provide advice and
to mentor new staff.
Type of Risk - S (Social), E (Ecological), P (Pollution), G (Govemance), M (Management capacity), 0 (Other)
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
36



G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
(i)    Adoption by the TASIF (NSIFT) Board of the Operations Manual, satisfactory to IDA and
including the criteria for selection of micro-projects and the selection of micro-finance
institutions.
(ii)   The Subsidiary Agreement between the Government of Tajikistan and TASIF (NSIFT) will have
been executed.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Dated Covenants:
(i)    The Borrower shall annually, by September 30 of each year, review the provisions for
counterpart funds and confirm that an adequate allocation for project implementation will
be included in the budget for the following calendar year.
(ii)   NSIFT shall prepare and submit by December 31, 2004, a report on the mid-term review of the
project including progress on achievement of the objectives, results of the monitoring and
evaluation activities, procurement and technical review of completed micro-projects and a
beneficiary assessment.
(iii)  NSIFT shall complete an annual investment plan and an annual training plan for the
following year and submit them, by September 30 of each year, for review by the
Association.
(iv)   NSIFT shall submit to the Association a semi-annual audit, and evaluation of Part A of
the Project by March 31 and September 30 of each year.
H. Readiness for Implementation
] l.a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
3 1. b) Not applicable.
II 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
EJ 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[1 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
37



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
C 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
El 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
Michael Mills                      J. R                       Dennis de Tray
Team Leader                   ector Ma  rlDirector            Country Manager/Director
38



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
TAJIKISTAN: Second Poverty Alleviation Project
I  ;  x .   -Key Performanca              Data Conection
Hierarchy.of                  Indicators                    Strategy- -            Cntical Assumptions
- Ob!6ctives.                             .     .       ..
Sector-related CAS Goal:    Sector Indicators:            Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank
Mission)
To create employment-       Measured improvement in key   Poverty assessment update.  Economic situation continues to
intensive growth, and       indicators associated with the                            improve with no recurrence of
promote opportunities for a  living standards of the poor                             conflict.
majority of the poor.       communities and vulnerable
groups.
To improve the coverage,    Increase in productive        PRSP and Sector work.       Poverty reduction and the social
access and quality of social  employment opportunities for                            safety net are a key objective
services.                   the poor.                                                 for the Government.
To target assistance to the  Increase in access to and     Review of statistics on living  Continued Govemment support
poorest groups through a    utilization of social and     standards.                  of the NSIFT and its activities.
series of community-based   economic infrastructure.
and demand-driven                                         Beneficiary assessments.
interventions.              Increase in access among the
disadvantaged and vulnerable to  Management information
To enhance institutional    social assistance.            system reports and midterm
capacity.                                                 review.
Evidence that investments are
targeted to the poor and
vulnerable, and that they reflect
the needs and priorities of
targeted groups.
Project Development         Outcome I Impact              Project reports:            (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                  Indicators:
To improve the living       An increase in poor people's  Review of statistics on living  Poorest are correctly identified
standards of poor and       access to, and use of, social  standards.                 and targeted.
vulnerable people through   infrastructure and services.
micro-projects, micro-finance
services and community
empowerment in areas served
by the project.
90 percent of micro-projects  Information from project    Vulnerable groups are correctly
fully functioning and         MIS, beneficiary            identified and targeted.
adequately maintained after 9  assessments, yearly reports
months.                       by NSIFT, project
supervision reports, post-
I completion visits.         ___
39



75 percent of implementing   Beneficiary assessments,  Intermediary organizations
agencies (communities and    records and reports from  available to provide services for
sponsoring organizations)    micro-finance NGOs.       especially vulnerable groups.
continuing activities and/or
undertaking new activities after
completion of projects.
An increase in access to, and  Evaluation mission reports  NSIFT staff adequately
use of, projects and services  (Mid-term and ICR).     equipped to deliver community
through "sponsored" micro-                             training and facilitation.
projects, especially by
vulnerable groups (female-
headed households, the elderly,
people with disabilities, etc.).
Positive beneficiary         Technical audit reports (mid-  Training and communications
assessments of experiences with term and final).       strategies are sufficient to
participatory and collaborative                         encourage community
planning and implementation of                          empowerment.
micro-projects.
An increase in poor people's                            Poor communities and
(and especially vulnerable                              vulnerable groups, that have
group's) use of micro-credit                            access and need the services of
services offered under the                              micro-projects, would use these
project.                                               services made available to
them.
Output from each           Output Indicators:           Project reports:          (from Outputs to
Component:                                                                        Objective)
1. Micro-projects:
(i Continuation of micro-  340 micro-projects completed  Micro-project completion  Improved infrastructure will
proiects.                  on schedule and within budget  reports and location (taken  improve access to services and
Improved quality and       in communities lacking basic  from MIS).               markets.
availability of basic social  social and economic
and economic services in  infrastructure.               Beneficiary assessments.  The poorest groups are
communities receiving                                                             correctly identified and
micro-projects, maintained  An increase each year in the  Supervision reports.    targeted.
by the communities.        proportion of micro-projects
implemented through          Mid-term and end of project  NSIFT avoids political pressure
community procurement.       evaluations.               and bias in selection of micro-
projects and partners.
Beneficiary assessments.
The poor make use of the social
and economic infrastructure
which is created and then
maintained.
40



(ii) Sponsored micro-      At least 8 percent of NSIFT                           The most vulnerable groups are
proiects.                  micro-projects implemented as                         correctly identified and targeted
Increase in the number of  sponsored projects by or on
most vulnerable groups being  behalf of the most vulnerable                      Training of implementing
reached through the project.  groups.                                            agencies is sufficient to allow
for effective micro-project
Increase in the number and                            implementation.
capacity of non-govemmental
organizations to plan and                             NSIFT staff equipped to deliver
execute sponsored micro-                              and procure training.
projects on behalf of vulnerable
groups.                                                Training of NGOs is sufficient
to allow for effective social
service delivery.
2. Micro-finance.
Enhanced access to credit by  Number of micro-finance  Impact assessments.       The scale of the micro finance
low income groups.        groups receiving finance due to                        activities is sufficient to make a
project activities.         MIS reports.               difference to the living
standards of the poor.
Sustainability of the NGO   Midterm evaluation.
micro-finance programs.                                Micro-finance legal framework
NGO reports.              allows for smooth registration
Increase in the income of                              of micro-finance NGOS.
targeted groups.            Beneficiary assessments.
Capacity building for new
Number of clients graduating to                        NGOs is sufficient for them to
larger lending.                                        be able to serve clients.
3. Project Management and
Institutional Strengthening
(i) Project management    Continued successful         Supervision reports.      Govemment remains committed
implementation of NSIFT                                to NSIFT and its work program.
activities.
Counterpart funding is available
NSIFT operating costs not                             to continue NSIFT activities.
increasing above 10 percent of
value of micro-projects.
Average time elapsed between
the main stages of the micro-
project cycle (application to
approval and request for
payment and payment).
41



(ii) Institutional         NSIFT able to take on new    Supervision reports.      NSIFT remains committed to
Strengthening. Increase in  training and supervisory roles                        update its skills in financial
conmmunity capacity to     as part of new project.      Technical consultant      management and procurement.
prioritize development needs,                           evaluations.
design and apply for funds,  NSIFT becomes key                                    NSIFT training to communities
and utilize funds         information source on poverty  Supervision reports, midterm  is effective.
appropriately.             to Government.              review.
Local political interference
Number of community                                    avoided.
implementing agencies with   Beneficiary assessments.
improved capacity for needs
assessment and planning.     MIS reports.
Project Components /       Inputs: (bucdget for each    Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                             Outputs)
1. Micro-projects          US$14.11 million            MIS reports.               Schedule of implementation not
interrupted by external events.
(i) Continuation of micro-                              Disbursement reports.     Needs determination process is
projects                                                                          participative.
(ii) Sponsored micro-projects                           Supervision reports       NSIFT mechanisms are
transparent and effective.
2. Micro-finance           US$1.36 million                                        NSIFT improves community
based supervision.
(i) Support for local NGO                                                         Local conditions enable sound
micro-finance programs                                                            contractors to carry out work.
3. Project Management and  US$2.25 million                                        Subcontractors (including
Institutional Strengthening                                                       micro-project implementing
agencies) are competent.
(i) Project management                                                            Competent contractors are
available in war-affected areas
to undertake works.
(ii) Institutional                                                                Resources to cover taxes and
Strengthening                                                                     counterpart funds are provided
by MOF in timely fashion.
Appropriate accountability in
use of project funds and inputs.
42



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
TAJIKISTAN: Second Poverty Alleviation Project
By Component:
Project Component I - US$14.11 million
Micro-projects
This component of the proposed SPAP would develop two kinds of micro-projects:
Sub-component 1: Community-based micro-project activities. The objective of this sub-
component is to continue to support micro-projects carried out with NSIFT support, and particularly to
improve the quantity and quality of community-based social and economic infrastructure and services,
while increasing the involvement of beneficiaries in the design and implementation of those projects.
Projects would range up to $150,000, averaging approximately US$30,000 (in line with the experience of
the PPAP); with the possibility of several phases of implementation leading to larger and more complete
projects that include civil works, goods and equipment, services, and training in the final package of
financed items. Types of micro-projects would depend on demand, but might include civil works to
rehabilitate, restore and expand essential services using local contractors, suppliers and laborers, along
with goods, services, training and equipment to make the infrastructure fully functional and operational.
These would include (but not be limited to) improvements in water supply, sanitation, gas supply,
rehabilitation of small facilities, schools, health clinics, irrigation canals and roads. In addition, very
small micro-projects ($5,000 or smaller), such as the purchase of sewing machines for a women's
entrepreneurial cooperative or financing the gas or water connection fees for very poor households, would
also be encouraged. Projects proposed by NGOs and local governments could be funded after
consultations with community members to ensure local demand and full participation. Communities
would be encouraged to pool together to propose larger projects, such as roads or mobile health clinics.
Participating communities will be expected normally to contribute 10 percent of investment cost (in cash,
in-kind, or labor). When possible, community implementing agencies would be responsible for
contracting works and managing micro-project implementation. The expenditures for community training
will not be included in the community project budget.
Sub-component 2: Financing sponsored new proiects. including proiects for especiallv poor and
vulnerable people. The objectives of this sub-component are to finance new types of initiatives,
particularly in the areas of productive projects and social services, that address an articulated community
need but which fall outside of the range of normal NSIFT investments. Such micro-projects might reach
out to previously under-served groups, such street children, people with disabilities, or the elderly,
through community-based social services, including awareness, prevention and early detection programs,
home food delivery programs, battered women's shelters, youth centers, or daycare centers. Some micro-
projects might work with newly-established charitable NGOs to build their capacity to serve their clients,
while others might promote vocational education and training, micro-entrepreneurial activities, or the
costs of training community teachers and health workers to recognize and help victims of domestic
violence. Proposals coming from especially vulnerable groups or their representatives (both terms to be
agreed upon and defined in the project operational manual) will be given special consideration. As with
the larger micro-projects category, this sub-component would fund civil works, goods and equipment,
services, and training.
Many of the "sponsored" micro-projects will be carried out by NGOs and other intermediaries on
behalf of people who are unable to formulate proposals for themselves, and at present, very few local
NGOs will have the capacity to deliver the required services. Recognizing that the services and programs
43



funded may be the first of their kind in Tajikistan, increased resources will be earmarked for training of
NGOs and other service providers, outreach to targeted groups, and community outreach efforts.
Emphasis would also be placed on raising public awareness of the issues facing groups of such
beneficiaries. To reflect the demand-driven nature of the project, individual training plans will be
developed on a case-by-case basis. Proposals coming from especially vulnerable groups or their
representatives (to be agreed upon and defined in the project operational manual) will be given special
consideration.
Both community-based and "sponsored" micro-projects would continue to be targeted on the
poorest communities. The funds for micro-projects will be pre-allocated among the regions in which
NSIFT will work using a combination of population and poverty criteria, to be outlined in the project
investment plan. To receive funding, the micro-project would have to be planned and proposed by a
community or NGO based on demand from its constituencies (with "community" being defined broadly
to include not only cohesive groups, such as villages, but also groups such as socially-excluded or
marginalized people); and would have cost sharing, community communications strategy, and
sustainability plans clearly outlined in the project proposal. In both sub-components, financing will be
available for minor civil works, minor equipment, consultants' services, training and technical assistance,
and any special programs that meet NSIFT micro-project criteria.
Whenever possible, communities themselves will be responsible for all phases of the micro-
project, including preparation of the micro-project proposal, contracting (including handling payments),
implementation, and sustainability. Implementing agencies will require training on basic accounting and
administrative techniques, as well as reporting to the communities, and this would be budgeted and built
into the micro-project cycle. Upon project completion, implementing agencies would be responsible for
maintenance of the project, and, it is hoped, will begin other activities (such as soliciting other donor
financing for further development projects, or enacting follow-on activities that complement the
completed project).
Villages and other groups of beneficiaries face enormous challenges, in the form of lack of
capacity and lack of information, which will hamper their ability to carry out micro-project activities.
Adequate training, and adequate budget and time to carry out such capacity building, would be crucial.
Institutional strengthening would not be a stand-alone component of the project, but rather would be built
into the micro-project cycle and into the NSIFT's annual work program and strategy. A community
training plan based on individual conmmunity needs would be developed for each micro-project.
Some micro-projects will be carried out by NGOs and other intermediaries on behalf of people
who are unable to formulate proposals for themselves, such as people with disabilities, street children, the
elderly, and other geographically disparate or socially excluded groups. At present, very few local NGOs
are capable of delivering services to especially vulnerable groups, and those NGOs putting forward
proposals will most likely be very inexperienced. In such cases, a large fraction of micro-project funding
will go towards building up the capacity of NGOs to deliver such services. In the area of micro-finance,
there are several promising NGOs whose potential for helping clients is hampered only by their lack of
capacity, which the proposed SPAP will address.
Parallel to these training activities will be the improvement of NSIFT Information, Education,
and Communication (IEC) activities, ranging from within the micro-project cycle (how communication
can be built into the project cycle, before, during and after micro-project implementation; how to solicit
and use beneficiary feedback) to within NSIFT (how to share experiences among NSIFT staff, how to
communicate more effectively with local government and other stakeholders) to the broader public
context (how to better communicate to the public on NSIFT activities, how to reach out to new groups).
44



All micro-projects would continue to be closely supervised by NSIFT staff working with the local
communities. Monitoring reports would be shared with the community, and micro-project financial
reports publicly posted for review by the community. Micro-project implementation would also continue
to be supervised by the NSIFT headquarters staff. At the completion of each microporject, NSIFT would
conduct an initial evaluation, and the NSIFT staff would then continue to work with the micro-project
committee to ensure the implementation of the maintenance plan. Nine months later, the NSIFT would
conduct a second evaluation.
Considerable emphasis would be placed on seeking opportunities to work with partners, including
local governments, local and international NGOs, bilateral donors, local communities, and community-
based organizations. Developing partnerships will involve an increased emphasis on consultation with
local governments, both formally (through the development of regional advisory committees and through
more active involvement of the NSIFT advisory board) and informally (through periodic visits by field
staff to local officials). Building closer alliances with local and regional governments will allow NSIFT
to learn more about local needs and priorities, and to reflect that learning in its lending. In turn, the
Government will benefit from NSIFT expertise in poverty alleviation and social assistance activities.
Another key issue for the proposed SPAP would be the development by NSIFT of links with other
international organizations that are already active in the field of rural development, both "on the ground"
and, potentially, through bilateral support. The Aga Khan Foundation's Integrated Village Development
Programme is working in the east of Tajikistan and in the Karategin Valley, both areas in which the
NSIFT is expecting to expand. In addition, the United Nations Operations Programme Support (UNOPS)
has recently designed a second phase to its Rehabilitation, Reconstruction and Development Programme
(RRDP-II). Another UNOPS-supported program with which the NSIFT could collaborate is the Social
Sector Rehabilitation Project (financed by the Asian Development Bank and also implemented by
UJNOPS). Talks have begun with both the Aga Khan Foundation and the UNOPS on how to collaborate
more effectively; and also on the possibility of jointly financing some areas of NSIFT work. Initial talks
have been undertaken with the FAO/WFP to collaborate in parallel on some complementary activities (for
example, the FAO could distribute seed to areas where the NSIFT is implementing improvements in
irrigation systems to make work more sustainable). Talks are also underway with the UK's Department
of Foreign and International Development (DFID) on the possibility of bilateral funding for the NSIFT, as
well as with USAID for possible training and technical support on the micro-finance and micro-project
components.
Jointly-funded projects will be financed if appropriate; and cross-fertilization with projects in
other countries, through study tours, conferences, and other learning opportunities, will be funded. As
with most social funds, addressing the issue of micro-project sustainability will continue to pose
challenges. According to the mid-term review, less than 1/2 of communities receiving PPAP financing had
implemented a viable sustainability plan after micro-project completion. As in the PPAP, a sustainability
plan will be required for each micro-project proposal. New sustainability activities in the proposed SPAP
include: i) micro-project implementing agencies will be encouraged to continue activities after micro-
project completion, and matching grants from the NSIFT for post-completion activities (including
maintenance) will be available; and ii) field officers will conduct post-completion site visits to monitor
quality. Regular regional advisory committee meetings will also be used to keep tabs on completed
micro-projects. Finally, iii) through encouraging more systematically community participation and control
over micro-projects, it is hoped that prospects for micro-project sustainability will increase.
45



Project Component 2 - US$1.36 million
Micro-Finance
OFjective:
The objective of this component is to support the sustainable growth of a few established retail
micro-finance institutions (MFI's) operating predominantly in the poorest sections of rural Tajikistan.
This objective would be achieved through the following two activities: (i) capacity building to the micro-
finance unit in NSIFT and to the eligible MFI's, principally in the areas of management, business
planning, MIS, finance and accounting, introduction of new financial products, and expansion of client
base; and (ii) provision of a credit line to eligible MFI's to support their growth in a sustainable manner.
Activities to be carried out:
The following activities would be carried out:
(i)    Strengthening the micro-finance unit in NSIFT - through the upgrading of skills, in the areas of
evaluation of Micro-finance Institutions, performance monitoring of MFI's being assisted by the
credit line to be provided by this project; and upgrading of financial and accounting systems. The
project shall finance appropriate training and technical assistance, upgrading of computer and
software needed for this purpose;
(ii)l  Provision of credit line: Short and medium term credit lines would be provided to those MFI's
which meet the following eligibility criteria:
*      Are registered by the National Bank of Tajikistan in accordance with the latest
regulations of NBT.
*      Are in compliance with prudential rules established by NBT for Micro-finance activities
*      Have a track record of a minimum of two years of operations in the micro-finance sector
and have audited accounts carried out by external auditors, acceptable to the Association
*      Have submitted an institutional development plan focusing on management and
governance acceptable to the Association
*      Meet the minimum operational and financial sustainability criteria established by NSIFT,
acceptable to the Association
Procedures for eligibility criteria, terms and conditions for Micro-finance Institutions and Sub-loans:
1.     An application for a sub-loan in a form satisfactory to the Association and containing all
necessary information as indicated in the Project Implementation Plan shall be submitted to
NSIFT;
2.     NSIFT, with the assistance of a qualified international micro-finance institutional specialist,
acceptable to the Association to be contracted for the project, shall review the application and
ensure its compliance with the eligibility criteria;
3.     Each application for a sub-loan is subject to approval by the Advisory Board under
recommendation of NSIFT
4.     Following the approval of the proposed sub-loan, NSIFT acting on behalf of the Borrower shall
enter into a subsidiary loan agreement with each eligible Micro-finance Institution which shall
contain, without limitation, the terms and conditions set forth below
46



Eligibility criteria:
Sub-loans shall be made to the Micro-finance Institutions which meet the following criteria:
1.    Are registered by the National Bank of Tajikistan in accordance with Regulations No. 19 dated,
January 28, 2002.
2.     Are in compliance with prudential rules established by NBT for non-bank financial institutions.
3.     Have a track record of a minimum of two years of operations in the micro-finance sector and
have audited accounts carried out by external auditors, acceptable to the Association
4.     Have submitted an institutional development plan focusing on management and governance
acceptable to the Association
5.     Meet the minimum operational and financial sustainability criteria established by NSIFT,
acceptable to the Association
Proposed terms and conditions of the sub-loan agreements:
It is proposed that the following terms would be applied to the funds provided by the NSIFT to
the micro-finance institutions. These terms, however, would be reviewed periodically by the NSIFT
Board and the Government.
I.    A sub-loan to each eligible micro-finance institution shall be made in the currency of the
Borrower in the amount not more than the equivalent of US$200,000 all of which can be
allocated for subsequent on-lending to existing or new clients of the eligible micro-finance
institutions
2.     The principal amount of each sub-loan shall be repaid by an eligible micro-finance institution in
Tajik somonis to a special account set up by NSIFT for this purpose in equal semi-annual
installments over ten (10) years including a grace period of two years.
Each sub-loan shall be charged at an interest rate of ten percent for the entire period of the loan.
Subloans shall be used by MFIs for the purpose of on-lending to Beneficiaries on term and conditions
whereby MFIs shall:
*      appraise, supervise and carry out the activities by Beneficiaries in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to MFIs and the Association;
*      require that: (i) the works, goods and services financed under on-lending to the Beneficiaries shall
be procured at a reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant factors such as time
of delivery, efficiency and reliability; and (ii) any such goods shall be used exclusively in the
carrying out of the activities approved by MFIs;
*      require that each activity for which the on-lending was requested is: (i) technically feasible and
economically, financially and commercially viable; and (ii) in compliance with all environmental
laws and standards of the Borrower and the guidelines for environental assessment agreed with
the Association; and
*      require that the Beneficiaries contribute 10% of the cost of activities for which the on-lending
was requested.
47



Project Component 3 - US$ 2.25 million
Project Management and Institutional Strengthening
The goal of this component is to support the development of NSIFT as an institution to carry out
the project but also to open the possibilities for them to implement programs financed by other donors in
the future. There are two areas of activities under this component.
Institutional Strengthening This set of activities would help to develop the skills of key NSIFT
staff members through training and technical assistance to improve NSIFT's capacity to supervise
subproject implementation, carry out administrative and managerial functions, and to oversee
microfinance activities. Particular emphasis in the staff training program would be placed on training in
financial management, the MIS, and planning and evaluation. The training could be both formal (classes,
seminars, study tours) and informal (conferences, on-the-job training, site visits). Investments under this
component will also include a re-design and upgrading of the MIS system.
Project Management. This set of activities and financing will aim to ensure efficient and
effective implementation of project activities. The NSIFT has been re-structured so that it has a more
accessible and representative Board which can take a more active part in the govemance of the program,
and through which NSIFT activities may be kept aligned to meet and help shape the government's
developing poverty alleviation and social assistance strategies. The organizational chart for the NSIFT
would be similar that of the PPAP, but the roles and responsibilities of each department and the regional
offices has been reviewed and revised to take into account lessons leamed and the design of the new
project. The NSIFT Board will review the annual budget of NSIFT, including both investment costs for
institutional strengthening and operating costs for project management, annually.
Links would also be strengthened with other social funds active in the region, so that there could
be cross-fertilization of ideas and knowledge. Within this subcomponent, the project's monitoring,
evaluation and management information systems would also be updated and made more operationally
relevant for the day-to-day work programs of all NSIFT staff (See Section VI above). This set of
activities would be a key part of the proposed SPAP, and would help to ensure that NSIFT has the staff
capacity to undertake the challenging set of activities with which it is entrusted, both in its day-to-day
lending activities and in the area of policy formulation.
A training plan outlining specific training activities for NSIFT staff has been developed and is
included in the PIP. It will be reviewed and updated annually throughout the life of the project. The plan
will take stock of training experiences of the previous year and be modified as necessary.
48



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
TAJIKISTAN: Second Poverty Alleviation Project
Local        Foreign       Total
Project Cost By Component                 US $million  US $milrion   US $million
Micro-projects                                           10.26         2.91        13.17
Micro-finance                                             1.08         0.27         1.35
Institutional Strengthening and Project Management        1.55         0.65         2.20
PPF                                                       0.49          0.08        0.57
Total Baseline Cost                                      13.38          3.91       17.29
Physical Contingencies                                   0.53          0.17        0.70
Price Contingencies                                      0.04         0.25         0.29
Total Project Costs1                13.95         4.33        18.28
Total Financing Required                13.95          4.33       18.28
Local        Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Category                US $million   US $million   US $million
Works                                                    10.26          1.91       12.17
Goods                                                    0.44           1.24        1.68
Micro-finance Services                                   0.95           0.00       0.95
Consulting Services and Training                         0.58           1.18        1.76
Operating Costs                                           1.72          0.00        1.72
Total Project Costs       13.95           4.33      18.28
Total Financing Required       13.95           4.33      18.28
Identifiable taxes and duties are 2.35 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 15.93 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is
86.63% of total project cost net of taxes.
49



Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
TAJIKISTAN: Second Poverty Alleviation Project
Present Value of Flows                    Fiscal Impact
Economic Analysis     - Financial Analysis1      Taxes       Subsidies
Project Costs             Not Applicable          Not Applicable      Negligible  Negligible
If the difference between the present value of financial and economic flows is large and cannot be explained by taxes and subsidies, a brief
explanation of the difference is warranted, e.g. "The difference between financial and economic costs arises from price controls on the inputs"
Because of the demand-driven nature of the micro-projects, the small size of micro-projects, and
their wide-spread geographical distribution across the country, conventional ex-ante economic or
financial analysis will not be carried out at the appraisal stage. However, micro-projects to be financed
under the project are expected to yield high economic retums, because the project would finance simple
but cost-effective public infrastructure and services as financed under the Pilot Poverty Alleviation
Project (water supply, schools, health clinics), with a small portion funding newer social and
entrepreneurial initiatives. The use of competitive procurement of services and works is expected to
generate savings ranging from 5-20 percent of estimated costs for each micro-project (based on
experiences and analyses of other social investment funds in the ECA region) vis-a-vis line ministry-
provided infrastructure. The new social services and business opportunities for target population groups
to be financed under the "sponsored micro-projects" component are expected to result in one or more of
the following: (i) higher economic productivity of vulnerable groups, particularly women; (ii) increased
agricultural and economic productivity of micro-entrepreneurs; (iii) increased availability of preventive
health and social care for target populations; and/or (iv) higher-quality social care and educational
opportunities for especially vulnerable groups.
While full ex-ante economic analysis would not be carried out, a number of selection criteria
would be used to screen out overly costly investments. First, the selection of micro-projects would
primarily rely on demand from the villages and communities, which would nornally be required to
provide an upfront financial contribution of 10 percent. As the selection of the micro-projects would
primarily rely on demand, it is likely that the proposed micro-projects will be of high economic viability.
In addition, the NSIFT would prioritize applications according to several socio-economic indicators,
including the number of beneficiaries and per beneficiary investment cost. An ex-post economic analysis
would also be carried out on a sample of micro-projects during the mid-term review to confirm the
economic viability of the micro-projects. Feasibility studies will be carried out for each proposed micro-
project. In addition to the site survey and technical/environmental review of the proposed infrastructure,
criteria covering technical, social, economic, and financial aspects will be used for each type of
infrastructure and service to assess overall economic viability of the project. Cost-benefit analysis for the
"sponsored micro-projects" components will compare similar public and NGO program costs with those
of NSIFT-financed care, as well as with the costs of residential institutional care (as appropriate).
Monitorable benchmarks of cost-effectiveness will be developed, using the methodology outlined in Bank
guidelines for these types of operations. These benchmarks will be inputted into the project's MIS (see
below).
To ensure the cost effectiveness of individual micro-projects, a unit cost database has been
established to assess various norms and standards, costs per labor day of employment, cost per
beneficiary and possible rates of return for different types of micro-projects (such as water supply and
schools). This helps the NSIFT to arrive at least cost solutions to infrastructure needs. In the case of
services, extra training costs anticipated under the new project, and other new activities that will be
50



financed under the SPAP, unit costs have still to be determined and reflected in the management
information system. It is expected that by year two of the project the MIS will be updated. Beneficiary
impact assessments throughout the life of the project will ascertain the impact of pilot micro-projects on
communities, and will enable the NSIFT to gain understanding about who in terms of gender, age,
socioeconomic group and vulnerable status is actually benefiting. Some assessment will be made of the
impact of wages on household incomes.
One of the expected outcomes of the proposed Project is that the Borrower will demonstrate that
the NSIFT is a cost-effective, transparent, and efficient organization for channeling small amounts of
money to Tajik communities, as well as gathering data on poverty and the poorest communities for the
use of the Government.
Summary of benefits and costs:
Main Assumptions:
Cost-effectiveness indicators:2
2 These indicators should compare the project with a suitable comparator, e.g. unit project costs of alternative project designs or intemational
standards.
51



Annex 5: Financial Summary
TAJIKISTAN: Second Poverty Alleviation Project
Years Ending
IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
|Year I    Year 2  | Year 3 | Year 4 | Year 5 | Year 6    Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs         1.6       4.1     4.2       4.2       2.4      0.0      0.0
Recurrent Costs           0.4       0.4     0.4      0.4       0.2       0.0      0.0
Total Project Costs        2.0       4.5     4.6       4.6      2.6       0.0      0.0
Total Financing            2.0       4.5     4.6       4.6      2.6       0.0      0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                 1.8       3.4     3.5       3.5      1.5      0.0       0.0
Government               0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
Central               0.2       0.8     0.8      0.8       0.8      0.0       0.0
Provincial            0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Co-financiers            0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.0       0.3     0.3       0.3      0.2      0.0       0.0
Other                      0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Total Project Financing   1.8       3.7     3.8       3.8       1.7     0.0       0.0
OPERATIONAL PERIOD
| Year1 | Year2   | Year3 | Year4   | Year 5 | Year6   | Year7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs        1.6       4.1     4.2       4.2       2.4      0.0      0.0
Recurrent Costs         0.4       0.4     0.4       0.4       0.2      0.0      0.0
Total Project Costs       2.0       4.5     4.6       4.6       2.6      0.0       0.0
Total Financing           2.0       4.5     4.6       4.6       2.6      0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                1.8       3.4     3.5       3.5       1.5      0.0      0.0
Government              0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0
Central              0.2       0.8     0.8       0.8      0.8      0.0       0.0
Provincial           0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Co-financiers           0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries   0.0       0.3     0.3       0.3       0.2      0.0       0.0
Other                     0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing  1.8       3.7     3.8       3.8       1.7      0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
The recurrent costs include NSIFT incremental operating costs for project implementation.
Government contribution include taxes.
52



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
TAJIKISTAN: Second Poverty Alleviation Project
Procurement
Procurement of goods, works and services financed under the Credit will be carried out in
accordance with the World Bank's Guidelines on Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
(January 1995, Revised January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999) [the Guidelines]
and the Guidelines on Selection and Employment of Consultants by the World Bank Borrowers (January
1997, Revised September 1997 and January 1999) [the Consultants Guidelines], and the provisions
outlined below. The World Bank's relevant standard bidding documents for goods and works, and the
standard forms of contract and requests for proposals will be used.
Procurement Management: The NSIFT will be responsible for overall project implementation
and progress monitoring.  The NSIFT will ensure that procurement procedures, criteria, and
documentation agreed with IDA are complied with satisfactorily. The procurement management
responsibilities and procedures will be described in further detail in the Project Operational Manual. The
NSIFT will oversee the procurement and award of contracts under micro-project grants that will be
implemented by project beneficiaries, following appraisal and approval of the micro-project by the
NSIFT. To carry out its procurement responsibilities, NSIFT employs a full-time in-house procurement
team whose procurement qualifications have been reviewed by the Bank during project appraisal and
found to be satisfactory.
Procurement Arrangements: The procurement methods and arrangements applicable to the
various expenditure categories under the Project are summarized below in Table A and will be described
in greater detail in the Operational Manual. Standard bidding documents have been prepared and
reviewed by the World Bank during project appraisal. These documents are based on Bank ECA
Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) for National Competitive Bidding (NCB) and ECA documents for
shopping (Invitations to quote). As required for international procurement, a General Procurement Notice
(GPN) will be published in the United Nations' Development Business and will be updated annually for
all outstanding procurement. Procurement under the project would be undertaken in accordance with the
procurement arrangements shown in Table A.
Micro-Projects:
It is expected that approximately a half of the total value of procurement under this project will
be carried out in accordance with Clause 3.15 of the Guidelines, detailed procedures for which will be
described in the Operational Manual. Such procedures will apply to activities not covered under these
methods, such as procurement carried out by communities themselves. Community-based procurement is
demand-driven and hence it is not possible to determine the number and estimated value of each contract
a priori. It is agreed that such procurement will take place on a pilot basis during the Project Preparation
Phase to be financed from PPF. Based on the experience gained from this pilot, additional projects will
be allowed to participate in community-based procurement provided that they fulfill the qualifying
requirements to be outlined in the Operational Manual. In any case the amount for Community
Participated Project should not be more than US$30,000 per contract for civil works and US$10,000 for
goods procurement. The NSIFT will assist and closely monitor participating communities on all aspects
of procurement funded through the IDA credit. The NSIFT will be responsible for carrying out
procurement activities for other communities that are not participating in community-based procurement.
A total amount of US$12.3 million is allocated for the procurement of works, goods and services for
demand-driven subprojects.
53



Works:
A total of US$11.125 million is estimated to be spent on civil works. With respect to all contracts
for iCivil Works, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix I to the Guidelines shall
apply. Since most of the civil works activities are demand driven, it is not possible to determine a priori
the number and size of each package at present. In general, the procedures outlined here will be followed
for all civil works packages regardless of who is carrying out the procurement.
National Competitive Bidding: Civil works estimated to cost less than US$150,000 per contract
and up to an amount not exceeding US$4,000,000 may be procured on the basis of national competitive
bidding (NCB) procedures in accordance with procedures described in the Guidelines paragraphs 3.3 and
3.4. The NSIFT is familiar with ECA regional procurement documents and these documents will be used
under this method of procurement. Invitations for bids would be advertised in local newspapers and on
radio.
Small Works: Works contracts that are simple in design and small in value (under US$20,000
each) would be procured according to minor works (MW) procedures. Such works contracts that are
labor intensive, geographically scattered and spread over time would be procured under lump-sum fixed
price contracts in response to written invitations and according to Bank guidelines. The invitation shall
include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date,
and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award would be made to the contractor which offers the
lowest price quotation for the required work, and which has the experience and resources to perform the
contract.
Goods:
Goods shall be procured: (a) in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the Guidelines and
(b) ander contracts awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines, except that contracts shall only be awarded after comparison of
not less than three responsive quotations. Contracts awarded in accordance with these procedures will be
subject to the review procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines, provided that
the word "bids" shall be read as "quotations."
National Competitive Bidding: Goods estimated to cost less than US$50,000 per contract, up to
an aggregate amount of US$400,000, may be procured using NCB procedure described in the paragraph
3.3 of the Guidelines or using the methods described below.
International/National Shopping (IS/NS): Equipment packages for regional offices (as
applicable) and for demand-driven community based micro-projects would be procured using IS/NS
procedures depending on the value of each contract. Goods estimated to cost less than US$20,000 per
contract and up to an amount not to exceed US$150,000 in the aggregate may be procured in accordance
with national shopping procedures described in paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. Packages
whose value does not exceed US$50,000 would be procured through International Shopping. The overall
aggregate value of all goods contracts under IS and NS is estimated at US$630,000.
Consultant Services
There are three types of services that would be procured under the project. The first group is for
subprojects under micro-projects. Because of the demand-driven nature of these micro-projects, it is not
possible to determine the size as well as the type of consultant services (individual or firm) that would be
54



required. In general, most of the consultants needed would be local individual consultants (for
preparation, appraisal, monitoring of subprojects, and implementation of services for vulnerable groups),
and intemational consultants to provide technical advice and training on newer forms of subprojects. The
aggregate amount for consultant services under community-based subprojects is estimated at
US$700,000. The second type of service required is for technical assistance and training for the
development of the institutional capacity of the NSIFT and the Government. This is estimated at US$0.5
million.
Review by the Bank of Selection of Consultants: Prior to the issuance of any requests for
proposals, the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Activities shall be furnished to the
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph I of Appendix 1 to the
Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants' services shall be undertaken in accordance with such
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
Experts shall be employed by NSIFT on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA for project
design, training and capacity building activities, monitoring and evaluation, preparation of NCB
documents and other procurement activities, and micro-finance activities. Procurement shall be made on
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for services of consulting firms and individual
consultants costing less than US$30,000 and US$10,000, respectively.
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for project design, training
and capacity building activities, monitoring and evaluation, preparation of NCB documents and other
procurement activities, and micro-lending activities estimated to cost the equivalent of US$30,000 or
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1,2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and
5 of Appendix I to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$10,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The
contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
Consultant Qualification selection (CQS) procedures would be used for contracting firns
and/or NGOs to carry out smaller technical assistance and training contracts.
Least Cost Selection (LCS) procedures would be used for contracting Audit firms.
Selection of Individual Consultants (IC) would be carried out through advertisements for
expressions of interest and comparison of CVs.
Miscellaneous Service Contracts Additionally, there will be miscellaneous services such as
printing and publication services, public awareness activities, translations, design and development of
designs of questionnaires for workshops.
Incremental Operating Costs:
The Project will finance incremental operating costs of about US$1.85 million consisting of
communications, maintenance and operation of equipment procured or used under the project, office
supplies, studies, and NSIFT staff salaries. Incremental operating costs will be procured on the basis of
an annually agreed budget.
55



Bank Prior Review
Prior Bank review would be required before final decisions on contract awards are taken in
respect of Bank financed goods and works in accordance with the provisions described in Appendix 1 of
the Guidelines as described below. With regard to services, contracts would b awarded in accordance
with provisions described under Appendix I of the Consultants Guidelines.
(a) Works: Prior review of the bidding documents, scope of works, minutes of bid opening, bid
evaluation report, recommendation for award, and draft contract for the:
(i)    First five contract awards through NCB;
(ii)   First five contract awards under MW;
(iii)  First five contract awards under CPP.
(b) Goods: Prior review of the bidding documents (including invitation to quote and technical
specifications) and recommendation of awards for:
(i)    First five contract awards through NCB;
(ii)   First five contracts awarded under IS;
(iii)  First five contracts awarded under NS;
(iv)   First five contracts awarded under CPP.
(c) Consultant services and training: Prior review of the Terms of Reference (TORs), letter of
inv,tation, request for proposal, consultant short lists, terms and conditions of contract, evaluation reports,
recommendation for award and draft contract for:
(i)    Contracts with firms above US$30,000;
(ii)  IC contracts above US$10,000; and
(iii)  TORs for all beneficiary assessments, technical reviews, and audits.
(iv)   All training budgets and programs for training activities
All other contracts shall be subject to ex-post review by Banks supervision missions or by
focused procurement review or audit mission. The Bank mission will review at least one out of every five
contracts which are subject to post review.
56



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category                        ICB               NCB            Other       N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                                    0.00              5.00            6.11         0.97         12.08
(0.00)            (3.65)          (4.47)      (0.00)        (8.12)
2. Goods                                    0.00              0.40            1.31         0.00          1.71
(0.00)            (0.29)          (1.02)      (0.00)        (1.31)
3. Services                                 0.00              0.00            1.68         0.00          1.68
(0.00)            (0.00)          (1 .61)     (0.00)        (I .61)
4. Incremental Operating Costs              0.00              0.00            1.85         0.00          1.85
(0.00)            (0.00)          (1.80)      (0.00)        (1.80)
5. Micro-finance Credit Lines               0.00              0.00            0.96        0.00          0.96
(0.00)            (0.00)          (0.96)      (0.00)        (0.96)
Total                                    0.00              5.40            11.91        0.97         18.28
(0.00)            (3.94)         (9.86)       (0.00)        (13.80)
1/     Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
21     Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govemment units.
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method
Consultant Services                                                                                 Total
Expenditure Category         QCBS       QBS       SFB       LCS         Co      Other    N.B.F.     Cost,
A. Firms                         0.00       0.00      0.00     0.35        0.25      0.00     0.00      0.60
(0.00)     (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.35)     (0.25)    (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.60)
B. Individuals                   0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00        0.00     0.70      0.00      0.70
(0.00)     (0.00)    (0.00)   (0.00)      (0.00)   (0.70)    (0.00)    (0.70)
Total    0.00       0.00      0.00      0.35       0.25      0.70     0.00       1.30
(0.00)     (0.00)    (0.00)   (0.35)      (0.25)   (0.70)    (0.00)    (1.30)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.
CPP = Community Participated Procurement
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
57



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review 1
, *  . -:       -    - Contract Value                         Contracts Subject to
.  --- :           . Threshold           Procurement          Prior Review
Expenditure Category     (US$ thousands)            Method            (US$ millions)
1. Works                Less than US$150,000          NCB            First five contracts
(0.70 million)
Less than US$20,000          MW             First five contracts
(0.10 million)
Less than US$30,000          CPP            First five contracts
(0.15 million)
2. Goods                 Less than US$50,000          NCB            First five contracts
(0.25 million)
Less than US$50,000            IS           First five contracts
(0.25 million)
Less than US$20,000          NS             First five contracts
(0.10 million)
Less than US$10,000          CPP            First five contracts
(0.05 million)
3. Services
Firms                     Above US$30,000           CQS/LCS            All contracts
(0.40 million)
Above US$10,000              IC               All contracts
Individuals                                      .                     (0.56 million)
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$2.56 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment: High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every six months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
58



Financial Management Assessment Report
1.      Executive Summary and Conclusion
Tajikistan is an emerging post-conflict country with weak public financial management capacities
and high perceived levels of institutional corruption. It was one of the poorest parts of the former Soviet
Union and is the poorest of the Central Asian countries. The Second Poverty Alleviation Project is one
attempt to help the poor. It is to be managed by the National Social Investment Fund of Tajikistan
(NSIEFT, formerly TASIF). Currently NSIFT is completing implementation of the Pilot Poverty
Alleviation Project (PPAP) and is using a combination of a computerized accounting system and
computer-assisted records to account for the PPAP's resources, which does not fully satisfy the entity's
needs. Based on prior experience with NSIFT, it has been determined that development of a fully
satisfactory financial management and accounting system will require consulting assistance.
A review was undertaken in January/February 2002 to determine whether the financial
management arrangements within NSIFT are acceptable to IDA. These financial management
arrangements include the entities' systems of accounting, financial reporting, auditing, and internal
controls. It has been concluded that although the NSIFT currently satisfies IDA's minimum financial
management requirements, it should improve its capabilities. The NSIFT's financial management is
considered reasonably capable of recording all transactions and balances, supporting the preparation of
regular financial statements, and safeguarding the entities' assets. NSIFT is subject to auditing
arrangements acceptable to IDA. A summary of financial management assessment and conclusions are as
follows:
Financial Management             Rating                        Comments
Assessment
1. Implementing Entity           Acceptable        NSIFT implemented the previous project
(PPAP)
2. Funds Flow                    Acceptable        Same funds flow as for PPAP; risk that
Government not contribute counterpart funds on
time and NSIFT temnporarily use Credit funds to
cover for government expenses.
3. Staffing                      Acceptable        Financial team has experience gamed during
PPAP, but need additional training on
accounting and team still incomplete (Chief
accountant not contracted yet). No training
policy in place.
4. Accounting Policies and  Marginally acceptable  Current computerized accounting system is not
Procedures                                         fully satisfactory and wiU be replaced; financial
manual is inadequate and is not used; weak
control over activities of regional offices.
5. Internal Audit                   NA             There is no internal audit function; lack of talent
in the local market since internal audit is almost
unknown in country.
6. External Audit               Satisfactory       The project financial statements will be audited
annually and the micro-projects comnponent
every six months by an auditor acceptable to
IDA. NSIFT complied with the audit covenants
for the PPAP project. There were several
accounting and internal control issues reported
by the auditor in the most recent audits, some of
_   which are still being addressed.
59



Financial Management.           Rating                       Comments
Assessment
7 Reporting and Monitoring  Marginally acceptable  NSIFT still does not have an integrated
comnputerized system to prepare reliable
financial reports. Reports not normally used for
managerial purposes.
8 Information Systems      Marginally acceptable  Using Scala accounting software only for cash
payments, and Excel worksheets for Micro-
projects and Micro-finance components. No link
between them. A new system will be procured.
Overall Financial               Acceptable
M'anagement Rating
Detailed financial management assessment questionnaires are included in the project files.
2.     Project Description Summary
The project seeks to improve the living standards of poor and vulnerable people of Tajikistan
through micro-projects, micro-credit services and community empowerment. It has three components:
(i)    Micro-projects, in the form of grants to restore basic social and economic services and
infrastructure and to fund innovative micro-projects;
(ii)   Micro-credit services in the form of funding to poor groups, particularly women, and providing
technical assistance and training to NGOs to increase their capacity to deal effectively with
clients;
(iii)  Project management and organizational strengthening - funding running costs and promoting
the institutional development of the NSIFT and strengthening its management capacity through
the provision of training, technical assistance, and monitoring and evaluation of micro-projects
and of partnership agreements.
The International Development Association (IDA) would make funds available to NSIFT through
deposits to the Special Account.
3.     Country Financial Management Issues
No Country Financial Management Assessment has been undertaken for Tajikistan yet. However,
prior experience of the World Bank in the country has shown there is an extremely weak public sector
financial management, including public sector budgeting, accounting, reporting and auditing. There is
also the perception of pervasive corruption at all levels of the economy.
Overall, the status of accounting profession in the country is low. There are no accounting
standards compatible with those of IASC or with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. Instead,
there is a set of rules inherited from the old Soviet system. Those rules, as well as other financial-related
regulations and laws, are sometimes subject to interpretation by agents of monitoring/controlling
government entities such as the tax directorate. Internal audit is only found in banking institutions, which
are required by law to have such a function. External audit is practiced at an individual level, and there
are no external audit firms established in the country. All audits required by international organizations
are performed by foreign auditors, which results in excessive costs. To minimize financial risk, we will
60



need to maintain the current "ring fencing" of financial resources in Bank projects in order to provide the
appropriate fiduciary safeguards.
4.     Financial Management System Assessment
4.1    Project Management and Coordination
Implementation of the Project would be undertaken by NSIFT, which has experience with a prior
IDA-financed project. The NSIFT would be responsible for the management of all project activities,
including selection and monitoring of micro-projects and participating NGOs, management of consultant
services; and implementation of a transparent financial management system. Implementation of the
micro-finance component will be done through one or more NGOs closely supervised by NSIFT. The
entity would also be responsible for overall project financial management and accounting. It would
maintain books of accounts for the project, prepare and disseminate financial statements and financial
management reports, and ensure timely audit of the financial statements and the adequacy of micro-
projects.
The NSIFT has met the minimum financial management requirements acceptable to the World
Bank during the implementation of the Pilot Poverty Alleviation Project (PPAP). Detailed discussions
were carried out with the existing staff of NSIFT (executive director, financial manager and accounting
staff) explaining the financial management requirements.  Financial management and internal
organization controls were reviewed by visiting the NSIFT to evaluate the presence of capable
employees, their educational and experience levels, existence of written standards and procedures
including clear responsibilities and levels of authority, audit arrangement and financial management and
reporting system.
Issues and recommendations
The NSIFT has designed, and will implement, an effective organizational structure. Two
positions related to financial management need to be filled.
4.2   Staffing of the Accounting/Finance Function
The NSIFT's financial department has a Finance Manager, two accountants and one cashier.
All of them have worked with the pilot project and are acceptable to IDA. The Finance Manager is
familiar with the financial and accounting system established at the entity as well as with Bank
requirements. He would be responsible for all aspects of the financial management and accounting,
including managing the special account for the new project. A chief accountant, still not hired, would
supervise the accountants and have the responsibility for maintaining books of accounts, reporting day-to-
day transactions and preparing accounting reports and financial statements. An additional accountant will
be recruited for maintaining accounts related to the micro-finance component. Based on the assessment
and prior experience it was determined that current staff need additional training on general accounting
and International Accounting Standards and on World Bank financial management requirements.
Issues and recommendations
While the existing staff are acceptable to IDA, the NSIFT will need to select additional staff also
acceptable to IDA. NSIFT should also establish a staff training policy and provide financial management
training to the finance manager and accounting training to all other accounting staff.
61



4.3    Accounting and Internal Controls
NSIFT has experience with a prior project financed by IDA and has established key intemal
control mechanisms on the application and use of funds. However, the financial management manual
developed for the previous project was not satisfactory as it did not provide adequate guidance. There is
proper segregation of duties for staff at the Finance Department, but there is weak financial oversight over
regional offices, micro-projects and NGOs involved in the micro-finance component. Although financial
budgets are prepared, no physical targets are established, thus there is no link between physical and
financial performance, nor are budget used for managerial purposes.
Issues and recommendations
The accounting and internal control risk is mitigated by insisting on the completion of
the financial manual prior to Board Presentation and on the performance of semiannual audits of
the activities under the micro-projects component.
4.4    Computerized Accounting System
During the implementation of the PPAP the NSIFT implemented a computerized accounting
system (Scala) which was only used for recording cash transactions. Records for the micro-project and
micro-finance components were kept separately in Excel worksheets. Records for micro-finance were
maintained by nonaccounting staff, and accounting only kept track of the original amount disbursed to the
corresponding NGO. NSIFT's version of the software has already become obsolete, thus NSIFT will
procure a financial management system to help it maintain accounts and records which comply with local
and international accounting standards and to meet IDA's financial reporting requirements, including the
generation of FMRs.
Issues and recommendations
NSIFT will procure an acceptable financial management and accounting system.
4.5    Audited Financial Statements and Management Letters
This review relates to the audited project financial statements and management letters for the
years ended December 31, 1999 and 2000 for the PPAP. The audits were contracted late, and the audit
reports were submitted past the agreed due date for both years. The auditor gave clean audit opinions on
the Special Account but qualified his opinion on the other financial statements for the project because he
was not provided sufficient information to reconcile the accounts with Bank records prior to the year 2000
for one of the grants financing the project. The auditor reported serious accounting issues and controls
weaknesses which were addressed or are being addressed by NSIFT.
Issues and recommendations
NSIFT should continue to implement the action plan for resolving the internal control and
accounting weaknesses reported by the auditor, and should establish an adequate schedule for the timely
contracting of the external auditor for the proposed project.
62



4.6    Planning and Budgeting
NSIFT prepares budgets for requesting funds from the govemment. These budgets do not
establish physical targets (part of the budget is based on the specific micro-projects to be implemented,
however). No budgets are yet prepared in accordance with the FMR formnat (disbursement categories,
comnponents and activities, financiers, account codes, and by month), thus a proper comparison between
actual and budgeted perfonnance is not possible.
Issues and recommendations
NSIFT's new procedures manual will prescribe the appropriate manner for preparing budgets to
satisfy both government and good financial management's requirements. In addition, by September 30,
2002, NSIFT will prepare a detailed budget for the first full year of implementation of SPAP.
4.7    Financial Manual
The NSIFT has a financial management manual developed for the previous project, but it is
unsatisfactory as it does not provide proper guidance to staff regarding the accounting policies and
procedures, intemal controls, delegation of responsibilities and authorities, transaction flows, etc. The
section for intemal control procedures was particularly inadequate since rather than providing guidance
for a proper system it contains assertions that would be norrnally made in an assessment, and includes
some inapplicable material such as that for signing, safekeeping and recording of checks, even though
checks are not know or used in Tajikistan (no statement is made in the manual to reflect the intention was
to cover a possible future event).
Issues and recommendations
A new financial manual will be prepared by NSIFT and reviewed/revised as appropriate by the
consultant to be hired to implement the financial management system. The Association will assess the
adequacy of the draft manual to provide comments.
4.8    Conclusion
It is concluded that the NSIFT has financial management arrangements that barely meet IDA's
minimum financial management requirements. Additional improvement are needed because: (a) the
financial management system is formed by several parts independent of each other: the accounting
software used for cash transactions and the Excel worksheets for micro-project and micro-finance
transactions; (b) the current version of the accounting software has become obsolete, upgrades are very
expensive and it would not be worth the expense since the software was not used to its full capacity; (c)
the current financial manual (prepared for the PPAP) is not fully satisfactory; and (d) two positions in the
finance department (chief accountant and micro-finance accountant) are vacant, and the current staff need
additional training in financial management, accounting and Bank requirements.
5.     Accounting and Financial Flows
The NSIFT would generate and maintain vouchers and supporting documentation for
expenditures on all activities of the project. The NSIFT will need to document the accounting transaction
information flow for accounting purposes, in particular the status of expenditures related to micro-projects
and the funds provided to NGOs for micro-finance:
63



(i)    Micro-projects. Once a micro-project has been approved and a contract signed, funds will be
initially advanced to contractors, and future disbursements will be based on progress reports
reviewed/verified by NSIFT. Final payment will be made based on an act of works completed.
The disbursement process will conform to IDA disbursement procedures, and funds will flow
from the Special Account to the contractor's bank account (in local currency). Cash contributions
made by beneficiary communities will be deposited in the local currency account and used for the
advance payment to the contractor. The decision to approve a micro-project will be made based
on analysis of the micro-project viability and its relevance to resolve a basic need of the
community and subject to specific criteria. The disbursement authorization must be prepared by
the chief accountant and signed by the Finance Manager and NSIFT's Executive Director.
(ii)  Micro-finance. Funds will be provided on a loan basis to participating NGOs and will be
disbursed from the special account. NGOs will be selected based on criteria agreed with IDA.
(iii)  Project Management and Organizational Strengthening. Funds will be transferred from the
special account to the local currency account according to the needs. Payments will be made for
eligible expenditures from the local currency account.
6.     Financial Management Reports
The NSLFT will maintain accounts of the Project and will ensure appropriate accounting of the
funds provided. It has been agreed that NSIFT will be responsible for designing appropriate financial
monitoring reports (FMRs) and preparing FMRs on a quarterly basis. The FMRs include: (a) Project
Sources and Uses of Funds, (b) Uses of Funds by Project Activity, (c) Special Account Statement plus
Local Bank Account Statement, (d) XDR Reconciliation, including reconciliation of exchange rates
movement and total credit not spent and not committed, (e) Physical progress report, and (f) Procurement
report. These financial reports will be submitted to IDA within 45 days of the end of each quarter. The
first quarterly FMR will be submitted after the end of the first quarter in which disbursements commence,
probably around October 15, 2003. Formats of the annual financial statements and the FMRs will be
incorporated in the FM manual.
Issues and recommendations
NSIFT does not yet have the software to prepare FMRs incorporating all components, categories
and performance indicators which are acceptable to IDA. Draft sample reports will be produced once the
system is installed and will be reviewed by IDA for approval.
7.     Financial Risk Analysis
From a financial management perspective, the proposed Second Poverty Alleviation Project is
considered a high-risk project. A summary of the consolidated risk assessment for the project is as
follows:
Risk                     Rating                    Comments
Risk
1. Country Financial Management        High         There is generally low financial management
Risk                                                capacity and accountability in public sector.
2. Project Financial Management      Substantial     Timely counterpart funding could be a major
Issues                                              issue. Implementation of micro-projects and
activities of NGOs must be carefully monitored.
3. Perceived corruption                High          There is the perception of pervasive corruption at
all levels of the economy
64



Risk                         Rating              -          Comments
Overall Inherent Risk         High
1. Implementing Entity                      Moderate          NSIFT implemented the previous project (PPAP),
and current management seems proactive.
2. Funds Flow                               Substantial       Same funds flow as previous project (PPAP); risk
that Government not contribute counterpart funds
on time and NSIFT temporarily use Credit funds to
cover for government expenses.
3. Staffing                                 Moderate          Financial team has experience gained during
PPAP, but needs additional training in accounting;
and team still incomplete (chief accountant and
micro-finance accountant not contracted yet). No
training policy in place.
4. Accounting Policies and Procedures      Substantial        Current computerized accounting system is not
fully satisfactory and will be replaced; financial
manual is inadequate and is not used; weak control
over activities of regional offices.
5. Internal Audit                             High            There is no intemal audit function; lack of talent in
the local market since intemal audit is almost
unknown in country.
6. External Audit                           Moderate          The project financial statements will be audited
annually, and the micro-projects component every
six months by auditor acceptable to IDA. Auditors
are foreign since there are no audit firms
established in Tajikistan.
7. Reporting and Monitoring                Substantial        NSIFT still does not have an automated system to
prepare reliable financial reports. Reports not
normally used for managerial purposes.
8. Information Systems                     Substantial        Scala accounting software is used, but only for
cash payments, Excel worksheets are used for
Micro-projects and Micro-finance components. No
link between them. A new system will be
procured.
Overall Control Risk       Substantial
The inherent risks could adversely affect project implementation, but can be mitigated as
described below:
(i)     Country financial management risk. The risk originated from very weak financial structures in
government departments will be mitigated by implementing the project through a separate entity, NSIFT,
who will control and account for all expenditures for the project. NSIFT staff already have experience
gained while implementing the pilot project.
(ii)    Project financial management risk. There is risk that, as in the first project, the government
fails to provide the counterpart in the amounts and the timing agreed. This risk is being reduced by:
requesting the government to make an initial allocation of funds for the first year (2002, which has
already been included in the public budget); making it a condition of negotiations that the government
issue an assurance letter that funds are available for the year 2003; and making it a dated covenant for the
years 2003 onwards that by September 30, 2002 and each year thereafter the government provide
assurance that funds are being made available in the budget for the following year.
65



(iii)  Perceived high level of corruption. During 1999 and subsequently, serious concems have been
raised conceming fraud, waste and abuse of donor funds in Tajikistan, and some cases have involved
projects financed by IDA. Even though the project is to be implemented in an environment with a high
rate of perceived corruption, the risk that IDA funds will not be used as intended for financing the defined
investment program is judged as acceptable by "ring-fencing" the project through NSIFT and the
recruitment of suitably qualified accounting and procurement staff. Furthermore, the project will try to
minimize the risk of misuse or fraud of IDA's funds in the micro-project and micro-finance components
by implementing a good selection criteria for micro-projects and NGOs, disbursements based on
performance of works, and constant monitoring. NGOs will be requested to submit monthly progress
reports to the NSIFT. NSIFT will also contract semiannual audits which will cover the micro-project
component. Additional site visits will be undertaken if the monthly or quarterly reports provide any cause
for concern. Other controls include intensive supervision to be undertaken on a periodic basis by World
Bank staff, including financial management and procurement supervision; and effective accounting and
financial management of the Project.
Issues and recommendations.
The overall financial management risk of this project is considered to be high. Adequate
measures are to be taken by the NSIFT to ensure all financial risks are identified and their mitigation
measures incorporated into the operational and financial manuals. The risks would be continually
evaluated and appropriate remedial measures taken during the Bank's supervision missions.
8.     Costs and Financial Performance
The project's financing plan, which includes the IDA Credit, and the project's planned
expenditures, have been realistically estimated. The NSIFT will charge an interest rate for the funds
loaned to the NGOs participating in the micro-finance component. This interest will be paid to another
government agency rather than to NSIFT because it is envisioned the funds will be used for a more
permanent effort by the govemment to enhance microlending capabilities in the country. Moreover, the
Task Team did not consider it convenient to have this interest income counted as part of the official
Government counterpart financing contribution.
Issues and recommendations.
None.
9.     Auditing Arrangements
The NSIFT will be responsible for ensuring the execution of annual audits of the project financial
statements, special accounts and Statements of Expenditures (SOEs), as well as semi-annual audits of the
operations under the Micro-projects component. The annual audits will be comprehensive and cover all
aspects of the project and the Terms of Reference of the auditors should include both audit of financial
transactions and an assessment of the operation of the financial management system, including a review
of the internal control mechanisms. Audits will be performed by an independent international auditor,
member of a professional body that is a member of the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC)
and acceptable to IDA. The audits will be carried out in accordance with International Standards on
Auditing (ISA) and the World Bank's Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects
Financed by the World Bank (March 1982), the Financial Accounting, Reporting and Auditing Handbook
(FARAH, 1995) and other guidance that might be provided by IDA. The audit terms of reference (TORs)
will be prepared by NSIFT and cleared by IDA before the engagement of the auditor. The annual audit
reports will be in a format in accordance with ISA and World Bank guidelines, and will include an
opinion on the project financial statements, the SOEs and the Special Account, as well as a management
letter. The reports on Micro-projects will contain an opinion on the reasonability of the amounts reported
66



under this component. Annual audit reports will be submitted to IDA no later than six months after the
end of the fiscal year to which it relates (i.e. by June 30 of each year). Reports on Micro-projects will be
submitted no later than three months after the end of the semester to which they correspond (i.e. by March
31 and September 30 of each year). The cost of the audits will be eligible for financing from the IDA
Credit.
NS1FT will provide the auditor with access to project-related documents and records, and to
information required by the auditor for purposes of the audit. There is the possibility that ]DA and the
Government might agree to appoint auditors under a project portfolio-wide basis agreement. This will not
change the basic agreements stated above.
Participating NGOs will be required to provide annual external audits of financial statements in
accordance with terms of reference agreed with IDA, by reputable extemal auditors acceptable to IDA. In
addition, the participating NGOs will maintain proper accounts for the microloans and other operations
financed by the project, including supporting procurement and disbursement documents, which would be
audited annually by external auditors acceptable to IDA.
Issues and recommendations
The auditor should be appointed with sufficient time to allow for the performance the semi-
annual and annual audits timely and issuance of the audit reports before the due dates.
10.    Disbursements
It is expected that the proceeds of the Credit will be disbursed in a period of just over four and a
half years, which includes six months for the completion of accounts and the submission of final
withdrawal applications. The Project's Closing Date is estimated to be December 31, 2006.
Disbursements from the IDA Credit will follow the transaction-based method i.e. the traditional
Bank procedures (reimbursements with full documentation, Statements of Expenditure (SOE), direct
payments and special commitments).
Report-based disbursements (also known as FMR-based disbursements) is not considered feasible
in the Tajikistan portfolio at this stage because of significant risks relating to (i) project financial
management weaknesses and lack of capacity in PIUs; and (ii) the unstable political situation and general
governance problems presently affecting the country.
The Credit amount of US$13.80 million funded by IDA will be administered by the NSIFT,
which is responsible for retaining supporting documentation for SOEs and making them available to IDA
supervision missions, as well as to the auditors. The minimum size of application for direct payment
withdrawals and the issuance of special commitments from the IDA Credit account would be 20 percent
of the Authorized Allocation to the Special Account.
Government Counterpart Contribution: the Borrower will provide its contribution to the NSlFT
estimated at a total of US$4.48 million, out of which approximately US$0.97 million will come from
community counterpart contributions and US$2.35 will come from taxes. The Borrower counterpart
contribution will be planned for annually by the Minister of Finance, as one of the dated covenants
governing this Project. The NSIFT will estimated on an annual basis the need for Borrow contribution
and submit a request to the Ministry of Finance. The MoF will include this request in the annual budget
for the purposes of project implementation. The Borrower will ensure that there is sufficient funding
available for project implementation at all times to pay NSIIFT staff, contractors and suppliers as per
67



Schedule 1 of the Credit Agreement. In no case will the Borrow use Credit funds to substitute for
payments from the counterpart funds required under the NSIFT contractual obligations for the Project.
The six-monthly audit of the Project will include an audit of the Borrower counterpart contribution for
Project implementation purposes. The Borrower and the Bank will closely monitor this arrangement and
review it by May 30, 2003 and make modifications if necessary.
Table C below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the Percentage of expenditures for items
so to be financed in each Category.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category            Amount in             Financing Percentage
US$million
Goods, works and services for Micro-      8.300                      73%
projects under Parts A. I and A.2 of the
Project
Goods for Parts A.3, A.4, B and C of the   0.180      100% of foreign expenditures;
Project                                               100% of local expenditures (ex-
factory cost); and 78% of other
items procured locally
Consultant's services, training and auditing  1.370   100%
under Parts A.3, A.4, B and C of the Project
Subloans under Part B of the Project       0.850      100% of disbursed amounts
Incremental Operating Costs                1.380      100%
Refunding of Project Preparation Advance   0.465      Amount due pursuant to Section
2.02(c) of the Development Credit
Agreement
Unallocated                                1.255
Total                                     13.80
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Issues and recommendations
Disbursements from the IDA Credit would be made on the traditional system (reimbursements
with full documentation and against Statements of Expenditure (SOE), and direct payments). As indicated
above the report-based disbursements would not be used for this project.
Statements of Expenditures (SOE) will be used for (a) goods under contracts costing less than
US$20,000 equivalent each; (b) for Micro-projects costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each; (c) for
all the subloans for micro-finance activities (d) for services provided by consultant firms under contracts
costing less than US$30,000 equivalent each; (e) for services provided by individual consultants under
contracts costing less than US$10,000 equivalent each; (f) incremental operating costs; and (g) training.
Full documentation in support of SOE will be retained by NSIFT for at least one year following the
closure of the project. This information will be made available for review during supervision by Bank
staff and for annual audits conducted by auditors and on terms of reference acceptable to the Bank that
will be required to specifically comment on the propriety of SOE disbursements and the quality of the
associated record-keeping.
68



Special account:
11.    Special Account
To facilitate timely project implementation, the Borrower will establish, maintain and operate,
under conditions acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account in US dollars in a commercial bank,
acceptable to the Bank. The Special Account will be drawn upon to meet payments to contractors,
suppliers and consultants under the project. The initial allocation to the Special Account will be limited to
US$250,000. The initial allocation may be increased up to the authorized allocation of US$500,000 once
aggregate disbursement under the Credit, plus the total amount of all outstanding Special Commitments
under the Credit have reached SDR 2.0 million by submitting the relevant Application for Withdrawal.
Replenishment applications should be submitted at least once every month and must include reconciled
bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents. The Special Account will be audited
annually by independent auditors and on terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
Issues and recommendations
NSIFT has already implemented a Bank-financed project and has experience in the
management of the Special Account.
12.    Agreed Action Plan for the NSIFT
It is concluded that the NSIFT currently satisfies IDA's minimum financial management
requirements. There is however a number of actions that the NSIFT have agreed to take to improve its
financial management process.
Action                                       Deadline
1. Undertake the following actions:
(i) Recruit and contract the chief accountant and niicro-fmance  (i) May31, 2002
accountant.
(ii) Include training for accountants in the training schedule prepared  (ii) February 28, 2002
for the PPF-financed expenditures.
2. Undertake the following actions:
(i) Contract for the design and implementation of an integrated  (i) June 30, 2002
Financial Management System.
(ii) System imnplemented and running                       (ii) August 31, 2002
3. Update the financial management manual, including appropriate  July 31, 2002
sections and reporting requirements (for NSIFT and other units
participating in project irnplementation) and have it reviewed/revised
by consultant who implements financial management system.
4. Appoint an independent auditing firm, acceptable to IDA, to audit  July 31, 2002
the project financial statements and the operations of the micro-finance
component.
13. Impact of procurement arrangements
As the micro-finance component would provide funds to NGOs for lending activities, there would
be no procurement in this component. Conversely, the micro-project component would involve a large
number of contracts subject to procurement regulations described in the procurement of the operations
manual. Technical assistance might consist of several consultancy contracts for amounts above the prior
review threshold and a number of local contracts for training and other assistance. The NSIFT has
69



appropriate experience in procurement but IDA's procurement specialist should keep maintain close
monitoring of all procurements.
14.    Supervision Plan
The reports of the progress of the project implementation will be monitored in detail during
supervision missions. FMRs will be reviewed on a regular basis by the field-based FMS and the results
or issues followed up during the supervision missions. Audit reports for the project, the micro-project
component and NGOs will be reviewed and issues identified and followed up. The field based FMS
would monitor the agreed action plan to ensure appropriate actions have been implemented by NSIFT.
70



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
TAJIKISTAN: Second Poverty Alleviation Project
Project Schedule                        -          Planned -              Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)         8                       8
First Bank mission (identification)                06/29/2001              07/30/2001
Appraisal mission departure                        01/23/2002              01/23/2002
Negotiations                                      03/11/2002               03/14/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                      07/01/2002
Prepared by:
NSIFT
Preparation assistance:
Project Preparation Advance of US$465,000.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                      Speciality
Michael Mills                        Task Team Leader, ECSHD
Dinah Mcleod                         Social Protection Specialist, HDNSP
Kathryn Dahlmeier                    Operations Analyst, ECSHD
Saodat Bazarova                      Operations Analyst, ECSHD
Subramanian Janakiram                Micro-finance Specialist, Consultant, ECSIE
Helen Shahriari                      Senior Social Scientist, ECSHD
Kamal Siblini                        Monitoring and Evaluation/MIS Specialist, Consultant
Roque Ardon                          Senior Financial Management Specialist, ECCO8
Vladislav Krasikov                   Procurement Specialist, ECC 10
Karl Skansing                        Senior Procurement Specialist, ECC 10
Hannah Koilpillai                    Disbursement Officer, LOAG1
Carmen Laurente                      Program Assistant, ECSHD
Junko Funahashi                      Senior Counsel, LEGEC
Ahmed Jehani                         Lead Counsel, LEGEC
Mohamed Nawaz                        Consultant, LEGEC
Mustapha Rouis                       Resident Representative, ECCTJ
Eluned Roberts-Schweitzer            Senior Education Specialist, ECSHD
David Steel                          Lead Operations Officer, MNSHD (Peer Reviewer)
Galina Sotirova                      Senior Human Resources Specialist (Peer Reviewer)
Christine Allison                    Lead Human Development Specialist (Peer Reviewer)
Margaret Grosh                       Lead Economist, HDNSP (Peer Reviewer)
Note: It has taken 8 months to prepare the project since the revised PCD was issued following period of
TASIF management problems.
71



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
TAJIKISTAN: Second Poverty Alleviation Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Completed by NSIFT with Bank assistance.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Social Assessment
Procurement Capacity Assessment
Financial Management Assessment
Report on micro-finance sector
Report on monitoring and evaluation
C. Other
Tajikistan Pilot Poverty Alleviation Project - Implementation Completion Report
*Including electronic files
72



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
TAJIKISTAN: Second Poverty Alleviation Project
02-Apr-2002
Difference between
expected
Original Amount in USS Millions          and actual
disbursenmtsa
Project ID    FY    Purpose                                  IBRD       IDA      Cancel.  Undisb.    Orig    Frm
Rev'd
P046047       2001  SAC 2                                     0.00    50.00       0.00    24.49     6.67     0.00
P058898       2000  RURAL INFRA REHAB                         0.00    20.00       0.00    18.06     4.45     0.00
P067610       2000  LAKE SAREZ RISK MITIGATION                0.00     0.47       0.00     0.44     0.18     0.00
P049894       2000  PRIM HEALTH CARE                          0.00     5A0        0.00     3.31     0.38     0.00
P049718       1999  FARM PRIV SUPPORT                         0.00    20.00       0.00    13.78     5.44     0.00
P059755       1999  IBTA 11                                   0.00     6.70       0.00     3.52     1.03     0.00
P057953       1999  EDUCATION                                 0.00     5.00       0.00     0.76     0.95     0.00
P044202       1997  PILOT POV ALLEV                           0.00    12.00       0.00     0.54     0.90     0.00
Total:     0.00       119.57       0.00     64.90    20.00     0.00
73



TAJIKISTAN
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jan - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Coninitted                     Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval   Company             Loan   Equity   Quasi    Partic  Loan   Equity   Quasi Partc
1997/98       Zeravshan Gold       0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00  0.00
1998          Nelson Resources     0.00    0.94    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.94    0.00  0.00
2001          SEF Finconsult       0.00    0.00     0.05    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00  0.00
2000          SEF Holland          0.40    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.30    0.00    0.00  0.00
2000          SEF TSB              0.00    0.50    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00  0.00
Total Portfolio:    0.40     1.44    0.05    0.00   0.30    0.94     0.00  0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval         Company                       Loan    Equity   Quasi     Partic
1997               Nelson Gold                    0.00      0.00    2.05      0.00
2001                SEF Finconsult                0.10      0.00    0.00      0.00
2001                SEF Somon Oil                 0.40      0.00    0.00      0.00
2002                SEF Telecom Tech              0.35      0.00    0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:     0.85       0.00   2.05       0.00
74



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
TAJIKISTAN: Second Poverty Alleviation Project
Europe &
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         Central    Low-
Tailkistan     Asia  income      Development dlamond
2000
Population, mid-year (millbns)                      6.3      475     2,459                Life expectancy
GN) per capita (Atlas method, US$)                  170      2,010      420
GNI (Atlas method, USS billions)                     1.1      956     1,030
Average annual growth, 1994400
Population (%)                                       1.6       0.1      1.9
Labor force (%)                                      2.7       0.8      2.4     GNI              I             Gross
per                 7         primnary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                           capita           ,.'       enroNment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)  83
Urban population (% of total population)             28        67        32
Life expectancy at birth (years)                     69        69        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)             20        21        77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                                           Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (X of population)  ..       90        76
Illiteracy (96 of population age 15+)                 1         3        38
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)  95      100        96           -Tejitdtan
Male                                               97       101       102                 Low-Income group
Female                                             94        99       86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999     2000
Economic ratios^
GDP (US$ billions)                           ..       ..       1.1      1.0
Gross domestic investmenUGDP                        24.8      19.1     19.9
Exports of goods and services/GDP                   27.8      62.4     807                    Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                          17.5      17.6     16.0
Gross national savings/GDP                                    15.8     13.7
Current account balance/GDP                                   -3 3     -6.2     Domestic                           t
Interest paymentslGDP                                          0.7      1.2                s               Investment
Total debt/GDP                                                85.2     93.0     s
Total debt service/exports                                     5.9      6.6
Present value of debUGDP                                     52.8      56.7
Present value of debt/exports                                84.6      70.3
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00    1999      2000   2000-04
(aveage annual growth)
GDP                                2.0    -10.4      3.7       8.3      5.8                  Tajilkistan
GDP per capita                    -1.0    -11.9      1.7      6.6       4.0              - - Low-income group
Exports of goods and services               5.0     12.0     18.2       6.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(% of GOP)                                1980     1990      1999     2000      Growth of Investment and GOP (%)
Agriculture                                         33.3      18.7     19.4     10
Industry                                           37.6      24.6      25.7   o   .
Manufacturing                                     24.8      21.2     22.6    o10     95                   9s    00
Services                                            29.1     56.7      54.9    20
Private consumption                                73.8      72.4      75.8    4
General govemment consumption                       8.7       9.9       8.2
Imports of goods and services                      35.2      63.9      84.7 -7t                             GP
(average annual growth)                 1980-90  1990400     1999     2000      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                -2.8     -5.8       3.8     12.4    eo
Industry                                    5.6   -12.6       5.0      10.2    40
Manufacturng                                                                 20 ..  .2
Services                                                                        o . 
Private consumption                                                            20 .
General govemment consumption                                                  J0o
Gross domestic investment                                                             -Expons          a   imports
Imports of goods and services                       0.8      -5.2      21.1
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with Its Income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
75



Tajikistan
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                            1980     1990      1999     2000     Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                      2.500 
Consumer prices                               ..      ..      30.1      60.6    2000 '   As
Implicit GDP deflator                         ..     6.2      26.5      240     1990   /  \
Government finance                                                               5o 3
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                               o                            3 
Current revenue                               .        .      13.5      13.6            9s    96    97    98   99    00
Current budget balance                             .           0.3       21                  GP deflator -  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..              -3.1      -0 6
TRADE
(US$ miiiions)                             1980     1990      1999     2000      Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                                    .       666      791     1
Aluminum                                                     284       393
Cotton fiber                                ..       ..       93       92
Manufactures                                         ..       46        49      e00
Total imports (cif)                           .        ..      693      839      400
Food                                        ..       ..       69       68
Fuel and energy                              .       ..      273      324       200
Capital goods                                        ..       45       53        0
Export price index (1995=100)                 9.                 3       99           g    95   96   97       99   oo
Import price index (1995=100)                 .                103      111                *Exports      aiports
Terns of trade (1995=100)                     ..      ..        91       89
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                             1980     1990      1999     2000      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                 ..      ..       677      800      0
Imports of goods and services                ..       ..       693      839                   I    -   I  - I   - 
Resource balance                              ..      ..       -16       39      4            "    I_ -  *
Net Income                                     .       ..      *55       55    -10
Net current transfers                         .                 35       33      I-
Current account balance                       ..      ..       -36      -61     2
Financing items (net)                        ..       ..        30       84    -20-
Changes in net reserves                        .       .         6      -23    -25
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)                ..        58       87
Official exchange rate (local/USS)            .        .       1.2      1.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999     2000
(USS millions)                                                                   Composition of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          0        0       924      922
IBRD                                        0        0         0        0
IDA                                         0        0       126      143                  G: 96       8:143
Total debt service                            0        0        40       53                /
IBRD                                        0        0         0        0         F: 141
IDA                                         0        0         1        1                 '                  c111
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             0        0        31       33                                    0:28
Official creditors                          0        0        31       21
Private creditors                           0        0       -14      -11
Foreign direct investment                   0        0        21       22
Portfolio equity                            0        0         0        0                   E: 403
World Bank program
Commitments                                 0        0        40       26     A - IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               0        0        36       23      B - IDA  D - Other multilateral  F - Prvate
Principal repayments                        0        0         0        0     C - IMF                    G - Short-term
Net flows                                   0        0        36       23
Interest payments                           0        0         1        1
Net transfers                               0        0        35       22
Development Economics                                                                                            10/2101
76



Additional Annex 11: Organizational Structure of the NSIFT
TAJIKISTAN: Second Poverty Alleviation Project
*                                     - .  1us1
f~~~~~~~i           .          I-,__ . _ ._._..__
N0 4II>Iti                               I'AA^DV411 
r                     I [ @~~~~~~3; @-S*S |  I'.L 
I  L   Blmlivell_t   _   I   f-   *  ----- ~~~~~-----------------------i
f Lz  . -!)i .  'U  I 
* I^t ' *  ,MMAW-'!IrM*T
, r e~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,.                         L   i.||fpss , L
*-----------------  ................  - -   .....                  .. .   ..
*               ;.             *              i-j  
- wa  u u  3                                                  Mip l  l* 1?  F , l 1  
r~ :. h                      U ;   E tI-S;l;.  . ij,;  4,.v   |ls4,itds 3)(
Fj     I,j,_
'0  I7
Z*
77~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a       L






ll          5 KA21'TAN       .J69   /-Nt
I <\#ieA:-, !                                        hk--   -TAJIKISTAN
?,       1.#|;!;4, /       f   UZBEKISTAN            *   Selected Cities                        Roads
L                                                       0   Autonomous Oblast Centers     ----'r-Railroads
-_ v1 - -. .-t--  DDOM     (3)  Oblast Center                         Rural Districts
-  - ~~~~. ~KI-od1Qrnd            ~                                          aia                   ---Autonomous Oblast Boundaries
_-.t. ....................................... i.++.P^_> aF National                       Capital -"-= Oblast Boundaries"
.1. hkc,Iov -  .r  L_ ~r-''6C'7..                                               ---      International Boundaries
UZBE KISIAN               j.    >,'                                   '              ' X  4   7o:)   Are a w i 5h  n amdo os lev  aI mn is  na m  di-s ,s   where  r-yon  ore under  direct  republic  jursdicsnon
UZBEKISTAN   -                 r.                                                   'An oh/oat is namd -iy when its,am  differs from  that of it, odminitratfie cente
*>I;.   - ;a~'. )             l- ~> _                    1 (,?     !..                  - .>,-m - - - KYRGYZ  REP.  720  ToO,h  ,Al
J4 LCn~~~-wn  ~Ayni                                                          -     
.     PENJIK ENT                 ,l         MACH ,                       > N        .75    ..
I       7 - t-                           -                              -  _ ~ A -- - j C H I N A
AlNi N                       GHARm       _
_. _~'\ VAWOR    I KOF.4P'NIHON  DA       --                                                           IS - . . ;h
-  72 __  _  \ J  /    (        <       r                   TAVILL~~~R  ARA   >     
\ ,/? 6ffe\ YAVAN / N f -  -              t . ' , . .  MURGAB
j A/8 C'n jARA1t q            *\_ R -                                   '                     bUSHAN  _  r
. I KULYAs                         i                                  GORNO-
R                   KIhIAlIab 
|   R 1/ -                                                                              / uSiet  <7. '  .  ~' ,b  BADAKHSiAN
k  ~      U1 |OK --                                                            .                 . -;t.r 4 
W o.~ ~  ~     ~   ~    ~   ~   ~~-               SFurs0 ,.5s sHI -- i_I/-
A F G H A N I S T A N                                                      -                L.                         t
Tsiampaws anpr oud sby ther  I         I                                             I i                                             5,
Map De-gs Unset The World
dBant.  -hoodar,a. colors.  0         50         100        150 KILOMETERS
imfarnatio-  thaws as tht - p                                                        (                                II              . I  - I
d=ns -tply, n- hp p-rt of   I                                                      *            A                     L_                         _ .  _         _-
= The World BoonL Graupa=ny    0                50               100 MILES    P                                                             -    a  .--  s
_  /odgnens =n the legal ssosus of                                                                                                                                   m W1  St} _2
n  aorysrrl5ory or =nreedorteneor                                                                                      ISLAMIC REP.           --
o L ruepsasre of h b-ocdor-es    6 9                                                        72                       OF  IRAN                                     Al _  -i  0_



