E549
NSIFT Guidelines on Environmental Procedures
1. Introduction
These Guidelines are intended for use by NSIFT staff, CBP appraisal teams, engineers,
environmental consultants, implementing agencies and other interested parties.
The guidelines assist everyone working on the community based project during each stage
helping him/her to make sure that environmental concerns are duly incorporated in the project
design and implementation.
The main part of the guidelines is recommendations/requirements on the environmental
assessment at different stages of the community based project cycle. It contains also
recommendations on possible/obligatory mitigation measures. Checklists are important tools
to be used for environmental assessment, however expert's reports and recommendations are
the main outcome at each stage. The expert/engineer prepares the report using his expertise
and concrete results of his desk and field investigations of the proposed community based
project.
2. NSIFT Environmental Policy
All community based projects that will be implemented by NSIFT have to be in compliance
with local environmental rules and regulations, as well as with environmental policy of the
WB.
According to both local and internationally recognized regulations, at certain points of the
project preparation and implementation cycle environmental assessment (EA) and monitoring
are required.
The breadth and depth of the EA process depend on the nature, scale and potential impact of a
proposed project. It is anticipated that NSIFT-funded community based projects, as a rule,
will not trigger a full-scale environmental impact assessment process. The EA is broad in
scope and takes into account the natural environment as well as human health and socio-
cultural aspects, focusing in on those issues and potential impacts that are determined as
critical for a community based project's environmental soundness and sustainability. The EA
runs in parallel with the process of identifying a potential community based project, designing
it, and implementing it.
Key considerations to be taken into account during EA process include:
* compliance with existing environmental regulations;
* linkages with social assessment;
* analysis of alternatives;
* public participation and consultation with affected people and NGOs; and
* disclosure of information
Like economic, financial, institutional and engineering analysis, EA is part of project
preparation and therefore is the project proponent's responsibility.
3. Environmental Assessment at Different Stages of the Project Cycle
The stages of CBP cycle are defined by the NSIFT Operational Manual (See Annex 1). Upon
completion of each stage of the project cycle, specific forms are to be filled in by the
authorized staff, including sections of environmental evaluations. To assure that
environmental analysis was performed in a comprehensive way, specific checklists for
FILE COPY


﻿different types of community based projects must be used by engineers and/or environmental
experts, and, if necessary, involve other consultants.
The three stages of the environmental assessment during the community based project cycle
are:
* Preliminary Appraisal Stage
* Final Appraisal Stage
* Implementation Stage
3.1 Environmental Assessment at Preliminary Appraisal Stage
The goals of the preliminary environmental assessment are:
-  to collect evidences that the proposed community based project does not violate
existing environmental regulations;
-  to evaluate potential adverse environmental impacts;
-  to highlight the need of specific prevention and/or mitigation measures;
-  to make recommendations on the level of environmental efforts at further stages of the
project.
The steps of the preliminary environmental assessment are:
-  Carry out desk environmental assessment using available documentation for the
community based project (see Annex 2)
-  Visit the project site and carry on field preliminary environmental assessment (see
Annex 3)
-  Analyze affected environment, potential impacts and prepare recommendations on
mitigation measures (see Annex 4)
The technical appraisal team is expected to:
-  Assess the affected environment
-  Investigate land use and resources use restrictions in the project area
-  Check that the CBP proposal complies with other environmental laws and regulations
-  Estimate a range and a scale of potential environmental impacts
-  Make recommendations on the need for specific prevention and/or mitigation
measures;
-  Make recommendations on the level of environmental assessment at the community
based project preparation stage
-  Assess the need and make recommendations on the involvement of environmental
consultant
Results of Environmental Assessment are summarized in the section 7 of Preliminary
Appraisal Report.
Possible statements (Section 7.1):
-  No significant environmental impacts are anticipated
-  Possible adverse environmental impacts
-  Proposed CBP violates existing environmental regulations
-  Community based project will lead to positive environmental impacts
Evaluation is complemented by written comments and recommendations, including:
-  Brief description of affected environment;
-  Brief description of potential impacts;
- Recommendations on:


﻿Involving environmental consultant(s);
Desirability of considering alternative technical, siting and other solutions;
The need of specific prevention and/or mitigation measures;
The desired level of environmental assessment and public involvement at further
stages.
3.2 Environmental Assessment at Final Appraisal Stage
The goals of the environmental assessment at Final Appraisal Stage are:
-  to check that the project design and other relevant documentation have all the
necessary permits and approvals and does not violate existing environmental
regulations;
-  in case of potential adverse environmental impact to check that appropriate prevention
and mitigation measures have been planned and necessary resources have been
allocated to implement them;
-  to make recommendations on the level and mechanisms of environmental monitoring
at further stages of the community based project.
The steps of the final environmental assessment are:
-  Visit the project site and carry out field assessment, including participation in a public
meeting(s). Meet with the Implementing Agency and if necessary, with technical
design team;
-  Compare results and recommendations of the Preliminary Environmental Assessment
with project documentation; make sure that necessary environmental permits and
approvals are in place (Annex 5);
-  Fill in section 7 of Final Appraisal Report.
The environmental appraisal team/engineer is expected to:
-  Examine the project documentation to check that:
-  environmental assessment was performed in accordance with regulations and that
it followed the recommendations of the preliminary environmental assessment;
-  the documentation includes all the necessary permits and approvals;
-  appropriate prevention and mitigation measures have been planned and necessary
resources have been allocated, or an alternative decision was made (and supported
with necessary documents) that makes such measures unnecessary;
-  the project documentation and findings of the final site visit have been presented to
public and that the project does not create public objections;
- Make recommendations on the level and mechanisms of environmental monitoring on
construction and operational stages
Findings of the Final Environmental Assessment are summarized in "Conclusions on the
Results of Environmental Assessment" (Section 7 of the Final Appraisal Report).
Sample Section 7
7.1   Main conclusion of Environmental Assessment
- Improvement of environment


﻿-  No significant environmental impacts
-  Potential adverse environmental impacts, adequate mitigation measures, confirmed by
positive decisions ofenvironmental authorities
- Adverse environmental impacts, project in compliance with regulations, but mitigation
measures are insufficient, unrealistic and/or very expensive
-  Negative decision of a competent environmental protection authority
7.2   Brief description ofpotential adverse environmental impacts, as appropriate
7.3   Incorporation of necessary prevention and mitigation measures
7.4   Conclusion that all necessary approvals and permits are in place.
7.5   Conclusion on the necessity/desirability of environmental monitoring by NSIFT at
construction/operational stages
7.6   Conclusion on implementation of the community based project, or recommendation to
consider other alternatives, or recommendation to conduct further environmental
investigations.
3.3 Environmental monitoring at construction and operational stages
At the construction and operational stage, the main goal of environmental specialists is to
monitor proper implementation of environmental protection and mitigation measures
prescribed by the project design documents, as well as to monitor prompt liquidation or
mitigation of unexpected adverse environmental impacts.
To achieve this goal, NSIFT staff and local supervising engineer should use the list of key
environmental protection and mitigation measures prepared at the Final Appraisal stage. They
should also use Field Inspection Checklist (Annex 6).
In case the project fails to meet environmental protection requirements, the local supervisor
shall report to the community based project supervisor.


﻿NSIFT Guidelines on Environmental Procedures         Annex I


﻿Taikistan - Poverty Alleviation Project                              Annex 2
Micro-Projects Cycle (5eptember 2001)
Poverty
Mapping
Investment
Plan
TASIF Board
Approval
Promotion Officer,
ADTASIF (Central,'t                                      Regional Go.vts
engineers, consult)      and NGO
Survey of
Region
ommunity
Survey
Report
Does not match criteria  Re
Matches criteria
ommunit
Approval
Confirm
priorities
CChoo'se
Comitte
LEGEND
Regional                                Finance/Accounting
Office                                 Procurement
Training                        :       Resource
Engineer                      0         Activity
MIS Entry/
echnical                              Transfer
Document
MPC      Micro-Projects
----------Committee
Budget r
KS/nicrooroiectcycle


﻿NSIFT Guidelines on Environmental Procedures                           Annex 2
Desk Preliminary Environmental Assessment Checklist
If the Community based project Proposal doesn't contain all the necessary information for
the desk appraisal, please obtain it during the field appraisal.
Issues of land and resource use, environmental permits and licenses
*  Are there land use permits in place'?
*  Will there be a need for use of resources? If yes, specify.
*  During construction and operational stages, will the project activity use any resources that
need permits or licenses (forest use, water use, gravel for road construction etc). Are these
permits in place?
Project site description
*  Is there full information about current land users/owners? If no, list what is missing.
* Does any part of the project site fall under specific environmental regulations, e.g. nature
reserve protected area, or national park?
* Does the project fall under regulations of specific law
Potential environmental impacts and compliance with environmental regulations
*  Will any wastes be generated during construction/operational/closure stages of the
project? Are any of these waste toxic/hazardous? Methods of decommissioning/treatment.
*  Will the project create any emissions?
*  Will the project create/increase risks of natural or ethnogeny disasters (landslides,
flooding, avalanches etc).
*  Please describe expected disturbance and nuisance produce during construction and
operation (soil, waterways, flora, fauna, noise etc)
*  Does the project activity fall under the nature protection category?
Relevant Environmental Regulatory Authorities (Provide name, address, contact. Collect
missing information during the site visit)
*  Local authority that has project site/activities under its jurisdiction. Is there environmental
specialist?
*  Environmental protection authority
*  Sanitary-Epidemiological Station
*  Forestry authority; Nature reserve, park (if applicable)
*  Any other environmental protection authority


﻿NSIFT Guidelines on Environmental Procedures                           Annex 3
Field Preliminary Environmental Assessment Checklist
Location
* Obtain a site map, or make a sketch of the site plan.
* Mark the location of the site on a map of the local area, or indicate the geographical
impact area
Site Survey Questionnaire
Current activity and site history
* Who is the site contact? Name, position, contact
* What is the site size (m2) that will be used for project activities?
* What is the current use of the site? Provide a brief overview.
* What were previous uses of the site? Give names and dates, if possible.
Environmental Location
*  Are there any sensitive habitats nearby? e.g. nature reserves protected areas, historical
landmarks etc.
*  Is anything known about the geology/hydrogeology beneath the site? Are there water
courses on the site?
*  Does the site contain any slopes? If yes, describe (hills, ravines etc.).
*  Is the site located on a floodplain? In water-protection area?
*  Does the site ever experience flooding? Landslides? Are there signs of water logging,
bogging, water erosion?
*  What are neighbors to the site? e.g. dwellings, fields, industries, schools, watercourses.
Estimate distance if possible
*  Will transportation be impacted?
*  Neighbor land users. Are there nature reserves, protected territories, historic monuments,
etc.


﻿Environmental Licenses/Pollution Control
*  Does the site require any permits/licenses issued by regulatory authorities to operate?
Such as for air emissions, noise, water intake and discharge, waste disposal. Are copies
available?
* What environmental authorities are in charge of control? Names, addresses, contact (in
case there is not enough information from desk evaluation).
Water Quality Issues
*  Does the site use water for any purposes? If yes, give details.
*  Does the site produce any effluent? If yes, give details, e.g. how much and where does it
go
*  Is there a drainage system on site for surface water and / or sewage effluent? Is a plan
available?
*  How is waste water managed (wells, septic tanks)
Potential for Soil disturbance and Contamination
* What is the ground surface like at the site? (e.g. agricultural land, forest etc.)
*  Will the project activities damage the soil during construction/operational stages?
* Will the project activities change landscape significantly (e.g. draining wetland areas,
changing water courses)?
Biological environment
*  Describe the type of vegetation on the site.
*  Is there any information about rare/protected species of fauna and flora (e.g. Red book
species?)? If yes, is there a risk to the species?
*  Obtain or create a listing of mammals, birds, fish, reptiles, natural plants and common
cultivated plants in the area.
*  List the negative impacts to be expected or anticipated if the project initiated.
Visual Inspection Procedure
Points to remember while walking about:
*  Try and get a site plan (or sketch one) so you can mark details on it
*  Take plenty of photos if you have permission
*  Walk over as much of the site as possible, including the boundary, to see if outside
activities are affecting the site, or if site activities will affect neighbors
*  Make notes of any odors, smoke or dust emissions, water spills etc.


﻿NSIFT Guidelines on Environmental Procedures                         Annex 4.1
Environmental Prevention and Mitigation Measures Checklists
A. HEALTH, SOCIAL AND EDUCATIONAL FACILITIES COMMUNITY BASED
PROJECTS
Environmental and            Impacts             Prevention and Mitigation Measures
Social Components
Physical
Environment        *  Soil degradation and      0  Protection of soil surface during
Soil                contamination from            construction; control and daily
construction works           cleaning of construction site
*  Medical and other waste   0   Provision of adequate waste
disposal services
* Water contamination by
Water Resources     spills and leaking sewer    o  Proper disposal of oil and other
systems                      hazardous materials
Air                0  Dust during construction              ; Dust control by water and other
means
Biological
environment
Natural Habitats   0  Disturbance of natural      d Consider alternative sites;
habitats                     minimize loss of natural vegetation
Fauna and Flora                                   during construction; compensation
*  Loss or degradation of      measures; various special measures
vegetation                   for sensitive species and habitats
Social
Environment        0  Garbage                   0  control and daily cleaning of
Aesthetics and                                    construction site; provision of
Landscape                                         adequate waste disposal services
*  Degradation of sites        m consider alternative sites; special
Historicall         v Disturbance to structures   measures to protect buildings and
Cultural Sites                                    other cultural resources/areas
E  Medical waste n              provision of treatment or waste
Human Health                                      collection services for medical
L  Noise and nuisance from     wastes
construction and operation    restrict construction works to
certain hours; consider different
H n  Losses of buildings or    traffic routs
Communities         property
* Disruption due to greater      good siting; community
traffic loads                participation in environmental
*Lossesofbuild        rassessment


﻿NSIFT Guidelines on Environmental Procedures                        Annex 4.2
Environmental Prevention and Mitigation Measures Checklists
B. WATER RELATED COMMUNITY BASED PROJECTS
Environmental and            Impacts            Prevention and Mitigation Measures
Social Components
Physical
Environment        *  Degradation of topsoil    *  Protection of soil surface during
Soil               *  Soil erosion, increased    construction; re-vegetation of
risks of landslides          disturbed soils, special stabilization
measures
* Water contamination by
Water Resources     spills, leaking sewer systems  *  Regional water use planning;
and waste treatment facilities  engineering measures; control of
*  Water quality degradation  water use; community participation
in downstream rivers, ponds
and reservoirs
* Over-exploitation of aquifers
Biological
environment
Natural Habitats   *  Disturbance of natural    *  Consider alternative sites;
habitats                     minimize loss of natural vegetation
Fauna and Flora                                  during construction; compensation
*  Loss or degradation of     measures; various special measures
vegetation                   for sensitive species and habitats
Social
Environment        *  Wastes from treatment        Proper disposal of wastes; odor-
Aesthetics and      facilities                   control technologies; good siting
Landscape          *  Unpleasant odor
*correct design; adequate training;
Human Health       *  Water-borne diseases       control by sanitary epidemiological
*  Noise from pump             station; proper siting
*good siting; community
Human              * Loss of buildings, property or  participation in environmental
Communities         property value               assessment; compensations


﻿NSIFT Guidelines on Environmental Procedures                       Annex 4.3
Environmental Prevention and Mitigation Measures Checklists
C. ROAD CONSTRUCTION COMMUNITY BASED PROJECTS
Environmental and           Impacts             Prevention and Mitigation Measures
Social Components
Physical
Environment        *  Soil degradation and     e Protection of soil surface during
Soil                contamination from           construction; control and daily
construction works           cleaning of construction site; special
*  Soil disturbance during    protection measures
excavation of construction  *  Proper disposal of oil and other
materials                    hazardous materials
* Water contamination by oil P Good siting; engineering
Water Resources     and fuel spills during       prevention and mitigation measures;
construction
c Disturbance to water flow
regimes
*A Dust control by water and other
WAr                  Dust and air pollution by  means; proper maintenance of
construction machinery       engines
Biological
environment
Natural Habitats  *   Disturbance of natural   *  Consider alternative sites;
habitats                     minimize loss of natural vegetation
Fauna and Flora                                  during construction; compensation
*  Loss or degradation of     measures; various special measures
vegetation                   for sensitive species and habitats
Social
Environment       * Loss of aesthetic value of  *  consider alternative sites;
Aesthetics and      landscape                    community participation in
Landscape                                        environmental assessment
Historical/       *   Degradation of sites        special measures to protect
Cultural Sites                                  buildings and other cultural
*  Construction accidents     resources/areas
Human Health      * Noise and nuisance from       correct design and training
construction and increased    good siting; community
traffic                      participation in environmental
assessment
Human             *  Involuntary resettlement
Communities       *  Losses of buildings,         good siting; alternative routes;
property or property value   compensations


﻿NSIFT Guidelines on Environmental Procedures           Annex 5
Final Environmental Assessment Checklist
(When working on this checklist, please refer to the findings of Preliminary Environmental
Appraisal).
Is the project documentation complete? If no, specify what's missing.
Are land use permits in place?
Are resource use permits in place?
Is the level of environmental assessment sufficient?
Is the quality of environmental assessment sufficient?
Does the project documentation have approvals of relevant environmental authorities?
Is there a potential for soil degradation/contamination? If yes, are there necessary
prevention/mitigation measures planned and budgeted?
Is there a potential for water degradation/contamination? If yes, are there necessary
prevention/mitigation measures planned and budgeted?
Is there a potential for air contamination? If yes, are there necessary prevention/mitigation
measures planned and budgeted?
Is there a threat to biological environment? If yes, are there necessary prevention/mitigation
measures planned and budgeted?
Is there a potential for adverse impacts on social environment? If yes, are there necessary
prevention, mitigation or compensation measures planned and budgeted?
Was the level of public involvement sufficient? Were the public concerns adequately
addressed?
What is the desired level, frequency, scope of environmental monitoring at construction
phase?
What is the desired level, frequency, scope of environmental monitoring at operational phase?


﻿NSIFT Guidelines on Environmental Procedures           Annex 6
Field Inspection Checklist
Have a site plan and project documentation;
Walk over as much of the site as possible, to see if project activities are affecting the site, or if
site activities are affecting neighbors; visit sites where nature protection measures are
implemented;
Compare the list of recommended prevention and mitigation measures with activities;
Make notes on the site maintenance;
Meet local people to find out their opinion about the project activities;
Take photos;
Prepare an inspection report and submit it to supervisor.


