Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3642 TJ
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Poverty Alleviation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 3, 2002
CREDIT NUMBER 3642 TJ
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 3, 2002, between REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
Page  2
(B)
the Project will be carried out by National Social Investment Fund  of Tajikistan 
(NSIFT) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
the proceeds of the credit provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Credit) available to 
NSIFT, as set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and 
in the agreement of even date herewith between the Association and NSIFT (the Project 
Agreement);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 1999) (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Beneficiary” means any community, organization, agency or individual eligible 
for assistance under the Project;
(b)
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(c)
“IA” or “Implementing  Agency” means any entity, local state administration or 
a
body of local self-government, nongovernmental organization or community-based 
organization that meets the eligibility criteria set forth in the Operations Manual and Schedule 3 
to the Project Agreement, authorized by the Beneficiaries to represent and work on their behalf 
for the purposes of the implementation of Parts A.1 and 2 of the Project;
(d)
“MFI” means the Micro-finance Institution that meets the eligibility criteria set 
forth in the Operations Manual and Schedule 4 to the Project Agreement, providing support to 
the Beneficiaries through the provision of credit financing;
(e)
“Micro-finance” means a micro-finance activity to be undertaken by MFIs under 
Part B of the Project;
(f)
“Micro-projects” means micro-projects which are selected and approved in 
accordance with the Operations Manual, financed through the provisions of goods, works and 
Page  3
services under an agreement with Implementing Agencies under Parts A.1 and 2 of the Project;
(g)
“NSIFT” means the National Social Investment Fund of Tajikistan established 
pursuant to Government’s Resolution No. 67, dated February 27, 2002, as successor to the 
Tajikistan Social Investment Fund established pursuant to Government’s Resolution No. 55, 
dated January 27, 1997;
(h)
“NSIFT Executive Committee” means the NSIFT Executive Committee 
consisting of selected managers from NSIFT, including its Executive Director; 
(i)
“Operations Manual” means the manual, referred to in Section 6.01 (b) of this 
Agreement, setting forth implementation rules and procedures for the Project, including: (a) 
targeting, eligibility and selection criteria for the Community Based Projects and the Sponsored 
Programs and regulations governing implementation thereof; (b) Micro-finance activities; (c) 
environmental guidelines; (d) accounting and financial management; (e) procurement 
procedures; and (e) the administrative operations of NSIFT, satisfactory to the Association,  as 
the same may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Association and NSIFT;
(j)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association and NSIFT 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(k)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance granted by 
the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on behalf of the 
Association on December 17, 2001 and on behalf of the Borrower on January 28, 2002;
(l)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement; 
(m) 
“Subloans” means a loan made or proposed to be made by NSIFT to MFIs, 
selected and approved in accordance with the Operations Manual, for the purpose of on-lending 
to Beneficiaries for Part B of the Project out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to MFIs;
(n)
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and NSIFT pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the Subsidiary Agreement;
(o)
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the subsidiary loan agreement to be entered 
into between NSIFT and MFI for the purpose of on-lending to Beneficiaries for Part B of the 
Project out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to MFIs, in accordance with the provisions set 
forth in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to the Project Agreement; and
(p)
“Tajik Somoni” means the currency of the Borrower.
Page  4
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to eleven million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
11,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: 
(i)
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for 
the 
Project (except Part B.1 of the Project) and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit; and
(ii)
amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) 
by 
NSIFT on account of withdrawals made respectively by MFI  under a 
Subloan 
to meet the reasonable cost of goods, works and services 
required for Part 
B.1 of the Project in respect of which the withdrawal 
from the Credit Account 
is requested.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in dollars 
a
special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits 
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the 
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date 
and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the 
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2006 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the date 
of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn 
Page  5
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 
immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time 
thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be 
applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay 
the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 15 and 
October 15 commencing October 15, 2012 and ending April 15, 2042.  Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on April 15, 2022 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal 
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the Association's 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of 
the Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's 
economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall 
have been repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount 
of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on which 
the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the modification 
referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts 
of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
Page  6
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the 
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned      repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the 
Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the 
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction 
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, shall cause NSIFT to 
perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of NSIFT 
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable NSIFT to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere 
with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to NSIFT as a 
grant under a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and NSIFT, under 
terms and conditions acceptable to the Association.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, by September 30 of each year, review the provisions 
for counterpart funds annually to ensure that an adequate allocation for project implementation 
will be included in the budget for the following calendar year.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
Page  7
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the future operation 
of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained until at least 
one year after the Association has received the audit report for the fiscal 
year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made; 
and
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of this 
Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year the report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested, including a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether  statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
Page  8
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting obligations 
set out in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause NSIFT to prepare and furnish 
to the Association a Financial Monitoring Report in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, which:
(i)
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, showing separately funds 
provided under the Credit, and explains variances between the actual and 
planned uses of such funds;
(ii)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned Project implementation; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the 
incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first calendar 
quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after 
each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 5.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified:
(a)
NSIFT shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement;
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Development 
Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that NSIFT will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement; and
(c)
The Operations Manual, or any provision thereof, shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of 
NSIFT to carry out the Project.
Page  9
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that  the events specified in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of 
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of 
the General Conditions:
(a)
The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and 
NSIFT; and
(b)
NSIFT has adopted the Operations Manual, satisfactory to the Association.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the meaning of 
Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be 
furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by NSIFT and is 
legally binding upon NSIFT in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and NSIFT and is legally binding upon the Borrower and NSIFT in accordance 
with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Page  10
3, Akademic Rajobovkho Street
Dushanbe, 734025
Republic of Tajikistan
Facsimile:
(992-372) 213329
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Almaty, 
Republic of Kazakhstan, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
By: 
/s/ Narzullo Abibullaev
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By: 
/s/ Dennis de Tray
Authorized Representative
Page  11
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods, works and services for
6,700,000
73%
Micro-Projects under Parts A.1
and A.2 of the Project
(2)
Goods for Parts A.3, A.4, B
145,000
100% of foreign
and C of the Project
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory
cost) and 78% of local 
expenditures for other
items procured locally
(3)
Consultants’ services, training 
1,102,000
100%
and auditing under Parts A.3, A.4,  
B and C of the Project
(4)
Subloans under Part B of the Project
683,000
100% of amounts
disbursed
(5)
Incremental Operating Costs
1,110,000
100%
(6)
Refunding of
374,000
Amount due pursuant
Project Preparation
to Section 2.02 (c) of
Advance
this Agreement
(7)
Unallocated
986,000
11,100,000
TOTAL
Page  12
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “incremental operating costs” means incremental operating costs of 
NSIFT incurred on account of the Project, including salaries and social insurance charges, 
excluding salaries of civil servants; communications, travel, rent, utilities, printing and 
publications, office supplies, vehicle maintenance, office maintenance, bank charges and such 
other expenditures as may be agreed upon by the Association. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts costing less 
than $20,000 equivalent each; (b) Micro-projects costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; (c) 
all the Subloans under Part B of the Project; (d) services provided by consulting firms under 
contracts costing less than $30,000 equivalent each; (e) services provided by individual 
consultants under contracts costing less than $10,000 equivalent each; (f) incremental operating 
costs; and (g) training, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to improve the living standards of the poor and increase 
their access to economic and social services.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
: Micro-projects
1.
Carry out community based projects, including identification, design, appraisal, 
implementation and monitoring of such projects proposed by the Beneficiaries in the areas of, 
inter alia, (i) social infrastructure and services; (ii) communal services and (iii) others that meet 
the criteria set forth in the Operations Manual and Schedule 3 to the Project Agreement.
Page  13
2.
Carry out sponsored programs, including communication, identification, design, 
appraisal, implementation and monitoring of projects targeted at poor and vulnerable groups, 
initiated by local entities, municipalities, nongovernmental organizations, and community-based 
organizations, involved in social care services provision, in accordance with the provisions set 
forth in the Operations Manual and Schedule 3 to the Project Agreement.
3.
Provision of technical advisory services and training to NSIFT Staff, Beneficiaries, IAs 
and service providers in the areas of proposal preparation, project management and 
implementation, construction of works, procurement, monitoring, social service delivery, 
supervision and fund raising.
4.
Provision of technical assistance for the implementation of beneficiary assessments.
Part B
: Micro-finance
1.
Provision of a credit line to existing MFIs, selected in accordance with agreed criteria, to 
support or expand existing programs through the provision of credit financing in accordance with 
the provisions set forth in the Operations Manual and Schedule 4 to the Project Agreement.
2.
Provision of technical assistance and training to MFIs to upgrade skills and knowledge of 
management and staff.
Part C
: Institutional Strengthening and Project Management
Strengthening NSIFT’s operations including its capacity to provide training to 
beneficiaries, planning, monitoring and evaluation activities through the provision of technical 
assistance including auditing services, training and equipment, vehicles and operating costs.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2006.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (5) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
Page  14
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $500,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $250,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 2,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures 
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts 
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall 
have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special Account at such 
intervals as 
the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn 
by the Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association shall not 
Page  15
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall 
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of 
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, 
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the Association all 
Page  16
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Association, the carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association, on or about December 31, 2004, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said 
report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by March 31, 2005, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and 
the Association’s views on the matter.
