Document ef
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7804
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SOMALIA
CENTRAL RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENI PROJECT
(CREDIT 906-SO)
JUNi  2,1989
Eastern Africa Region
Country Department II
Agriculture Operations
This document has a restricted disnhultion and may be used by recipients only in the perfomance of
thei offcicl duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disdosed witbout World Bank autho_aion.



SOMALIA
CENTRAL RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(June 1988)
USS 1.00 - So.Sh 99.00
So.Sh. 1.00 - US$0.01
ABBREVIATIONS
ADMB          Australian Development Assistance Bureau
CRDP          Central Rangelands Development. Project
GM v          General Manager
GOS           Government of Somalia
IDA           International Development Association
IFAD          International Fund for Agricultural Development
ERR           Economic Rate of Return
4TZ            Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
MLFR          Ministry of Livestock, Forestry and Range
NAHA          Nomadic Animal Health Assistant
NRA           National Range Agency
ODA           Overseas Development Association, U.K.
PCR           Project Completion Report
PCU           Project Coordination Unit
PM            Project Manager
PP            Project Paper
PPF           Project Preparation Facility
VLA           Range and Livestock Associations
RMEA          Regional Mission in East Africa
RMR           Resource Management and Research
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SNU            Somali National University
UNDP          United Nations Development Programme
USAID         United States Agency for International Development
WDA           Water Development Authority
WFP           World Food Programme



FOR OMFCIA6L USE ONLY
THE WORtLD BANK
Wasnton. D C 20433
U.S.A.
June 2, 1989
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECT .   AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Somalia Central
Rangelands Development Project (Credit 906-SOj
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
'Project Completion Report on Somalia Central Rangelands Development
Project (Credit 906-SO)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office. No
audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation
Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has  restricted distribution and may be used by recipients or.ly in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorination.



FO0UI OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SOMALIA
CENTRAL RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TaLle of Contents
Paue
PREFACE .............................................
BAIC DATA SHEET .................                      i
EVALUATION SUNHARY .................                   v
I.   INTRODUCTION .............................                  1
Sectoral Background .............................      1
The Central Rangelands Development Project
Phase I .............................                  3
I$.   PROJECT IDENTIFICATION. PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL   .      5
A. Origin.                                             5
B. Preparation and Appraisal             .5
C. Project Description.                                7
III.  EFFECTIVENESS AND INITTAL IMPLEMENTATION. .               10
A. Effectiveness .10
B. Initial Implementation and Design Problems .       10
C. The Mid-Term Review .12
IV. IMPLEMENTATION .14
A.  Implementation Schedule .      ........................ 14
B.  Physical Implementation     .      .              15
C. Reporting   . .18
D. Procurement   .               .18
E.  Actual Costs and Disbursements         ..          19
F. Audit          ......................... 20
V.    OPERATING PERFORMANCE ................................... 21
Technical Results ............................... 22
Project Weaknesses .............................. 23
VI.   INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE ............................... 24
CRDP         ....................... 24
Range and Livestock Associations        . .    26
Consultants ..................................... 26
Donors .......................................... 26
VII.  FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE ................................... 27
Cost Recovery ................................... 27
Beneficiary Incomes ........................... . 27
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



VIII. LCONOMIC -ZEVALUATION ................................ .. 27
IX.   SQMMLAY AND LESSONS LENAR. ..... ............... . . . ... 28
Follow-up Project. ............... ...... ......... 29
TABLES
Table  1 i Physical Achievements             -
Table 2 a Disburseibnts by Financing Source
Table  3 : Disbursements by Category
Table  4 s Exchange Ratas
Table  5 t Comparison between Appraisal Estimates
and Actual Disbursements by Category
Table  6 : Permanent Staff
Table  7 s Project Implementation Schedule
Table  8 : Implementation Schedule Chart - Range
Management Component
Table  9 s Implementation Schedule Chart - Soil
and Water Conservation Component
Table 10 : Implementation Schedule Chart - Extension
Component: Agro-Pastoral Department
Table 11 t USAID-funded Technical Assistance
Tal,le 12 : Technical Assistance Other than USAID Funded
ANNNEXES
Annex 1  : Economic Analysis
Annex 2  : WFP Comments on Project Evaluation
MAPS
Map 1    : Districts within CRDP
Map 2    : Land Capability and Potential for Development



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CENTRAL RhNGELANDS DEVELOPM£NT PROJECT
(CREDIT 906 SO)
PREFACE
This Project Completion report reviews the Central Rangelands
Development Project for which an IDA Credit of US $ a 0 million was
approved on April 25, 1979.   The oriRinal Closing Date of June 30, 1986
was extended to December 31, 1989 to accommodate the delays in
implementation which occurred at the beginning of the project period. The
final disbursement under Credit 906-SO was made on August 4, 1988.
This report was prepared by an FAOICP mission that visited
Somalia in May 1988. Additional information was obtained from the 1979
Staff Appraisal Report Number 2163 SO, IDA and IFAD legal agreements dated,
respectively, October and June 1979, the mid-term review report of June
1984, supervision and audit reports, project files, annual reports and
project completion statistics, supplemented by interviews with both local
and expatriate staff and field visits.
This PCR was read by the Operations F-valuation Department (OED).
The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower and cofinanciers for comments and
they are attached to the Report (Annex 2).



*            ~~~~- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SOVALIA
CENTRAL RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 906-SO)
BASIC DATA SHEET
XEY PROJECT DATA
Actual or   Actual as Z of
Item                                 Appraisal       Current      Appraisal
Expectat..on    Estimate    Estimate
Total Project Costs (USS million)              46.3            46.5         100
IDA Credit Amount (US$million)                  8.0             8.0         100
Cofinancing-Total (USS million)                32.3            31.9          99
IFAD                                        9.0             9.0         100
USAID                                      15.0            12.8          85
GTZ                                         4.0             6.9         172
WFP                                         ',.3            2.9          67
ADAB                                        0               0.3          -
Date "hysical Compcnents Cumpleted             6184           12/87
Proportion completed by that date (1)        100              SO
EconomiC. Rate of Return (2)                   15               -6
Institutional Performance                                      mixed
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED A&MD ACTUAL DISBUISEMENTS
FY79    FY80  FY81  FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88
Appraisal Estimate
(USS million)          J.3 1/  0.4    1.9   4.3   6.1   6.9   7.7   8.0    -        _
Actual (US$ million)    0.0       0.5 2/ 1.2   2.4   4.2   6.3   7.1   7.6   7.9   8.0
Actual as 2 of Estimate 0        80.0   63.0  56.0  69.0  91.0  92.0  95.0  99.0 100.0
Date of Final Disbursement: June 1988
1/  Disburseuente under Project Preparation Facility (PPF).
2/ Including USS 0.3 million for PPF.
PROJECT DATES
Original
Plan                    Actual
First Mention in Files                    06/79                   11/79
Negotiations                              03/79                   03/79
Board Approval                             _                      04/79
Signing (Credit Agreement Date)                                   10/79
Effectiveness                             09/79                   06/80
Closing Date                              06/86                   12/87



- ill -
ST^lF INPUTS
(staff weeks)
FY77   nXZ l78      F rY60  IrY81  n2  tY83  FY84  FY8   FY6  FY87  FYSS  TOTAI
Preappraisal   70.6   18.7   5. I   -      -                                                  94 '
Appraisal        -     92.0  37.8   -             -     -      -     -     -      -     -    129.E
Negotiation       .2    -    12.8   -      -      -            -                              13.C
Supervision      -      -      2.4   6.7  15.9  19.1  13.7  32.7  14.9  14.9  19.4  10.1  149.S
Other            -        .3    .5   -       .1   -      .1   -      -     -      -     -      1.1
TOTAL     70.S  111.0  58.6   6.7  15.0  19.1  13.8  32.8  14.9  14.9  19.4  10.1  388.L
MISSION DATA
Date     No. of   Specialisation  Performance             Types of
(mo.I/r.)  Persons  Reoresented */  Rating   b/  Trend c/Problem d/
Identification               11/76        2             a-b             -          -
Preparation                1/77-9/77  -----------------(joint WB/GOS team)-------------------
Pre-appraisal                12/77        2             a               -          -         -
Appraisal                      2/78       5             a-b             -          -         -
Supervisions
Initial (prior to
effectivenecs)              4/80        2             a-b             2          2        0/F
Partial                       11/80       2             a-b             2          1        OJT
Full                           3/81       3             a-b-f           -          -      O/T/F
Partial e/                    11/81       2             a-a             2          3      O/T/F
Partial el                     2/82       2             a-a             2          3        T/F
Partial e/                     6/82       2             a-a             2          3      TIF/M
Full                           3/83       1              a              2          2      T/?/M
Full                           9/83       3.             a              2          2      T/FIM
Full f/                       10/83       3            a-b-g  ft        2          3      MIT/F
(Mid-Term Review)           ( 3/84        3            a-a-f )
Full                           6/b4       3            a-b-g  ft        2          1      M/T/F
Full                           8/84       3            a-b-g  ft        2          1      M/T/F
Partial e/                    11/84       1              a              2          1      M/T/F/
Full                           6/85       1              b              2          1      T/F/O
Full                           1/86       2             a-b                     1/1/3/2
Partial 8/                     8/86       3            a-a-b                    1/1/3/2
Full                           3/87       1              b                      1/1/3/2
Full                           5/87       2             a-h                     lil/2/2
Partial h/                    12/87       4            a-b-d-i                  1/1/2/2
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Borrower:                      Somali Democratic Republic
Executing Agenciess            N'-ional Range Agency (NRA)
Central Rangelands Development Project (CRDP)
Fiscal Year:                   January 1 - December 31
Name of Currency:              Somali Shilling (So.Sh.)
Exchange Rate at Appraisal:  1 USS - So.Sh. 6.295
at Completion:  1 USS - So.Sh. 99.000



- iv -
Follow-On Proiectss
*  Manic*                Central Rangelatds Research and Development Project II
Credit Number:           1957-SO
Amount (US$ Million)t   19.0
Approval Date:           10/18/88
a/  a - Livestock specialist         b - economist                c - engineer
d - range management sp.         e - training sp.            f - financial analyst
g - project controller (IFAD)   h - soil/water conser. sp. i - sociologist
b/ 1: Problem-free or minor problems
2: Moderate problems
3: Major problems
c/  Before 1986:                         After 1986: relating to
1: Improving                        Available funds
2: Stationary                       Project Management
3: Deteriorating                    Overall status
d/ F: Financial
M: Managerial
T: Technical
P: Political
0: Other
2/ Combined with other assignments.
f/  Participation of IFAD staff.
,I Combined -lth formulation of Phase II.
h/  Combined with pre-appraisal of Phase IJ.



SOMALIA
CENTRAL RNGL;ANDS DEVELOPENT ?PROJECT
(CRZDIT 906 SO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
rVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction:
The rangelands are a key productive resource for Somalia. The
country is heavily dependant on exports of livestock produced on the
rangelands. The Central Rangelands provides about 20 percent of sheep
oxports, 40 percent of goat exports, and 10 to 20 percent of exports of
camels and cattle. At Government's request, the Bank fielded an
identification mission in November 1976. which agreed to prepare a project
to develop the Central Rangelands. This was in line with the Government's
agricultural development strategy, which placed major emphasis on improving
livestock production while aiming at a more balanced development between
the regions. Until then development efforts had favored the northern and
southern regions, and the Shabelle and Juba riverine areas. Preliminary
objectives were 'to stop the increasing deterioration of the rangelands and
reduce the necesaity for pastoralists to lead a nomadic life...also, to
1-prove the quality and quantity of livestock production.' This project
followed the financing of a Northern Rangelands Development Project by the
Kuwait Fund, and the establishment of the National Range Agency to oversee
rangelands utilization in the country.
obiectives:
The original objectives of the project were to: (i) consolidate and
improve rangeland and livestock production in the Central Rangelands; (ii)
improve pastoralists'incomes; and (iii) encourage, by improved range
management, the gradual concentration of pastoral communities as this was
considered conducive to the provision of social services. The project
area, comprised three administrative regions (Hiran, Galgadud and Mudug)
covering some 149,000 km2 - about one fifth of the total land area of
Somalia. Total project costs were estimated at USS 46.3 million, with IDA
contributing USS 8.0 million and the remainder funded by IFAD with SDR 7.0
million, USAID with about US$ 15.0 million, and smaller contributions from
WFP and GTZ.
Project objectives were to be achieved by aerial and ground surveys
of rangeland resources, socio-economic surveys and continuous dialogue with
the pastoralists, leading to the establicbment of grazing reserves, the
formation of Range and Livestock Associations (RLA's) and the development
of stock water supplies. Other components included the nonformal education
of pastoralists, the formal education of project staff, the strengthening
of the National Range Agency (NRA), the development of veterinary services
and the establishment of tree nurseries, town shelter belts, soil and water
conservation and range grazing cooperatives.



- vi -
IDlementation tinerience
After eight years of implementation the project has not fully
attained its objectives. It has contributed to an understanding of the
dynamics of rangelands use in Central Somalia and to the de0vlopment of a
strategy for future interventions. A aid term review in March 1984
resulted in a sharp reduction in scope and coverage of project activities,
a shift in objectives towards more investigative activities, coupled with
the installation of useful irfra*ttucture, and modifications in the
structure of the project, giving increased autonomy to the project manager.
Since the mid-term reviev, the project has put in place many useful
interventions which have benefited about a third of the Central Rangelands
population, particularly through the development of water points,
veterinary and related services, and agropastoral extension messages. Most
notable are the achievements from a technical and research standpoint.
Benefits not directly quantifiable are important: the project has made a
definite start towards establishing a permanent dialogue with pastoralists,
formed a first group of range and livestock associations which are adopting
the proposed range management interventions, and which constitute a focal
point for other key activities such as infrastructural development and soil
co!iservation. Through accumulation of information, the identification of
lo.:al priorities and the permaneat testing of interventions, the project
has been a major learning process for Government and donors.
The institutional achievements have been m-ied. The organization and
management of the project certainly improved as a result of the adjustments
made at the mid-term review, which established the project as a separate
operational entity within the Ministry of Livestock, For-estry and Range.
However, unresolved logistics problems (fuel and equipment), the lack of
incentives - both financial and professional - and low staff morale,
management deficiencies and unsatisfactory coordination between components
and donors, have all contributed to a declining performance in the recent
past. While the formal education component has been relatively successful,
the external training program, on the other hand, has not produced the
desired results.
Proiect Imoact
Project efforts to strengthen the local institutions have had partial
success. With infrastructure and staff development support from the
project in its early phase, the National Range Agency developed into an
agency capable of taking on more of the tasks devolved upon it for range
management in Somalia. The reorganization subsequent to the mid-term
review demonstrated that the project operated more effectively under its
own management. Implementation was, however, slowed by the removal in
April 1986 of a fully committed and dynamic project manager.
Benefits expected at appraisal were overly optimistic. At the same
ttme, the long-term nature of range management interventions and the
importance of research were not sufficiently recognized. Although at the
end of the project benefits from range development are as yet
unquantifiable, the accumulation of knowledge and the progress made in
understanding the pastoral and agropastoral systems in the Central
Rangelands have been valuable.



- vii -
Hore tangible, but not substantial, benefits have been produced by
the project's veteriuary service: and agropastorsl demonstrations/trials,
as well as the water development component . notwithstanding the low output
from boreholes that have been constructed but not fully equipped. Because
of the late start-up of these activities, however, the first quantifiable
benefits ocurred several years after the project began. An economic re-
evaijation carried out on the basis of models and parameters provided by
GTZ and the project's extension staff and taking ! ,o account those costs
directly related to the benefits, yields a negative Economic Rate of Return
of -6Z . Even if project implementation had been more rapid in the first
stages of the project, and these relatively small bcaefits produced in
earlier years, the project's Economic Rate of Return would still be
negative.
Sustainability
The project was expected to create some revenue for Government
through Ci) fees charged at stock water points, and (ii) the sale of
veterinary drugs. Cost recovery has, in fact, come mainly from the latter
as the first Nomadic Animal Health Ass-stants, trained in Ceel Dhere
district, began the distribution of drugs in late 1986. The collection of
water charges by the Water Development Authority (and not the National
Range Agency, as proposed at appraisal) has been insignificant. The level
of fees is insufficient to cover the complete cost of capital equipment and
ensure adequate maintenance.
Findinsa and Lessons
The implementation of the project was an important learning process
for Government and donors. Many useful interventions were identified and
tested.   Some key lessons were learned regarding implementation of
projects in the Somali rangelands. First, regular supplies of fuel,
vehicles and spares are an essential precondition to other activities.
Second, infrastructure development and other modifications affecting
pastoralists lives should be preceded by a thorough investigation of the
consequences of these changes on the local environment. Agreement on the
nature of the proposed interventions should be reached with the local
inhabitants before the intervention is implemented. Third, the project can
only be effective if it operates as a separate entity within the National
Range Agency or tie Ministry of Livestock, Forestry and Range. Finally,
Range and Livestock Associations should play a key role in guiding project
activities in the rangelands. These lessons were incorporated in the
design of a second phase project in the Central Rangelands.



SOMALIA
CENTRAL RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
S               .           -
(IDA CREDIT 906-SO;
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
Sectoral Backaround
1.       Agriculture contributes just over 50Z of GDP and within the sector
livestock is by far the most important single activity, contributing an
estimated 35Z of GDP. Livestock and its products constitute major
components of the country's exports, representing an estimated 90Z of total
earnings. As well as providing for the country' s total meat needs, the
subsector also accounts for around two-thirds of total employment.
2.       Notwithstandiig it-s key role, livestock presents limited overall
development opportunities in the near term. Production systems of cattle,
sheep, goats ard camels are traditional and extensive, based on the
country's large rangeland resources. The latter comprise some 702 of the
total land area and support an estimated 40.45 million animals. An accurate
census has never been made nor would it be particularly meaningful as
Somalia shares long boundaries with Kenya in the south and Ethiopia in the
west, crossing historical ethnic and pastoral areas which in turn are
regularly traversed by nomadic herders who comprise the majority of
livestock owners.
3.       While both pastoral and livestock resources are significant, their
future growth will be slow for a number for reasons, namely:
a.   the rangelands are in their natural state and have low
drymatter productivity. They are already stocked to capacity
and future increases in carrying capacity depend on the
introduction of effective, low-cost range management techniques
to increase forage production and quality and to even out large
seasonal variations in productivity due to low and erratic
rainfall;
b.   research is proceeding in range improvement techniques but has
only recently begun and is limited in scope; any development
approach must take account of the special socio-ethnic
circumstances surrounding livestock ownership and nomadic
pastoral traditions. It must be oased on simple, low-
technology, cost-effective interventions capable of application



- 2 -
to transhumant herds and flocks.  Given the  life and death
stakes often involved in such harsh and unpredictable
environments, proposed interventions must be thoroughly tested
and of minimal risk to be acceptable in the nomadic contixt;
c.   interventions must also be conservation-oriented and carefully
balance lIrestock increases with the rsuge's ability to sustain
higher numbers - the slow and effective phasing of
interventions with market prospects to ensure profitable and
regular disposal of offtake is also essential to ensure long-
term sustainability and avoid overgrazing and range
degradation.
4.       Given such conditionality and taking account of the fact that
serious efforts to address problems have been undertaken in Somalia only
since the early 1980s, there are ae yet few solutions and considerable more
time and effort will be required to produce them. Such effort must also
take full account of a further imnortant character-istic of the livestock
subsector, namely the dichotomy existing between the economic need to
increase GDP and export earnings and the nomads' immediate objective of
subsistence and survival over long cyclical periods of drought and
regeneration. The latter involves build-up of animal numbers in good years,
mainly of female stock, in anticipation that a varying proportion will
perish in the next drought. Such a pattern contributes neither to
optimization of range output nor to regularity of export supplies.
Furthermore, the heavy livestock losses in the worst drought years represent
such severe and recurrent drains on the country's key resource as to make
future growth planning highly risky, unpredictable and imprecise.
5.       Present government strategy consists of stabilizing to the, extent
possible the range'.' existing feed supply and livestock numbers, encouraging
offtake (improving marketing, animal health, water and related services) for
export of animals and hides and skins, gradually developing the feed base
and stocking rate, and introducing drought risk aversion measures (strategic
famine reserves, wet/dry season reserves, more productive varieties
generally and selected drought tolerant species in special situations, more
use of crop by-products and industrial waste where available).
6.       Of all approaches, those considered to have the greatest
theoretical benefits ind perceived applicability in the local context are
range management interventions aimed at improving through grazing control
(enimal numbers, type and distribution) the balance between animal
requirements and forage supply and, in so doing, improving through "better
management the quantity and quality of forage over time. The basic
assumptions are to so manage the range as to maximize the application of
those practices known to favor better pasture growth and a more favorable
balance between palatable and unpalatable species and to minimize the
application of unfavorable practices known to discourage them. The approach



-3-
relies heavily on the transference of practices considered to have been
shown to be effective in North America and elsewhere, although claims for
such effectiveness do not appear to be universally agreed by specialists in
the field who appear divided in their views.
7.       Basic to the approach is a full understanding of range ecology, of
current nomad livestuck grazing and husbandry systems, and of the response
and motivation of pastoralists. The approach is cautious, conservative and
pilot-oriented. It seeks to avoid dislocation of existing, albeit
imperfect, ways until better, proven, low-risk and appropriate ways can be
demonstrated. The approach appears logical and obvious. It is also
painstakingly slow and results cannot be assured.
8.       The latter approach is currently that being adopted in the Central
Rangelands Development Project (CRDP), and would be pursued in the CRDP
approach to problem-solving and development. It is heavily subjective and
fundamental and so far at least, after some eight years of CRDP, carries
little guarantee of significant success apart from limited areas
(veterinary, water and agropastoral interventions and examples where
tangible though limitsd productivity increases have been shown possible). A
key aspect determining its choice is the paucity of alternatives. That of
massive intervention in an imperfectly understood traditional system using
unproven methods was initially proposed and after prolonged consideration,
rejected. The present approach is thus considered best on balance given the
circumstances.
The Central Ranaelands Development Proiect (Phase I)
9.       Appraised in February 1978, CRDP (I) was approved by the Bank's
Board on April 25, 1979, signed on October 24, 1979, but did not become
effective until June 30, 1980. A six-year project, it involved a total
investment of about US$46.3 million with multi-donor financing, comprising
at appraisal the International Develcpment Association (IDA), the
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), the United States
Agency for International Development (USAID), the Overseas Development
Association (ODA) and the World food Programme (WP). The ODA withdrew
early on, and its comuitments were taken over by the Deutsche Gesellschaft
fur Technische Zusammenarbeit (GTZ). At a later stage, Australian aid
(ADAB) was added to the already long list of agencies participating in the
project's financing. 1/
1/ Reviews by principal donors are contained in: USAID - June 1979 Original
Project Paper, amended July 1986. Interim evaluation report, June 1987.
GTZ - Forestry expert's Terminal report, April 1988. WFP - Interim
evaluation-cum-appraisal report, January 1986.



-4-
10.      The original objectives of the CRDP, as stated in the Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR) 2I tot
a.  consolidate and improve rangeland and livestock productiont
b.   improve pastoralists'incomes; and
c.   encourage, by improved range management, the gradual
concentration of pastoral communities as this was considered
conducive to the provision of social services.
The project area, located between latitudes 3010'N and 7040'N, comprised
three administrative regions (Hiran, Galgadud and Mudug) covering some
149.000 km2 -about one fifth of the total land area of Somalia.
11.      Project objectives were to be achieved by aerial and ground surveys
of rangeland resources, socio-economic surveys and continuous dialogue with
the pastoralists, leading to the establishment of grazing reserves, the
formation of Range and Livestock Associations (RLAs) and the development of
stock water supplies. Other components included thLe nonformal education of
pastoralists. the formal education of project staff, the strengthening of
the National Range Agency (NRA), the development of veterinary services and
the establishment of tree nurseries, town shelter belts, soil and water
conservation and range grazing cooperatives.
12.      Not only was management of this complex project, over such a large
area, difficult, but there were also inadequate data available on whicb to
base the intended managerial interventions and a limited understanding of
the pastoral socio-economic environment. The realization that the original
objectives could not be attained during the project period and that expected
benefits could be insignificant, added to the difficulties plaguing project
implementation in the early years, led to a mid-term review which was agreed
between all donors and GOS and carried out in the first part of 1984. The
review mission recomended a number of changes both in the project design
and management structure, which were implemented subsequently.
13.      The closing date of the IDA credit (US$8 million), initially June
30, 1986, was extended twice to June 30, 1987 and December 31, 1987, with
another six-month period to fully disburse the remaining funds.
2I Somalia: Central Ranaelands Develonment Project, World Bank Eastern
Africa Region.  Staff Appraisal Report No. 2163-SO, April 17, 1979.



-5-
II. PROJECT XDENTIFICATION, 1FREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
A. Origin
14.      A UNDP-assisted livestock development survey in 1966, followed by a
survey of the northern rangelands four years later, led to the formulation
in 1974 of the UNDP/FAO rangeland conservation anl development project. The
project was prematurely terminated in 1976 due to the UNDP financial crisis,
but its findings influenced the design of the Northern Rangelands
Development Project (NRDP) - financed by the Kuvait Fund after it had been
identified and appraised by IDA - as well as, subsequently, that of the
CKDP. Initially to implement NRDP, the National Range Agency (NRA) was
established in 1976 as a semi-autonomous organization headed by a General
Manager directly responsible to the Minister, Ministry of Livestock,
Forestry and Range (MLfR).
15.      At Government's request, the Bank's Regional Mission in East Africa
(RHEA) fielded an identification mission in November 1976, which discussed
development opportunities and priorities with Government institutions,
including the State Planning Commmission, and agreed to prepare a project to
develop the Central Rangelands. This was in line with GOS' agricultural
development strategy, which placed major emphasis on improving livestock
production wh.ile aiming at a more balanceci development between the regions
(until'then development efforts had tended to favor the northern and
southern regions, and the Shabelle and Juba riverine areas). Project
objectives at identification were 'to stop the increasing deterioration of
the rangelands and reduce the necessity for pastoralists to lead-a nomadic
life...also, to improve the quality and quantity of livestock production."
The identification brief also brought up two issues, first that demographic
and livestock data were as yet not available, second that basic data were
also lacking on which to base the livestock water supply development
program.
B. Preparation and Appraisal
16.      In January 1977 a joint GOS/Bank team 3/ began project preparation
and, taking into account some of the changes put forward by Government, a
preparation report - finalized by RMEA staff in Nairobi - was produced in
October 1977. The most important modifications requested by Government were
the inclusion in the project of a range inventory study (surveys of
livestock numbers and movements, soils and vegetation in the project area)
that would provide benchmark data for project activities in range
management, and a marketing component to finance additional livestock
marketing facilities. While the latter was eventually dropped in favor of a
national livestock marketing project which the Kuwait Fund was, at the time,
31    Considerable part-time assistance was also provided by other Government
staff and RMEA consultants in hydrogeology and range ecology.



-6-
interested to finance, the range inventory study - showing Government's
concern for the lack of basic data - was incorporated at appraisal.
17.      Project components developed during preparation comprised:
a.   range development (establishment of dry season grazing reserves
over the whole project area together with three controlled
grazing blocks, construction of access tracks, development of
water points each with a pair of equipped boreholes and
establishment of over 200 ha of fuelwood plantations near
selected towns, creation of one trial cooperative ranch in each
of the three regions);
b.   research (establishment of a National Range Research Centre);
c.   strengthening of services (veterinary, National Range and
forestry) and training;
d.  technical assistance and project management (through a Project
Coordination Unit), including the development of NRA
headquarters.
The major issue perceived by the Bank at that time was the large number (27)
of expatriate staff required for the project. On Government's side, it is
interesting to note that NRA had thought, at some point during preparation,
that too much of the rangelands was going to be put under grazing reserves.
The number initial 32 reserves proposed in the SAR - about 20Z of the
Central Rangerands area, was eventually much reduced-during implementation.
18.      Appraisal took place in early 1978, after a pre-appraisal mission
in December 1977 had reconsidered two of the preparation components, i.e.,
the National Range Research Centre (it was decided that the establishment of
such a center was premature in view of the scarcity of baseline data, the
absence of graduate counterpart staff and the high cost of expatriate staff)
and the cooperative ranches. While the overall project objectives remained
the same, further significant changes were decided during appraisal:
(1)     The concept of a blanket coverage of the project area with
stockwater points and the introduction of range management by
opening and closing those water points in rotation was abandoned
in favor of demarcation of town, village, famine and range grazing
reserves covering 30Z of the area. Stockwater development was to
be made conditional upon the formation of grazing associations,
the acceptance of controls on rangeland use and the agreement by
the local authorities to enforce restrictions on grazing as
directed by the NRA - the designated implementing agency.
(2)     The training component was expanded considerably in the area of
nonformal training of pastoralists, professional level training
in the Faculty of Agriculture, and funds for postgraduate
training in range management at overseas universities.



-7-
(3)     The concept of a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) was changed in
favor of a general strengthening of the professional and
administrative capacity of the NRA, whose General manager was to
act at the same time as Project Manager.
(4)     The woodlot planting component was replaced by three nurseries
and town shelter belts.
(5)     The proposed stwinningw of boreholes was abandoned as . costly
and ineffective means of safeguarding stockwater supplies.
Instead the maintenance capability of NRA was to be strengthened.
(6)     The project implementation period was expanded from four to six
years as a result of the expanded Range Development component.
19.        Following appraisal. major issues raised by internal reviewers in
the Bank concerned the project size and cost, associated with the amount of
required co-financing and the substantial technical assistance input. The
latter, which the pre-appraisal mission had attempted to reduce
significantly, was eventually made even larger than at preparation (over 30
posts to be provided at various stages of project implementation for a total
of 100 man-years). After the yellow cover SAR had been thoroughly reviewed,
it was however decided that the project was not *reducible to any
significant extent," based on the technical judgment that innovations evenly
dispersed over 30Z of the project area represented a critical mass' since
it was consideread that improvements in a smaller area would be neutralized
by an unacceptable level of grazing pressure.
C. Project Description
20.        CRDP original objectives and components.  As CRDP was designed,
in the late 1970s, in the wake of a disastrous drought with its attendant
extreme overgrazing, range degradation, high animal mortality and human
suffering, its principal aims were range development (including reversal of
deteriorated areas), more and better forage, aversion of future drought
effects, higher carrying capacity and offtake. with the resulting improved
pastoralist incomes and living standards. Final components retained at
appraisal were:
-       Range and water development, starting with a resource inventory
and range ground survey, to be followed by:
(1)     the provision of staff, housing, offices, workshops,
transport and equipment for the NRA field service in the
project area;
(2)     the demarcation of 45 town and village grazing zeserves
each of 400 km2, 12 famine reserves each of 600 km2 and
20 range grazing reserves each of 900 bm2;



8-
(3)     the drilling-and equipping of 32 boreholes, or stockwater
ponds where appropriate, to provide supervised stockwater
points in the famine and range grazing reservest and
(4)     the construction of 1,000 km of access tracks leading to
range reserves and stockwater points.
Nonformal training aimed at the promotion of the understanding
and participation of the pastoralists to the project, with the
provision of 9 man-years of professional services to conduct a
survey of pastoral communities, train regional and district range
educators, conduct seminars and workshops with pastoral elders
and government officials and produce films and radio programs.
Formal training in the form of:
(1)    21.5 man-years of professional services in support of the
Livestock and Range School at Afgoi (2 internationally
kecruited lecturers in range management, 1 in animal
husbandry and 1 in forestry);
(2)    establishment of a Range Management Department at the
Faculty of Agriculture of the National UuLiversity of
Somalia (provision of one instructor in range management
as well as 20 man-years of post-graduate fellowships in
range management);
(3)    other overseas training (20 additional man-years of
fellowships);
Range studies and trials, including an inventory of the Northern
Rangelands; a research program based on the information provided
by aerial and ground surveys (8.5 man-years of professional
services); the establishment of shelter belts and nurseries at
each of the three regional capitals (Galkayo, Dusa Hareb and
Beletweyne) together with the provision for four years of an
expatriate Technical Director of Forestry and a nursery
specialist; and a total of 4 man-years of professional services
in soil conservation and water spreading techniques and
assistance to experimental grazing cooperatives in the project
area.
Stren8thening of the veterinary services, through the recruitment
of three expatriate veterinary specialists based in Mogadishu and
the extension of the post of Technical Director of Veterinary
Services (previously financed under NRDP), the construction of a
field diagnostic laboratory at Beletweyne and the equipping of
six additional mobile vaccination teams and 12 mobile clinics.
Development of the NRA Headquarters (technical assistance for a
total of 30 man-years, establishment of a range monitoring unit,



-9-
development of a stockwater service, setting up of a central
maintenance workshop and three regional small workshops,
construction of a headquarters office building).
21.        Proiect costs and financing.  Total project costs were estimated
at US$46.3 million (including physical and price contingencies representing
about 38Z of base costs), of which 711 in foreign exchange. Because of the
high project cost and numerous components, several development agencies had
been called in to contribute with a combination of credits, loans and
grants. 41 Under joint financing arrangements, IDA was to contribute a
credit of US$8 million, and IFAD a loan of 7 million Special Drawing Rights
(about US$9 million), sharing all disbursements in the ratio of about 8:17
to 9:17. Components covered by IDA and IFAD were the nonformal education
and training, the building program and part of t.ie administrative and
management support to the NRA, with a total of 67Z foreign exchange and 33Z
local costs.
22.        The USAID grant was to finance the range and stockwater
development components, part of the formal education and training, the range
investigations, soil conservation and grazing cooperatives components,
technical assistance to NRA Headquarters, and the Range Monitoring Unit and
Stockwater Service, except for the categories covered by IDA and IFAD. ODA
(later replaced by GTZ) would finance technical assistance and specialized
equipment for part of the formal training at the Livestock and Range School,
the town shelter belts and nurseries, the Veterinary services and the
Maintenance service. WFP would provide food for unskilled laborers.
Government, whose contribution was expected at US$6 million, 5/ was to
gradually take over all local salaries and allowances by year 4 of the
project.
23.         It was agreed at negotiations that as a condition of
effectiveness of the credit, Government had deposited in NRA's project
account with the Central Bank an advance in the amount of So.Sh. 5 million,
to be replenished every six months until project cQmpletion.
24.        Organization and Management.  The project was to serve also as a
vehicle for institutional strengthening of the NRA, its main executing
agency; it provided support and staff training to the major Departments at
headquarters (Administration; Range and Environment; Forestry; Research,
Training and Planning, where a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit was to be
established) and the NRA field services in the Central Rangelands, whose
organization restod upon three regional range directors. Other implementing
agencies were the Veterinary Department of MLFR for the veterinary services
component, the Ministry of Education's Project Management Unit for the
formal training at the Afgoi Livestock and Range School and the Faculty of
Agriculture for training in range management. No executing agency was
4/    The search for co-financiers actually caused a slippage in the SAR
processing and a delay in the submission to the Bank Loan Committee.
5/    This was changed to US$9 million in 1982.



_ 10 -
clearly des:Lgnated for water development activities. Grazing associations
were to be formed by NRA in consultation with local government authorities.
25.         Benefits;  Almost two-thirds of project benefits were anticipated.
to accrue from investments in range and water development. The remaining
benefits were projected from improved veterinary services. IDAIIFAD
investments relied upon USAID - and 4TZ-financed components for projected
benefits. An ERR of 15? was estimated at appraisal.
I1U. EFmFCTIVENESS AND INITIAL IMPLEMENTATION
A. Effectiveness
26.         CRDP was declared effective only in mid-1980, i.e., some nine
months after the IDA credit agreement was signed. This delay was caused by
difficulties in fulfilling the procedures necessary to satisfy conditions of
effectiveness, including a gap (eventually filled by the NRA) of So.Sh. 1
million in the sum deposited by the Ministry of Finance to serve as a
revolving fund for the project and a cross-effectiveness clause which
required the ODA grant to be effective at the same date as the IDA credit.
As ODA withdrew support in late 1979 (as a result of an-across-the-board
reduction in British aid to Somalia), the clause was eventually waived.
B. Initial Imolementation and Design Problems
27.         Even after the project became operational, implementation was
constrained by further delays: slow recruitment of technical assistance
staff - in particular the vital range specialists under USAID funding - and
delayed execution of the range ground survey, resulting in the late start-up
of range reserve development and water drilling operations; slow progress in
designing and calling tenders for the construction program (the initial
overdesign of buildings had to be modified), causing a cost overrun of some
602 in this component barely one year following effecti"eness as local costs
of construction materials had substantially increased during the time
elapsed. At the same time, execution of the other components was adversely
affected by the deteriorating security situation in the project area and by
the influx of refugees from Ethiopia along with their livestock.
28.         More seriously, there was a general concern from the very
beginning that the technical base of the project was unproven, the risks
involved had been largely underestimated and the scale and complexity of the
proposed interventions were such that they could not be applied. Their
implementation depended on the close and continuous cooperation (control) of
diverse groups of independent nomadic herders who were highly
individualistic and traditional with their own established opportunistic
grazing habits. Central to these was the freedom and flexibility to move
animals in large numbers quickly without impediment to seek the best grazing



- 11 -
in response to the area's sporadic and unpredictable rainfall. The
project's planned, disciplined, relatively rigid approach (grazing coutvrl
on a fixed area of land and restricted grazing reserves) in effect d'.rectly
challenged these most basic pastoralist conventions and sought almost
totally to replace them with an untried system.
Modifications to Appraisal Approach
29.        The consulting firm selected by USAID to implement the proposed
range interventions, described formally in an August 1979 Project Paper,
were the first seriously to question the appraisal approach on technical
grounds in their April 1982 Inception Report. While recognizing the
potential and need to improve the use of existing range resources and to
develop them further, they proposed a much more moderate, flexible and
technical approach emphasizing the need to improve existing nomadic ways
gradually based on a thorough knowledge and understanding of them rather
than to change them abruptly for a largely unproven substitute. Essentially,
the Berger team questioned the feasibllity of establishing grazing reserves
in over 302 of the CRDP area and felt that the area involved (4.3 million
ha) was too large to control bearing in mind the mobility of nomadic
pastoralists, their traditional rights to the use of land and their
reluctance to accept discipline. Believing that the adoption of a fixed
grazing system (e.g. four-block rest-rotation system) was premature, they
suggested lowering the level of intervention to a more tolerable one and the
implementation of project actions on a district-by-district basis. Implicit
in this approach was the need for more data and information to provide a
stronger technical underpinning on which to base larger-scale Interventions.
30.        The consultant approach drastically changed the nature and scope
of the project, giving it a survey/investigative/pilot orientation that
would lay a firm technical base for the future although no direct benefits
could be foreseen during the project's lifetime (contrasting sharply with
high appraisal benefit expectations). It was endorsed locally and had a
widespread effect on donor (particularly Bank-headquarters) attitudes that
something was seriously wrong.
31.        The consulting firm case was however sohtewhat undermined by their
image/credibility, following the long delays on USAID's part in appointing
the consultants. The team themselves did not present a strong, united
front, particularly on the field approach; they were also divided on the
usefulness of data produced by the earlier RMR 6/ resource inventory.
Eventually the inception report was never accepted by USAID as an
alternative design document superseding the Project Paper (PP),* although the
consulting firm used it as the basis for implementation. An amendment to
the original PP was prepared in 1986 by USAID, both to incorporate
6/    Resource Management and Research.



- 12 -
experiences gained with the project 71 and to reconcile differences between
the 1979 PP and the consulting firm's inception plan; the latter effort was
only partially successful as differences in basic project emphasis continued
to exist, with the amnded PP recommending technological interventione while
the LBI approach focussed on the evaluation of prospective technology.
Organization and Management Co"straints
32.        Management and coordination problems within NRA and with the
project surfaced in the early stages of implementation; iL particulars
the General Manager of NRA, although project manager (PM), could
not devote full time to the project;
_       the project "co-manager,* who was the de facto PM, was not fully
competent and did not enjoy the respect of other Somali staff;
-       the project coordinator (expatriate technical assistance) lacked
character and experience and was neither issue - nor priority -
oriented;
--      project inputs were not adequately inventoried, stored and
controlled despite the best attempts of the expatriate Director
of Administration, so that there was wide misapplication of
vehicles. spares and fuel.
33.        Tenuous links between project headquarters and the field resulted
in a slippage in the implementation of the project's field inputs, and
morale of both expatriate and local staff suffered. Attempts to rectify
problems through normal supervision channels were unsuccessful due primarily
to the inability of project management and senior NRA staff to implement
agreed changes.
C. The Mid-Term Review
34.         From late 1982 to 1983, notwithstanding the progress in some
areas such as the building program 8/ and the nonformal education component,
project activities stalled in the key f'elds of range, water and veterinary
development (GTZ also had financial/administrative difficulties and came on-
7/    A unilateral evaluation of its components by USAID in mid-1983 resulted
principally in staff strengthening in range management and research while
its initial suggestion to increase emphasis on research, data gathering
and model testing and to delay production-oriented range interventions
was strongly opposed by the NRA.
8/    After protracted bidding and evaluation procedures and the scaling down
of the program, a contract was signed with a Chinese firm and
construction commenced in July 1983.



- 13 _
stream even later than AID, with their first specialists in post in late
1982; even then they remained very much apart, and were unwilling to
cooperate on such matters as financial planing and procurement). Major
project weaknesses had so crystallized by late 1983 that a review becuae
essential, particularly as major donor groups were working completely
independently of each other (Bank/IhAD, USAID, GTZ), and in a fragmented
manner. By early 1984, because of the breakdown in liaison between the
project coordinator, the USAID team leader and the GTZ team leader and the
absence of overall direction from the PM and co-manager. the project lacked
any semblance of control or coordination; despite isolated pockets of
progress (nonformal training and Pstension, part of the range development,
formal education, veterinary and mechanical services), the project had
become a series of satellites working essentially in a vacuum.
35.        Under Bmnk impulse, all doncrs and GOS took part in the project's
mid-term review which, held in March 1984, aimed at critically examining all
major aspects, including controversial issues. The conclusions of the
review were that the vast area of the project made its supervision extremely
difficult, that the weak organization and management structure nad resulted
in deficient work planning and poor control of staff and resources and that
the project had little prospect of generating benefits to the economy and to
the population in the project area.
36.        After some initial reluctance on the part of GOS about the need
to reduce the project scope, complexity and geographical dispersion,
specific changes to the project design and management were agreed;  9/  they
included:
a.      Modification in the design of the project so that most components
were to be implemented on a district by district basis, the first
priority districts (one per region) being Bulo Burti, Ceel Dhere
and Hobbio. Once development work was completed in one priority
district it was to commence in another.
b.      Improvement of management by:
Ci)       the appointment of a full time Project Manager
responsible to the General Manager of the NRA;
(ii)      the establishment of a Project Management Unit and
the recruitment of an expatriate Field
Manager 10/ ; and
(iii)     the setting up of a Steering Committee composed of
representatives of the donors and appropriate GOS
institutions.
9/    Letter  dated  27th  June  1985, from  the  General Manager,  NRA, to
representatives of the donors.
10/   This post was funded by the Australian Development Assistance Bureau.



- 14 _
c.  A reforaulation of the veterinary component as agreed between
GTZ and the WLf.
d.  Transfer of the responsibilities and funding of the formal
training component to the Faculty of Agriculture, Somali
National University (SNU).
*    Reformulation of the water component in agreement with the
Water Development Authority (tDA) and the USAID, so that water
development could be expedited in priority districts with
emphasis on the utilization of surface water supplies and on
the rehabilitation of existing water sources.
f.  Continuation as planned of the forestry, the construction, and
the workshop and vehicle maintenance components.
All donors agreed that the new project direction was essential to build a
firmer information and data base from which later, more substantive
interventions could be launched.
IV. IMPLEMENTATION
37.      The redesigned and scaled-down project showed steady improvement as
the various mid-term review recommendations were implemented. Given a new
impetus under the direction of a full-time project manager who was both
competent and committed, project activities, now focussed on the three
priority'districts, stepped up markedly. While the objectives did not
change. the approach used in achieving them evolved as project staff gained
more experience with the pastoral and agropastoral systems of the Central
Rangelands. Some essential changes were brought to the project approach:
(1) Development of controlled grazing reserves changed from being a
major project activity (as proposed at appraisal) to one in
which a limited number of reserves were being formed and these
as much on a trial basis as bona fide interventions. Although
project reviews have shown doubt about the ultimate utility of
grazing reserves, CRDP's working assumption has been that
reserves can improve rangeland.
(2) The original implicit assumption that range management and
improvements would lead to greater livestock production
increasingly changed to a feeling that considerably more
knowledge was required about production systems in the project
area before such a statement could be amplified and acted upon.
Such knowledge was believed to be best obtained by using a
systems approach whereby all components of a production system
are considered. This approach was initiated through the adding



- 15 -
of a livestock specialist 11/ in the project and in the
recognition of the importance of agropastoralism.
(3) The approach to water development evolved from drilling new
boreholes to placing more emphasis on developing smaller and/or
more temporary water sources (including rainfall harvesting)
which would spread grazing over larger areas yet not become
ecologically dangerous.
(4) The Extension/Nonformal education component increased its
emphasis on gathering information to support the activities of
other project components (thereby providing a substantial
socio-economic input), acting as an intermediary between them
and local pastoralists/agropastoralists and on developing an
agropastoral demonstration and extension program.
(5) Other activities absent in the original project design, e.g.,
sand dune fixation and the *barefoot' veterinary services
through the Nomadic Animal Health Assistants (NAHAs) trained by
GTZ, developed increasingly - the latter resulting in some of
the more obvious project benefits.
(6) Control of the Department of Botany and Range Management has
shifted from the National Range Agency to the Faculty of
Agriculture, SN.
A. Implementation Schedule
38.      CRDP (I) was implemented over a period of eight years and three
months instead of the o.iginal six years (see implementation charts). Major
causes for this delay were:
-   the varying rates of start-up of project components, most of
those funded by IDAIIFAD becoming operational shortly after
effectiveness (the building program started late but was
completed in a fairly chort time) while USAID - and GTZ -
financed coiponents suffered slippage due to funding and/or
procurement and procedural delays;
-   in the years preceding the mid-term review, the very poor
coordination between project headquarters and the field
resulting in slow execution of field activities;
-   the unstable security situation in some locations of the
project area during the initial years.
11/   Also team leader for the consulting firm since 1985.



- 16 _
B. Physical Implementation
39.      Project achievements have been as follows (see also Table 1):
A resources inventory of the entire Central Rangelands has been
carried out by air. On the ground surveys have been completed
vithin the first three priority dist icts of range resources
(by the USAID/the consulting firm's range ecologists),
livestock numbers and seasonal movements, boundaries of
traditional grazing areas and local perceptions about water
requirements (nonformal education staff); livestock diseases
(animal health component) and traditional livestock management
practices (livestock specialist).
In the beginning of 1987 the project initiated work in three
additional priority districts, Jalalaksi, Ceel Bur and
Haradheere. Significant progress has been made on range
analysis, sociological investigations and animal production in
two of these districts.
Range management plans have been made by the range ecologists
for 23 degaans 12/ covering a total area of 37,480 kmi, or
some 80 of the three original priority districts. Using these
ange management plans as a basis for range management, Range
and Livestock Associations (RLAs) have been formed on 14 of
these 23 degaans (present RLAs cover an area of 16, 877 km2, or
382 of the three original districts). Additional RLAs are in
the process of being organized. RLAs represent the interests
of those families who utilize a given degaan and within it, the
same permanent water points and dry season grazing areas.
These RLAs are organized by the project extension staff, but
the RLA committees are composed of elders and other respected
pastoralists of the degaan, local government and party
authorities as well as religious leaders. Committee members
are elected by the pastoralists of the degaan, and all RLA
activities are managed by the committee.
Rahge management plans, which include all types of management
interventions, are now being prepared for the degaans in
Jalalaksi and Ceel Bur districts. Range trend monitoring has
also begun in these districts. Range ecology work will start
in Haradheere district around mid-1988.
Numerous management interventions have been implemented within
RLA areas: 23 grazing reserves, 7 village conservation areas,
22 boreholes (of which 8 are good), 34 dugouts (31 good) for
surface water supplies for livestock, 9 river water livestock
12/   Traditional grazing areas with permanent water points and  dry season
fodder sources.



- 17 -
access points (Shabelle river), 6 shallow hand-dug wells, 22
upgraded existing shallow wells, 3 tree nurseries at regional
level and 7 at district level, 12 village shelterbelts, 13-
berkeds (cement-linad surface water catcbments), 18 village
tree planting programs, 8 (of which 5 on-going) stabilized sand
dunes, 3 water erosion control sites, and woodlots and other
tree plantations around the three regional capitals.
A meteorological recording system has been initiated (10 rain
gauges at present), and 6 automatic weather recording stations
are on order by USAID.
The Extension Component has established two agrosilvopastoral
adaptive trial sites, one at Nooleeye and the other at Bulo
Burti. They have also established a water spreading trial at
Aborey, two species elimination trials, a seed multiplication
unit and 8 agropastoral demonstrations on private farms.
An animal disease monitoring program has been developed. A
total ot 55 NAHAs have been trained in the first three priority
districts and are providing drug-distribution and veterinary
services for which there is high demand.
Physical infrastructure has been constructed in the form-of 1
NRA/CRDP headquarters, 1 vehicle workshop and 10 internationAl
staff houses in Mogadishu, 3 regional and 7 district CRDP
centers comprising offices and staff houses, 13/   1 central
(Beletweyne) and 2 field veterinary investigation laboratories
(Dusa Mareb and Galkayo) and veterinary and forestry staff
housing.
A functioning Department of Botany and Range Management has
been 6stablished within the Faculty of Agriculture of the
Somali National University; 34 students have graduated from it
with B. Sc. degrees and 26 are currently in training. In terms
of external tr&ining, 3 CRDP staff have received Diplomas of
Natural Resources Managemeht in Australia and 8 others are now
working on post-graduate programs in the USA while four have
already returned t3 work in the project (seven others have not
returned). F!ve CRDP staff members have been sent to Kenya for
studies leading to a Masters Degree in Organization and
Management, one of these has now returned. A large number of
Somali staff have also received on-the-job training prior to
their taking on positions of reoponsibility within the CRDP.
13/   Because of cost overruns due to the initial overdesign and delay in bid
evaluation for the ouilding program, the number of staff houses was
reduced by about 402 and the construction of 3 district centers was not
undertaken.



- 18 -
-   Other project staff have received training in veterinary
*cience (advanced, short-term, courses) and forestry (diploma-
level courses and study tours), all funded by GTZ.
40.     ltmnagement interventions within'the first three priority districts
have affected a probuble 30-40Z of the approximately 500,000 people living
in the Central Rangelands. Host interventions have been directly and
immediately applicable. A few, howel,er, such as shelterbelts, tree
plantations and grazing reserves, will only begin showing useable results
after several years.
41.      Over and above the initiation of management interventions, a great
deal of information and practical experience has been gained by all project
components on the nature, functioning and practical implications of
rangelands production systems within the Central Rangelands.
42.      The project has also gained' from outside inputs - subsequent to the
mid-term review - in the form of another review by consultants in 1985 and a
highly successful workshop on Future RangeiLivestock Development Strategies
for the Central Rangelands of Somalia in March 1986. The Consultant Report
has been instrumental in making the project face the issues of increasing
-agropastoralism and increasing enclosure, and has provided the theoretical
underpinning for the remainder of the project activities, and the
formulation of Phase II of the CBDP.  The resultant information and
experience has enabled the project to develop more practical techniques and
approaches to meet its objectives as well as to develup objectives (for
future use) that are more applicable to the potentialities and requirements
of the Central Rangelands. This "state of knowledge' has been put to
practical use in the production of a project preparation report for the
second phase.
C. Reporting
43.      CRDP has been submitting - since 1981 - to Government and financing
agencies annual reports which have been useful in assessing the progress
made each year by the project components. Annual work plans and budgets are
also prepared, after submission to Management by all CRDP departments and
services of their programs of work for the coming year. Six-monthly reports
are presented to the Steering Conmmittee, and detailed annual budgetary
requests are made to GOS around September-October each year. Annual
financial statements are submitted to IDA and IhAD, in addition to external
audit reports to CRDP management when project accounts have been audited.
v. Procurement
44.      Procurement under the joint IDA Credit and IFAD-loan were to follow
World Bank procurement guidelines: procurement of most vehicles, equipment
and furniture has been subject to international competitive bidding,



- 19 -
initially through an overseas procurement agent whose poor services were
later replaced by direct procurement by the Project Unit. Contracts for
goods and services costing less than US$5,000 could, however, be procured by
negotiated purchase and contracts for civil works, vehicles, furniture and
equipment of less than US$25,000 have been procured also by negot.ated
purchase after solicitation of a minimum three supplier quotations. Those
of more than US$25,000 but less than US$100,000 could be awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised in Somalia and neighboring
countries. The IDA/IFAD-funded construction program was contracted out to a
local Chinese firm, while the infrastructure financed by GTZ (veterinary and
forestry components) was built using local labor under the direct
supervision of a GTZ construction expert. In general, difficulties in
procurement for the project resulted from the different procedures used by
the participating financing agencies, in particular USAID requiring the
provision of US goods and services with delays as long as nine to twelve
months, compared to one to four months for goods procured under IDA/IFAD
regulations.
E. Actual Costs and Disbursements
45.      Total actual project costs can only be approximated, as exact
figures on USAID and GTZ disbursements are not known (for GTZ estimates
could not even be produced for 1987-88, so that the mission has made an
educated guess on the amounts disbursed during those two years). 14/ In
still a different way, the WFP contribution in the form of "food for work"
(for some 1,100 CRDP laborers) has been evaluated using average-fob prices,
in current terms, of the commodities supplied. (For WFP comments on the
project see Annex 2). On those bases and with actual disbursements made by
IDA, IFAD, ADAB and GOS, the total project cost amounts to US$46.5 million
(Table 2b), i.e., about US$0.2 million over the appraisal estimate of
US$46.3 million including contingencies - a cost overrun which is very small
given the time overrun of more than two years.
46.      IDA and IFAD disbursements correspond to their respective
commitments at appraisal, i.e., US$8 million (1980-88) and US$9 million
equivalent, with an exchange loss of about US$1.3 million for the IFAD
contribution between 1980 and 1986. In the course of project
implementation, GOS has made two requests in 1983 and 1984 15/ for a
reallocation of IDA funds (from Category 8 - Unallocated - to Categories 2
to 5 and 7); 16/ a reallocation agreed by IFAD of the amounts of its loan
14/  Applying an annual inflation rate of 62 (World Bank Country Department
estimates) to the amount estimated for 1986.
15/   This last one was authorized in October 1986.
16/   Civil Works, Vehicles, Furniture/Equipment,  Technical Assistance and
Operating Costs (see Development Credit Agreement).



_ 20 -
47.      A comparison for the IDA credit between appraisal estimates of
disbursements by category (Table 5 ) shows a relatively important cost
overrun for capital goods (vehicles and machinery by about 362, equipment
and furniture by 12Z) and technical assis%ance, fellowships and professional
services (by about 20Z), while actual construction costs are slightly below
appraisal estimates (but exceed the amount allocated to this item in the
Credit agreement). Actual recurrent expenditures including local salaries
and allowances are significantly less than their appraisal estimates,
despite the extended disbursement period.
Sources of Finance
48.      The difference in rates of start-up between the various project
components and the slippage of GTZ components in particular, have meant that
while the IDA credit and the IFAD loan have closed (IFAD at the end of 1986
and IDA in December 1987) and their funds fully disbursed, financial support
by USAID will continue through June 1989 and the GTZ veterinary and forestry
components (under separate funding) are now into their second phase - to be
completed at the end of 1990 - following a first phase which lasted about
four years and was evaluated favorably by the donor itself. ADAB's
contribution ended with the departure of the project's expatriate Field
Hanager, while WFP's commitment to CRDP (I) will terminate in 1989.
49.      As of mid-1988, USAID has disbursed about US$12.8 million
(appraisal estimate, US$15 million) and GTZ an estimated US$6.9 million
(appraisal estimate for ODA, US$4 million later increased to US$8 million by
GTZ). The A5AB has contributed some US$300,000 and the WVP about US$2.9
million. GOS' counterpart funding, on the other hand, has represented an
equivalent of US$6.6 million (appraisal estimate of US$6 million, later
increased to US$9 million).
F. Audit
50.      Due to managerial constraints (the first, IDA-funded, expatriate
financial controller left soon after his arrival in Somalia because of
health problems), no audit nor financial assessment of the project accounts
was made before 1982. At the end of 1981 a renowned foreign audit firm
(Pannell, Kerr and Forster) was finally appointed by Government with the
approval of IDA and IFAD, and an annual audit of accounting and control
procedures in the project was performed until 1985. The audit reports
generally found the project's financial management satisfactory.  However,
two issues periodically raised related to a lam control of fixed assets and
a badly kept recording of vehicle mileage and fuel use. Another problem -
outside management control - has been the impossibility of quantifying the
Federal Republic of Germany (GTZ)'s contribution to the project. Since
1986, GOS has not appointed an audit firm for the CRDP nor for other
externally-funded projects. Recently, the situation seems to have improved,
with a letter from the Finance Ministry in April 1988 inviting the
application of six audit firms; the one selected should carry out the audit
of CRDP accounts for the years 1986 through 1988.



- 21 _
V. OPERATING PERFORMANCE
51.      Imediately after the aid-term review, project pwrformance went
through a salutary high, activities intensified and staff morale was
restored. Good progress was made in all components, concentrated in the
priority districts except for the forestry component which GTZ continued to
implement essentially around the three regional capitals. If the use of
vehicles and equipment was better controlled, however, two important aspects
continued to impede CRDP's progress: unreliable fuel supplies through the
National Petroleum Agency (there had been an unsuccessful attempt by the
Project Unit at importing its oVn diesel in 1985) and GOS' contribution to
local staff salaries and operating costs at only about 702, causing at times
serious cashflow problems. Project operations have also suffered from the
lack of coordination between the various components carried out by different
teams of technical assistance. While the continuous dialogue with
pastoralist communities and the associated range management/conservation
activities have resulted from the combined efforts of the range specialists
and nonformal education staff, GTZ components have been somewhat detached
from the rest of CRDP - a feature emphasized by the fact that their
operating base (Beletweyne) is located some 300 km away from project
headquarters (Mogadishu). An added problem has been the unreli&bility of
WFP supplies of food for work affecting project forestry and conservation
activities, in particular in 1985186 when protracted negotiations for the
second extension of the initial, country-wide WFP project 171 (of which
CRDP was only a part) resulted in a temporary breakdown in supplies.
52.      In'the last year or so, some of the above constraints have appeared
in even greater intensity than before. Frequent fuel shortages have limited
not only transport for the project but also water development and other
activities depending largely on the use of heavy equipment (between January
and May 1988, for instance. only two dugouts had been built out of a total
of 15 planned for the whole year). Field visits of staff have been reduced
occasionally by difficulties in obtaining ?er diems and transport expenses,
even at their inadequate level: in the absence of any substantial increase
in real terms, 18/   staff earnings have lost much of their purchasing power
due to the constant erosion of the domestic currency, particularly since
1985 (the value, of the dollar has risen on the official market from about
So.Sh.6 in 1980 to So.Sh.40 in 1985 and to So.Sh.99 in 1987), and the
dramatic price increases of consumer goods. 19/
17/   ORangelands   Development   and  Reforestation,'   Project   SO   719.
Negotiations took a particularly long time because of disagreements
between GOS and WFP on the poor management performance during the
previous phases.
18/   A directive from the Ministry of Finance has raised salaries by 150-200Z,
with retroactive effect to April 1988.
19/   See Table 4 for exchange rates from 1980 to 1988.



_ 22 -
Technical Results
53.      Although project achievements have *ncompassed various aspects -
ringing fron soil and water conservation to animal health and forestry - its
ultimate success rests on the usefulness of the range interventions it has
developed and put in practice. In the course of project implementation the
approach to range development has altered drastically from broad-brush
grazing control of 302 of the total Central Rangelands area to carefully
controlled, smaller-scale interventions involving three districts and
established RLAs based on data relating to:
-    herbage characteristics of range and general condition
assessment:
-    social structure of families/clans using the area in question
(degaan approach);
-    grazing practices, seasonal animal movements, herd/flock
structures, animal composition (cattle, sheep, goats, camels);
-    constraints - water, disease, internal parasites, flies
(biting or tsetse), ticks (physical and disease problems),
sol/rainfall (determining drylwet season grazing constraints
and/or opportunities);
-    special circumstances (e.g., unusual marketing opportunities),
agropastoral opportunities for broader-based
livestock/crop/vegetablelfruit enterprises.
54.      The most obvious, albeit unquantifiable, results from project range
management interventions have been:
-    a better understanding of the pastoral production system in
the Central Rangelands, and the development of a relationship
based on trust between grazing associations and the Project
Unit; this is measured by the awareness of and cooperation
from the local population, the feedback on needs which have
helped change the project's course (agropastoralism, dugout
and shallow and hand dugwell water development, agroforestry)
and the lack of conflict;
-    the development and implementation uf an appropriate and
multidisciplinary approach to development in Somalia,
combining the priorities of local coiDnities with the
technical disciplines;
-    beneficial environmental effects resulting from forestry and
soil conservation activities.
55.      Other valuable technical findings are driving the new approach to
development in the rangelands: (i) the importance of Yihib (an evergreen
forage bush) and the need to focus management on key limiting resources



- 23 -
such as this dry season fodder, rather than lirge areas of range; (ii) live
fencing, and its implications for fencing maintenance; (iii) buffel grass
and mung beans in the agropastoral systems; (iv) dugouts rather t"an bores,
for improved utilization of fodder; (v) the actual incidence of diseases is
now known, thanks to the GTZ surveys; (vi) a pastoralist-based animal
health system has been designed and put in place; (vii) the Department of
Range is in place and producing graduates.
56. Knowledge in all the above areas has been accumulating and does
provide a strong technical base for recommendations to improve range and
animal productivity. In a May 1987 evaluation carried out by USAID
consultants - two of which are highly qualified specialists in range
resources from American Universities - it was concluded that the CRDP was
making wa valuable contribution to the educational, scientific and
technological basis for future implementation of improved rangeland
management practices in Central Somalia."20/There is, however, the
unsettling aspect of the lack of standardization in the range survey and
reporting procedures adopted by the consulting firm's range ecologists in
each of the priority districts: future use of the information collected
and analyzed appears somewhat compromised by an uncommon data base.
57. The difficulties in doing research need to be stressed. Rangelands
in Sonalia have received very low priority in livestock research programs,
including those of the International Livestock Centre in Africa (ILCA).
Little is known, and little can be done. Researchers have given up, as the
potential for improvement on such a poor resource base is minimal. But
Somalia has no choice: the country is rangelands, dnd such research has to
go forward. The pioneering aspects of the ecological and research aspects
of the project should be emphasized, and research efforts improved with the
close backing of a large international research institute such as ILCA, or
a University in southwest USA.
Proiect Weaknesses
58. In the course of implementation, major project weaknesses have been:
the inadequate use made of the aerial resource surveys (RMR) undertaken at
the beginning of the project; the inadequate equipping of the boreholes,
and the poor management of bores and dugouts; the poor state of the
herbarium; the disappearance of many vehicles into NRA and other places;
the lack of climatic, soils and leaf nutrient data gathering; the
increasing danger from tree cutting for charcoal, which the project does
little about.
59. A major gap remains in the quantification of benefits from the list
of project range management interventions. So far, quantified benefits are
apparent only from veterinary, water and agropastoral interventions and
these are limited: data is as yet preliminary (one to two seasons) and
requires replication. Providing immediate benefits to both human and
animal populations, water development has turned out to be one of the most
successful components of CRDP, particularly since the issue of permanent
20/ Interim evaluation report, USAID, June 1987.



- 24 -
boreholes having negative effects on the range and the slow process involved
in identifying appropriate sites 21/ came to be recognized. Project
veterinary services have also been very successful, but this success has
been mitigated to a certain extent by procurement and funding constraints
related to the national. non-project specific, Veterinary Drug Fund which
provides the drugs distributed by the NARAs.
VI   INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
60.      Proiect efforts to strengthen the local institutions bave had
partial success. With infrastructure and staff development support from the
project in its early phase, the NRA developed into an agency capable of
taking on more of the tasks devolved upon it for range management in
Somalia. The CRDP itself went through a series of institutional changes.
The reorganization subsequent to the mid-term review demonstrated that the
project operated more effectively under its own management. Implementation
was, however, slowed by the removal in April 1986 of a fully committed and
dynamic project manager. Later, CRDP was separated from the NRA as directed
by the Minister, MLFR, in a letter dated November 30, 1987. 22/ The project
manager is now directly responsible to the Itinister.
CRDP
61.      The project has put in place a structure which is able to collect
and analyze data on range and livestock in the Central Rangelands, as well
as identify areas which are of major interest to the local populations and
where it can intervene successfully, such as animal health services,
livestock/crop linkages, water point construction, sand dune stabilization.
In this connection, a small, but effective extension department and audio-
visual aid production group (slide shows, videos, radio programs) has been
developed for communication with a large, nomadic population.
62.      Under the veterinary component supported by GTZ, an efficient
system of Nomadic Animal Health Assistants has been created at the degaan
level for sales of simple drugs and to provide minimal prescriptive advice
to pastoralists. NAMs are young volunteers selected from within an RLA,
who receive a ten-day course in the identification and treatment of local
livestock diseases, and are followed up by project staff on a regular basis;
their salary is paid for in cash or kind by the RLk. Drugs and medicines
are sold to participating RLks by the MLFR, for retail to pastoralists, who
purchase then on the recommendation and under the supervision of the NAEA.
21/   The attack on a drilling crew working in the Bulo Burti area resulted
in the murder of an expatriate staff in late 1983.
221 Further confirmed in February 1988.



- 25 -
63.      Institutional constraints have affected the progress of water
development activities to the extent that the project has had to depend, for
the drilling and maintenance of boreholes, on the poor performance of the
Water Development Authority - the agency responsible for maintaining
drinking water facilities - as well as on other projects for specialized
equipment (lowboy, etc.). Implementation would be more expeditious if works
were contracted out to private entrepreneurs rather than done on force
account.
64.      Services established successfully within the project include a
mechanical workshop - managed efficiently by German master mechanics,
although a need for renewing the equipment and buying new spares has emerged
- a growing documentation center used by project and nonproject staff alike,
and an administrative/financial unit which operates satisfactorily and has
developed a reasonably good planning system.
65.      Another project accomplishment has been the formal training of
students at the Somalia National University through the USAID-funded
development of a Department of Botany and Range Management, which provides a
two-year specialized course after a first two years of general agriculture,
leading to a Bachelor of Science degree. Students are technically educated
and perform well on the job after graduation.
66.      Staff growth and training.  As shown in Table 6, there has been a
substantial increase in project permanent staff, from 108 in 1981 to 569 (of
which about 48Z at headquarters) at the end of 1987. The most important
increases occurred in the initial years 1981-83 and in 1987. They have not
corresponded necessarily to an intensification of eroject activities, and
may have been carried out to the detriment of quality and real needs as
there seems to be an excess of support staff in relation to technicians.
Likewise, despite the importance of women in extension activities, no
special effort has been made to recruit and/or train more female staff (only
one female extensionist and the head of the female extension se:tion out of
a total of 12 extension staff). Since the funding of local salaries and
allowances has met with difficulties, the project would benefit from some
streamlining based on a realistic manpower development plan.
67.      The external training program of CRDP has not been entirely
successful. Six of the staff sent out on BSc. and MSc. training (up to four
years) have not returned and amongst those who have come back, a few have
left the project for better employment opportunities. Major reasons for
this defection are the lack of incentives, including the low level of
salaries (about 1,600 So.Sh. for a district range officer, 2,500-2,700
So.Sh. for a regional extension officer or a 'counterpart' at headquarters),
and the absence of efforts on the project management's part to provide
returning students with specific posts that are coamensurate with their new
qualifications. A training program based on short-term courses in countries
with a similar environment may be more appropriate in the future. On-the-
job training has been carried out by the project's expatriate staff but a
coherent, comprehensive program has been lacking, together with appropriate
facilities.



- 26 -
68.      Mnagement aspects.  Reduced staff motivation is also the result of
the lack of coimnication vith current managemaent. Staff of technical
departments have voiced complaints about not participating enough in the
preparation of budgets for their operations, often adversely affected by the
allocation of resources put at their disposal. Field operations have been
less efficient due to the constant fuel and per diem shortages, and also
since the departure of the expatriate Field manager. Further, the lack of
an institutionalized system of regular staff meetings has resulted in lax
coordination between the various project components or departments.
69.      Due to these inefficiencies and a renewed decline in staff morale,
the project appeared, in mid-1988, to have lost its momentum. Project
activities will also be affected by the forthcoming departure of the large
technical assistance CRDP has been operating vith and which cannot as yet be
substituted, given the shortage of qualified counterparts. Although part of
this technical assistance will be replaced in the follow-up project, those
specialists with the longest and greatest experience of CRDP would have left
by mid-1989.
Ranae and Livestock Associations
70.      Although their establishment has been slow due to the time required
to establish comuinication with the members of the degaan and obtain their
acceptance of the idea, RLAs formed through the project appear to be viable
comunity - level organizations with which the Government, and the project,
can interact in testing range management techniques (reserves) and designing
and locating infrastructure (e.g., water points). Of the 14 RLAs
established (although only nine management plans have naw been accepted and
of these, seven are being implemented), the most successful ones are two in
Ceel Dhere and two in Hobbio, each of which has managed rest-rotational
grazing reserves on the coastal plain.
Consultants
71.      In general, the specialists recruited for the project, on an
individual basis or through a firm, have been technically competent and
committed. The range development component would have gained, however, from
a more comprehensive approach to range survey and analysis. After the
initial delays in the recruitment of USAID and GTZ experts, the project also
suffered from the fact that the consultants have tended to represent the
interests of donors (notwithstanding some of the earlier conflicts between
USAID and the LBI group) rather than those of the CRDP as a whole and have
operated in a more or less autonomous way. this would have been improved by
the appointment of a Technical manager (preferably an expatriate)
responsible for overall coordination.
Donors
72.      Of late, the effectiveness of the project's Steering Committee has
been reduced by the irregularity of the two meetings to be held annually and
their increasingly rubber-stamping nature.



- 27 -
VII . FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
Coatt Recovery
73.      The project was expected to create some revenue for Government
through (i) fees charged at stock vater points, (ii) the sale of veterinary-
drugs. Cost recovery has, in fact, come mainly from the latter as the first
NHIAs, trained in Ceel Dhere district, began in late 1986 the distribution
of drugs, at cost, for the MLFR (in Bulo Burti and Hobbio the NAHA network
has been operating since 1987).  The collection .of water charges by the MDA
(and not the NRA, as proposed at appraisal) has been insignificant, coupled
with an unreliable service although the level of fees is clearly
insufficient: while the official cost of water charged by the WDA at a
borehole in So.Sh. 10 per m3, the MASCOTT consultants found in 1986 that
this fee had to be almost doubled (So.Sh. 18 per m3) to cover the complete
cost of capital equipment and ensure adequate maintenance.
Beneficiary Incomes
74.      In the absence of hard data, only an indication based on herd/farm
models can be given of the increase in incomes of those pastoralists and
agropastoralists reached by the project. For a rangeland sheep/goat model
with an average size of 256 animals and an agropastoral herd of 85 animals,
the incrementa. offtake and sales resulting from improved animal health
through the project's veterinary services would induce an increased annual
income by about 27Z (from 550,000 to 700,000 So.Sh.) and 19Z (from 185,000
to 220,000 So.Sh.) respectively. For the hundred-odd agropastoral farmers
that CRDP (I) is estimated to have assisted. yield increases in food crops
and forage strips would bring a more substantial increase in income by over
S0 (from 70,000 to 110,000 So.Sh.).
VIII. ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
75.      Benefits expected at appraisal were overly optimistic.  At the same
time, the long-term nature of range management interventions and the
importance of research were not sufficiently recognized. Although, at the
end of CRDP (I), benefits from range development are as yet unquantifiable,
the accumulation of knowledge and the progress made in understanding the
pastoral and agropastoral systems in the Central Rangelands have been
invaluable.
76.      More tangible, but not substantial, benefits have been produced by
the project's veterinary services and agropastoral demonstrations/trials, as
well as the water development component-notwithstanding the low output from
boreholes that have beqn constructed but not fully equipped with storage
tanks. Because of the late start-up of these activities, however, the first
quantifiable benefits ocurred several years after the project began. An
economic re-evaluation carried out on the basis of models and parameters
provided by GTZ and the project's extension staff (also used in the



- 28 -
appraisal of CRDP Phase II) and taking into account those costs directly
related to the benefits, yields a negative EM of -62 (see Annex 1). Even
If project implementation had been speeded up in the beginning and these
relatively small benefits produced in earlier years, the project's EU-would
still be negative.
rX. StMM(RY AND LESSONS LEARNED
77.      During the initial years of implementation CRDP (I) came to be
recognized as one of those large pastoral projects supported by the Bank in
East Africa in the late 1970's, where massive, albeit untested,
interventions were proposed in systems that were not fully
understood. 23/ As such it was a particularly complex, costly project which
rested on a weak technical base but addressed itself to a large, mostly
unknown, pastoral community in an extensive project area. In addition it
depended for its implementation on a relatively inexperienced institution
and involved a multitude of donors. These shortcomings were not entirely
ignored in the early stages of preparation and appraisal. The Bank went
ahead withthe project, due to the Government's continued interest, and due
to the importance of rangelands production vithin the somali economy.
However, the project was larger than necessary. It should have been scaled
back considerably in view of the uncertainties which existed regarding
approach and technology to be used.
78.      Because of procurement and procedural delays causing the late
start-up of some of the project key activities (under the responsibility of
specific financing agencies) as well as external factor. (security problems
in part of the project area), it took GOS and donors more than three years
to rectify the project's course, at a mid-term review which brought
substantial changes to the project design, scope and organizational
structure. CRDP (I) became a more manageable project, with its resources
concentrated towards filling more attainable objectives in a geographically
limited area (three out of thirteen districts). The vital range management
component was to be approached on a pilot, more research-oriented, basis so
that a firmer technical base could be established.
79.      After eight years of implementation the project h.s not attained
fully its objectives but has been able to understand the dynamics of
rangelands in Central Somalia and develop a strategy for future
interventions. Since the mid-term review it has realized many useful
interventions which have benefitted about a third of the Central Rangelands
population, particularly through the development of water points, veterinary
and related services, and agropastoral extension messages. Most notable are
the achievements from a technical and research standpoint. Benefits not
23/   Poor experience with these projects led to a highly discussed review by
S. Sandford in 1981 ('Review of World Bank Livestock Activities in Dry
Tropical Africa'), followed by a Bank workshop held in Addis Ababa in
June 1983.



- 29 -
directly quantifiable are important: the project has made a definite start
towards establishing a permanent dialogue with pastoralists, formed a first
group of range and livestock associations which are adopting the proposed
range banage ent interventions, and which constitute a focal point for other
key activities such as infrastructural development and poil conservation.
Through accumulation of information, the identification of local priorities
and the permanent testing of interventions, the project has been a major
learning process for Government and donors.
80.      Overall, the institutional achievements have been mixed.  The
organization and management of the project certainly improved as a result of
the adjustments made at the mid-term review, which established the CRDP as a
separate operational entity within the MLF. However, unresolved logistics
problems (fuel and equipment), the lack of incentives - both financial and
professional - and low staff morale, management deficiencies and
unsatisfactory coordination between components and donors, have all
contributed to a declining performance in the recent past. In addition, if
the formal education component has been relatively successful, the external
training program, on the other hand, has not produced the desired results.
81.      Veterinary staff are not well integrated within CRDP.  They are, in
effect, seconded to the project from the Ministry; their salaries are
generally lower than those of CRDP staff and when the latter are increased,
a special request has to be made to also raise those of veterinary staff.
The fact that staff working on both the project veterinary and forestry
components are attached to the GTZ teams (their per diems and allowances are
"topped up' by the donor) emphasizes their relative autonomy from the rest
of the project. Further, GTZ has expressed the desire to continue, in the
future, their activities with extension staff of the Veterinary Extension
Department of the MLFR rather than with CRDP'S own extension services, with
whom coordination appears to be unsatisfactory.
Follow-up project
82.      A case for a second phase project is clearly based on the need to:
-    replicate, broaden and confirm the preliminary data on the
benefits accruing from veterinary, water and agropastoral
recommendations;
-    expand and accumulate essential time-phased data on the
supposed benefits of grazing interventions (deferred grazing
being the most important) to allow benefits to be quantified,
recognizing the procedures to be both time-consuming and
expensive; 241 and
24/   Much valuable data was lost in 1986-87, for example, by the need to open
reserves and rest areas prematurely because of widespread drought in the
CUDP area.



- 30 -
continue institutional development within CRDP, particularly
that related to improving staff conditions of sarvice,
training and other aspects of personal and career development.
83.      0owever, the issues which have emwose  again will need to be
addressed rapidly, in particulars
-    ensuring regular supplies of fuel and other operating
materials, possibly through direct importation by the project;
-    offering project staff adequate levels of salaries and
allowances (the recent increase is insufficient in real
terms), e.g., through an indexation system;
-    carrying out a manpower development plan within the project
Unit so as to streamline functions and responsibilities;
-    improving tbe present mana.!ement's style by encouraging
greater communication with staff, and participation of
technical units in the budgeting of their own operations;
-    obtaining a fimer commitment from GOS to provide th. required
funds to finance local costs, while establishing safeguards
for a stricter control of funds within the project;
-    with a smaller number of donors, ensuring more cohesion
between project components by appointing an expatriate
Technical Manager.



-31-                                       Table '
Page I
SOMALIA
CENTRAL RANGELANDS OEVELOPENT- PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CROP Physical Achievements
A. Range Management
1. Herd Surveys:
1 in Ceel Ohere
1 in Nobbio
1 in eluo Burti
2. Monitorisig Studies of ftLocks at BuLo Burti
3. Range Site Description (RSD) and Range Condition Surveys (RCS):
Location              No.  Size (kin)  RSD comoletea in    RCS compLeted in
Ceel Ohere               12       8,430           1983                 1986
Hobbio                    7      24,000           1983                 1983
BuLo Surti               12      12,500           1984                 1984
Ceet Bur                  6       4,000           1988                 1988
Jatalaksi                12       6,000           1988                 1988
4. Ranqe Trend Studies in
- cel. Ohere
- HobbiO
- BuLo eurti
- Ceet Sur
- Jalalaksi
5. Range Management Plans:
Location              No.  Size (km2)         Years
Ceel Dhere               6        8,430         1985-87
Hobbio                   4        4,270         1983-87
eulo Burti               9       16,700         1984-88
Ceel Sur                 4 a/    2,080             1988
JaLalaksi                4        6,000            1988
6. Range and Livestock Associations (RLAs):
Location              No.  Size (kin)         Years
Ceel Ohere               2        2,807            1985
Hobbio                   4        4,270         1983-88
8uLo 8urti               8        9,800         1984-88
7. Deferred Grazing Reserves:
Location              No.  Size (kim)         Years
CeeL Ohere               2        1,265            1985
Hobbio                   2        2,210            1983
8uLo Burti               5          292         1987-88
8. Village Reserves:
3 in Ceel Dhere
4 in BuLo Burti
9. Rain Gauges (1C)
a/ Overlao with degaans in Ceel Ohere district.



- 32 -
table I
Page Z
8. Range Research MfQA):
7 studies completed.
C. Soil and Water Development
34 dugouts (31 good): 4 Ceet Dhere, 14 Hobbio, 11 Suto Surti, 1 8eletweyne,
4 Ceel Our
22 boreholes (8 good): 5 Coot Dhere, 4 Nobbio, 9 Bulo Burti, 2 Ceel Bur,
2 Hareadheere
22 watLs rehabilitated: 11 Cclt Ohere, 4 Hobbio, 6 8ulo Burti, I JatlLaksi
13 berkeds: 3 Ceel Dhere, 3 Hobbio, 5 8ulo 8urti, 2 Jalalaksi
Sand dune stabilisation (on-going): 23 ha Ceel Dhere, 10 ha Hobbio, 23 ha 9ulo
Surti, 28 ha Ceel Bur, 20 ha Jalalaksi
12 sheltereelts in Ceel Ohere, Hobbia and Sulo 8urti districts
7 district nurseries: Ceel Dhere, Hobbio, 8ulo Surti, Ceel Sur, Jalalaksi,
Haradheere
Vil'age tree planting (on-goirg): Ceel Dhere, Hobbio, 8ulo Burti
Fuelwood plantations: I ha Ceel Ohere dist., 12 ha Bulo 8urti dist.
380 km tracks constructed in Ceel Ohere, Hobbio, Bulo Burti districts
D. Extension
1. Formation of RLAs (Ceel Dhere, Hobbio and 8ulo Burti):
29 surveys completed
15 committees elected
9 management plans accepted
7 management pLans implemented
2. Species elimination and growth trials. (multipurpose trees, fodder crops, etc.)-
3. Hedgerow trials
4. Demonstration farms
5. Alley crepping trials
6. Live fence hedging trials
7. Strip anti-erosion trials
8. Range extension and pastoral training
9. RLA workshops and seminars
10. Sand dune fixation workshops ano seminars
11. Non-formal education/training:
- assistance to NAHA 1/ teams
- village tree planting
- village reserves and shelter belts
E. Animal Health/Veterinary Services
1. Livestock Surveys (1984-87) in Beletweyne, Ceel Dhere, Hobbio and Sulo Burti
districts
2. Livestock Treatments:
68,000 antibiotic/antiparasitic treatments (1984-87)
95,000 animals treated during the drought emergency campaign (1987)
3. NAHA-Training (with regular follow-up every 2 months):
Ceel Ohere (3 villages):               11 in June 1986
Hobbio (3 villages and 2 RLA):         25 in June 1987
8ulo Surti (7 villages):               19 in December 1986
4. Staff Training
1/ Nomadic Animat HeaLth Assistant.
0



-33-
Table I
Page 3-
F. Forestry
1. Nurseries (1 each in the three regionaL capitaLs of Betetweyne, Dusa Mareb
and Galkayo)
2. Woodtots and sheLterbeLts
3. Adaptive triaLs
4. Staff training
G. Infrastructure
1. NRA Headquarters (Mogadishu) 1/
2. 3 Regional and 7 District Centres (with Type C and D Staff Houses) 1/:
Beletweyne
Buto Burti
Dusa Mareb
Adado
Ceet Our
Ceel Ohere
Ga:kayo
Jariban
Nobbio
Haradheere
3. Veterinary Laboratory/Workshop, Office (forestry component) and 4 Staff
Houses at SeLetweyne 2/
4. Veterinary Sub-Laboratory and Office (forestry component) each at Dusa Mareb
and GaLkayo 2/
1/ IDA/IFAD financed.
2/ GTZ financed.



ffIT3Al RANCELMsDS DfmWEiPUET PRO&JCT
JROECT CCIPLETWgN REPIRT
CRDP Diluursc_nt  by Finaneina Source  in 'i  1U23  Current Priee)
Calendar Year                     nuL      3           iSA        13L                  Am            2!          iSA       lal
Financing Source
IDA                                           474 1         600      1,177       1,763      2,U12      764         520        2U           216    3,66
IFAD                                             285        0"       1,566       2,865      2,790    1,032          Is          -            -    9,
USAID                                            144         794      1,626      2,218        370   1,156        2,831      2,U0         1,66    1 2
CTZ t/                                             -           -         61      1,021      1,026   1,276        1,346      1,42928        7U9  *,077
ADS                                                -           -         -           -         is       0           n          97          -         U2
WFP g                                            142         277       744         406        282      683          a         412          136    2,904
COS t/                                            43         179       251         *24        312   1,153        1&.64      1,484          776    6,55C 5
Total                                          1,698       2,919     5,66        3,671      7,911    5,864       6,547      6,078        8,722   46,446
(_euwdd to
/ Actual for IDA, IFAD, ADAS and GOS; estimated by CROP Financial Cont-oller for tbe other donors.
2/  July to December.
/   Including som  retroactive flnancing starting October 1979 for PPF.
j E*change lose applied to yearly disbursemet. on a pro rate bale
O/ DM values converted Into US using International Monetary Fund exchange rates.
/   Voluo of 'food for worlk  etimated on the basis of current average fob prices of WFP supplied cemoditlee (use  by
WFP for planning snd budgeting purposes) plus freight/insurance and Internal transport costs.
Z/   Local costs converted into US3 using exchang  rates supplied by Ministry of Finsnce (Tablo 4).
1/  January to June.
3/   Mission estimtes.-
Sousr    CROP



- 35 -
Table 2b
SOMAL I A
CENTRAL RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
------------------------------------
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
-------------------------
Total Project Costs by Flnancing Source (In USS millon)
Financing        Appraisal         Current          Current as % of
Source           Estimate          Estimate         Appraisal Estimate
IDA                   8.0              8.0               100
IFAD                  9.0              9.0               100
USAID                16.0              12.8               85
GTZ /a                4.0               6.9              173
ADAB                  0.0               0.3                -
WFP                   4.3               2.9               67
GOS                   6.0               6.6              110
-TOTAL               46.3              46.5              100
/a ODA was the original cofinancler but was later replaced by GTZ.



CENTRAL RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CRDP Disbursements - by Category ('000 USS, current )rices), excluding GTE
nancing Source                       IDA    IfAD 21    USAID    WfP 3/    ADAU    GOS 4/          TOTAL
Category               \                                                                                      excluding GTZ
PPF 5/ and misc. spares                              288                                                            288
Construction                                       2,640   3,336
Vehicles and machinery                             1,089   1,326        3,677                                    13,113
Equipment and furniture                               491     554
Technical assistance, professionat services                                                                    *
and fetlowships                                   2,281   2,275        8,274                302                13,132
Local salaries and allowances                         280     369                                   2,400         3,049
Operating costs                                       931   1,140         851                       4,155         7,077
food rations (WFP)                                                              2,904                             2,904
TOTAL:                                             8,000   9,000       12,802   2,904        302   6,555         39,563
11 Actual for IDA, ;fAD, ADAB and GOS; estimated by CRDP financial Controller for the other donors.
2/ Exchange loss applied to yearly disbursements on a pro rata basis.
3/ Value of "food for work" estimated on the basis of current average fob prices of WfP supplied commodities
(used by UfP for planning and budgeting purposes) plus freight/insurance and iAternal transport rosts.
4/ Local costs converted into USS using exchange rates supplied by Ministry of finance (Table 4).
5/ arR resource inventories and M.Sc. training for four staff (total PPF, USS 258,000).
Source: CRDP.



- 37 -
Table 4
SOMALIA
CENTRAL RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Exchange Rates (So.Sh. to USS), 1980 to 1988 1/
Year                      Day/Month                          Exchange Rate per S
1980                       6th Nov.                                  6.2327
1981                       5th Aug.                                  6.2327
1982                      24th ApriL                                12.4654
13th May                                 12.4654
14th Nov.                                15.0160
1983                       5th ApriL                                15.-
18th June                                15.-
3rd Aug.                                15.-
6th Oct.                                17.50
29th Nov.                                17.50
19&4                      25th Feb.                                 17.50
21st May ,                               17.50
10th July       -                        17.50
28th Oct.                                25.74
12th Dec.                                25.74
1985                       9th Feb.                                 40.-
29th ApriL                               40.-
20th JuLy                                42.-
27th Oct.                                42.-
10th Nov.                                42.-
1986                       8th Feb.                                 53.95
6th May                                 65.83
8th JuLy                                73.75
3rd Aug.                                77.71
11th Nov.                                89.59
12th Dec.                                89.59
1987                      19th March                                89.59
12th May                                 89.59
29th July                               133.02
20th Oct.                                99.-
5th Nov.                                99.-
22th Nov.                                99.-
1988                    Jan.  o Junie                               99.-
1/ DetaiLs of contributions from CIPL/ODD, Ministry of Finance.
Source: CRDP.



- 38 -
Table 5
SOMALIA
CENTRAL RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
IDA Creditt Comparison Eetween Assraisal Estimates
and Actual Disbursements by Category
Appraisal           Actual      hmounts allocated in
Cateaory of ExDenditure            Estimates a/    Disbursements  the Credit Aareement
---------(in US$ '000)-------------_----_
Construction                          2,840              2,640           2,120
Vehicles and Machinery                  800              1,089             710
Equipment and furniture                 440                491             380
T.A., professional services
and fellowships b/                 2,140              2,569           1,600
Local salaries and allowances           380                280             280
Operating costs including
maintenance E utilities             1,400                931             890
Unallocated                                                -             2 000
TOTAL                             8,000              8.000           8.000



- 39 -
Table 6
SOMALI A
CENTRAL RANGELANDS OEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CRD' Permanent. Staff 1/
..................... .................. *As Of. ... ..
31.12.81  31.12.82  31.12.83  31.12.84  31.12.85  31.12.86  31.12.87
Headquarters            18        79       151      171       166      209      271
Regions                 90       191      248       245       241      221      298
TOTAL                  108      270       399       416       407      430      569
1/ Exctuding about 1,100 WFP workers and 88 veterinary staff.
Source: CROP.



CINIlAL  RtWGLAS DEVELOPIEUT PIOJECT
PrPere laratniioon  Schedule
8 ~~~~~~~Proepara  tno9W                                       191      t 9U1        . 91              198     __8               19_           1P           198 --
j RAN.GE SEVILOPIEM,                                             - - i---  -1- --1   1-                                                        I       -
Range GrauAd Survey                          I                                                                    I I                                   - 1
Walter6 cteoont tatr tstmnt,tCS              t     *      |i||vt                                        L __1 ;_)|___                                         -       -
t tI  ItI                                                                            i
iource  idIenton an d                                                                   3 a       I      - - Ti  . ng
Post GraduatevStu(Drel Rng)Ie-[t.
___   _                                                                                                                                            It d
hPArtuern  Sunportns InvnoI
Balot   uho t gaion adtann                                            I     :s[             R     i    1       .
foemal Servces,O Dvlourmentlo                                                                                     I 
PeinstGraduate  anudi,flnegu.-                                                                                                           *II
wathern Sanervice       vet~r               *I                   - 
I         a7
IMage Inv  A. igat .OSa                                      *I I~* 



- 41 -                                                  Table 8
SO A AL I A
CVTVSaL RANGILAMSS CIVELOPtPEt PQCOttC
POJCCT CONPIttIOM REPORt
CasP t * iietvmtp"aitom SCHWA LI CHaRt
*AWAE "M*MIr N1 (oMOENTr
A c T I v I r 1                  1979      1980       1961     t982       1963      1984      196S     1964      1987    1966
XrR  Resouce tnventory             X
!  fiteo                                                         x
juto 4urti                                                       I                              X        X
.JatataIks1                                                                                                        X        X
Range condition surveys
.Ce.k Ohere                                                                          X          X        x
.Coot our                                                                                                            
."obbo                                                           X          X
.Buto aurti                                                      Xx                  X         X        X
.Jatitaksi                                                                                                         I        A
Range _trend *oniroring
.reot Ohere                                                                 X        X          x         
Ctat 6ul,                                                                                                                  I 
.Auto kwrti                                                      X          x         x-                      X
.Jatataksl (a   aans
.HWo                                                                        X
O"ganid d Ring rnd Livestock
.Ceet Ohere                                                                                     X
I uto  eutx
.Outo Surti                                                                                                                 U
.HOmbl C                          .            '                            X        I
.Rgesaons efentaotns
X                          X
.Ceet Or (4  pw wut. retei 
.SuSo Srti  (9 Gegains)                                                                                            X        X
.Jatatahsi  (4 degafis                                                                                                      X
.WO~bbo (4 deguans)                                                        X                                      X
o.tendC  grue ing t eseraes v                                                                            I2)
.Coet  shee        u                                                                                     x                  I
.OuLo Sijtti                                                                                                       I        X (5
.H0aoo                                                                      X (2)
vt      *ereves                                                   x         x                    xIx               x        X
.Outo Ourti                                                      X          X                            X        X        X
fthor   St         t  *tudI es
.E fIcts of a ye.rs orotect ion
fro- gra*ing                                                               X         x
.RAtponst or vsgatation to
tlnd uXe intensity gradients                                               X           x       t           t       X  
.Ot othee atuiies
in et l Ohert *RG tricatat 
!   .Drougnt      srroef Study                                                                                     X        X
I i gauges. etc.
I.;eet bhere                                                                                               I          *       X
CGther stations in district                                                                                        X        X
.Al.  other StatiOns                                                                                               x        X
Other activities
.CeeL Sler, *~erialn^ta
ne. otantir9                                                                                                                X
*lUoboio:  isil. fddOer far.                   X                  X                       t                     X
Ga.uaan (^lin. reserve 11                                                                                 X
orouqnt Surve, of S aegaans                                                                              X
1/ ReServe c isted orior to tROP.



S O M A L I A
CENTRAL RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CDRP I - IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE CHART
Soil and Water Conservation Component
Activity                           1979  1980   1961 1982   1983  198K        1985       1986      1987      19No         _tks
Dugouts                             -      -      -    -       -     9 (8)     5 (4)      9 (8)    9 (9)      2 (2) G3bgod
fbreholes                           -      -      -    -       -     9 (3)     4 (3)      8 (2)    1 -)       -      (0good but 5 wit!"u
stctag ta
wi,lts Rehabititdtion               -      -      -    -       -     4        1.          6        -          1
Civil Works                         -      -      -    -       -     -         -          -        1          -      Ntt cuxleted.
&erkets                             -      -      -    -       -     -         2          9        -2
Sard Dke StabiLizaticn                                        *                                                      G --going.
Sheltertelts                        -      -      -    -       -    11         -          -        -          1
Njrseries                           -      -      -    -       -     -         5          2        -
Vi(lag Tree Plantations             -      -      -    -       -     -         e                              t        gDirg.
fuelwod Pantaticns                  -      -      -    -       -     -         -          2        -          1
Track Ccrnstruction                 -      -      -    -    152 km  -         1 km        -      200 k       ,
Erosicn Cantrol                     -      -      -    -       -     2                    -        -
Water Spredding                     -      -      -    -       -     1
Water Harvesting (xts)              -      -      -    -       -     -         -          -        5          4
River Access Points                 -      -      -    -                       4 -                 -          -



S O MA L I A
CENTRAL RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CRDP I - IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE CHART
Extension Component: Agro-Pastoral Department
Activity                        1979       19to     1981    1982        1983     1984      1985     1986      1987    June 1988
1.  Species Elimination
and Growth Trials
2.  Hiedge Row Trials                                                                                          _________
3.  Deronstration Farms                                                                      _3 _________
4.  Atley cropping                                                                                    *_-_-_-__
5.  Revegetate Parren Land                                                                                               _              >
6.  Live Fence Hedging                                                                                         _    -
7. Strip Antierosion Trials
8.  Agro-pastorat Surveys
and Investigations
9.  Anatysis Surveys, Write-up                                                                    ___
Reports
10. Crop and Fodder Variety
Trials
11. Extension of Results
-            Intensification of activities.
.
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



- 44 -                                    Table 11
SOMALI A
CENYRAL RANGELA1S DEVaORN  FROJECT
FROJECT COMPETION REIR
USAID-fu-dd Tectiical Assistwie
1979  198D  1981   1982  1983   1984  1985   1986  1987   1988
CRGP RANE KV*MV
.Te  Lmader/Range fagmwt (36 .') 
.te  Leadr/AnimL  Htbwxy (46 MD
.Raige EcoLogist (30 r/r)
.ai"ge EcoLogist (20 Mm)
.Raige Ecologist (70 n/r)
.Range EcoLogist (55 r/n)
.Range EcoLogist (25 m/m)
.SoiL & water Consevationist I (48 m/nm)
.Soil & Water Conervationist II (24 m/im)
.taxonmist (4*1  /rn)
.GeeraL Services Expert (23 m/m)
.Cooperative Adviser (17 m/m)
.Stock Water Director (14  /rm)
.Pbnitoring ConwLtant (2  /)                                      -
.System Aalyst (2 r/)                                           -
.Rnge CorsuLtat (yeary 3 m)                             - - - - - - - - -
.CiviI Ergireer (1 m/rm)
.ftraL Sociologist (10 m/m)
FOA
.Coordinator (61 mM)                                                                                  *
,Lecttuer, Range Mtagernst (22 Mn/rn)
.Lctu-er, Range Science (46 mm/)
.LctAe (36 m/m)
.LecturerA)tah St. th. (27 mn/)
UTAH STAtE UIESTY
.Coordinator (4  /rn)
.Research ard TriaLs Expert (1 mn)
.Range Field TechnoLogist (25 m/rm)
.Instnjctor, Afgoi SchoL (24 W/m)
* LitiL early or mid-1989.



Table 12
- 45 -
*SOMOALIA
CENTRAL RANOELANDS DIVCLOPMCNT PROJECT
PROJECT CAMPLZTiON REPORT
Technical Assistance Other than USAID Funded
1979  1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988
TDA/1FAD-Fundod 
Project Coordinator                                               I
Technical Director
Admin. (NRA)
Financial Controller                   i        -
Range Training Officer
than Adult Education
Officer
Range Training Officer                       '*
GTZ-Funded
Voterinary/Forestry
Team Leader
Disease Investigation
Officer
Field Veterinary Officer                                                                      I **
Aimal Prod. Adivsor
Construction Engineer
Master Mechanic                                                                    ' L      J  **
Nursery Specialist
Forestry Specialist                                                                  I . I **
Teacher at Afgoi School
(Forestry)
ADA-Funded
Field Manager
* Until mid-1989
** Until end-1990.



-46-                            Annex 1
SOMALIA
CENTRAL RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Economic Analysis
Assumptions
1.    Given the re?earch orientation adopted after its aid-term review, most of
CUDP (I) benefits are unquantifiable. However, an economic re-evaluation of the
project has been attempted using the following assumptionst
A. Benefits
Those benefits that can be quantitied come from three project
componentst
-     Water development, with a total of 5 boreholes 1/  and 31
dugouts constructed bereen 1984 and mid-1988, producing water
for livestock C3000 a per dugout during two months of the
year, 20,000 a per bore all year round) and increasing the
availability for forage - see Table 1.
-     Veterinary services, through the RANA system which started to
operate in 1986 in Coel Dhere district and the following years
in Hobbio and Bulo Burti districtst beneficial effects
translating into lower mortality and higher offtake rates, as
estimated by GTZ, have been calculated on the basis of two herd
models 21 (i) an agropastoral sheep/goat model (with an
average size of 85 animals); and (Li) a rangeland/pastoral
sheep/goat model (average size, 256 animal) - see Tables 2
and 3.
-     Agropastoralism, with project activities starting in this field
in 1986 and estimated to reach a total of 120 farmers over the
years 1986-88 (phasing assumptions 152, 302 and 552
respectively); benefits from this component have been
calculated using a mixed farm model with data on crops
(sorghum, cowpea, mungbeans and forage strips), in the without
and with project situations, provided by CRDP extension
staff 3/ - see Table 4.
1/ Three other bores have been built in compounds where district centers are
located, for use by project staff.
21 See CRDP (II) Appraisal Report.
3/ Same as footnote 2.



- 47 -
AU. benefits bave been expressed in economic terms using constant
1988 export parity prices of meat, milk and sorghum (Tables 5 to 7).
J. Costs.
Only those costs (based on actual disbursements In US dollars)
directly relating to the quantifiable benefits have been taken
Into account - they have been estimated to bet
-     402 of the costs of the buildLig program  (ISAIIFAD).
-     602 to 80S  of the project management support costs
(IDAIIVAD, GOS),
-     lOOZ  of  the  nonformal  education  component  cost
(IDA/hFAD),
-      OOZ of the ADAB-funded Fleld Manager post,
-     soil and vater development costs, taken at 20S of USAID
disbursements,
costs of veterinary services, estimated at 751 of total
fTi dlsbursements.
All these costs have been translated lnto constant 1988 ptrces
using the SomalLa tradLng partners CPSI 4 and gtossly adjusted
wLth the following parameters:
-  average foreign exchange content    772
average local cost                   232
official exchange rate             100 (So.Sh to the S)
shadow exchange rate               203 (So.Sh to the S)
Results
2.    The project's DRR calculated over 20 years is .61 (Table 8) - the result
of very small benefits occurring some flve years after the project began, due
to the late startup of those activitLes whlch have yLelded the only tangible
benefits from the project.  A sensitLvLty analysis bringing these benefLts
forard (i.e., in a situation where a reasonable Lmplementation schedule could
have been expected), however, still yields a negative 321 (Table 9).
41  Country Department (World Bank) estimates.  1980,17.92; 1981, 13.5S;
1982,10.4Z; 1983,10.62; 1984, 9.91; 1985, 8.32; 1986, 5.8%; 1987, 62.



- 48-                                        Annex  I
Table 1
CENTAL WELANS OEVELOMIIT P ECT, PHASE I
6EMFITS F ROM MTE   VELOPET
VA        196    191"   19m 2   18    19       1"S   191    17    1981U 919            19
~~~~~~~~~~...  .                          .   ... .................. ........... ......... _,......... ............  -. ---*@ --@-----
LINITS U  ICETWAL  ATER AVAILABILITY (to suwert weess to new grazing aress)
~~~~.                . ..... . . ........ . .... ........ .
AmE I UK  muS (Cu. me.)                                                         1      4       5
MATER POSUCTIOU (16  3/1R)          2066 /UNIT                                      21     U      1N      In       to       160
MM    I OUG  S  (COI. NO.)                                                      8'   12       26     29      31
NATEO  PRSCTISI ("  12/2156)         3,606 IUNIT                                    24      31     61      II      93        93
Estiatien of biuls Atfected by Addltionl 2 bnoths of Duout Moter Availability:
AJUSTED INC. UTER  VAILABLE ./ ('160 N3)                                              IA      22     36      52       56       56
S/¢ (000) SUPTEO  Y UATER: .11  N3/2  50/S4  e/                                    131    196    327      *75      567      St7
Increnntal Animl Suowt Cioscity treo a Year of Borehole Vater Avail1abiity:
.  .                ....... ...... . ..................
ADJWUSTED IC. MATER AVAILABULE b/ (41n  N31                                           16      64     of      8O       as       as
INC. 5/C C.660 n3jYE/S-6  el    ('6tU  S-6)                                          24     97    121      121     121       121
MINKLS   NEFITiNG FRON IKCRElElNTA.L UTER (IN  5-C)                                  155    293    *U       596      628      621
% POECT ARA POUTEN (S-0 muivalt)    23510                                            8.78   1.2*   1.9l    2.5%    2.7*       2.7n
UFECT Of IKCREIUITAL FORMAS  AVAILAILITY
Additial Fr     Available:
~~~. ..... ...........
INK. AREA AVAILABLE FOR  RAZING (SO Ktl):    AR oUGOuT:        314 KN2    (ASSUMIN6 It III RADIUS)
AROITIOALL FORA6E ACCESSIBLE (LAS I V1(SO  itn):                                   2513   3771   6283    9111    5739       9739
t1 PorJCT AREA:  (SO KR)             1USU                                               2*     31     As      68      7n       7n
ADOITIOUL FORAME USD (46 * Of ACCESSILEI:                                           1n05   150    2513    3644    3896       396
Calculation of Animls Ihich Use Nely Accssible Areo:
AERAG  STOCKING RATE IN TLU PER SO KR: dl    15.7
TLU 11 ICLY ACCESSIRLE AREA ('6    TLU)                                               16      24     39      57       61       61
SHEEP/GOAT EOUIVALENT ('IU  S-C) e/                                              I   151    237    395      572      612      612
* PRECT AR  PWUIAT'N (S-6 eivalent)    23511                                         1.7n   I."    1.7n    2.48    2.6        2.6n
Effect on Offtake of Nwly Accessible Fgrae
INC. TURNOFF 0 1.58 (LAGGED 6 1 I) flIHo S-61                                       6.79   1.18   1.97    2.16    3.16       3.16
INC KEFWITS (NEAT) (CtON) u/       (SIM                                             7232  10849  18142   26219   281027    26127
INC. RIL   PRO TUCtION (ECON) h/  (SS I6)                                         13017  IV528  32547   47194   SU048   5S14
TOTAL ECON BENFITS                 (556061                                         26249  31378  50629   73412   7875    78475
el ALLOVAKCE FOI UAST1AGE  EVAPORATION AND USE BY PEOPLE. fR   OUGOUTS         408
b/ ALLOVANCE FOR  WASTAGE AND USE BY PEOPLE. FROl BOREHOLES:            21%
c/ SHEP AND COAT UAtER CONSJUNPTION IS ETInATED AT SORE 55 LlMO, OR 0.116 l3 FOR 2 MONTHS (1.661 FOR TEAR).
di FRM MM CElSUS 1979 AID PRODUCTION SYSTEMS ANALYSIS.
el I TLU a 1.2 COELS. I.1 SHEEP/GOAT, 6.3 COV.
f/ EllEIIENTAL TURIOFF REDUCED FMM SHEEPIGOAT IOOEL M2tl TO 6.5%. TURNOFF LAG6ED BY I YEAI.
e/ EXPORT PAIIITY PRICE FOR ALL CLASSES OF SHEEPICOATS (SS/ANINALI:          9165
hi MILK 8ENEFITS SANE PROPORTION Of MEAT BENEFITS AS IN RANGELANDS SHEEP/GOAT IIODEL         1868



- 49 -
Annex I
Table 2
CNTRSL WM Bi CE9l!t PIMOECT, PASE I
WASRIML S          1EEPIOT NOUEL (10 HtES AVSE SIZE 85 EACHI
1i5      1 199.    1987      IlS      1999      1990      1991     I992    I1:         1,94
Opening StoCK:                    640 N     40       440       U40        40      c40       440       .40       O       040
Births                4a        418      409       408       40s       405      4a        409     4S         a soa
Deaths l(l yr)                 1U1      177       172       167       167      167       17       1U7       167       147
Closing Stacikt                   40        U4       640       440       440      440        40       cS       64        O40
Total Sale/Cansumptiaa            U27       232     2:         241       241      241        41       241      241       241
Offtake  (Avge Nerd of S3i         27?       2?2      252       2a?       282      at2 .?              :92      18?       292
Nortality (0-1)                    23?       212      '2c       192       192       192      Liz       192                192
Incroental Sales Animals:                     5        9        14        14       14        !4        14       14        14
Price of one shet l/goat (Saih):           S172     6600      7027      7455     7882      9310      3737     °l!      ;083
Incrcental Value Otftake (SaSh):         29132    b23CO    99504   105559   111613   117663   12;722   1.9776   1:8615
Incr. Nilk Prod'n  litre  per herd)          94      169       252       252      252   * 52          252      252       252
Value of I litre milk (SoShIl):              70
Inc. NMlk Value (1 herdi    (SoSh)        !390    11760    17640    17640    17640    17640    17640    17640    17640
inc. Nilk Value (10 herasl  (SaSh)       58500   117600   17400   176400   176400   176400   176400   17640)0   ! I04
Increase in Yeight in Young Animlst
Price Effect 31       15S              4370      9345    14926    15834    16742    17450    19559         i4466    19292
Cost ledecinn/lincrals
Per herd (SoSh)                         1190     !127      9064      9064     9064      9064     9064      9064      9064
Per 10 herds (SoSh)                   11900    51270    90640    90640    90640    90640    90640    90640    90640
Net Increwntal Benefits
10 Agropastoral Herds (S3Sh):            80402   137975   200190   207153   214115   221079   229040   535003   Z33669
33u*38223sUZ :zw*g                          2*m*u:uznUCz3z*" z U3u2nz3uus2:3u8asu2z:
Oelivery Iechnism  and Phasing
Additional NWs is
Aropatoral Areass                            11        19       25
Cumulative MM's available:                   11        30       55        55        55       55        55       55        55
Nerds Assisted per Ml:             15
Iacraeetal Herds Assisteds                  165      285       375         0        0         0         0        0         0
Cmlative Herds Assisteds                    145       450      925       925       525      825       925      925       975
Adoptio  Rate:                     652
Incretal Heds Adopting:                     140      242       319         0
Cmlatie Herds Adptinng                      140      33        701       701      701       701       701      7C1       701
Incrstnul lenofit Streaom froes Agropastoral Sheep/oat Heors
(saSh '001)0
Accumuiation of Benefit Streaus            1996     1937      1998      1739      1990     L991      1992     1ii3      0i94
Year I Herds            140                1126     1932      :303      4700      2998     3095      :93        ;i      :270,
Ytar 2 Hercs            :12                         !944      3=9       4945     6013      5112         0     5!I,       j I3
Year I Herds            317                                   1565      4401     6336      '603      *3;3       )52     7:24
Total                   701
Total Incresental Eeimlits                 1:1      1577      8705    12146    14397    14985    ::7;    145351    16::
note: hi1  a!ts:atis :i Orafi t  a^o ::etr:::ats ;i:;lid 6.  3t2 'terinarn Tean.
vna r7Shra1iSt  .,it :..eV tflt -a; Plas=ois t; acnisve qis n trair ls;a'isnce.



Annex 1
Table 3
EINE    AOEuS CEVELi:NT PRO2E'. 1N49E I
hR416M   SWitEP/SOAT IOIEL tlO 1S AiiE SIZE 25h E;CN)
auhaa s               _      _  usuzuuu_     uaaas     u           sus sstaasuuuuuuusa#us#susuuaszuzsusta sstusuamuuuu
1985     1986      1587     19Ln      1289      1990     *991      1992     1993      1994
Opemig Stack.                          1730     1730      1750      1750     1750      :730      1750     1750      1730     1730
Birthi                     1194      1194     1194      1114      1194     1194      U194      1194     1194      1194
aths  (  ,r)                         534      51I       502       414      486       484       48       49       486       484
Closing Stocks                         1750      17V0     1730      150       150      1750      1750     1750      1730     1730
Total SuleulCms7utios                   6O        674      62        707      .'07      707       707      707       707      707
OffUke Rate (lAgv  Hrd 2561              261       21        n7%      291       291      291       291      291       291      281
Nhtlity 10-11                            231       2        201       19%       191      1mZ       191      191       191       19l
Incruutal saln  lshigts):                         14        32        49       48        49         8       48       48        48
Price of o   sheplgoat (SaSh):                   6172     t60        964     7290      7549      7780    7n7        916      9093
Incrasaatal Value Gfftake (SaSh):              ;3065   :,741   332114   347091   35i92a   370931   360362   43951   43U3041
Incr. hilk Prodn (litrs per htrd)                425       es0      1275     1275      :275      1275     175       1275     1275
Value of I litre silk (SOWU1 :                     70
Inc. Hilk Value (1 hard)lSoShls                .9750    59500    99250    69250    69250    89250    89250    19250    992!0
Inc. fllk Value (10 hardsaShb):             9N7500   595000    92500   992500   892500   892500   892500   892500   892500
Incresse i Ieight in Yoq Ang uls:
Price  f ttat of            151             14713    3144    49917    52064    53M           55640    57054    65543    64956
cot   dciaeenllln   ls
Per   rd ISOSh)                              354    17r4    3CS84    30884    5084          a0884    30894    30894    30994
Per 10 Hrds (SSb                            3!840 - 172340    08840   308990   308840   309940   308840   309840   309840
Not Incraaatal Bsetfits
10  aglmnds bards (StSh)                      374458   63895   965591   992814   997577  1010231  1021077  1096153  1081657
Delivery uachaniss and Phasing
Additimal MMi :                                    11        19       25
Cmlativ  ANI's available:                          11       '0        55        55        55       55        55       55        55
Ragelmd Hards Asisted /NAHAt             15
lncrementel Herds Asuisted:                       165      285       375         0        0         0         0        0         0
Cumlative Herds Asisted:                          145      450       325       525      825       925       925      825       925
Adoption Rate:                           85%
lncreatal Herds Adopting:                         .40      :42       S:9         0
Cwulative Heres Ado:tin:                          .40 ;s             70':  'G  JI       1%        701       701      701       701
;n: !*-ent&1 ' ar.O4it itrtam ;rcz taSi4vim ;hietigoat herds
Accuaulation of leretfit 2tratus                  i        ;-7       :H !      9 3      :9   1N1           192      1993      194
Year I Herds                   "0o               ':S:     i:4 9      Isa    :7!9    :7396    14,43    14425    15206    "1506
Ytar 2 Herds                  ::'                         :            :        67    4-534      14141    :44,8    :4710    :!283
Year 3 Hari                   ;:                                   :I'4      .11.3   :;8C2S    2          ::iS3    :22i4   ;25J7
':ta:                         '!
total 1ncreer.u1 31a6f;qi                        !:42    :;.;'     '15)    '!  3      -:"3      .9i;e              7`143    7'.03
uiae: 41: as::atis -* :nsef.ts *-: ::et'.l:i-s 3:4;l.a   :.  'aterttirlt T'am.



- 51- -zn
Annex I
Table 4
(f    el. Prim)                                       5SOHL
CuERA  RAKLII   KWLUMT PECT, PA   I
Iuwbautal Obiva  litS   trIi Arutuiu Fwun
Tow                              1         2         5         £         S                   7         8         9        1t
IUC    NtIL UWtTS
from One Aw astwsl fVrn:                     .365       2852    1315       21633    33912    31912    33912    31912    33912    31912
~~~~~~~~......... ..............._.__............ .... _...  .....................
Yea                              1936      I98       19$
fwurs Adootliw  too  Tr:                       is        36        6
Ina     tal lOtit str*us frog A0roeitorelus
00% IM)
1,36     1987      1988      1is9      it"       199       19        199       1994      19s
Yew   I F   tm                 Is       -6         U        237       379      Su         556      556       556       556        556
Tow 8 Ifwa                     36               -131        133      i7        757      111       1113      1113      1113       1113
TOW  9 fa4ws                   66                         -24         138      8        138S      234       236       2343      2646
Total fuws                    121
total trbftal Bestit  fru
Ag     tw.n al  Intwrentieaw                   -65       -79       16       16S       2182      3357      379       379       37        376
neet                  *.......          ..........       ............... __  e..... .e.e nfne.en.ee.e..._._
l.



52                                        Anex I
Tabe 5
3G"ALIA
Central Rangelands DOvelopsent Project, Pasu I
SHEEP AND GOATS : Export Parity Price Calculation
.ia8       1995        :000
CIF Saudi Arabia/Yemen  (US$/Head)  3/                    42          is          56
Freight/Feed WUS$i/ead)                                    6           S           i
FOB Berbera (US$/Head)                                    36
FOB Berbera ISS/Head) 1121855 203 r USS 1.00)           7309       10633       10177
Internal Transpo,t  41
(Robys to arberal                                    450        450         450
Marketing  uargin/Nortality                  lOZ         696        1Q18         973
Liveweight in Range            (SS per head)            6172        q165        8755
NOTES:
1J Offical uichang. rate SS per US Dollar:               100
2/ Shadow ezchange rate SS per US Dollar:                203
31 Projected using smae rate of increase as Xorld Bank projections for beef,
froe guidelines of January 27, 1998.
4/ Burao-Berbe'ra          (per sheep/goat) SS           100
Galcaio-Burao           (per shenp/goat) SS            ^0-
Hobyo-Galcaio           (per shuepigoat) SS           150
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ --   -   ---                               ---  -      _.......  ..     .   



-53-
Annex 1
Table 6
SuMALIA
Cantral Rangelands Dhvelapsent Pro.ect, Phase I
Export Parity Price:       MILK
1969       1995       2000
Skis hilk Powder           USC/ton (1985 ccnst)         784         33S        465
FOB Europe                 US1lton (1998 const)        1100       1172         652
Coconut Oil                US9/ton (1995 const)         390         589 9'0
CIF Rotterdas              LSI/tan (1986 ccnst)         547        826         744
Freight and  nsurance                                    27         31          32
Milk FOB Mogadishu         US/1ton (1988 const)        1127        1203        684
SS/ton (1998 const)       228771     244Z109     138932
Gil FOB Mogadisnu          USC/tan (1989 const)         574        857         776
SS/ton (1988 const)       116557     174046      157445
Port Handling              SS/ton (1988 const)         2720       2720        2120
Milk Powder In Factory    SS/ton (1989 coast)        231491     246929      141652
Oil in Factory             SS/ton (1968 const)       119277     176746      160165
SHP per litre milk                            92
Oil per litre siik                          3.52
Processing Costs/litre 'JSS                0.15
Peconst. "ilk in Nog       SS/kg (1989 const)            55          :9         49
Transport Central Range   SS/kg (1988 const)            6.-2.       6.2        8.2
(600 kn)  1/
;resiua  o'r CWeis "iik                      1I%
F.r!gata Va;t                                            71           5         63
:    -nn;rt it                 ,IiS _;;'; "ItCz., k;
___________________-  -  -  ---  -  --   - _ _ _ -  -_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ---  -________________---     - -- ---



-54-                                        Annex 1
Table 7
SONALIA
Central Ranglands Deelopeent Project - PhaM  I
Export Parity Price:       SCRum
1998       1995        2000
FDS Gulf Parts             US1/ton (1987 const)           *3          i9          92
US$/tan (1999 const)          S2          95          ;9
Frdight and Insurance                                     27          31          32
CIF Attica Destination                                    89         126         131
Freight and insurance troa No3adishu                      24         '23          28
FOS Mogadishu              US5/tan (1988 const)           65         S9          103
SS/ton (1988 coast)        13243       19995       20851
Port Handling                                           2720        2720        2720
Transport Fare - Store                                  1200        1200        1200
Fareqate Value                                          9323       14075       16931
.I SS to the US Dollar (Shadov)                          203         203         203



55                                        Amnex I
Table 8
SCSt
CENTRI. MUEELMID  DEVEL0PWIT PROJECT, PtSE I
Calculatior of Ecmkoic Costs aad kotfits
(Sash 000)
1910     1981     12        1983      1984     1985      1986     1987      1998     1995      1990     191       199X
ECaItC IEI TISt
f4ropstoral Firmn                                                                      -5        -79      100      1040     2182      3057      3057
Alrupastoral Hws                                                                       Wh21     3897     870G    12141    14397    14895    15373
Pastoral  iNrd%                                                                       5242    19351    41530    59305    18553    b963        705bS
Mtor Rulatu  kot its                                                        20249    30378    5029    712    78473    78475    18475    71475
Total smits                                                                 202      381    72783          748   14991    1307   116053   117470
ECWOIC PRECT COSTS    134800   215400   401100   b72000   680300   444700   371900   359200   179100    72200    72200    72200    72200
PET lEIItT STREN          -134800  -215400  -401100  -672000  -68030*  424451  -335219  -281417   -54352   M7771           91407    9385      "27C
Ecomeic Rti  of keturn         -U1



56                                       Annex I
Table 9
*iC.NALIA
CENtRlA  RANDDS rDEEO T PRMIJECT  FME;.E
Ecosic Casts nd Bnef its - 6nsit1xvt 43a1vs:s
1960     19U       1982     1M        1964      1983     IM6       1967    L1a9    :1989        1990     1991      1'
]IC IIWITS:
ropostpl Fares                                     -65      -79       100     1040      2182      3057     30:7      3057     30:7      3057      ;
Opstrtal Hfrda                                     1126     3877      9706    :214U6    14391    14985    153T       15841    16252    1414    16I
itural lirds                                      5242    1955       41530     8305    68553    69636    7"  .    72143    74063    76139    761
tor Ralatd ghnefits                     20249    30s7      50629    73412    78475    76475    79475    76475    78475    78475    7475    794
tat ul  f its                           20249    3681   M7 3   123743   149966   163607   16A053   167470   169536   171947   174145   1741
'NIIC PROJECt COSTS          13400   265400   40110062000   680300   4440    371900   359200   179100    72200    72200    72200    72
!NIT STREAN               -134800  -245151  -U4419  -599217  -556552  -294734  -209293  -193147   -106             9736    99"647   101945   101I
naic Rate of Retr             -4.11



Annex 2
Page 1
World Food            Barnaamijka
Programme    Cuntada Add_unka
*  lw Hl Aid OrpfnizatZtNm ot thI ttLntt.d Natitwio Svstern
WP/SOK1/463189                          Mogadishu  15 April 1989
PRO 40/719/I1
Dear Mr. Donaldson,
VIP Assistance CRDP under San 719/II
I would like to thank you for your letter dated March 15, 1989
and its attachment. I found the reports on CRDP, comprehensive,
informative and quite useful.
I agse with the assessment of the project and would wish to
underscore the need to emphasise a number of obstacles and conetraints
that CRDP had faced or is stUll facing. It is felt that the removal of
these constraints is a necessary and sufficient condition to render WFP
iuput adequately effective.
WIP has been assisting the rangeland development and afforestation
i Smalia since 1974 under project 719 and expinsion; project no. 719
Is inplemented by the National Range Agency, NRA. The central rangelands
development project has been operating under the NRA and receiving its
food entitlement from it. VFP inputs to the CRDP started in 1979 and is
continuing under project SOM 719/II.  Since its inception, an average of
1500 CRDP workers have been receiving VFP food basket as part payment of
wages.  The WFP food basket is worth, at least, So.Sh. 7500 at today's
market price.
In view of the high value of the food ration, labour turn out has
been good and workers' commitment to the project reasonable. Although
project's activities have been proceeding fairly good, the following
observations need to be put on record:
i)      The targets stipulated in thd work plan were too ambitious.
ii)     Project's activities are scattered over small units,
consequently the labour force bah been employed with
flexibility. This has rendered monitoring and assessment
difficult.
f ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. I..
Mr. Graham Donaldson
Division Chief
Agriculture, Infrastructure & Human ".esources
Operation Evaluation Department
World Bank
Mogadishu
PO. Box 24
M-Og8aShu
Small*
telw0one: S*1S
Telex: U5*1 00



-5S8 -                     Annex 2
Page 2
iii)    The project does not hav, any *pecific work norms or records
on labour productivity and global achievemnts.
The cash component of the wage. and benefits to the workers are so
low that only women, old men and children accepted to work-
for the project..
Paymunt of the salary is done with irregularity and repeated
delays. This has negatively affected labour productivity and
workers' moral.
In some areas, shortage of tools and equipment hamper  productivity.
Community participation is lacking and dependency of the workers
on food, as wage payment, is increasing.
No provision has been made for sustainability and transfer
of the amenities created to the local population.
In order to enhance ichievement and improve performance, the project
needs to take the following action:
Establishaent of works norms to monitor activities and labour
productivity.
-      Establishment of recoras on achievements.
-      Increase the cash component of wages to attract and stabilize
valid male labour force.
-      Endeavour to pay salaries as regularly as possible.
-      Demotion of food as part payment of wages In favour of food
as an Incentive for community works.
-      Promotion of community participation with a view to taking
an active part in the control and maintenance of resources
created.
Yours     arely,
A. Ret ch 
Director of Operations, a.i.



- 59 -
SOMALIA
CENTRAL RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Projet Compltion Re ort
Districts vithin CDP
ETHIOPIA'  
.~~~~~~~o                                     I OCIEAN
£~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-K-~4k
. ~ ~    ~    ~     E E\ WBEl / \
0  o
_MA-                                           -- N,g D mW'
~~~~~~~~~~~~~-oiiist Usu Owd(hp.
S~~~_t-/.. .......-z _



- 60 -
SOMALIA
CEIUTRAL RANGELANDS DEVELOPhENT PROJECT
Project Casplecton Report
Land Capability and Potentlal for Developunta
ETHioPIA|
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w :@.                :a i~U tn. W~mf-.t
z~~~~~~ -                               -    o  - 
~~~~~~~~-                        .- ,.  *
. _,, N P_t z X ......................         -...  em  a .m... -     ,, .t-Fet,,,_~tsf t n"t*
/~~~~~~~~~ M.  -                       -   0 _m_-
M   m /    :m o Sm.....:* _"_.-
......~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m - m..M d. im i
. /~~~~~~~~~~~~m @   -. . -1a-
o   e.  - m. .  -    
O  n   .   -  .  *  -   eq    a 



