Document of
The World Bank                    -
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2163-SO
SOMALIA
CENTRAL RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
April 17, 1979
Eastern Africa Region
Northern Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                =   Somali Shillings (So.Sh.) = 100 cents
US$0.1589                    =   So.Sh. 1.00
US$1.00                      =   So.Sh. 6.295
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
2
I hectare (ha)        2      =   10,000 m 2
1 square kilometer (km )    =   100 ha
1 metric ton (mt)           =   1,000 kg
ABBREVIATIONS
CRDP    -  Central Rangelands Development Project
DAP     -  Department of Animal P:coduction
FAO     -  Food and Agriculture Organization
GLU     -  Grazing Livestock Unit
ICB     -  International Competitive Bidding
IDA     -  International Development Association, World Bank
IFAD    -  International Fund for Agricultural Development
ILCA    -  International Livestock Center for Africa
LDA     -  Livestock Development Agency
LU      -  Livestock Unit
MLFR    -  Ministry of Livestock, Forestry and Range
MOA     -  Ministry of Agriculture
MOE     -  Ministry of Education
MMWR    -  Ministry of Mineral and Water Resources
NRA     -  National Range Agency
NRDP    -  Northern Rangelands Development Project
ODM     -  Overseas Development Ministry, U.K.
PPF     -  Project Preparation Facility
RMEA    -  Regional Mission for East Africa, World Bank
UNDP    -  United Nations Development Program
USAID   -  United States Agency for International Development
WDA     -  Water Development Agency
WFP     -  World Food Program
GOVERNMENT OF SOMALIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SOMALIA
CENTRAL RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   BACKGROUND  ..................................................                                1
II.   THE TRADITIONAL LIVESTOCK  SUB-SECTOR  ........................                               2
A.   Resource Base  ...........................................                               2
B.   Related Government  Institutions  .........................                             4
C.   Education  and Training  ..................................                             5
D.   Range Development  Projects  ..............................                             6
E.   Grazing  Cooperatives  and Grazing Associations  ....                       .......     6
F.   Ongoing Bank Group Assistance  ...........................                              7
III.   THE  PROJECT AREA  ............................................                                8
A.   Description  .............................................                              8
B. Resource Utilization .10
C.   Infrastructure .......................                                                 ....................    11
D.   Assistance Beyond  the Project Area  .....                       .................    12
IV.   THE PROJECT  ................................................                                13
A.   Project Design  .          .........................................    13
B. Project Costs ............................................  21
C.   Financing  ...............................................                             23
D. Procurement ..............................................  25
E.   Disbursement  . ...........................................    26
F.   Accounts, Audit and Reporting  ......                      .....................    28
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  .........                     ........................    28
A.   The National Range Agency  .                   ..............................    29
B. Formal Training ..........................................  31
C.  Veterinary  Services .....................................    31
D. Regulation of Grazing Reserves .32
E. Annual Work Program .32
F. Technical Assistance Staff .32
G. Construction .34
This report is based on the findings of a mission which visited
Somalia in February-March, 1978, comprising P.A. Sihm, E. Goetz
(IDA), D. Wilcox, E. Hall, J. Moller (Consultants).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)                                             Page No.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES, COST RECOVERY
AND GOVERNMENT CASH FLOW .     ..........................          35
A.  Production            .........................    35
B.- Markets and Prices          .....................    37
C.  Income of Pastoralists .............. ..      .................    38
D.  Cost Recovery and Government Cash Flow ........ .........   38
VII.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ................................          39
A.  Quantifiable Benefits ............... ..      .................   39
B.  Economic Rate of Return ................................        39
C.  Risks and Sensitivity Analysis .......... .. .............    40
D.  Non-quantifiable Benefits ............. ..      ...............   41
E.  Beneficiaries      ..................... .....................    41
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED ...........................                       42
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1      Chart 1    Project Implementation Schedule .......   45
Table 1    Schedule of Disbursement ....      ..........   46
Chart 2    Schedule of Construction ....      ..........   47
Chart 3    Employment of Internationally
Recruited Staff ......     .................    48
ANNEX 2      Chart 1    National Range Agency -
Organization Chart..   49
Chart 2    National Range Agency -
Headquarters Organization Chart .50
ANNEX 3     A.  Selected Documents and Data Available
in the Project File ......      ....................   51
B. Table of Contents of the Implementation
Volume ........      ...............................    52
MAPS
I13RD No. 14175  -  Somalia - Central Rangelands Development Project    53
I13RD No. 13868  -  Somalia - Central Rangelands Development Project:   55
Project Installations



S OMALIA
CENTRAL RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
1.01      Somalia is located between latitudes 11 030' N and 1 030' N and
covers an area of over 637,000 square kilometers. Its surface forms part of
two plateaux sloping from the Ethiopian highlands, towards the Indian Ocean
in the East, and the Gulf of Aden in the North. Climatically, the country
divides into: (i) a Northwest zone with a Mediterranean climate and an annual
precipitation of above 400 mm in certain areas; (ii) a Northern and a Central
zone with an arid and hot climate and annual precipitation between 50 and 200
mm; and (iii) a Southern zone with a more humid climate and an annual precipi-
tation of up to 600 mm. Two rainy seasons prevail over much of the country,
the long or "Gu" rains (March-April to June) and the short or "Der" rains
(September-October to December). Rainfall is erratic with respect both to
distribution and to timing and a total failure of two or more consecutive
rains may be expected in one out of five years. Most of Somalia is conse-
quently classified as arid to semi-arid.
1.02      The population of Somalia is estimated at 3.7 million of which
0.5 million live in major towns. About two-thirds (2.5 million), are
pastoralists. The annual human population growth rate is estimated at 2.6%.
1.03      With a per capita GNP of US$110, Somalia is one of the poorest
countries in Africa. On a 3 years average 1975-77, total annual exports were
valued at about US$80 million. Exports of livestock and animal products
provided 75-80% of total foreign exchange earnings, the remainder coming
mostly from exports of bananas. Banana production and exports have been
declining over the last 10 years whereas livestock exports have increased.
Somalia's imports are dominated by investment goods and other essentials
such as cereals, petroleum and chemical products.
1.04      About 8.2 million ha, or 13% of the land area of Somalia is con-
sidered potentially suitable for crop production. Presently, only around
700,000 ha, or 1.1% of the total area, is cultivated.  Thirty million ha or
45% is natural rangeland suitable only for extensive livestock production.



-2-
II. THE TRADITIONAL LIVESTOCK SUB-SECTOR
A. Resource Base
Rangelands
2.01      Nearly half of the total area of the country is made up of range-
lands receiving 50-200 mm of erratic annual rainfall and is described as semi-
desert and wooded or bush grassland. It takes an average of 12 ha to produce
sufficient forage for one head of cattle or 10 sheep.
2.02      The only possible productive use of these rangelands is to graze
livestock. The Somali pastoralists have developed a system of production
which minimizes the effects of drought and disease and achieves the best
possible grazing by prudent dispersal of their herds. When conditions are
favorable, uncontrolled breeding is practiced to build up herd and flock
numbers as an insurance against losses in the next drought. In the past
movements often led to disputes over grazing land, seizure of livestock and
tribal warfare which confined the pastoralists to defensible areas, and
limited the size of the herd. The improvement in law and order enforcement
has removed this constraint, and long migrations have become common. With
grazing being communal, no incentive exists to manage the feed resource
and the increase in human and livestock numbers, as a result of advances in
disease control now threatens to disrupt production.
2(.03     Without the introduction of management of the rangeland and live-
s:ock, the forage resource would deteriorate and livestock numbers would
decrease so that a lower output of meat and milk would have to be shared by
an increasing population.  Over the last decades, many interventions to
improve the production system have been tried and most of them have failed
because they were imposed without proper understanding of the key determinants
of production and the cooperation of the pastoralists. Similarly, well
intentioned plans to settle pastoralists in order that they may enjoy the
benefit of social services have ignored these basic issues. The improvement
of the living conditions of the pastoral population and the maintenance of a
viable livestock industry depend on the organized utilization of the range-
lands, the country's largest natural resource. Flexibility and mobility are
pre-requisites to the utilization of areas with low and erratic rainfall and
droughts one year in every five. Introduction of range management followed by
a gradual allocation of grazing areas to pastoral communities within regions
or, where feasible, within districts, would eventually reduce the migration
distances and allow a measure of settlement.
Livestock
2.04      No reliable census of the national livestock population exists, but
estimates based on the 1975 census indicate that at the peak of the dry
season, 15 million sheep and goats, 2.5 million cattle and the same number of
camels are found in Somalia.



2.05      Sheep and goats are by far the most important animals numerically
and as a tradeable commodity. Camels, although traded and important as a
means of transporting loads, have a special significance by virtue of milk
production and their ability to survive without water for long periods. They
act as a store of wealth in an inflationary situation with limited investment
possibilities.   A man's prestige and influence is proportionate to the number
of camels he owns. The relative importance of each animal type in exports is
indicated below.
Average Annual Live Animal Exports
(1966-1976)
Type of       Number             Value            % of Total           % of Total
Animal      ('000 head)      (US$ million)        by Number             by Value
Sheep           715             11.0                  52                    40
Goats           581              9.3                  43                    33
Cattle           43              3.7                   3                    13
Camels           27              3.8                   2                    14
1,366             27.8                 100                   100
Source: Statistical Abstracts (unpublished), State Planning Commission.
Forestry
2.06      Trees play an important role in the economy of the rangeland
production ecosystem, where they provide fuel, forage and shade and serve
as wind breaks reducing wind erosion. Timber is produced only in limited
quantities. Somalia is the traditional supplier of frankincense and myrrh,
for which present overseas demand exceeds supply.
2.07      Sand dune formation caused by overgrazing, shifting cultivation
and subsequent wind erosion of light sandy soils has become a severe problem
in the coastal areas. Experimental sand dune stabilization has been carried
out by the Forestry Department of the National Range Agency (NRA) under a food
for work program assisted by the World Food Program (WFP).
2.08      Charcoal production and scavenging for fuel together with the graz-
ing of the town herd have denuded large areas surrounding towns and villages
and have laid them open to erosion. Dust is blown into the towns and creates
a health hazard and run off unimpeded by vegetation causes flooding. The
Forestry Department has established nurseries and carried out the first wood-
lot plantings assisted by the WFP.



B. Related Government Institutions
2.09      The highest level of decision making is the Central Committee of
the Somali Socialist Revolutionary Party. Decisions on rangeland development
are made by vote of the committee or by presidential decree following consul-
tation with the Agricultural and Livestock Committee, the Office of the Party
Chairman for Cooperatives and the Water Resources Development Committee. The
Minister of Livestock, Forestry and Range reports to the Central Committee.
He is also a member of each of the above groups which meet 3-4 times a year to
make policy decisions. He interprets policy and makes operational decisions
and is supervised by a designated party representative. The Ministry of
L:Lvestock, Forestry and Range (MLFR) comprises: (i) the NRA; (ii) the Live-
stock Development Agency (LDA); (iii) the Veterinary Service; (iv) the Depart-
ment of Animal Production; and (v) the Institute of Animal Science.
2.10      The National Range Agency (NRA) was established in 1976, as an
autonomous agency to design and implement a national range development
strategy.  NRA is authorized to:  (i) plan national range development;
(ii) establish grazing and drought reserves; (iii) develop fodder production
units; (iv) carry out planned stockwater development; (v) promote organiza-
tions for guiding and educating livestock owners; and (vi) map the rangelands
and classify rangeland areas. The transfer of the Forestry Department to
the NRA in 1977 further made the agency responsible for: (i) creation of
forest reserves; (ii) control of usage of disappearing plant species; and
(iii) experimentation with forage or other plant species to achieve more
efficient utilization. In 1978 the NRA had a budget of So.Sh. 14 million
for activities other than those related to the Northern Rangelands Develop-
ment Project (NRDP) (para. 2.22), which is financed by a loan from the
'Kuwait Fund. The agency at present employs 300 permanent staff.
2.11      The Livestock Development Agency (LDA) was established in 1966 and
is currently responsible for livestock marketing and exports as well as the
collection of relevant fees. A National Livestock Marketing Project is being
prepared for which Government intends to seek IDA financing.
2.12      The Department of Veterinary Services headed by the Director of
Veterinary Services has a staff of 2,500 consisting of 50 graduates, 1,000
diploma - and certificate level technicians and 1,400 vaccinators and junior
staff. An internationally recruited technical director is financed under
th!e NRDP. A UNDP supported Serum and Vaccine Institute produces vaccines
against Blackquarter, Bovine Pleuropneumonia, Anthrax, Haemorrhagic Sep-
ticaemia, Rinderpest and Newcastle Disease.  A central diagnostic laboratory
is being established as part of the Institute.
2.13      The Department of Animal Production (DAP) is responsible for animal
production projects, state farms and extension services related to modern
animal production (dairy, feed lots and poultry), whereas field extension
services for traditional livestock producers are the responsibility of the
NRA with technical support and supervision from the DAP.



2.14      The Water Development Agency (WDA) is an autonomous agency under the
Ministry of Mineral and Water Resources (MMWR) responsible for research and
development of the national water resource. It has three functional depart-
ments for: (i) Drilling; (ii) Engineering; and (iii) Administration. The
MMWR is responsible for all water development subject to policy decisions by
the National Water Board which consists of the Ministers of MMWR, MLFR and
Local Government and Rural Development, as well as the General Managers of
WDA and NRA.
2.15      A comprehensive groundwater development project with technical and
financial assistance from USAID is to start implementation at the same time
as the Project. This would enable WDA to develop and construct water
supplies for NRA.
C. Education and Training
2.16      At present training in range management takes place at Burao Range
Training School which carries out a two-year training course for range assis-
tants. Government proposes to establish a Range Management Department at the
Faculty of Agriculture, Somali University, as well as diploma level training
of range technicians at the Livestock and Forestry School being constructed
under the Third Education Project.
2.17      A Veterinary Faculty at the National i,riiversity of Somalia was
opened in 1973, and offers a 5-year course in Veterinary Science. It takes
in 30 undergraduates each year and the first class graduated in 1978. From
1979, a course in Animal Production will be introduced in the form of a
two-year option during the last two years of the veterinary course.
2.18      The Institute of Animal Science which is part of the MLFR at pre-
sent carries out all training in animal health and production at the technical
level. With the start of the Livestock and Range School (para. 2.19) it would
revert to training of animal health assistants and laboratory technicians.
2.19      The AgriculturaL Secondary School at Afgoi has 240 places for agri-
cultural technicians. Government has decided to combine it with the Livestock
and Foresty School 1/ (para. 2.16) which would have 360 places and to estab-
lish a training complex for technician level training in agriculture, animal
production, range and forestry.
2.20      The National Adult Education Center is located in Muqdisho and has
been operating for several years with assistance from the Federal Republic
of Germany. The center is managed by a Somali Director assisted by one
German technician/educator. The purpose of the center is to support all
non-formal training in Somalia.
1/   In the following called:  Livestock and Range School.



D. Range Development Projects
2.21      Range development activities were started in 1967 with assistance
from the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) culminating in 1974 with
the UNDP/FAO Rangeland Conservation and Development Project which has had as
iis objectives: to establish a range management service; to experiment with
soil and water conservation and forage production; and to investigate means
of increasing livestock productivity and off-take. The project was pre-
maturely terminated in 1976 due to the UNDP financial crisis, but its
findings influenced the design of the NRDP as well as the proposed Project
considerably.
2.22      The Northern Rangelands Development Project was identified, prepared
and appraised in 1976 by IDA as part of the Drought Rehabilitation Emergency
Program and was subsequently financed by the Kuwait Fund.  Implementation
started in January 1977. The project area comprises the 140,000 km of the
three regions of Tugdeer, Nugal and Sanaag in northern Somalia. The project
objectives are to arrest the deterioration of the rangelands. It is designed
to establish grazing and famine reserves and fodder production units based on
water spreading and water harvesting and to carry out stockwater development.
It will further initiate non-formal education at all levels in order to create
a dialogue with the pastoralists, and expand the Range Training School at
Blurao and veterinary services in the project area.
2.23      NRDP's implementation has suffered from the premature termination of
the UNDP/FAO project as well as from a considerable delay in the recruitment
of international staff. The Somali project staff has endeavored to break
these constraints and has succeeded in some training of staff and in estab-
lishing an effective dialogue with the pastoralists.
2.24      The NRA is executing the World Food Program (WFP) Project (SOM 719)
which supports reforestation and rangeland development activities through the
provision of food for work rations to laborers employed. A three year exten-
sion and expansion of the project (1979-81) comprising US$19 million worth of
commodities was approved by the WFP in November 1978.
E. Grazing Cooperatives and Grazing Associations
2.25      Formation of grazing cooperatives in Northern Somalia began in
1974, under the sponsorship of the MLFR. In 1976, responsibility for super-
vision of rangeland cooperatives was transferred to the NRA and as of
January 1978, 12 had been approved and were in various stages of establish-
ment and 12 additional applications were under consideration. The majority
of the established cooperatives are in Sanaag Region where grazing normally
only requires short migrations. The average membership of each cooperative
is 70 and the average land allocation is 16,000 ha of which a maximum of 10%
may be cultivated. Emphasis is put on soil and water conservation and forage
production under water spreading or water harvesting. The Range Law of 1979
provides for the legal aspects of the grazing cooperative (para. 5.04).



2.26      Government at present prefers grazing cooperatives to alternative
types of land tenure reform. Any type of reform in the pastoral areas,
however, faces similar problems of achieving equity in land adjudication
while maintaining the flexibility and mobility demanded by climatic condi-
tions. In Northern Somalia, an average of 230 ha of grazing land is avail-
able per family. Eight out of the 12 existing cooperatives have access to
more than 300 ha per family and the range is generally of higher than
average carrying capacity. Furthermore, a cooperative retains the tradi-
tional right to graze common land in a drought emergency. Thus, a general
program of rangeland enclosure by cooperatives on such favorable terms would
soon have adverse effects on the livelihood of non-members and, eventually,
would exclude large numbers of pastoralists from access to grazing.
2.27      The concept of the grazing association as a representative body of
the pastoralists grazing a particular area has been gradually developed in
Somalia over the past 30 years. The association fits well into the system
of village and district councils and allows for the representation of seasonal
graziers from outside the district. Since members of an association are
elders who enjoy the respect of their community they play an important part
in the dialogue with the local administration.
2.28      Before the 1973 drought, about 17 associations had been established
and there are now 34. The members of the association are elected by their
respective communities and are responsible for: (i) mediating between the
authorities and the graziers; (ii) helping with the demarcation of grazing
reserves; and (iii) ensuring that grazing regulations, once accepted, are
respected.
2.29      It is intended that the associations, as a result of the non-formal
training program would be able to guard their range reserves under the con-
tinued supervision of the NRA district range assistants. Over a period of
20 - 30 years a certain number of reserves would be allocated to groups of
grazing associations, whenever possible, in their own districts. In this
manner, migrations would be shortened and a more sedentary way of life would
become possible.
F. Ongoing Bank Group Assistance
2.30      Bank Group assistance to the agricultural sector in Somalia started
with the Trans-Juba Livestock Project (IDA Credit 462-SO) in FY74 followed
by two credits in FY76: the Drought Rehabilitation Project (IDA Credit
623-SO) and the Northwest Region Agricultural Development Project (IDA Credit
635-SO). The latter project has been delayed because of the security situa-
tion in North-West Somalia. The Drought Rehabilitation Project is slowly
being implemented. In the Trans-Juba Livestock Project stock routes and ranch
development have made good progress but borehole drilling is behind schedule.
An Agricultural Extension and Farm Management Training Project has been
negotiated and a Bay Region Agricultural Development Project has been appraised.



-8-
The Government has requested Bank assistance for the preparation of a Live-
stock Marketing Project which would be an important backup activity for the
Trans-Juba Livestock Project, the NRDP, as well as for the proposed Project.
2.31      Experience with ongoing projects reflects the overall absorptive
capacity and the scarcity of trained manpower which are creating implemen-
tation constraints. In order to overcome these constraints the proposed
Project includes a large contingent of internationally recruited technical
assistance staff of whom three would be technically responsible for the
day-to-day running of key departments in the NRA. Government has further
requested Bank assistance for the establishment of a Project Implementation
Unit in the State Planning Commission.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Description
Location and Size
3.01      The project area is located between latitudes 30 10'N and 7 040'N
and is bordered to the East by the Indian Ocean a9d to the West by the de
facto border with Ethiopia. It covers 149,000 km and comprises the three
administrative regions of Hiiran, Galgudud and Mudug.  The seats of local
government are in the regional capitals of Beletwein, Dusa Mahreb and Galkayo.
3.02      According to the 1975 (unpublished) census, the total human popu-
lat-ion in the project area was 543,700 of whom 75%, (400,000), are believed
to be directly involved in livestock production. The livestock population
is estimated at 1.2 million sheep, 3.9 million goats, 0.9 million cattle, and
1 million camels. Seasonal fluctuations in numbers preclude accurate esti-
mates. Moreover, large numbers enter the Project area during the dry season
from the Ogaden, but no distinction is possible as owners are Somali and
often relatives of the inhabitants. Most people in towns and villages keep
livestock either in adjoining rangeland or on a transhumant basis. The
average number of livestock per person is estimated at 1.9 camels; 1.7 cattle;
2.3 sheep and 8.0 goats. 1/
Vegetation and Soils
3.03      The only natural resources in the area are the range vegetation and
the population of game, mostly antelopes and gazelles. The vegetation varies
according to topography and rainfall which ranges from about 100 mm in the
extreme north to about 250 mm in the south near Bulo Burti. In Galgudud and
Mudug regions, the soils are mostly sand over limestone at variable depths.
In Hiiran, the soils while being mostly sandy are also influenced by the
Shebelli River floodplain in the extreme south.
1/   Survey of Average Herd Size (Mudug, 1971).



-9-
Rangeland Systems
3.04      The vast Haud plain extends into, and occupies about one-fifth of,
the Project area in a broad band some 50 to 100 km wide. The carrying capa-
city ranges from 7 to 20 ha per Livestock Unit (LU) 1/. It constitutes,
together with the Hobyo plains (para. 3.07), the best grazing country in the
Project area.
3.05      The southern part of the Hiiran region is characterized by an
extensive belt of low undulating hills. Limestone uplands with a relief
of up to 200-150 meters carry a rich shrub and tree cover over relatively
sparse grasses. The carrying capacity is estimated at 8 ha per LU.
3.06      In the extreme south of the Project area, the Shebelli River has
deposited an extensive floodplain, characterized by deep, greybrown clays.
The area is severely overused and erosion by wind and water is prevalent but
observations of an enclosed area at Far Libaax indicate that it would be
possible for it to recover if brought under controlled grazing.
3.07      The Hobyo plains extend as a 15-20 km wide band along the coast
separated from the Haud by elevated plains of orange sands on limestone.
Soils are greyish, very coarse sands over limestone and the limestone outcrops
infrequently in low ridges. The grass component is rich and, even where
heavily grazed, the grass cover does not appear to have altered floristically.
Moving sand dunes are a potential hazard to stability and serve as an indica-
tion of the effect which severe overuse may cause in this environment. Carry-
ing capacity is estimated to be from 8 to 12 ha per LU.
3.08      The central part of the Project area, comprising somewhat less than
half of the total, is a vast tract of orange and pink toned sands overlying
limestone at variable depth. It rises in a series of benches from the Hobyo
plains and finally merges with the Haud in the west. Ridges up to 50 m high
are common, with valleys up to 5 km across to the next bench system. Shallow
sands over limestone occur freely. In many instances, the shrub height does
not exceed 1 m and the foliar cover is less than 5 percent but where the soil
is deeper it supports a much denser grass cover. A carrying capacity of 15 ha
per LU serves as an indication of an average of good and poor areas.
3.09      The gypseous areas are characterized by clay soils interspersed with
slightly higher stony areas and appear to be the remnants of a much larger and
more active drainage system of the past. Calcareous deposits resulting from
the reduced drainage are frequent and some rise to about 20 m above the sur-
face. Near Galkayo, Dusa Mahreb and Ceel Bur, the gypseous tracts are only
a few kilometers wide and meander through other vegetation types. The
gypseous areas have a high potential for sheep, goats and camels due to their
1/   Carrying capacities are expressed in the number of ha which would carry
1 Livestock Unit (LU). A mature cow or steer weighing 250 kg is taken
as 1 LU. A camel is 1.2 and a sheep/goat is 0.1 LU.



- 10 -
easily accessible water supplies. They are overgrazed but have the capacity
to recover. In good condition their carrying capacity would be in the vicin-
ity of 6 ha per LU or better.
Hydra geology
3.10      The geology of the Central Rangelands area is a simple country rock
environment containing two separate alluvial systems.  The alluvials have a
maxirLum thickness of from 100 to 150 m and consist of surficial gypsum and
calcretes overlying clays, clayey sands and clean, coarse, rounded sands.
Downstream from the main fault system, the area is covered with drift sands,
dunes and deep red soils. There are two aquifer systems: an aquifer in the
deeper sandstones, limestones and marls; and a shallow aquifer in the
alluvials, the shallow gypsum beds and calcretes marginal to the drainage
lines. The deeper or lower aquifer occurs from 150 to 200 m in the elevated
inland regions and from 100 m in the lower central and coastal areas. It
probably recharges in the Ogaden and underflows east towards the Indian Ocean.
Throughout the area, all waters drawn from selected sites should be suitable
for stock, and boreholes, with minor local adjustments, should produce good
water, although the shallower ones may be high in sulphates.
B. Resource Utilization
3.11      The current rangeland utilization in the area involves a more or
less continuous use of the rangeland for as long as water supplies remain
available in the area. There are no accepted stocking rates and no agreed
maximum stock number for any part of the Project area. Due to the increasing
livestock population and shortage of stockwater points, pastoralists are
compelled to compete with one another for the available forage with little
regard to the needs of the vegetation for rest. It is not surprising there-
fore that areas around existing water points are severely overgrazed and there
is no reservation of standing pasture to meet their needs during the recurrent
droughts.
Social Organization
3.12      The primary social unit is a family household comprising typically a
mother, her children, and, when he is free of other commitments, the father.
This group shares its meals together and shelters in small huts made of
flexible poles and mats. The next significant social unit is the kinship
group living and travelling together. The pastoralists in the Project area
belong to several lineage groups which until recently, determined social and
contractual relationships. Quite apart from increasing government influence,
the need for constant movement of nomads among dwindling grazing resources
is seriously challenging traditional affiliations, and it is becoming less
relevant to view pastoralist behavior entirely in the framework of culture.



- 11 -
Seasonal Migration
3.13      Somali pastoralists are predominantly transhumant in that they move
from their home village, after the dry season, in search of water and grazing.
Movement in the Project area is mainly on an eastwest axis and ranges from
coastal areas to as far west as the Haud and parts of the neighboring Ogaden.
Pastoralists using the eastern part of the Haud migrate eastwards into the
central tracts of Mudug and Galgudud regions in the rainy seasons and return
westwards to the Haud in the dry season. Pastoralists who normally rely on
coastal water points during the dry season, usually range westwards into the
same central tracts in the rainy season. Thus, the existence of these pre-
sently waterless central tracts plays an important role in shaping migratory
movements.
3.14      With fresh green browse, camels can go for 6 - 8 weeks without water.
Their herders - young unmarried men and older boys - subsist on camels' milk
and require little or no water. Goats, sheep and especially cattle survive
less successfully without water, and their movements tend to be more limited.
The dependence of animals on water increases in the short dry season (August -
October), and reaches critical importance in the long dry season (December -
April).  Movement is therefore restricted by the scarcity of wells since
cattle and sheep are usually grazed within 5 km of a dry season water point
whereas goats and milking camels may be herded together up to 20 km away.
The dry camels plus a small number of milking camels may be grazed 70 km or
more away.
C. Infrastructure
Communications
3.15      A new 1,045 km bitumen road (Burao - Beletwein) connects the regional
capitals and provides easy access to Northern Somalia. Beletwein is similarly
connected with Muqdisho by hard surface road. Access to district capitals is
by tracks or cut lines. During the rains, parts become impassable through
flooding and mud and during the dry season parts are impassable because of
sand. The cost of vehicle operation is very high. Hobyo, the only port in
the area, has no facilities for handling dhows or larger ships.
Services
3.16      Livestock is marketed mainly by private traders and with the ex-
ception of supplies to domestic markets and the abattoirs at Kismayo and
Muqdisho, the trade is dominated by live animal exports through Berbera port
to Saudi Arabia. The marketing system operates fairly efficiently, and the
construction of the hard surface roads from Beletwein to Burao and from
Hargeisa to Burao has made transport of livestock by lorry more common. LDA
provides only limited marketing facilities and services and mostly acts as
a fee collecting agency.



- 12 -
3.17      Veterinary Services are established in each of the regions and in-
clude a mobile vaccination team dealing with contagious diseases, and a number
of small dispensaries sited near wells where drugs and dipping chemicals are
available to stock owners. The service is constrained by shortage of trans-
porit and therefore limited to vaccination at major accessible watering points,
the investigation of large scale disease outbreaks and the sale of drugs and
chemicals. Due to the large area to be covered, additional manpower, equip-
menlt and transport is needed to reduce present high mortalities as well as to
increase livestock off-take.
Local Government
3.18      Public management has been decentralized in order to mobilize human
and material resources at the local level. Communities are involved in
planning and execution of development within the overall national plan. The
three regions of the Project area are subdivided in 12 districts and within
each district into villages (sub-districts). At each level, councils are
established. In the case of village councils, the 7 members are elected
annually by the permanent residents of the village. The Chairmen of the
regional and district councils are the representatives of central government,
and are responsible for good management and political, social and economic
development. Although councils must clearly operate within overall national
policy, their authority, responsibilities and initiatives are extensive.
3.19)     National projects are both planned and implemented in consultation
with local authorities. Staff of central ministries and agencies working in
local areas combine accountability to local councils with technical supervision
from the parent ministry. Service of their representatives on each council
involves the pastoral communities in the planning and implementation of devel-
opment and enhances the prospect of their cooperation.
D. Assistance Beyond the Project Area
3.20      The technical assistance which would be provided by the Project to
the NRA headquarters in the form of the technical directors of Administration,
Range and Environment and Forestry and the technical officer of the Water
Service would also support NRA's ability to carry out activities beyond the
Project area. This would initially be confined to: (i) strengthening NRA's
ability to execute the NRDP (para. 2.22), the WFP Project 719 (para. 2.24);
and (ii) the formulation of a forestry development project.
3.21      In addition, direct support for the ongoing NRDP would be provided
through: (i) an aerial resource inventory survey similar to that proposed
under the Project; and (ii) the services of the hydrogeologist and drilling
foreman, and equipment for the drilling of the 10 boreholes included in the
NRD P.



- 13 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Design
Project Formulation
4.01      The Government of Somalia is committed to the improvement of the
national rangelands, and the standard of living of the pastoralist communities.
It intends to: (i) improve the resource base of the traditional livestock
industry through range management; (ii) alleviate the constraints on livestock
productivity by providing better veterinary services; and (iii) achieve a
gradual concentration of pastoral communities so that their standard of living
may be improved through the provision of health services and education.
4.02      The Project is designed to assist Government in achieving this goal
by: (i) stabilizing rangeland and livestock productivity through the intro-
duction of range management, livestock water supplies and improved veterinary
services; (ii) gaining the confidence and cooperation of the pastoralists by
establishing a dialogue with them through non-formal training; and (iii)
strengthening NRA's ability to implement range development by training staff
at all levels and providing senior technical staff for the departments of
administration, range and environment and forestry.
4.03      The UNDP/FAO Livestock Development Survey in 1966 was followed in
1970 by a survey of the Northern Rangelands (UNDP SOM/70/512) and in 1974 by
the UNDP/FAO Rangeland Conservation and Development Project. In 1976, Govern-
ment decided to establish the NRA as part of the NRDP with the initial task
of implementing that project. In November 1976, a World Bank project iden-
tification mission visited Somalia at Government's request and it was agreed
that a project should be prepared to develop the Central Rangelands area of
the country. In January 1977, a joint Government/World Bank team began
project preparation. The preparation report was issued in October 1977 and
Government's request for appraisal followed in November. The Project was
appraised in February 1978 and negotiated in March 1979.
4.04      The main changes made in the project design at appraisal were:
(i) the concept of range management by the opening and closing of boreholes
evenly distributed throughout the Project area was abandoned in favor of
demarcation of grazing reserves covering 30% of the area and the develop-
ment of stock water in selected reserves; (ii) the proposed Range Research
Institute which was considered premature, was deleted; (iii) non-formal and
formal training was considerably expanded; and (iv) the woodlot planting
component was replaced by 3 nurseries and town shelter belts.
Project Description
4.05      The Project would, over a period of six years, consolidate and
improve rangeland and livestock production in the Project area, improve the
income of the pastoralists and through the introduction of a system of range
utilization, make way for the gradual concentration of pastoral communities
conducive to the provision of social services.



- 14 -
4.06      This would be achieved by conducting an aerial survey of livestock
and human habitation in the Project area on the basis of which a vegetation
map would be produced, followed by a ground survey of the rangelands and
visits to pastoral communities to gather more detailed information and estab-
lish a dialogue. Based on this information the location of grazing reserves
wou:Ld be chosen, grazing associations formed and agreements reached between
NRA, local government and the grazing associations regarding the use of the
reserves, especially those where stock water supplies would be developed.  In
the meantime non-formal training of pastoralists and the formal education of
staff would be implemented as would the strengthening of NRA and veterinary
services and the establishment of nurseries, town shelter belts, soil and
water conservation areas and range grazing cooperatives.
4.07      Range Development.  Specifically, the Project would provide staff,
equipment and transport to carry out range development comprising:
(i) the demariation of 45 town and village grazini reserves each
of 400 km , 12 famine reserves Sach of 600 km  and 20 range
grazing reserves each of 900 km ;
(ii)  the drilling and equipping of 32 boreholes, or stockwater
ponds where appropriate, to provide supervised stockwater
points in the famine and range grazing reserves;
(iii) the construction of 1,000 km of access tracks leading to
range reserves and stockwater points;
(iv)  the provision of staff, housing, offices, workshops, trans-
port and equipment for the NRA field service in the Project
area.
4.08      Training.  In order to gain the confidence and cooperation of the
pastoralist, the Project would provide staff, equipment and transport for a
non--formal training program to:
(i) carry out a survey of pastoral communities and initiate a
dialogue regarding the Project while collecting information
on seasonal movements and grazing;
(ii)  continue this dialogue by non-formal education regarding
the objectives of the Project and the formation of grazing
associations;
(iii) produce simple educational materials directed at the pasto-
ralists and a film dealing with the pastoral way of life which
would explain the purpose of the Project;
(iv)  support the build-up phase of the training program by 3
man-months of consultant services;



- 15 -
(v) field training in the form of short courses and seminars for
the upgrading of field staff and for the initial on-the-job
training of range assistants.
4.09      To assist the NRA in overcoming the shortage of staff trained in
range management at both the technical and professional levels, the Project
would provide:
(i)  4 lecturers for training courses in animal production, range
and forestry at the technical level at the Livestock and Range
School at Afgoi;
(ii)  one university lecturer in range management as well as trans-
port and miscellaneous equipment to support a professional
level course in range management at the Faculty of Agriculture
at Afgoi;
(iii)  20 man-years of fellowships for overseas post-graduate training
in range management;
(iv)  overseas on-the-job training of counterpart staff for the
range monitoring team.
4.10      Rangeland Studies and Trials.  In order to assist the NRA in the
collection of basic data on range productivity and the formulation of a range
research program the Project would provide:
(i)  5 man-years of professional services, equipment, transport
and housing for the establishment of range reference areas
to observe the effects of grazing systems, range improvement
experiments (firing, bush clearing) and a small laboratory
for forage analysis;
(ii)  3 1/2 man-years of professional services to continue the
identification and registration of range vegetation
(taxonomy);
(iii)  funding for aerial survey and vegetation mapping of the Tugdeer,
Nugal and Sanaag regions in Northern Somalia.
4.11      In order to demonstrate soil and water conservation measures and
to assist in experimentation with and the evaluation of grazing cooperatives,
the Project would provide 4 man-years of professional services, with
equipment, transport and housing.
4.12      In order to strengthen the NRA Forestry Department, and to demon-
strate to the population in the regional capitals of the Project area the
usefullness of town shelter belts, the Project would provide:
(i) 4 man-years of professional services for the technical
management of the Department and training of its staff;



- 16 -
(ii) 4 man-years of professional services with equipment, trans-
port and housing for the establishment of th ee nurseries and
three town shelter belts each covering 10 km .
4.13      Veterinary Services.  In order to improve the veterinary service in
the Project area and to strengthen the capacity of diagnostic services of the
Serum and Vaccine Laboratory to support disease investigations and control in
the field, the Project would provide 16 man-years of professional services,
with equipment, transport and housing. Six mobile vaccination teams and 12
mobile clinics, offering treatment and selling veterinary drugs and chemicals,
would be added to the existing service in the Project area and would enable
the service to be provided throughout the year by moving seasonally with the
flocks and herds.
4 14      NRA Headquarters.  The NRA is presently implementing NRDP, estab-
li.shing 16 regional offices, supervising the stock water reservoirs in the
interriverine area and has also been given responsibility for forestry and
wildlife activities. This has put a great strain on the three-year old insti-
tution. Staff, both in administrative and technical fields, are not suffi-
c-Lently qualified and lack experience. To ensure that both the Project and
the ongoing development activities get the benefit of strong headquarter
support and direction the Project would provide:
(i) 15 1/2 man-years of professional services, with transport
and housing;
(ii) 4 man-years of professional services, with transport and
housing for the establishment of a range monitoring unit
which would conduct continuous monitoring of the range
reserves under the Project to form the basis for management
decisions regarding the opening or closing of grazing areas;
(iii) 6 1/2 man-years of professional services, with housing,
a borehole drilling rig and equipment, and transport for the
new stock water service to develop, operate and maintain
stock water supplies;
(iv) funds for the construction of a headquarters office building;
(v) 4 man-years of professional services, workshop buildings,
equipment, transport and housing for the establishment of
one central maintenance workshop in Muqdisho and three
regional small workshops to ensure the maintenance of
vehicles, water pumps and engines.
4.15      World Food Program (WFP) Assistance.  All unskilled labor required
for range development and rangeland studies and trials would be provided under
the WFP Project until 1981 (para. 2.24). In case the WFP Project would not be
further extended, Government would provide wages for unskilled labor. A total
of 4,700 man-years of labor would be provided for surveying and demarcating
range reserves, the establishment of town shelter belts and nurseries, soil
conservation and water spreading and experimental grazing cooperatives.



- 17 -
Detailed Features
4e16      A Resource Inventory would be carried out consisting of two aerial
surveys, undertaken in different seasons, and the production of a vegetation
resource map (scale 1:200,000) as well as acetate transparencies. It would
include a description of land systems in terms of geology, soils and vegeta-
tion as well as information on human population and habitation, domestic
animals, water points, wild animals by species, and cropping activities.
4.17      A Range Ground Survey would be conducted, based on the resource
inventory, by a ground survey team consisting of two internationally recruited
range ecologists and one Somali professional. The survey would: (i) verify
and validate the resource inventory (para. 4.16); (ii) establish range condi-
tion guides and condition standards; (iii) identify areas of high erodibility
and areas suitable for village, town, famine and range grazing reserves, espe-
cially thcse suitable for stockwater development; and (iv) locate access
tracks. In the selection of reserves, the survey team would liaise with the
non-formal education team, conducting the community survey and non-formal
training to confirm the agreement of the pastoralists to the proposed sites.
Ninety hours of aircraft hire would be provided to allow for overflights of
areas not traversed by the team.
4.18      Following the range ground survey, a Range Monitoring Unit would be
established consisting of two internationally recruited range ecologists and
three Somali professionals. The purpose of range monitoring would be to
establish, by repeated field observations of selected monitoring sites, a
record of the condition of the range vegetation as a basis for management
planning. In all, 284 monitoring sites would be established. The expatriate
team would complete the work in 18 months but would return during the last
six months of the Project to give refresher training and assist in the inter-
pretation of the observations collected in the intervening period.
4.19      30% of the rangelands in the Project area would be put under
controlled grazing in the form of surveyed, monitored and guarded grazing
reserves. A grazing association would be formed for each reserve prior to its
establishment in order to involve pastoralists in management from the outset.
The grazing associations would be trained to take over responsibility for
the reserves under the supervision and direction of NRA field staff after
a period of approximately 10 years.
2
4.20      Forty-five Town and Village Grazing Reserves each of 400 km , about
4 reserves per district, would be established. Each year, one fourth of each
reserve would be closed for grazing.  The period of rest would be one or
two years determined by the monitoring of range condition. The non-formal
education and community survey team would solicit the cooperation of the
pastoralists, assist in the formation of grazing associations and provide
training in the range management system to be practiced.



- 18 -
2
4.21      20 Range Grazing Reserves each covering 900 km  would be established
around water points selected by the hydrogeologist in an area designated by the
survey team as being suitable and safe for stockwater development, and each
demarcated quarter of 225 km would be rested in turn in similar fashion to
the village and town grazing reserves. The installation of water points in
the range grazing reserves would extend the grazing period by 4 months. How-
ever, in order to avoid overgrazing, this would be conditional upon grazing
associations being formed by the pastoralists habitually using these areas,
and their agreement, if necessary, to limit the numbers of animals they would
graze around a new watering point and to follow the range management direc-
tives of the NRA. The non-formal education team would identify groups and
individuals who could conveniently form a grazing association. The range
reserve would initially be policed by 20 guards.
4.32      In each of the twelve districts, one famine grazing reserve of 600
km   would be established and equipped with a borehole designed to supply
the maximum quantity of water during periods of use. The reserves would be
selected by the survey team in consultation with the regional range officers
and the pastoralists. They would be opened for grazing in times of drought
or as required for the purpose of bush control.
4.23      The total distance to be surveyed and demarcated to establish the
bounidaries and sub-divisions of the reserves would be 10,200 km. It is
assumed that 5,100 km would be cleared by bulldozers and motor graders. The
dozesrs would "pioneer" the demarcation lines where the bush was particularly
heavy. The motor graders would finish those demarcation lines serving as
roads and construct others where the bush vegetation was light. The 5,100 km
assumed to be too rocky for the machinery would have cairns erected by crews
of laborers directed by the surveyor.
4.24      Non-formal Training.  The success of the Project would depend on the
participation of the pastoralists affected by the proposed interventions. The
reversal of range deterioration does not present a technological problem. The
problem is human, namely to arrive at a consensus which subjects the short
term ambitions of the livestock owner to long term development objectives.
The alternative to force in the form of police type actions is a non-formal
education dialogue which provides a slower but more enduring change.
4.25      The Project would provide 9 man-years of professional services,
with equipment, transport and housing for field staff, to conduct a community
survey of all pastoral communities in the area; train 15 regional and district
range educators; conduct seminars and workshops with the pastoral elders and
government officials; produce simple educational materials, radio programs
and a film about pastoral livestock production - all aimed at explaining the
purpose of range development and the promotion of the understanding and par-
ticipation of the pastoralists.



- 19 -
4.26      The first step would be visits to all pastoral communities in the
Project area by a Somali team headed by the Pastoral Training Adviser seconded
from the Academy of Somali Studies. The team would establish a dialogue and
in the process collect information regarding the population and seasonal move-
ments of the livestock, thus preparing the way for negotiations with the NRA
range staff on the formation of grazing associations and the establishment
of grazing reserves. The team would liaise closely with the regional range
service and the range ground survey team.
4.27      The internationally recruited Adult Education Officer and counter-
part staff would establish the NRA Audio-Visual Center in Muqdisho in collabo-
ration with the National Adult Education Center of the Ministry of Education.
They would use the training support equipment, train the audio-visual tech-
nicians and other staff and develop a program of writing, printing and taping
of material to be used by the project field trainers. Radio programs would
be prepared in cooperation with Radio Somalia and an educational film would
be produced with the assistance of the Somali Film Agency. The center would
also support the field training programs of the Livestock and Range School
and the Range Department at the University.
4.28      The internationally recruited Range Training Officer would, together
with his Somali counterpart, provide on-the-job training and support for the
community survey team, regional range education officers and the district
range educators. They would organize short staff training courses and pastor-
alists' seminars, and assist in field training programs which would be part
of the formal range-training curriculum. They would work closely with the
Pastoral Training Adviser and would liaise with the nomadic training centers
of MOE at Awooney and Gur El.
4.29      Range education officers located at each of the three regional head-
quarters as well as one range educator per district would be provided. The
latter would be pastoralists from the district who had some previous education
and training in a responsible government job or similar activity.
4.30      Formal Training.  In order to alleviate the acute shortage of NRA
staff trained in range management, the Project would provide 21 1/2 man years
of professional services, equipment, transport, educational material and staff
housing in support of the Livestock and Range School at Afgoi; the establish-
ment of a Range Management Department at the Faculty of Agriculture of the
National University of Somalia; and overseas post-graduate training.
4.31      The Project would provide four internationally recruited lecturers:
in Range Management (two); in Animal Husbandry (one); in Forestry (one); as
well as transport, housing and equipment needed for classroom and field train-
ing. The lecturers would be recruited in time to prepare the course curricula
and field training program, together with their Somali colleagues. Similarly,
the Project would provide an instructor in range management, transport, hous-
ing and training equipment for the Faculty of Agriculture as well as 20 man-
years of post-graduate fellowships in range management. An additional 20
man-years of fellowships would be financed by USAID under a Regional Man-
power Development Program.



- 20 -
4.32      Range Investigations.  In order to overcome the lack of basic data
on the rangeland resource of Somalia and to build a research program on the
basis of the information provided by aerial and ground surveys, the Project
would provide 8 1/2 man-years of professional services, equipment, staff
housing and transport to establish 92 range reference areas in various eco-
logical zones of the Project area; the registration and chemical analyses of
foriage species, and trials regarding the effect of firing and bush-clearing.
4.33      A Resource Inventory similar to the one carried out for the Project
area (para. 4.16), would be carried out in the Tugdeer, Sanaag and Nugal
regions (NRDP area).
4.34      To increase the knowledge of what may be gained by applying soil
conservation and water spreading techniques in the Project area, two man-years
of professional services, equipment and transport would be provided to design
and execute trials in Far Libax, Roux and a third location to be selected,
as well as to demonstrate anti-erosion activities in other parts of the
Project area as required.
4.35      In the above mentioned three locations the Project would also sup-
port three experimental grazing cooperatives by providing 2 man-years of
professional advice and training. The cooperative adviser, together with
his counterpart, would undertake an in-depth evaluation of existing grazing
cooperatives and make recommendations to Government regarding their viability,
and would assist the three experimental cooperatives in the Project area with
respect to collective buying,. marketing and improvement of living conditions
through provision of health and education services.
4.36      An internationally recruited Technical Director of Forestry would
be provided for a period of four years to be responsible for the technical
aspects of forest evaluation and administration, and to advise the General
Manager of the NRA with respect to the operation of the Forestry Department.
He would participate in the training of forest guards and forest officers
in cooperation with the forestry lecturer appointed to the Agricultural
Secondary School of Afgoi, and supervise the establishment of the town shelter
belts and nurseries.
4.3,7     Towards the end of his assignment he would submit a plan for the
implementation of a forestry program for the country and assist the NRA in
drawing up a relevant Project for submission to aid agencies.
4.38      At each of the three regional capitals - Galkayo, Dusa Mahreb and
Beletwein - the Project woull provide fencing, tools, equipment and labor for
the establishment of a 10 km  large town shelter belt and a tree and forage
plant nursery as well as the services of a nursery specialist for four
years.
4.39      Veterinary Services.  At the national level technical assistance
would be provided in the form of three internationally recruited veterinary
specialists: a Senior Pathologist, a Disease Investigation Officer for the



- 21 -
Vaccine and Serum Institute in Muqdisho and a Laboratory Technician. They
would: (i) organize a central diagnostic unit; (ii) establish guidelines
for the collection and dispatch of diagnostic material by the regional field
services; (iii) conduct a national disease survey; (iv) monitor vaccination
campaigns; and (v) train their counterparts and the technical staff on the
job. To strengthen the regional field services, the existing post of Tech-
nical Director of Veterinary Services, presently financed under NRDP, would
be extended for four years. The specialist holding this post would be respon-
sible for: (i) organizing and supervising the development of the field ser-
vices in the project area; (ii) advising the Director of Veterinary Services
on all aspects of the national field service; (iii) training his counterpart
and the regional veterinary officers; (iv) improving the efficiency of the
field diagnostic service in cooperation with the officers of the central diag-
nostic unit; and (v) paying special attention to the cost effectiveness and
manpower needs of the veterinary service.
4.40      In the Project area the physical facilities of the field service
would be improved by the construction of a simple field diagnostic laboratory
at Beletwein. Vehicles and equipment would be provided for six additional
mobile vaccination teams and 12 mobile clinics which would follow the seasonal
movements of livestock and offer services including dipping of small stock and
sale of veterinary drugs and chemicals throughout the year. Funds would be
provided for incremental staff, radio communication, postgraduate overseas
training of one veterinary officer, as well as for the establishment of a
revolving fund for veterinary drugs and chemicals.
B. Project Costs
4.41      Total Project Costs, including contingencies, are estimated at
US$46.3 million, of which about US$32.7 million or about 71% would represent
foreign exchange requirements, as summarized overleaf:



- 22 -
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total   Exchange
---So.Sh. Million--              US$ Million-----  Percent
Range Development
Resource Inventory          -      1.3      1.3        -       0.2       0.2      100
Range Ground Survey        0.3    2.5       2.8       0.1      0.4       0.5       91
Range Grazing Reserves   9.5   26.0    35.5           1.5      4.1       5.6       73
Water Development           1.6    4.4      6.0       0.3      0.7       1.0       74
NRA F'ield Support        19.7   14.4    34.1         3.1      2.3       5.4       42
Sub-Total            31.1   48.6    79.7        5.0      7.7      12.7       61
Training
Non-formal Training        9.9   15.1    25.0         1.6      2.4       4.0       60
Formal Training            1.2   15.6    16.8         0.2      2.5       2.7       93
Sub-Total            11.1   30.7    41.8        1.8      4.9       6.7       73
Range Studies & Trials
Northern Rangelands
Inventory                 -      1.3      1.3        -       0.2       0.2      100
Town Shelter Belts
& Nurseries              1.2    5.0       6.2       0.2      0.8       1.0       81
Range Investigations       0.5    6.5       7.0       0.1      1.0       1.1       92
Soil Conservation,
Wat:er Spreading &
Grazing Cooperatives   1.0    5.6         6.6       0.1      0.9       1.0       86
Sub-Total             2.7   18.4    21.1        0.4      2.9       3.3       87
Veterinary Services        4.7   15.3    20.0         0.8      2.4       3.2       76
NRA _eadquarters
Administration &
Management               3.4   17.2    20.6         0.6      2.7       3.3       83
Range Monitoring Unit    1.2    3.9         5.1       0.2      0.6       0.8       77
Water Services             3.3   14.4    17.7         0.5      2.3       2.8       81
Maintenance Service        2.0    2.8       4.8       0.2      0.5       0.7       58
Sub-Total             9.9   38.3    48.2         1.5     6.1       7.6       79
Base Cost                 59.5  151.3   210.8         9.5    24.0       33.5       72
Physical Contingency       4.5   11.3    15.8         0.7      1.8       2.5       72
Price Contingency         21.5   43.4    64.9         3.4      6.9      10.3       67
TOTAL PROJECT
COST              85.5  206.0   291.5        13.6    32.7       46.3       71



- 23 -
4.42      The table in para 4.44 summarizes the cost categories including
all contingencies.
4.43      Costs have been estimated at January, 1979 prices, and are based
on procurement contracts and quotations received by project agencies in
Somalia at the time of appraisal. The annual unit cost for Technical Assis-
tance staff has been calculated at US$100,000 for U.S. staff, US$50,000 for
British staff, and US$80,000 for all other internationally recruited staff.
The cost of consultant services has been estimated at US$6,000 per month.
Local salaries and allowances reflect those paid by NRA in the NRDP and in-
clude estimated income taxes. Construction costs have been varied according
to the distance from Muqdisho. Foreign procurement, fuel and professional
services are duty free in accordance with Government regulations for develop-
ment projects. A physical contingency, amounting to 7.5% on an average,
has been included to reflect the quantitative uncertainties of the Project
inputs. Expected annual price increases have been estimated as follows:
Construction, Professional
Services,
Technical Assistance Staff       All Other Costs
Calendar Year                Foreign         Local          Foreign    Local
_ __  __ _ __ __ __ _ ( % )_____________________
1979                           7.5            10             6.5        10
1980 - 85                      7               8             6           8
Physical and price contingencies together amount to about 38% of the base
costs or 28% of total project costs.
C. Financing
4.44      The project would be financed by a combination of credits, loans
and grants of 5 development agencies and Government's own contribution.
Total project costs, broken down into categories including all contingencies,
would be shared between the development agencies and Government in the follow-
ing amounts and proportions:



- 24 -
Total
Category                          IDA  IFAD   USAID    ODM    WFP   GOVT    Category
Cost
--------US$ Million--------------------
Ccinstruction                    2.84  3.19    0.25    --        --      --        6.28
Vehicles and Machinery           0.80  0.90    2.83    0.49   --         --        5.02
Equipment & Furniture            0.44  0.49    1.62    0.28   --         --        2.83
Professional Services
& Fellowships                  1.04  1.18    0.52    0.04   --        --        2.78
Technical Assistance Staff    1.10  1.24    6.01    2.58   --            --       10.93
Lccal Salaries & Allowances   0.38  0.43        --       --    --    6.00         6.81
Vehicles & Machinery
Operation                      0.88  0.99    1.94       --    --      --        3.81
Maintenance & Utilities          0.40  0.45    1.35       --    --       --        2.20
Food Rations (WFP)                --    --       --       --   4.30    --         4.30
Miscellaneous Operating
Costs                         0.12  0.13    0.48    0.61   --         --        1.34
Total Contribution
(uS$ Million)                 8.00  9.00   15.00    4.00  4.30   6.00          46.30
= % of Total Project Cost        17    20       32       9       9      13        100
Foreign Exchange Contribu-
tion (US$ Million)           5.39  6.06   13.40   3.81   3.87    0.14          32.67
= % of Total Contribution        67    67       89      95      90       2         71
= % of Total Foreign
Exchange Cost                  16    19       41      12     12      ...        100



- 25 -
4.45      Under joint financing arrangements, IDA would contribute a credit of
US$8 million, and IFAD a loan of 7 million Special Drawing Rights (about US$9
million), sharing all disbursements in the ratio of about 8/17 to 9/17. Both
contributions would be on respective standard terms to the Government of
Somalia who woulld pass on the proceeds to NRA as a grant under a Subsidiary
Agreement. IDA and IFAD would finance the residual project costs which are
not covered by either the grants of USAID, ODM and WFP or Government's con-
tribution of US$6 million for local salaries and allowances. The joint
IDA/IFAD financing would consist of 67% foreign exchange and 33% local costs.
4.46      The USAID grant would finance the range and stockwater development
components, part of the formal education and training, the range investiga-
tions, soil conservation and grazing cooperatives components, Technical
Assistance to NRA Headquarters, and the Range Monitoring Unit and Stockwater
Service, except for the categories covered by IDA and IFAD. ODM would finance
Technical Assistance and specialized equipment for part of the formal training
at the Livestock and Range School, the Town Shelter Belts and Nurseries, the
Veterinary Services and the Maintenance Service. WFP would provide food for
unskilled laborers. Government would gradually take over all local salaries
and allowances by year 4 of the project.
4.47      It was agreed during negotiations that a condition of effectiveness
of the credit would be that agreements concerning co-financing between Govern-
ment and each development agency involved, other than IDA, had become effective.
4.48      It was further agreed at negotiations that as a condition of effec-
tiveness of the credit, Government had deposited in NRA's Project account with
the Central Bank an advance in the amount of So.Sh. 5 million.
4.49      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that Government would
replenish the Project Account (para. 4.48) to a level of So. Sh. 5 million
every six months until project completion.
D. Procurement I/
4.50      Procurement under the joint IDA - Credit and IFAD-Loan would
follow World Bank Procurement guidelines. Except for an advance procurement
of vehicles, equipment and furniture (US$0.25 million) needed during the
first project year and where international or local shopping would be used,
procurement of vehicles, equipment and furniture would be subject to Interna-
tional Competitive Bidding (ICB). Tenders would be bulked to the maximum
extent possible in order to attract major international and/or local con-
tractors and suppliers. During bid evaluation, goods manufactured in Somalia
may be granted a margin of preference of 15% of the c.i.f. bid price or the
amount of customs duties and other import taxes (whichever is lower) over
imported foreign goods. ICB for vehicles, equipment and furniture would total
an estimated US$1.9 million or about 11% of the joint IDA/IFAD financing. It
was agreed during negotiations that NRA would enter into agreements with one
1/   Amounts expressed without contingencies.



- 26 -
or more procurement agencies acceptable to IDA, for the procurement of
vehicles, equipment and supplies. Internationally recruited staff (US$1.7
million) would be acceptable to IDA (para 5.25).
4.5i       The construction program (US$4.5 million) would also be subject
to ICB. Under this procedure, domestic contractors may be granted a 7.5%
margin of preference in bid evaluation.
4.52       USAID, ODM and WFP would follow their own procurement guidelines.
E. Disbursement
4.53       An advance under the IDA Project Preparation Facility (PPF) was
approved on June 18, 1978 in the amount of US$300,000 to finance professional
services for the CRDP Resource Inventory (US$15,000 for Landsat Imagery and
US$205,000 for the Inventory), and fellowship training (US$80,000). As of
March 14, 1979, US$74,250 had been disbursed under the PPF.
4.54       The IDA - Credit and the IFAD - Loan would be administered by IDA.
Disbursements against project expenditure would be shared between IDA and IFAD
in the ratio of about 8/17 to 9/17 on the basis of the following category
costs:



- 27 -
Category  \IDA       IFAD         Disbursement
Cost    Share      Share           Against
------US$ Million--------
(a) Refunding of Project
Preparation Facility        0.30       0.30        -      100% of expenditure.
(b)  Construction                4.50       2.12       2.38    100% of expenditure,
excluding pump
houses and wateryards
(c)  Vehicles                    1.50       0.71       0.79    100% of expenditure,
excluding vehicles
and machinery financed
by USAID and ODM
(d)  Equipment & Furniture       0.80       0.38       0.42    100% of expenditure,
excluding equipment
financed by USAID
and ODM
(e)  Professional Services,      3.10       1.30       1.80    100% of expenditure,
Internationally re-                                       excluding services,
cruited staff and                                         staff and fellow-
fellowships                                               ships financed by
USAID and ODM
(f)  Local Salaries &            0.60       0.28       0.32    100% of expenditure,
Allowances                                                excluding cash wages
for WFP workers
(g)  Vehicles and Machinery      1.90       0.89       1.01    100% of expenditure,
Operating Costs, Mainte-                                  excluding parts
nance, Utilities &                                        financed by USAID,
Miscellaneous Operating                                   ODM and WFP.
Costs
(h)  Unallocated                 4.30       2.02       2.28
Total                      17.00       8.00       9.00
4.55      Disbursements against (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) of para 4.54 would,
in order to simplify accounting, be made against 100% of expenditures, which
would be fully documented. Disbursements against (f) and (g) would be made
against statements of expenditure, certified by the General Manager of NRA
and the Project Coordinator, for which documentation would not be submitted to
IDA but retained by NRA and made available for inspection to IDA supervision
missions. The unallocated amount (h) represents the contingencies on the
categories (b) to (g) and would be transferable to these categories as re-
quired. An estimated disbursement schedule is at Annex 1, Table 1.



- 28 -
F. Accounts, Audit and Reporting
4.56      The General Manager of the NRA, supported by the internationally
recruited Financial Controller, would be responsible for all procurement
procedures, withdrawal applications for the IDA-Credit and IFAD-Loan and
accounting under the Project. The NRA would open a Project account at the
Central Bank through which all foreign and local funds for the Project would
be channelled. Government would advance funds for this account and replenish
it every six months (paras. 4.48 and 4.49). The Veterinary Service, the
Afgoi Livestock and Range School and the Faculty of Agriculture would direct
requests for their share of Project funds to the General Manager of NRA, would
keep separate accounts and submit these to NRA for consolidation and the
preparation of withdrawal applications under the IDA-Credit and the IFAD-Loan.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the above withdrawal and account-
ing procedures would be followed.
4.57      All government institutions are required to have their accounts
audited by the Magistrate of Accounts. His Department, which would be
strengthened under the IDA Technical Assistance Credit, would assume res-
ponsibility for the annual auditing of the Project account within NRA.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the NRA would submit accounts
for all Project expenditure, together with audited accounts for NRA, to IDA
within six months of the end of each fiscal year.
4.58      The NRA would have the responsibility of preparing semi-annual
reports on the progress of all project components and submitting them to all
financing agencies. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that Government
would, promptly after completion of the Project, but no later than six months
after the credit closing date, submit to IDA a completion report on the
execution of the Project, its costs and benefits, and its major accomplish-
ments. This report would be prepared for Government by the General Manager of
NRA and the Project Coordinator.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
5.01      The NRA would be the executing agency for the Project with the
exceptions of: (i) the Veterinary Services component which would be exe-
cuted by the Veterinary Department of MLFR; (ii) the formal training at the
Livestock and Range School which would be the responsibility of the Project
Management Unit of MOE; and (iii) the training in range management at the
Faculty of Agriculture which would be the responsibility of that faculty.
Procurement and accounting for all Project expenditure would be handled by NRA
(para. 4.56).
5.02      The obligations of NRA as executing agency would be formalized in a
Subsidiary Agreement between Government and NRA and it was agreed during nego-
tiations that the ratification of this Subsidiary Agreement would be a con-
dition of effectiveness of the credit.



- 29 -
A. The National Range Agency (NRA)
5.03      The NRA is headed by a General Manager who reports directly to
the Minister, MLFR. The General Manager, with the approval of the Minister,
issues internal rules governing NRA, concludes contracts on behalf of NRA and
is responsible for financial accounts and management of funds. NRA headquar-
ters is divided into five functional departments, each headed by a Director,
namely: general administration; range and environment; research, training and
planning; forestry; and wildlife. In the field, NRA has sixteen regional
field offices each under a regional director responsible for coordination with
local authorities and other government agencies. In regions where development
projects are being implemented, technical management under his supervision is
carried out by the regional range officer with an assistant who supervises
district range assistants in charge of range activities in each district. A
chart of the present NRA organization is at Annex 2, Chart 1.
5.04      Legislation.  The NRA was established by Law No. 23, 1976, Law No.
15 of October 26, 1969, on Fauna (Hunting) and Forest Conservation, and Law
No. 68 of October 20, 1970, on Forestry, Range and Wildlife. A new Law No. 3
of 1979 for the development of range management has been signed but not yet
gazetted. This law authorizes the Secretary of State, MLFR, on the recommen-
dation of the General Manager of NRA to establish range development and
conservation areas and gives NRA the authority to: (i) open and close grazing
reserves; (ii) establish grazing associations; (iii) control development and
use of stock water supplies in the rangelands; (iv) undertake search, seizure
and arrest for offenses; and (v) establish a Range Fund to finance range
development activities. The law further authorizes the President of the
Republic to issue decrees concerning its implementation.
5.05      It was agreed during negotiations that as a condition of credit
effectiveness, the Law No. 3 of 1979 for the development of range management
had been enacted and gazetted.
5.06      Responsibilities for Project Implementation.  The General Manager of
NRA would be Project Manager assisted by an internationally recruited Project
Coordinator who would supervise and coordinate the implementation of all
Project components by working through the responsible departments which would
be strengthened by internationally recruited specialists. A list of the
specialist posts and the duration of service is at para. 5.22.
5.07      NRA Field Organization.  Three regional range directors would be
responsible to the General Manager of the NRA for the administration and man-
agement of the rangelands in the Project area and would coordinate Project
activities with other Government agencies concerned with rangeland development.
Under their direction, three regional range officers would supervise the
activities of the district range assistants and be responsible for the estab-
lishment and management of the range reserves and town shelter belts, the
supervision of the watering points and the maintenance of the dialogue with
the pastoralists. They would cooperate closely with the teams conducting the



- 30 -
aerial and ground surveys, as well as the range investigations and community
surveys. The district range assistants would be responsible for overseeing
the management of the reserves in their district, for supervising grazing
associations and range guards, and keeping records of the number of livestock
and people using the reserves. They would liaise with the district range
educators in establishing and maintaining communication between the pastoral-
ists and the administration. With time, it is expected that all three range
assistants at each district office would have the combined function of range
management assistant, animal husbandry adviser and range educator.
5.08      Headquarters Support.  The Department of Administration of NRA would
be responsible for administrative support for the Project, for procurement,
property control and personnel matters. The transport section would be
responsible for vehicle control and maintenance to be carried out in one
central and three regional workshops. A section for receivables would be
established to deal with payments to NRA, initially water charges from stock
water points arising out of the operation of the stock water service (para.
5.09).
5.09      The Department of Range and Environment would consist of three
services: soil and water conservation; range management and extension; and
stock water. The soil and water conservation service would be responsible
for the implementation of the soil and water part of the range studies and
trials component including the experimental grazing cooperatives. The range
management and extension service would be responsible for the range resource
inventories, the range ground survey, establishment and operation of town and
village, range grazing, and famine reserves as well as for range monitoring.
A new Stock Water Service would be established, responsible for siting and
establishment of stock water supplies in the reserves selected by the range
ground survey team, as well as for the drilling and establishment of ten stock
water points in the NRDP area. This service would also be responsible for
maintenance and operation of these boreholes and other stock water points
under the management of NRA, including the collection of water charges.
5.10      The Department of Research, Training and Planning would consist of
the three named services. The research service would be responsible for the
range investigations sub-component including taxonomy and forage analysis.
The training service would be responsible for the implementation of the
non-formal training component. In this it would cooperate closely with the
National Adult Education Center and the Academy for Somali Studies from which
a Pastoral Training Adviser would be seconded. The planning service would
have as its initial task the monitoring and evaluation of the Project (para.
5.11).
5.11      A Monitoring and Evaluation Unit would be established under the
planning service of the Research, Training and Planning Department of NRA.
The unit would initially be staffed by one professional staff. The Interna-
tional Livestock Center for Africa (ILCA) has agreed to provide training
for this professional within its ongoing monitoring and evaluation program
and to provide the necessary technical assistance for the establishment of a



- 31 -
monitoring package, with particular reference to establishing an appropriate
methodology. This level of involvement would be funded from ILCA's core
budget whereas the Project would provide the locally recruited professional
and transport. It is visualized that the unit would serve as a data gathering
center initially for the establishment of a baseline in monitoring. When a
national monitoring team would be established under the State Planning Com-
mission the unit would pass on information to this team at which time it would
serve as a tool both of management's monitoring of project implementation and
Government's monitoring of the impact of the Project on the lives of pastora-
lists as well as livestock and the environment in the project area.
5.12      The Department of Forestry would consist of two services:  forest
utilization and forest plantation. The latter service would be responsible
for the nurseries to be established under the range studies and trials com-
ponent which would provide seedlings for the town shelter belts and for sand
dunes stabilization.
B. Formal Training
5.13      The Project Management Unit of MOE would be responsible for the
implementation of formal training at the Livestock and Range School which
would be part of the Afgoi Secondary Agricultural Training Complex. The
Dean of the School would be responsible to the Project Implementation Unit
of the Ministry of Education and would be in charge of the day-to-day manage-
ment of the complex. A Board would be formed by representatives of the con-
cerned agencies (MLFR, NRA, MOE, and MOA) which would decide on the budget,
curriculum and numbers of students in the various disciplines.
5.14      Degree level training in range management and post graduate
fellowship training would be executed by the Faculty of Agriculture of the
National University of Somalia in consultation with NRA.
C. Veterinary Services
5.15      The Department of Veterinary Services of MLFR would be responsible
for implementation of that project component. The technical director, at
present provided under NRDP, would be financed under the Project for four
additional years and be responsible to the Director of Veterinary Services
for supervising implementation. The Project Coordinator CRDP would, through
the Director, coordinate field activities with those of NRA in order to
achieve maximum impact.



- 32 -
D. Regulation of Grazing Reserves
5.16      Grazing associations would be established by NRA in consultation
with local government authorities. Grazing guards would be selected from
among the membership of the association and initially be employed by NRA
under the food for work program (para. 4.15). They would, under the super-
vision of district range assistants, police the grazing reserves and assure
that closed reserves would not be grazed and that the open reserves were
only used by the members of the association. If they were unable to per-
suade pastoralists to leave a closed reserve, they would report through the
range assistants, to the local police authority who would then be responsible
for removing the offenders and for impounding animals or imposing fines
according to the law.
E. Annual Work Program
5.17      A detailed annual work program for Project implementation would
be prepared by NRA in conjunction with the preparation of the annual budget.
The annual work program together with relevant parts of the NRA budget and the
Project progress reports would be reviewed by NRA senior staff and IDA during
supervision and would be finalized by the end of each calendar year.
5.L18     The review would ensure that:  (i) necessary provisions for Project
implementation were included in the NRA budget; (ii) the necessary staff to
im-plement the various activities were in place or being recruited; (iii) the
program complied with legal covenants of the Project; and (iv) required
adjustments and changes to the implementation schedule were made.
5.19      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that an annual work
program and budget would be furnished to IDA for review by November 15 each
year, starting in 1979 until 1984.
F. Technical Assistance Staff
5.20      The capacity of NRA to execute Projects is severely hampered
by the lack of qualified Somali staff, both administrative and technical,
which necessitates the substantial support of internationally recruited
specialists.
5.21      In all, the Project would provide 100 man-years of internationally
recruited staff. They would be distributed over 30 posts at various stages
of Project implementation as set out below and in Annex 1, Chart 3:



- 33 -
Starting
No.            Position                                  Man-Years         Proj. Yr.
Range Development
1.  Range Ecologist 1 (Range Survey)                       1.5               1
2.  Range Ecologist 2 (Range Survey)                       1.5               1
3.  Range Ecologist 1 (Range Monitoring Unit)              2.0               3
4.  Range Ecologist 2 (Range Monitoring Ulnit)             2.0               3
Training
5.  Range Training Officer                                 5.0               1
6.  Adult Education Officer                                4.0               3
7.  Lecturer I (Range Management)                          4.0               3
8.  Lecturer 2 (Range Management)                          4.0               3
9.  Lecturer 3 (Animal Husbandry)                          4.0               3
10.  Lecturer 4 (Forestry)                                  4.0               3
11.  Range Instructor, Faculty of Agriculture               5.5               1
Range Studies and Trials
12.  Range Ecologist (Range Investigations)                 2.5               4
13.  Senior Range Technician (Range Investigations)    2.5                    4
14.  Taxonomist                                             3.5               3
15.  Nursery Specialist                                     4.0               3
16.  Soil and Water Conservation Expert                     2.0               3
17.  Cooperative Adviser                                    2.0               5
Veterinary Services
18.  Technical Director, Veterinary Services                4.0               3
19.  Disease Investigation Officer                          4.0              3
20.  Senior Pathologist                                     4.0               3
21.  Laboratory Technician                                  4.0              3
NRA Headquarters
22.  Project Coordinator, CRDP                              5.5               1
23.  Technical Director, Range & Environment                3.0              3
24.  Technical Director, Forestry                           4.0              3
25.  Technical Director, Administration                     4.0              1
26.  Financial Controller                                   3.0              3
27.  Technical Director, Water Service                      2.0              5
28.  Hydrogeologist                                         2.0              3
29.  Drilling Foreman                                       2.5              3
30.  Master Mechanic                                        4.0              3
Total             100.0



- 34 -
5.22      The four technical directors of NRA would be technically responsible
to the General Manager for the day-to-day running of the departments and for
the training of the Somali directors of the departments who would take full
responsibility when this was recommended to the General Manager by the tech-
nical directors.
5.23      Prior to negotiations commitments regarding the provision of the
internationally recruited staff were obtained as set out below:
Posts
in all       Source
Posts No. 1-4, 7-8, 11-14, 16, 17, 23, 27-29          16          USAID
Posts No. 9-10, 15, 18-21, 24, 30                       9         ODM
Posts No. 5-6, 22, 25, 26                              5          IDA/IFAD
5.24      At negotiations assurances were obtained from Government that the
General Manager as well as the Directors of the Administration, and Range and
Environment Departments of NRA would be appointed in consultation with IDA.
5.25      The Government has further assured that international technical
assistance staff would possess experience and qualifications acceptable to
IDA.
5.26      During negotiations, agreements were reached that the appointment
of' the internationally recruited Project Coordinator would be a condition
of effectiveness of the credit.
G. Construction
5.27      The total construction program of the Project would be implemented
by NRA. NRA would employ an internationally recruited consultant Architect!
PLanner who would, together with a local Civil Engineer already in post,
initiate and supervise the appointment of executive architects, site selection,
site surveys, preparation and evaluation of tenders, and advise NRA on the
implementation procedures. Buildings would be designed, tendered and super-
vised by the Somali Engineering Consulting Agency, a Government organization
responsible for all architect and engineering services to Government.
5.28      All construction, except of the pumphouses, wateryards, access
tracks and demarcation of grazing reserves which would be established by NRA
on a force account basis, would be subject to ICB. In case that for parts
or all of the building construction program reasonable bids would not be
received, NRA would, in coordination with the Ministry of Works, proceed on
a force account basis. Construction of staff houses would be given priority
since they are the key to the timely start of Technical Assistance. A sched-
ule of construction is in Annex 1, Chart 2.



- 35 -
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES, COST RECOVERY AND GOVERNMENT CASH FLOW
A. Production
Introduction
6.01      The Project derives its production benefits from increased livestock
off-take. The establishment of range reserves would increase the forage
resource and allow for more animals to be grazed, and improved veterinary
services would result in higher off-take rates by reducing mortalities and
increasing fertility. Production benefits would also take the form of in-
creased milk and meat consumption but due to lack of data, no attempt has been
made to estimate incremental quantities and value of these products. Incre-
mental livestock production has therefore been expressed entirely as higher
sales of live animals to local or export markets.
6.02      Separate values for the production increase derived from range
management and that from improved veterinary services have been obtained by
using constant off-take parameters for range management and by measuring the
impact of veterinary services in terms of increased off-take rates.
Incremental Production from Range Management and Water Development
6.03      Improved forage production and utilization in the range reserves
through management and stock water development would result in an increase of
the carrying capacity at full development by about 70,000 grazing livestock
units (GLU) 1/, - or 5% - as follows:
Reserve Type       Sheep and Goats       Cattle       Camels       Total Incremental
------------thousand head--------------             GLU '000
Village and Town        422                41           23                  68
Range Grazing           488                --            37                 60
Famine 2/              (209)              (36)         (40)                (58)
Total              701                5            20                  70
6.04      The incremental annual off-take resulting from this increase in
carrying capacity -- assuming constant (1975) off-take rates -- would be:
1/   GLU is an expression of the grazing pressure exerted by one LU adjusted
for age and weight and according to grazing habits. It is used to
express the fact that camels only take 60% of their forage in competition
with the other species.
2/   The negative figures indicate the production foregone, since a famine
reserve could alternatively produce the same benefits as a range
grazing reserve.



- 36 -
Sheep and Goats      Cattle      Camels
---thousand head-------------
Incremental Herd                              701                 5         20
Annual Off-take Rate (%) 1/                   11.2%             3.74%       3.0%
Arnual Off-take from incremental herd         78.5              0.2          0.6
Incremental Production Resulting from Improved Veterinary Services
6.05      Improved veterinary services would not only benefit the animals
grazed in the new reserves but the entire livestock population of the Project
area, for which the incremental coverage with repeated treatment has been cal-
culated at 30%. Herd model calculations show that improved productivity and
reduced mortality as a result of veterinary treatment would allow an increae
in off-take rates of 2.06% for sheep and goats, 1.4% for cattle and 0.6% for
camels. At full development, the annual animal production in the Project area
would therefore increase by 8% as follows:
Sheep and Goats      Cattle     Camels
------------thousand head------------
Lncremental livestock under treatment        1,800              269         303
lncremental Annual Off-take rate (%) 1/    2.06%               1.40%        0.60%
Incremental Annual Off-take                  37.1              3.8          1.8
Total Incremental Production
6.06      At full development the total annual incremental off-take generated
by the Project would be:
Sheep and Goats      Cattle     Camels
-----------thousand head------------
Range Management                             78.5              0.2          0.6
Veterinary Services                          37.1              3.8          1.8
115.6             4.0          2.4
This would represent a weighted average increase of livestock produced by 15%
over the level before the Project.
6.07      Incremental production has been assumed from Project year 6.  In the
case of the range grazing reserves, where the grazing period is extended by
four months as soon as stock water points become operational, the full benefit
of the added grazing has been credited from Project year 6, whereas production
increase from other reserves has been built up gradually over 10 years. The
incremental repetitive cover in the veterinary treatment and the incremental
off-take rates have been assumed to take place over a period of 5 years for
sheep and goats and 7 years for cattle and camels.
I/   As developed through herd model calculations.



- 37 -
B. Markets and Prices
Markets
6.08      Somalia has an established traditional livestock marketing system.
Most towns or villages have a market place where buyers (traders, butchers)
and sellers (pastoralists, farmers) gather regularly. The municipalities
levy a head tax on animals brought to the market. Sales are generally
carried out through middlemen or brokers who get a 3% commission from the
buyer.   In remote areas, traders use trucks or camels to reach the pasto-
ralists, and often barter with consumer goods which they carry. Breeding
stock are traded informally and independently of the market place, and are
generally bartered in exchange for other stock. All livestock is traded on
a per head basis and not according to quality and weight.
6.09      Most of the animal off-take of the Project area is consumed locally.
The remainder is sold for export or for consumption in Muqdisho. Prime male
sheep and goats, and a small number of camels and cattle are exported to Near
East markets, especially to Saudi Arabia. Total meat consumption in the Near
East is projected to grow at 6% p.a., between 1969/71 and 1985. Lamb and
mutton would remain the most popular meat and the demand is expected to grow
at 6.7% annually. 1/ The domestic demand would also grow, but much slower
than the export potential. Rising prices would make the domestic demand
follow a rate somewhat below the population growth figure, which is estimated
at 2.6% p.a.
6.10      The existing livestock marketing system is not able to fully
respond to the favorable market prospects. It does not transform market
demand into price incentives in an adequate manner. No grading system exists
and consequently no quality standards are established upon which traders,
butchers and foreign dealers can rely. Transport of livestock on the hoof
over long distances is costly and involves weight losses and mortality.
Shipping service from the export ports is costly and erratic. Finally, the
export of animals is hampered by a variety of institutions issuing permits,
and licenses and charging the exporter with service and non-service related
fees and taxes amounting to about 14 - 18% of the f.o.b. value. Export
traders, in turn, try to evade currency exchange regulations and registration.
Marketing development is expected to be addressed by a national livestock
marketing project which is currently being prepared.
Prices
6.11      Strong demand has resulted in rising prices for Somali livestock.
In 1976 and 1977, f.o.b. prices for sheep and goats increased by about 50% and
for cattle and camels by 25 - 30% in real terms. Prices are cyclical, being
influenced by drought years when pastoralists are forced to sell animals, fol-
lowed by periods of maximum retention of breeding animals for herd re-building.
1/   FAO/World Bank:  The Outlook for Meat Production and Trade in the Near
East and East Africa, December, 1977.



- 38 -
C. Income of Pastoralists
6.12      The average per capita income of all pastoralists from animal
sales and consumption would, in line with the incremental off-take, increase
by about 15% from US$83 in year 5 to about US$98 in year 15 of the project
(in constant 1979 US$ and 1985 prices). The expected real price increase
for livestock beyond 1985 has been neglected, since the producers would
have to face slightly higher production costs resulting from water charges
and increased use of veterinary drugs.
6.13      In addition, the income of the pastoralists would be more stable
than without the Project. In drought years, the famine grazing reserves
would save from starvation not only the incremental animal population built
up under the Project, but also about 5% of the already existing herds. This
would lead to a reduction in herd losses and market and price fluctuations
caused by droughts; and the retention of animals thereafter would be less
prcnounced.
D. Cost Recovery and Government Cash Flow
6.14      The Project would create some Government revenue, though not suffi-
cient to cover all recurrent costs of the Project. NRA would collect water
charges from stock water points. Rates would be consistent with those charged
by WDA and the municipalities and would allow the NRA to recover administration,
maintenance and operation costs for the water service. At full development of
the Project, these revenues of NRA would amount to about 24% of the financial
recurrent costs of the project. In addition, the veterinary service would
recover about 14% of its financial recurrent Project cost through the sale of
druigs. Non-service related export and transit charges which are levied by the
veterinary service, the municipalities, the Ministry of Finance, the Port
Authority and the Chamber of Commerce in the form of taxes, customs and permit
fees are projected for 1979 to amount to about So.Sh. 28 per sheep or goat.
Assuming that 50% of the incremental Project off-take of sheep and goats is
exported, annual revenues would be created in the amount of So.Sh. 1.6 million
(US$250,000) at full development. With the existing revenue system and charge
levels, the total recovery rate for the financial recurrent Project costs
would be only about one-third. At full development, two-thirds of the recurrent
financing for the Project or about 10 So.Sh. million would thus have to be
provided from other Government income.
6.15      At present a higher level of cost recovery from pastoralists, such
as taxation of livestock or grazing fees, would not be feasible considering
their low income. Additional export taxation may adversely effect this
desirable trade. More efficient collection as well as taxation of presently
untaxed profits could, however, increase Government revenues substantially.
This points to the need for a more efficient national livestock marketing
system.



- 39 -
6.16      For some years to come, Government would have to subsidize range
development. In the context of the Somali economy, and considering that only
60% of Project costs produce direct benefits (para. 7.03), 33% recovery of
total Project costs is acceptable. Nevertheless, the livestock industry
should, in due course, be able to carry a larger share of development costs.
It was therefore agreed at negotiations that Government would prepare and
submit to IDA for discussion, no later than December 31, 1983, proposals for
ways of increasing cost recovery in the livestock industry. Terms of reference
for this study would be worked out in consultation with IDA. Government would
also consult IDA at various stages of preparation of the study.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Quantifiable Benefits
7.01      The Project would produce quantifiable benefits in the form of
increased livestock off-take based on the improved carrying capacity of the
rangelands and reduction in animal losses from droughts and disease. The
economic benefits resulting from the range management components of the Project
would consist of the incremental off-take from the village, town, famine and
range grazing reserves and the value of the incremental herd at year 30.
Economic benefits of the veterinary component have been calculated from the
incremental off-take rates resulting from increased disease prevention.
B. Economic Rate of Return (ERR) (Paras. 6.03 - 6.07)
7.02      The incremental livestock production would be exportable but the
growing internal demand and the closeness of the Project area to urban
consumer markets is expected to attract an increasing number of animals.
Foreign exchange would be earned mainly by the export of male sheep and goats
to markets in the Near East. All animals, except those saved by the famine
reserves (which, had they died, would still have had a certain residual value),
have been valued at export parity prices. These prices have been determined
by applying the beef price projections to actual f.o.b. prices of live animal
exports. Service related domestic marketing costs from the Project area
to the port of Berbera have been excluded, but all non-service related direct
fees, charges, customs and duties have been included. To reflect the scarcity
value of foreign exchange, export earnings have been shadow priced at the rate
of US$1= So.Sh. 9, or about 43% above the official exchange rate.
7.03      The costs of the Project components grouped under range studies
and trials, education and training have been omitted and the costs of the
strengthening of the veterinary service and the NRA headquarters support have
been included only to the extent they contribute to the quantified Project
benefits. The exclusions amount to about 40% of Project costs. A shadow wage
rate, estimated at 50% of the financial costs, has been used for the evaluation
of the food rations for unskilled labour under the Food for Work Program and
foreign exchange costs have been shadow-priced as shown in para. 7.02.



- 40 -
7.04      The Project, would, under the above assumptions and over 30 years,
have an overall economic rate of return of 15%. The rate of return of the
veterinary service component would be 28%, a relatively high figure explained
by the sunk costs of the existing infrastructure and staff. The range manage-
ment component alone would have a lower ERR of 12% as a result of the heavy
initial investments required for infrastructure and institution building.
C. Risks and Sensitivity Analysis
7.05      A major risk in Project implementation would be a slower than
expected acceptance by the pastoralists of Project interventions resulting
in their withholding cooperation. Similarly, the Project might be slowed
down by delays in recruitment of staff.
7.06      Stock water development in ecologically fragile areas without the
recurrent enforcement of range management practice would lead to overgrazing
and serious deterioration of rangeland productivity in which case the Project
would compound the problems which it is designed to solve.
7.07      If the risks mentioned in para. 7.05 above were to have the effect
of delaying benefits by two years, the ERR would drop to 12%. If the delay
was five years, the ERR would be 9%. If costs increased by 20%, the ERR would
be 13%.
7.08      If stock water development were inadequately managed, resulting in
an overall decline in rangeland carrying capacity of 30%, the ERR would drop
to 10%.
7.09      The quality of rangelands in Somalia is declining but the rate of
decline is not established. Estimates which have gone as high as 3% annually,
were not included in the economic analysis. If, however, an annual decline in
carrying capacity of only 1% p.a. (compounded) were calculated for the Project
from year 6 to 30, and applied to the conventional total off-take and the
residual herd in year 30, the overall ERR of the Project would increase by
one-third to about 20%.
7.10      If all shadow pricing were removed, the overall ERR of the Project
would be reduced to about 12%.
7.11      In order to enhance the participation of pastoralists and their
acceptance of restrictions on grazing, a strong non-formal training component
has been incorporated into the Project. Establishment of reserves and stock
water development has been made contingent on the formation of grazing asso-
ciations and the declared willingness of the pastoralists to cooperate.
In order to safeguard against ecological deterioration in connection with
stock water development, assurances wer:~ obtained at negotiations that no
stock water supplies would be developed unless they were incorporated in a
range grazing reserve for which a grazing association had been formed which
had agreed to abide by any restrictions on grazing and water imposed by the
NRA in accordance with the law.



- 41 -
D. Non-quantifiable Benefits
7.12      The Project would create a number of non-quantifiable benefits:
(i) The subsistence of the pastoralists would be improved
since larger and healthier herds would allow higher con-
sumption of milk and meat, and their income and subsis-
tence would be less vulnerable to droughts after the
introduction of famine grazing reserves, which would
gradually relieve Government of periodically undertaking
relief and resettlement operations.
(ii) Additional employment would be created in NRA for
about 834 people and in the veterinary field service
for 80 people. The Project would also create employ-
ment for a total of 4,700 man-years of unskilled labor
in Project related works.
(iii) The Project would have beneficial environmental effects
by arresting the ecological decline of the rangelands.
Town shelter belts at the provincial capitals would
provide shelter and firewood. Nurseries to be estab-
lished under the Project would provide seedlings for
these shelter belts and for sand dune fixation.
(iv) The Project would start the collection and evaluation
of data by means of range investigations, soil conservation,
water spreading and experimental grazing cooperatives.
The results of these studies and trials would not only be
a feedback for the Project but also lay the foundation for
future range research.
(v) Veterinary diagnostic services and research would be
strengthened through the provision of an internationally
recruited disease investigation officer, an interna-
tionally recruited pathologist and an internationally
recruited laboratory technician.
(vi) Adult education programs, by making range management a
priority aim for teaching, would acquire relevance and
add a new dimension to pastoralist education.
E. Beneficiaries
7.13      Main beneficiaries of the Project would be the pastoralist popula-
tion of 400,000 people in the Project area, who would reach a higher level of
subsistence. A gradually achieved self-sufficiency in forage and stock water
in the Project area would over time lead to shorter distances of migration and
eventually bring about a more sedentary way of life and increased access to
social and educational services.



- 42 -
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED
8.01      During negotiations, assurances from Government were obtained that:
(i) Government would replenish NRA's Project account with the
Central Bank to a level of So.Sh. 5 million every six
months until project completion (para. 4.49);
(ii)  NRA would enter into agreements with one or more procure-
ment agencies acceptable to IDA, for the procurement of
vehicles, equipment and supplies (para. 4.50);
(iii) The withdrawal and accounting procedures described in
para. 4.56 would be followed (para. 4.56);
(iv)  NRA would submit to IDA accounts for all Project expendi-
ture, together with audited accounts for NRA, within six
months of the end of each fiscal year (para. 4.57);
(v) Government would, promptly after completion of the Project,
but no later than six months after the credit closing date,
submit a completion report on the execution of the Project,
its costs and benefits, and its major accomplishments
(para. 4.58);
(vi)  An annual work program would be furnished to IDA for review
by November 15 each year, starting in 1979 until 1984 (para.
5.19);
(vii) The General Manager as well as the Directors of the Administra-
tion, and Range and Environment Departments of NRA would be
appointed in consultation with IDA (para. 5.24);
(viii) International technical assistance staff would possess
experience and qualifications acceptable to IDA (para. 5.25);
(ix)  Government would prepare and submit to IDA for discussion,
no later than December 31, 1983, proposals for ways of
increasing cost recovery in the livestock industry; terms of
reference for this study would be worked out in consultation
with IDA; Government would also consult IDA at various stages
of preparation of the study (para. 6.16);
(x) No stockwater supplies would be developed unless they were
incorporated in a range grazing reserve for which a grazing
association had been formed which had agreed to abide by any
restrictions on grazing and water imposed by the NRA in accord-
ance with the law (para. 7.11).



- 43 -
8.02      Conditions of Credit effectiveness are that:
(i) Agreements concerning co-financing between Government and
each development agency involved, other than IDA, had
become effective (para. 4.47);
(ii) Government had deposited in NRA's Project Account with the
Central Bank an advance in the amount of So.Sh. 5 million
(para. 4.48);
(iii)  The Subsidiary Agreement between Government and NRA had
been ratified (para. 5.02);
(iv) The Law No. 3 of 1979 for the development of range manage-
ment had been enacted and gazetted (para. 5.05);
(v) The internationally recruited Project Coordinator had
been appointed (para. 5.26).
8.03      Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the proposed Project
is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$8 million to the Government of the Somali
Democratic Republic.



l. A  



SOMALIA
CENTRAL RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Project
_ -~~~~~~~~~~~~Preparation                                                  4                       Project Year -... 
Facility            Year 1               Year 2               Year 3               Year 4              Year 5                Year 6
RANGE DEVELOPMENT
Procurement
Resource Inventory
Range Ground Survey
Range Reserve Development                                                                                                          I _    _    _    _    _    _    _
Water Development (Drilling)-                                                                                                        -    - -       -     -
NRA Field Support                                                                               _    _    _
TRAINING
Procurenment
Non-Formal Education & Training
Range Management (Faculty of Agric.)
Formal Education Course, Afgoi                                                        _    _    _    _    _    _                     - _
Post Graduate Studies, Range Mgmt.                     _
RANGE STUDIES & TRIALS
Procuirement
Northern Rangelands Inventory
Town Shelter Belts & Nurseries                                                                             _    _    _    _    _    _    _    _    _    _    _    _    _    -             _
Range Investigations                                                                                                                      _          _      _ _     _    _       T       _
Soil Conservation, Water Harvesting,                                                                       _.
Grazing Coops.-                                                                                               -    -     -    -    -     -         -    -    - -        -    -    -     -
VETERINARY SERVICE
Procurement
Field   Services  Development e n t                                                    _    _     _    _
STRENGTHENING OF NRA
Procurement
Administration & Management                                                                                                          - = =
Range Monitoring Unit
Water Service                                                                                     
Maintenance Service
Construction '                                                   _    _
January 20,1979       *For details see Chart 2                                                                                                                                  Worl Bank-      1935



- 46 -
ANNEX 1
Table 1
SOMALIA
CENTRAL RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Joint IDA/IFAD
Disbursements       IDA Disbursements!/   IFAD Disbursements
-----s   o000US-$ '000-----   -----US-$ '000 -----
At End                 At End                  At End
IDA Financial Year          of                     of                      of
and Quarter          Quarter  Cumulative   Quarter -Cumulative   Quartet  Cumulative
1979   March       1979        80           80         80 2/        80         --           --
June       1979       220          300        220 2!       300         --           --
1980   September  1979        100          400       (112)2V       188        212          212
December   1979       100          500         47          235         53          265
March       1980      200          700         94          329        106          371
June       1980       200          900         94          423        106          477
1981   September  1980        500        1,400        235          658        265          742
December   1980       700        2,100        329          987        371        1,113
March       1981      900        3,000        423        1,410        477        1,590
June       1981    1,000         4,000        470        1,880        530        2,120
1982   September  1981    1,000          5,000        470        2,350        530        2,650
December   1981    1,300         6,300        612        2,962        688        3,338
March       1982    1,500        7,800        706        3,668        794        4,132
June       1982    1,300         9,100        612        4,280        688        4,820
1983   September  1982    1,100         10,200        518        4,798        582        5,402
December   1982    1,000        11,200        470        5,268        530        5,932
March       1983      900       12,100        423        5,691        477        6,409
June       1983       800       12,900        376        6,067        424        6,833
1984   September  1983        500       13,400        235        6,302        265        7,098
December   1983       500       13,900        235        6,537        265        7,363
March       1984      400       14,300        188        6,725         212       7,575
June        1984      400       14,700        188        6,913        212        7,787
1985   September  1984        400       15,100        188        7,101        212        7,999
December   1984       400       15,500        188        7,289        212        8,211
March       1985      400       15,900        188        7,477        212        8,423
June        1985      400       16,300        188        7,665        212        8,635
1986   September  1985        400       16,700        188        7,853        212        8,847
December   1985        300      17,000        147        8,000        153        9,000
I/  Expected date of signing:           June, 1979
Expected date of effectiveness:  September, 1979
Expected completion date:          June, 1985
Expected closing date:             June, 1986
2/  Disbursements under the Project Preparation Facility which would be refunded by IFAD
to the IDA - Credit Account at the ratio of 9/17 after project effectiveness.



SOMALIA
CENTRAL RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Construction
Year 1                        Year 2                          Year 3                         Year 4                         Year 5                         Year 6
M,qdisho                                                                                   _                                      -
Headquarters Bailding
Sarveys and Appointment of Architects
Design, Tender Documents
Biddiag and Amaid
Construction                                                                                                      _
Staff Hoases Class A
Surveys, Design, Tender
Bidding and A.ard
Construction                                                               -       -              _                    ..... .......
Central Workshop                                                                                                         ,.....,,,,.
Regional and District Centers
Surveys, Design, Tender
Bfidding and Asnard
Constr uct                                                 l                                                         _a_
Water DeveloPment (Range Reserves)
NRA Regional Offices, Aud onisual Production Rooms, Stores, Workshops and staff houses (including non-formal training)
NRA District Offices, Stores, staff houses (including eon-forrsal training component)
Veterinary Services: Diagnostic Laboratory-Hiran, Store Mudug, E.tension cf Stores in Hiran and Galgudud
World Bank -19939
rt H>
II1 F



SOMALIA
CENTRAL RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Employment of Internationally Recruited Staff
Year 1                  Year 2                    Year 3                    Year 4                    Year 5                    Year 6
No.                                Post                                                                                                                                                                                       Manyears
1            Range Ecologist 1 (Range Survey)                             _                                                                                                                                                     15 
2            Range Ecologist 2 (Raege Survey)                                            -  -  -  -  -   --                                                                                                                     1.5                            T
3            Raoge Ecologist 1 (Monitoring Unoh)                                                                  -  -   -  -   -   -  -   -  -   --                                                                            2.0
4            Range Ecologist 2 (Monitoring Unit)                                                                                                                                                                                2 .0
5            Range Training Officer,--  -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  --  -  -  - --                                                         -    -     -  -  -   -  -   -  -   -  -   -  -                                         5.0
G            Adult Education Officr                                                                               -  -  -   -   -   -  -         -  -   -  -   - --  -   -  -   -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -                   4.0
7            Lectarer 1 (Range Managementi)                                                                       --       -  -  --                       -  -  --   -  -    -- ---              - ---    - -               4.0
8            Lectorer 2 (Range Management)                                                                        - - i--       - ----- ----- -------    4.0
9            Lecturer 3 (Animal Husbandry)                                                                        -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -   -  -   -  -   -  -   -  -   -  -   -  -  -   -  -  -  -                       4.0
10            Lecturer 4 (Forestry)                                                                                -  -   -  -   -  -  ---   -   -   -  -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -  ---  -  -   -  - _-                        4 0
11            Range 1nstractor, Faculty of Agriculture                       -  -  ---  -  -  -  -  -  -               -   -  -  -  -  - -  -  -  -  -   -   -  -  -   -  -   -                   -  -   -   -  -   -            5.5
12            Range Ecologist (Range Investigations)                                                                                                                                              -   -  -  -  -   - -           2.5
13            Serior Range Technician (Range Investigation)                                                                                                                                                                      2.5
14            Ta-orromist                                                                                                       -  -  _          -  -  -   -   -  -   -  -   -   -   -   - _        -  -   -  -   -  -           3.5
15            Narsery Specialist                                                                                   -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -  -   -  -  -  - .    -  -  -   -   -  -                  -  -  -  -  -  -            4.0
16            Soil antd Water Conservation Specialist                                                                 -  -   -   -  -         -  -   -   -  - _                                                                  2.0
17            Coope-ativo  Adviser                                                                                                                                    -  -  -   -   -   -         -  -  -   -  -  -  -           2.0
18            Technical Director, Veterinary Services                                                              -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -   - _    -   -  -  -   -  -                    -  -   -  -  -  -           4.0
19            Disease Invettigation Officer                                                                        -  -   -   -   -  -  ---   -  -   -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -  -  -   -  -  -   -  - _-                      4.0
20            Pathologist                                                                                          -  -   -  -   -  -  -         -   -  -  -   - _        -  -  -   -   -  -   -  -   -   -   -  -               4.0
21            Laboratory 1echnician                                                                                -  -   -  -   -   -  -         -   -   -  -   -  --  -  -  -   -   -   -   -  -  -   -   -  - _                4.0
22            Project Coordinator, CRDP                                                                            -  -   -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -   -  -   - _           -   -   -   -  - _      -   -   - -   -    ---   5-       5
23            Technical Director, Range and Environment                                                                        -  -  -  -   -  -   -  -  - _               -  -  -   -   -  -  -  -  --                           3.0
24            Teclnical Director, Forestry                                                                         -  -   -  -   -  -  -   -  -   -  -  -   -  _  -   -  -   -   -  -   -  -   -   -                  _           4.0
25            Technical Director, Administration                            -  -  - .     -  -  --          -       --     -  -  -  -  -   -  -  -   -  -   -  _   -  -  -                                                        4.0
26            F,nancial Ctrrller                                                                                               _.                                                                                                 3 0
27             I echnical Director, Stockvater Service                                                                                                                 -  -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -   -   -             2.0
28            Hydrogeologist                                                                                       -  -   -  -   -   -  -   -  -   -  -   -   --                                                                  2.0
29            Drilling Foreman                                                                                     -  -   -   -  -  -  -                                                                                          2.5
30            Master Mechanic                                                                                        -     -  -   -  -   -   -  -  -  -  -                                                                        4 0 -| -i
rWX
World Bank - 19938
UO~



ANNEX 2
-49-          Chart 1
cc~~~~~~c
0
C ~                                         Cd
2>
u IL  O  I               -   , _    
CCC7 (2<               ___Z 
Z<   N < ......:
2
CL
<~~~~- > 2    
AC
C R H w D C n T = _ j _ ! _ o _  a



SOMALIA
CENTRAL RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NATIONAL RANGE AGENCY
HEADQUARTERS ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
F      (T-CE       =                                                                                                                                              ROJECTCOORDINA101    |
DEPARTMENT OF ADMINISTRAION                             DEPARTMENT oF DANCDARNTN ON  RD_IRF
DIRECTOR                                       AND ENVIRONMFnT                                         DEPADTMEER OF REAnCH                              EPARl MNT Of FORFSTRY                   D  A tNT REOWIIE
TECHNICAI DlDlECTOR*                     DlnEcToR                                             TRAINING AND FLANNNGr
(FICANCEAND PROCUHEMENTOFlICE)                          * TECHNICAL IRECTOrO                                              DIRECTOR                                  * IECRNICAL DIRECCOR
_ _       5ITd 151C            SA,snW,           STCTITTg,1II                               DRseI IX           TIIC P|nce *Rrs                                             PRt11      Icest |
AA1,FTTTS         *     Dl                  C  FeAciaslisr ll | toozt FCRRCO11n   ForoRn   |            STcoOCS,  I        lSrainin            Decc       I                            Eei
rMain ew  r H eivables \~ ~ ~~F.H  
r H                                              ( ) P st Will be dele Sc'Tgc WdT ATILO IRRCIR,  Della,,  DuDeTon
F-1-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o -7c NnD
EPerC  * FnLzs pinvided under the Ploicct                                                                                                                           Wolid Bak  19355~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W.Id3-1   135



- 51 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
SOMALIA
CENTRAL RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A. Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1. Government of Somalia: Report in Support of Loan Application to
Finance a Central Rangelands Development Project - October 1977.
2. Mass Education: Issues and Proposal, UNESCO - November 1977.
3. Mineral and Ground Water Survey (Phase II). Technical Report No. 3 -
Groundwater in the Somali Democratic Republic.
4. Pilot Sample Census on Nomads and their Livestock in Haga Season in
Mudug Region - 1971.
5. Request for the Expansion of Somalia 719: "Reforestation and Rangeland
Development". World Food Programme.
6. Techniques for Measuring Range Quality Yield and Utilization, Depart-
ment of Pasture Science, University of the Orange Free State, 1974.
7. Proceedings of the Linean Society of London, Volume 177 - Part 2
Henning C.F., F.L.S. The Vegetation of the Northern Region of the
Somali Republic.
8. Photocopy: Survey of the Northern Rangeland Somali Democratic Republic:
An Ecological Classification of the Vegetation of the Bosaso Region
(FAO, Rome 1973) by C.F. Henning.
9. Somali Democratic Republic: Law for Development of Range Management
(Draft January 1, 1978);
10. A Monitoring System for the Rangeland Development Project Ethiopia,
ILCA, May 1976.
11. Rangeland Conservation and Development Somalia. Project Findings
and Recommendations (SOM 72/003) Terminal Report, FAO, Rome 1977.
12. World Food Programme: Somalia 719 - Reforestation and Rangeland
Development Project Document, Rome, October 1972.
13. Training School for Animal Health Assistants, Muqdisho, Somalia.
Project SOM 72/002. Final Report of Lecturer in Animal Husbandry
(L.R.N. Strange). FAO.
14. Water Analysis carried out by Preparation Team, Somalia Central
Rangeland, 1977.



- 52 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
B. Table of Contents of the Implementation Volume
Annex 4: INTERNATIONALLY RECRUITED STAFF
Annex 5: RANGELAND DEVELOPMENT
Annex 6: LIVESTOCK WATER SUPPLIES
Annex 7:  NON-FORMAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING
Annex 8: FORMAL EDUCATION IN LIVESTOCK, FORESTRY AND RANGE
Annex 9: RANGE STUDIES AND TRIALS
Annex 10: WORLD FOOD PROGRAM PROJECT 719
Annex 11: PASTORAL ECONOMY AND LIVESTOCK MARKETING
Annex 12: LIVESTOCK PRODUCTION AND THE STRENGTHENING
OF THE VETERINARY SERVICES
Annex 13: PRODUCTION AND BENEFITS
Annex 14: DETAILED PROJECT COSTS
Annex 15: PROJECT FINANCING
Annex 16: CONSTRUCTION



IBRD 14175
I -  )                                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FEJ tIlSFl 19,9
.     >69  4'      J<*.r_  54
,\C          \      r           PEOPLE 'S DEMOCRATIC
1                \                REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
IS'>                // DJI BOUr    \
,   Be,eda
DJIBOUT I
{     t-        ,~~~loyada
,0>   * -?Seyla                                                           Adado  Bosaso             +
Mai         a 1
(  J          \ At   ~~~Berbera ,                            ~!                         ' 
iXBoro na      ,m                                             ) c1                              Scusc,ubP
S\sNabad                               ' 
Tug VWaiaesrpn  W /
0 Bender Eelre
i <ahleh                        no, 6
SOMALIA
CENTRAL RANGELANDS
-aDEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                     . ...
CENTRAL RANGELANDS DEVELOPYENT PROJECT AREA
NORTHERlN RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT AREA
BITUMINOUS SURFACED ROADS
GRAVEL/EARTH SURFACED ROADS
4     MAJOR PORTS                                                                                qfkoy          --   :
4-    DOMESTIC AIRFIELDS
INTERNATIONAL AIRFIELDS
--     RIVERS
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
REGION 8OUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDAFIES
< / / f vD~~~usa hareb ' 
, . ,>./ A , _ --D~~~~Hobyo
\  r Belet wein r .r
SaX  -^\,       \ Hoddu                                /     |         '  
-44                oS                    X                        *   xy- :L.k Bi
onone                      'B                                                                           5       55     5     55      SS      O
/  GnaneX ~~~~~~~ X                       B~U'o                                            0 ,0    1 0, sc c    isc    200    25D    3?O  
,!   t  >  \  Bonk<J   r   E *  KILOMETERS  \
/ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~  ~ ~~~                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~ -  REF :  xx----', 
2e    udin e         Bur Akaba             l
!   .   f  n        j        >_                . .  ~~~~~~~~Jowhar
r         fjDin~~~~~~isor                  zH                .taa-o^n;s./>4'f1,e,ss/o'<1'1.r''nar.a 
t           r trci~~~~rere \                         S.       D S         U                                      AR 
'\  <-~~ t   -  Gglue.Jannule                                     l                       - X \         SAUDI  A RA BI A           /
Z                       U3tU  *          <~~~u                                                   N                  SU)DAN,'                                      .
LLJ            Beles                        :                       /                       g                       ,                      DJIRJTI
-Qn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 4                                                                                     ET-HIOPI/Ai
|  \          \/   /Jaa~~~mrnmae                                                                           o        o E T H I O P I A         o 
(  C
\ /UGAND
\       KENYA  i
\BaTodANZUTIIS   '7
g                           ~~~~~~~~~44'                                                   48         TANZANIA   ,



4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I



I BRD 13868
SAUDJI  ARAnIA.\           -S---      -- - -                                     ----.-  - -.- -  - -  -                    GA ROE *                       v7MARCH 0~70
SOMALIA~~~~AOS                                                                                               N U            A
E    HI0     A UE   -              1t                                                                                          ov
~~~s0                                                   /                                                  Logloal,.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ALIBUL
NYA                                                        ETIO   A                                                                       0I                                G 
EANZNI        OPILOMTE/                                                                   I~0SID,rUI
'-5,  '  ...*./*                                                          /                                                   OULLI SUNS~~~~~~~R-dI,...Al
5>   '~~~~.  /                                                              ./                                                                                                     NH                          7,H'I.D -
.Z.
TANZANIA    N.  LOsUISS> ~ ~            ~            ~            ~            ~           ~            ~          ~           ~          ~          DI   /
A~~~~~C
In;, eon non  ovpropenU  ~ ~        ~          A MARE
WU5aOUr~~~~~~~~~~tn5,ffUOrlUU,OIyfU, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     .'
tSnUnwsr,5OrM75,,,,d.,, U' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    EL    BJ 
sU, mUOU so wUe  0 nonoUno ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bd                                                                     Y
OOO~~UK*S $500070G7L tr                                                 D        U      
do ,,,tL,nlr.  $JIOUUI 0710,IFI
Wood OwA .no'UoafcfinnS my~ ~~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~
sooawwo vo Us, roedD oddo,r  ooM                                                                                                             .I H
,//  ~~~            Coo~l Uhne                        /              L        J
ETWEINE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oon, ) Central Rangelands Development Project
'c,I.,           H     I   R A NWI                                                                                            osl 
IT                                                                                                                       F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ange grazinIg reseres (900 kr2) with w-ter development
so.., tooo,  M.,o~~~~~~,                             Co0oondn ~~~~   So, Cooonvlvr             CL LTENATIU ;U  I   Famine grainIg reServeS 1600 kin0) with water dlenep1nent
7    'o.o,onr    BULO   R2UEIDs
C ... W.                                                                                                               Mobil~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ces tracksatw  e
/                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 Maj.r lawns
a   villages
--    ne-
--Regional boundaries
rV     DDLE                                                                                                              .--  nemnational boundary
WANLE~                       HEB             LLI                                                                                                                    0   20  *0  6o  go  too
-       -    ULUoRB          -                 CDL
SHED -   , I    ssssseuens                              S~'6                     4r                                             St9 S



