Document of                        C
The World Bank    FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2484-So
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOR A
CENTRAL RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 25, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be diclosegd without World Bank authorization. |



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(CY 1978, and March 1979)
Currency Unit   =    Somali Shillings (So.Sh.) - 100 cents
So.Sh. 1.00     =    US$ 0.1589
US$ 1.00         =    So.Sh. 6.295
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
2
1 hectare (ha)                   10,000 m      =  2.47 acres
2
1 square kilometer (km )    =   100 ha         =  0.39 sq. miles
1 metric ton (mt)            =   1,000 kg      =  2,204 lbs.
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CRDP  -   Central Rangelands Development Project
DAP   -    epartment of Animal Production
FAO   -   Food and Agriculture Organization, U.N.
ILCA  -   International Livestock Center for Africa
LDA   -   Livestock Development Agency
MLFR  -   Ministry of Livestock, Forestry and Range
NRA   -   National Range Agency
NRDP  -   Northern Rangelands Development Project
ODM   -   Overseas Development Ministry, U.K.
RMEA  -   Regional Mission for East Africa, World Bank
UNDP  -   United Nations Development Program, U.N.
USAID -   United States Agency for International Development
WFP   -   World Food Program, U.N.
PPF   -   Project Preparation Facility, IDA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SOMALIA - CENTRAL RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            Somali Democratic Republic
Beneficiary:         National Range Agency
Amount:              US$8.0 million
Terms:               Standard
Project
Description:       The Project would, over a period of six years, consolidate
and improve rangelands and livestock production in the
project area, increase the income of the pastoralLsts
through the introduction of a system of range utiLization,
and make way for the gradual concentration of pastoral
communities which would be helpful to the provision of
social services. This would be achieved by improving
the veterinary service; providing non-formal and formal
education; strengthening the National Range Agency's
administration; and initiating nurseries, town shelter
belts, and water and soil conservation activities. The
benefits of the Project would include an increase in
employment, livestock off-take, milk and meat consumption,
and per capita income of pastoralists. The major risks
in project implementation would be a lower than estimated
rate of-acceptance of the Project by the pastoralists and
delays in the recruitment of international staff.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






- ii -
Estimated
Project Cost:
US$ Million
% of
Project Component             Local Cost  Foreign Cost  Total Cost   Total
Range Development                 5.0           7.7          12.7        27
Training                          1.8           4.9           6.7        15
Range Studies & Trials            0.4           2.9           3.3         7
Veterinary Services               0.8           2.4           3.2         7
NRA Headquarters                  1.5           6.1           7.6        16
Contingencies                     4.1           8.7          12,8        28
Total Project Costs         13.6          32.7          46.3      100
Financing Plan:                      Source        Amount US$ Million  % of Total
IDA                   8.0                17
IFAD                  9.0               20
USAID                15.0                32
ODM                   4.0                 9
WFP                   4.3                 9
Government            6.0                13
Total                           46.3              100
Estimated
Disbursements;                                US$ Million
1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
Annual          0.4    1.5    2.4    1.8    0.8    0.8    0.3
Cumulative      0.4    1.9    4.3    6.1    6.9    7.7    8.0
Rate of Return:      15% (Calculated on 60% of total project costs).
Staff Appraisal
Report:            Report No. 2163-SO, dated April 12, 1979.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC FOR A
CENTRAL RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Credit to the Somali Democratic Republic for the equivalent of US$8.() mil-
lion on standard IDA terms to help finance the Central Rangelands Development
Project. Additional financing for the project would be obtained, on conces-
sionary terms, from the USAID (about US$15 million), British ODM (about US$4
million equivalent), International Fund for Agricultural Development (about
US$9 million equivalent) and the World Food Program (about US$4.3 million
equivalent).
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A Country Economic Memorandum (Report No. 2244-SO) was distributed
to the Executive Directors in January, 1979. Country data sheets are attached
as Annex I.
3.        The Somali Democratic Republic gained its independence in 1960
and the present Government came into power in 1969. In 1976, a political
party, the Somali Revolutionary Socialist Party, was formed and became the
main political institution. At present, the country is still suffering from
the hostilities in the border areas in the Ogaden, and the phasing-out of
Soviet aid and technical assistance in 1977. This, combined with large-scale
migration oE Somali workers to the Middle East has led the Government to
re-examine its development strategy. Although no major strategy has yet
emerged, some cautious steps tending to increase the role of market forces in
the economy have been taken.
4.        Somalia is a large country with a 3,000 kilometer coastline; its
land mass varies from a hot and arid coastal plain, to rugged mountains, and
plateaux, and lowlands of varying fertility and rainfall. Only 13% of the
land is said to be arable, but with water the limiting constraint, only a
small fraction of this potentially arable land is, in fact, cultivated. Of a
total population of approximately 3.7 million, over two-thirds are nomads and
semi-nomads, who depend on livestock for their livelihood and about 20-25% are
farmers cultivating land along the Juba and Shebelli rivers and in the
higher-rainfall Bay and North-west regions. The existence of several minerals
has been confirmed but with exploration still in its early stages, commercial
viability remains to be proved. Short of other known resources, Somalia's
prospects center on agricultural and livestock development in which progress
will depend upon careful management of scarce land and water resources.
1/   This section is the same as that of the Agricultural Extension and Training
Project.



-2-
5.        The small monetary sector of the economy provides only limited
opportunities for employment. Apart from the traditional export of live-
stock, commercial agriculture is mainly centered on the production and export
of bananas, in which foreign concession holders are still important, and
the production of sugar for the domestic market. The expansion of manufac-
turing and other service sectors of the economy is limited by the small size
of the domestic market, poor infrastructure, and the shortage of capital
and entrepreneurial experience. IDA staff estimate that about 70% of the
population live at subsistence levels of about US$200-250 per family of five.
Social services are still very inadequate, the primary school enrollment
ratio (at about 34% in 1977), though considerably higher than five years ago,
remains relatively low. There is little economic data on Somalia. Even basic
figures such as GNP, population, number of livestock, or output of major
agricultural crops are only rough estimates. With a per capita income in the
order of US$110. in 1977, the UN classifies Somalia as one of the least
developed countries.
Development Strategy
6.        Since 1970 the Government has adhered to a program of "scientific
socialism", emphasizing egalitarianism and social justice, development through
the public sector, nationalization of certain foreign enterprises, and the
formation of cooperatives. While the Government has always stated that there
is room for private initiative in Somalia and several privately financed
projects have been implemented, the main emphasis has been given to develop-
ment of the public sector. Public ownership and management have expanded
through nationalization, creation, and growth of enterprises. The parastatal
sector now includes more than 50 autonomous agencies that have eliminated
private enterprises in wholesale trade and banking while taking a major
share in manufacturing. The Five-Year Development Plan 1974-78 (FYDP) was
essentially a public investment program that allowed for a few small private
ventures. Overall Plan implementation reached for about 60% of the initial
allocation, but this figure must be considered indicative, rather than precise.
Although it provided a needed impetus to investment in the economy, the Plan
does not seem to have played a major role in the allocative process. Despite
the Government's initial intentions, industry and mining, and infrastructure,
have received more public investment than agriculture. At the same time,
public enterprises have expanded without firm Government control, owing to a
large extent to the inadequacies of monitoring instruments.
7.        Since the bulk of the population is engaged in herding or in sub-
sistence farming, a development strategy for Somalia should be based on
agriculture and livestock resources. The major development goals of the
Somali Government include self-sufficiency in food grains, the partial substi-
tution of other food imports (oils, rice) and improvement of the lot of the
traditional nomadic herdsmen through settlement programs and improvements in
livestock production and marketing facilities. The current emphasis on
irrigated agriculture is meant to make the country less dependent on the
erratic pattern of rainfall, and assure more stable and predictable increases
in output. However, rainfed agriculture which occupies the largest number of



-3-
farm families is also being assisted. Improvements in livestock production
and marketing are being promoted together with projects aiming at the reha-
bilitation of the rangelands.
8.        Somalia has made considerable progress in meeting some basic needs,
a program of literacy and primary education has had noticeable results, and an
effective system of food supply has been established. In other areas of the
social sectors, however, the record is less impressive, particularly in water
supply, sanitation, and health where services frequently seem to benefit
mainly the urban population. On the other hand, economic growth has been
rather slow, making it difficult for Somalia to pursue its basic needs policies
vigorously. The 1979-81 Plan bases its development of industry on t'he pro-
cessing of domestic raw materials to substitute for imports, althoug'h there
are a few rather large investments which do not conform to this policy.
Finally, the Government places emphasis on developing infrastructure, espec-
ially transportation and communications.
Economic Performance, Problems, and Sectoral Developments
9.        Tlhe 1974-78 Five-Year Plan has been revised several times but
remained overambitious with respect to both financial and implementation
capacities. Financial implementation reached about 60%, 55%, 77% and 73%
of the targets in the first four years. However, the absence of adequate
monitoring and evaluation makes it impossible to determine the economic
impact of t'hese expenditures. In real terms, annual investment has probably
been increasing and what was an essentially financial constraint in 1973-74
had, by 1976, turned into an implementation constraint which has worsened
recently as a result of the exodus of skilled Somalis to the neighboring
oil-exporting countries (see below, para 10). Many incomplete projects
from the 1974-78 Plan are therefore included in a Three-Year Development Plan,
1979-81, under which investment of So.Sh. 5.7 billion (of which So.Sh. 3.4
billion are carry-overs) is contemplated.
10.       About 100,000 Somalis have migrated to work in the neighboring
oil-exporting states and their total earnings equal about ten times the total
domestic value added in Somalia's modern sector. Labor migration has been a
phenomenon that the Government neither organizes nor controls, and its magni-
tude is such that the drain of skills and the inflow of private funds may
affect the smooth functioning of a publicly-controlled economy. This migra-
tion is seriously depleting Somalia's already low stocks of qualified and
skilled manpower, thereby reducing the absorptive capacity of the country and
weakening its institutions. Migrant remittances have financed imports of
about US$50 million in 1977, roughly equivalent to Somalia's exports of
livestock (75% of total export value).  This import trade consists mostly of
basic consumers' goods (foods, textiles, some durables); to a certain extent,
however, these remittances could be mobilized to finance investment. At
present, there are few incentives and opportunities for private capital to
engage in productive investment - and this partly explains why remittances
finance consumption goods. There is no comprehensive public policy on remit-
tances, though IDA staff and the Government are discussing measures for
formulation of a suitable policy for attracting the remittances intc, productive
investments in Somalia.



-4-
11.       Budgetary policies have generally been conservative and efforts
have been made to mobilize resources through taxation. Although the drought
and the border problems have adversely affected the Government's budget, the
external grants they attracted have considerably eased their financial impact.
However, expenditures on basic needs and defense have risen so much that the
current budget fell into deficit in 1977 (by So.Sh. 2.5 million) for the
first time since 1971. The border problems of 1977 may only have accelerated
an outcome that was already visible. In fact, the supply of government
services nationwide, and the recurrent cost implications of recent public
investments and policies, especially in productive services (such as agricul-
tural extension) and basic needs (such as education, health and drinking
water) will make it increasingly difficult for the budget to generate savings.
12.       The external financial constraint is mainly the result of slow
growing exports, with relatively stable imports over the past three years.
The structure of the balance of payments in 1977 was essentially similar to
that of previous years, with low exports equivalent to US$71.3 million,
accounting for only about 40% of imports. The large trade deficit was more
than compensated for by transfers (US$108.0 million) and capital inflows
(US$64.2 million). Exports declined by about 12% in 1977 mainly on account of
bananas, the second most important export item. The drop in banana exports
resulted partly from a marketing dispute in the Middle East. Decreased
activity in fields such as fish and meat canning, formerly assisted by the
Soviet Union, also contributed to declining exports. Livestock exports have
stagnated during the past three years largely because of the 1974-75 drought,
but early indications for 1978 suggest a resumption of growth (in volume)
together with satisfactory price developments.
13.       Slow growing exports and a low level of domestic savings, both
attributable to the country's poverty, have made external assistance most
important in the financing of development. Somalia joined the Arab League
in 1974 and mounted a major effort to attract funds from the Arab petroleum
exporting countries. The large inflows of external capital and transfers from
1975 onward indicate that the effort has been successful. Due to political
events, the source of foreign assistance has recently changed from the
socialist countries (except for China which maintains a large program)
towards Arab bilateral and multilateral institutions (continuing the trend
started in 1975) and Western countries, several of which (the EEC, FRG and
Italy) have had substantial assistance programs for a number of years. The
public external debt of Somalia outstanding and disbursed as of December 1977
was approximately US$399 million, and although a large share is on fairly soft
terms, the debt service ratio has increased from 3.4% in 1972 to about 5.5% in
1977.
14.       In summary, the Government's record over the past few years has been
mixed, but the country's poverty is such that even partial successes must be
commended. The slow development of agriculture in a mostly nomadic society,
the shortage of qualified manpower, the difficulties of organizing and manag-
ing an efficient public sector, and the limitation of financial resources



-5-
can all be imputed to the country's limited endowment and to its human and
natural constraints. The government has attempted and partially succeeded
in alleviating some of these constraints. It has met some of the basic needs.
It has also laid a national basis for growth in manufacturing together with an
initial system of economic and physical infrastructure, though growth in
income, exports, and imports has been rather slow. The Government may want,
however, to consider adapting its development strategy to an economic: environ-
ment that has changed over the last few years.
15.       As regards future policies, greater emphasis should be given to
economic growth; this would imply directing more investments towards produc-
tive activities, particularly agriculture and small-scale industry. The
mobilization of resources to this end should be sought through better manage-
ment of public enterprises, a more useful role for the skills and resources
acquired by migrants, and a broadened capacity to absorb external calpital. In
addition, many observers suggest that the Government may be overextending
itself. In the interest of economic growth, somewhat better opportunities and
greater incentives ought to be given to private investors.
16.       Somalia's export prospects are rather poor because of the concentra-
tion on two primary products -- livestock and bananas -- both of which face
problems in expanding production in the long run. Livestock is subject to
cyclical droughts which decrease export supplies. Banana exports have fallen
because of *both supply (drought, floods, poor agricultural practices) and
demand (increasing competition from multinationals in both Italy and the
Middle East) problems, but production could recuperate within two years.
Diversification efforts have been attempted with hides, skins, and fisheries
with limited success and even dimmer prospects now that Soviet technical
assistance, dominant in these three activities, has been wound up. Therefore,
in view of the country's poverty and uncertain export prospects, assistance
should be provided on the softest terms possible and contain provisions for
local currency financing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SOMALIA 1/
17.       Starting in 1965 IDA has made 17 Credits totalling about US$112
million, of which about 38% have been made for transportation develcpment,
including construction of three trunk roads and a new deepwater port and
associated extensions at Mogadishu. IDA Credits were also made for live-
stock development in FY74, for a development finance company project in
FY77, and for education in FY71, FY75 and FY78. Lending for agriculture
commenced in FY76 with two Credits for a Drought Rehabilitation Proliect
and a North-West Region Agricultural Development Project. A Credit for
development of water supply in Mogadishu and a technical assistance Credit
for project preparation were approved in FY78. No Bank loan or IFC invest-
ment has been made to Somalia. Annex II contains a summary statement of
IDA Credits as of March 31, 1979 and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
1/   This section is the same as the Agricultural Extension and Traiining
Project.



-6-
18.       Performance on ongoing projects generally has been satisfactory.
However, as the pace of development continues to rise, absorptive capacity
constraints are becoming increasingly evident, especially in the field of
agriculture where projects are rather complex and implementation experience
is limited. Therefore, in preparing and appraising new projects, particularly
close attention will have to be paid to implementation capacity and the
adoption of measures to ease this constraint when necessary. To overcome the
more pervasive problems of project implementation, which are common with the
agriculture sector, the Government is establishing a Project Implementation
Unit which would strengthen the capacity for project implementation consider-
ably by providing monitoring and logistical support to the projects, including
assistance in procurement and recruitment of consultants.
19.       We plan to concentrate our future efforts on the country's directly
productive sectors, agriculture and livestock, and also on education and
transportation. While agriculture and livestock offer potential for develop-
ment, most rural development activities are only at the beginning stage.
Moreover, agricultural development in Somalia is particularly difficult
because most of the people in rural areas are nomadic. For these reasons, we
plan that much of our future lending will be in the agriculture and livestock
sectors, and this will be complemented with near equal attention on education.
We are seeking Board approval for an Agricultural Extension and Farm Management
Training Project, and in the near future we intend to seek approval for an
agricultural project for the Bay Region. We have also started to assist the
Government in preparation of a National Livestock Marketing Project. In order
to increase our knowledge of the agricultural sector, we plan to carry out a
review of this important sector in the near future. In addition to these
sectors, we plan to support the Government's industrial development efforts
(and assist in the formulation of an industrial development policy) through
our country economic work and future DFC projects. We also plan to continue
assistance to the water supply sector.
20.       Somalia's statistical service lacks the capacity to fulfill the
data needs of development programs. The Bank's Operations have experienced
difficulties in obtaining statistical data. It is proposed to strengthen the
Central Statistical Department in the State Planning Commission under the Agri-
cultural Extension and Farm Management Training Project through provision of
technical assistance and training of Somali staff.
21.       To facilitate the development and implementation of the Associa-
tion's growing operational program in Somalia, we have established a one-man
resident mission. The mission represents the Bank Group in its contacts with
the Government thus facilitating an efficient and smooth day-to-day working
relationship and assists in coordination of the cofinancing efforts.



-7-
PART III - THE LIVESTOCK SUB-SECTOR
22.       Livestock production is the most important industry of Soimalia.
Over two-thirds of the population is engaged in transhumant grazing of live-
stock in the rangelands. Livestock production contributes about 75-80%
of total foreign exchange earnings through the export of live animals and
animal proiducts. Over the three-year period 1974-76 an average of 1.5 million
live animals were exported annually, of which 57% were sheep, 38% were goats
while cattle and camels accounted for 3% and 2% respectively.
Resource Base
23.       The traditional livestock industry is based on natural rangelands
which constitute 45% of the total land area (30 million ha.). This land is
suitable only for extensive livestock production. The rainfall is erratic
both with respect to distribution and timing. Most of Somalia is consequently
classified as arid to semi-arid. In central Somalia, the vegetation consists
mainly of sandy bush grasslands. On the average, droughts occur once every
five years. This severely limits the productivity of rangelands. These
rangelands are already under pressure and are forcing pastoralists to fall
back on the scarce stockwater points. This results in overgrazing of vegeta-
tion in the surrounding area. However, range vegetation has a remarkable
resilience.  Normal rainfall and reduction in grazing pressure would enable
the rangelands to substantially resume their vigour.
Resource Ultilization
24.       The sole productive use of the rangelands is to graze livestock
under a husbandry system flexible enough to adapt to the sparse and erratic
rainfall. The Somali pastoralists have developed a system of production which
minimizes the effects of drought and disease. They achieve the best possible
grazing by dispersing their herds wisely. The pastoralists constantly attempt
to make maximum use of natural grazing and expand their flocks through uncon-
trolled breeding. The expansion of flocks is done in anticipation of the
heavy losses which the next drought is bound to inflict. This traditional
system has functioned as long as new grazing areas were available and feuds,
drought and disease acted as a check on human and animal numbers. The enforce-
ment of law and order and advances in human and veterinary medicine, together
with first stages in the modernization of the economy, have, however, removed
these constraints. The pastoralists are now compelled to compete with one
another for the available forage and water. They have little regard to the
needs of the vegetation for recuperation. Without the introduction of manage-
ment of the rangelands and livestock, the forage resource would deteriorate
and livestock numbers would decrease. This would result in a lower output of
meat and milk which would have to be shared by an increasing population.



-8-
Livestock Marketiing
25.       Livesticbh is  iiarketed mainly by private traders.  Ihe producer is
often at their merc,y because of the lack of competition in the market place
and inadequate price information. The Livestock Development Agency (LDA), as
the official aiarketiuig organization, provides only limited marketing services.
It mostly acts as a fee collection agency. Further, the trekking of livestock
over long distances causes losses from stress and disease.
Sector Constraiki
26.       Thle   . isji patcernu of production and the impact of drought is
becoming more pronouncled, The severe drought period, 1973-75, caused the loss
of up to 30-40% of the animal population and forced 200,000 pastoralists into
Government rel-x J campt. This was a clear indication of the breakdown of the
traditional systt.,, of production and the increasing vulnerability of the
pastoralist.  Ghe Government is determined to bring education, health and
extension seiviceb to the pastoralists who represent 80% of the Somali popu-
lation. However it is a difficult task to achieve because of the fragmenta-
tion and high idobiility of pastoral communities. Under present circumstances,
the fragmentation and mobility of pastoralists is essential to the continua-
tion of livestock prod.ction in the rangelands.  A sedentarization of pastor-
alists which was L,ot preceded by the introduction of range management would
however, be detriniental to the livestock industry and might entail the
loss of livelihood for possibly as much as half of the population.
Related Goverime=iit; lisit.uttions
27.       The htighiest l vel of decision making rests with the Central Commit-
tee of the Somali Socialist Revolutionary Party.  The Minister of Livestock,
Forestry and Range (MLFR) reports to the Central Committee. The Minister
interprets policy and makes operational decisions with regards to rangelands
development and livestock. The Ministry of Livestock, Forestry and Range
defines policy tor: (i) the National Range Agency (NRA); (ii) the Livestock
Development Agelncy (LDA); (iii) the Veterinary Services; (iv) the Department
of Animal Prodaction (DAP); and (v) the Institute of Animal Sciences.
28.       The National Range Agency was established in 1976, as an autonomous
agency to design and imaplement a national range development strategy.  The
Agency is authorized to:  (i) plan national range development; (ii) establish
grazing and drought reserves; (iii) develop fodder production units; (iv) carry
out planned stockwater development; (v) promote organizations for guiding and
educating livestock owners; and (vi) map the rangelands and classify rangeland
areas. The transfer of the Forestry Department to this agency in 1977 further
made the agency responsible for: (i) creation of forest reserves; (ii) con-
trol of usage of disappearing plant species; and (iii) experimentation with
forage or other plant species to achieve more efficient utilization. In
1978, the National Range Agency had a budget of So.Sh. 14 million for activi-
ties other than those related to the Kuwait Fund financed Northern Rangelands
Development Project. The NRA at present employs 300 permanent staff. The
Livestock Development Agency, which was set up in 1960, has responsibility for
livestock marketing and exports. The Department of Veterinary Services is
under the Director of Veterinary Services. A Serum and Vaccine Institute



- 9 -
operating under the Department produces vaccines. Animal production projects
and related state-farms and education services are handled by the Department
of Animal Production.
Development Strategy
29.       The Government's development strategy is: (i) to improve the resource
base of the livestock industry through range management; (ii) alleviate the
constraints on livestock productivity by providing better veterinary services;
and (iii) to achieve a gradual concentration of pastoral communities so that
their standard of living may be improved through the provision of health
services and education. This can only be achieved with the cooperation of the
pastoralists. Their cooperation will not be forthcoming unless they recognize
the usefulness of the proposed range management system. This entails a strong
emphasis on education, the establishment of grazing associations and their
gradual assumption of responsibility for grazing control. In addition, the
National Range Agency needs to be strengthened so that it may carry out its
initiating, educational and supervisory role effectively.
Bank Group Assistance in the Agricultural Sector
30.       We have had limited experience in the field of agriculture in
Somalia. Bank Group assistance to the agricultural sector in Somalia started
with the Trans-Juba Livestock Project (IDA Credit 462-SO) in FY74 followed by
two Credits in FY76, Drought Rehabilitation Project (IDA Credit 623-SO) and
the Northwest Region Agricultural Development Project (IDA Credit 635-SO). In
addition to the proposed Project and the Agricultural Extension and Farm
Management Training Project, a Bay Region Agricultural Development Project is
in the pipeline. As indicated in paragraph 19, the Bank has also started the
preparation of a Livestock Marketing Project.
31.       Experience with ongoing agricultural projects has indicated absorp-
tive capacity difficulties mainly due to the scarcity of trained manpower in
the agricultural sector. The scarcity of manpower has become more critical
due to the continued exodus of Somalis to the neighboring petroleum exporting
countries. In response to these problems, several steps have been taken to
ease up implementation contraints. For example, the future projects are being
designed with a large provision of technical assistance. Emphasis is placed
on institution building by providing comprehensive training programs in the
Projects. Moreover, the proposed Agricultural Extension and Farm Management
Training Project would make an important contribution to institution building
by training managers, administrators, and extension agents. The Livestock
Marketing Project would deal with the organization of national livestock
marketing service, which would be an important backup activity for the Trans-
Juba Livestock Project, the Kuwait Fund financed Northern Rangelands Develop-
ment Project, as well as for the proposed Project. The design of the proposed
Fourth Education Project would also emphasize manpower development both for
the short-term by training specialists, as well as for the long-term by improv-
ing the quality of education. To overcome the more immediate administrative
and technical problems of project implementation which are common in the agri-
cultural sector such as hiring of consultants, procurement of equipment and



- 10 -
monitoring of project implementation, a Project Implementation Unit is
being set up in the State Planning Commission by the Government, which would
strengthen the capacity for project implementation considerably.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
32.       A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report, Central Rangelands
Development Project" (No. 2163-SO) dated April 12, 1979 is being distri-
buted separately. A Credit and Project Summary appears at the beginning of
this report and a Supplementary Project Data Sheet is given in Annex III.
33.       A UNDP/FAO Livestock Development Survey was conducted in 1966.
This was followed by a survey of the Northern Rangelands (UNDP) in 1970 and
by the Rangeland Conservation and Development Project in 1972. In 1976 the
Government decided to establish the National Range Agency (NRA) initially to
implement the Northern Rangelands Development Project (NRDP) appraised by IDA
in 1975 and subsequently financed by the Kuwait Fund. Following World Bank
identification, a Project to develop the Central Rangelands area of the coun-
try was prepared by a joint Government/World Bank (RMEA) team. The prepara-
tion was completed in October 1977. The Project was appraised in February
1978. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. from March 15, 1979 to
March 19, 1979. The Somali Delegation was headed by Mr. Ahmed Mohamed
Mohamud, the Chairman of National Economic Committee.
Project Objective
34.       The Project is designed to assist the Government in:  (i) improving
rangeland and livestock productivity through the introduction of range manage-
ment, livestock water supplies and improved veterinary services; (ii) gaining
the confidence and cooperation of the pastoralists by establishing a dialogue
with them through non-formal training; and (iii) improving NRA's ability to
implement range development by training of staff at all levels and by provid-
ing internationally recruited senior technical staff.
Project Description
35.       The Project would, over a period of six years, consolidate and
improve rangeland and livestock production in the project area, increase the
income of the pastoralists through the introduction of a system of range
utilization, and make way for the gradual concentration of pastoral communi-
ties, which would help in the provision of social services. This would be
achieved by conducting an aerial survey of the rangelands, including livestock
and human habitation, and the preparation of a vegetation map. This would be
followed by a ground survey of the rangelands and the pastoral communities.
This survey would form the basis for the establishment of grazing reserves
and selection of those reserves where stockwater supplies would be developed.
The Veterinary Services would be expanded, non-formal and formal education
would be provided. The National Range Agency's administration would be



- 11 -
strengthened, and nurseries, town shelter belts and water and soil conserva-
tion activities would be initiated. Specifically, the Project would provide
staff, equipment, housing and transport to carry out:
(i) range development comprising a range ground survey, the
demarcation of 45 town and village grazing reserves, 12
famine reserves and 20 range grazing reserves; the drilling
and equipment of 32 boreholes or surface water ponds to
provide supervised stockwater points in the famine and range
grazing reserves; the construction of 1,000 km of access
tracks and the provision of staff housing, offices and
workshops as well as transport and equipment for the
National Range Agency field service in the project area;
(ii)  non-formal training comprising: a survey of pastoral com-
munities to establish a dialogue and collect information, on
seasonal movements and grazing; non-formal education on the
objectives of the Project; the formation of grazing associa-
tions; field training for the upgrading of field staff and
the initial on-the-job training of range assistants; the
production of simple educational materials directed at the
pastoralists and a film on the pastoral way of life explain-
ing the purpose of the Project;
(iii) formal training comprising the provision of 4 lecturers for
training courses in animal production, range and forestry at
the technical level and 1 university lecturer in range
management 'or the Faculty of Agriculture at Afgoi; 20
man-years of post-graduate fellowships in range management;
and overseas on-the-job training of counterpart staff for
the range monitoring team;
(iv) rangeland studies and trials comprising 5 man-years of
professional services for the establishment of range refer-
ence areas to observe the effects of grazing systems, range
improvement experiments (firing, bush clearing) and forage
analysis; 3.5 man-years of professional services to continue
the identification and registration of range vegetation
(taxonomy); funding for an aerial survey and vegetation
mapping of the Tugder, Nugal and Sanag regions in Northern
Somalia; demonstration of soil and water conservation
measures, experiments with and the evaluation of grazing
cooperatives; strengthening of the NRA's forestry department,
and establishment of three town shelter belts and three
forestry/range nurseries;
(v) the strengthening of Veterinary Services comprising 16
man-years of professional services; 6 mobile vaccination
teams and 12 mobile clinics in order to provide year round
services;



- 12 -
(vi)  the strengthening of National Range Agency headquarters
comprising 15.5 man-years of professional services to
strengthen senior technical management; 4 man-years of
professional services to establish a range monitoring unit
for continuous monitoring of the range reserves; 6.5 man-
years of professional services to set up a stock-water
service to develop, operate and maintain stockwater supplies;
4 man-years of professional services to establish one
central and three regional workshops to ensure the main-
tenance of vehicles, water pumps and engines; and funds
for the construction of a head quarters building.
A total of 4,700 man-years of unskilled labor required for surveying and
demarcation of range reserves, the establishment of town shelter belts and
nurseries, soil conservation and water spreading and experimental grazing
cooperatives would be provided under a World Food Program Project.
Project Implementation
36.       The National Range Agency would be the executing agency for the
Project. However, the Veterinary Services component would be executed by the
Veterinary Department. The formal training at the Livestock and Range School
at Afgoi would be the responsibility of the Project Management Unit of the
Ministry of Education, and the training in range management would be the
responsibility of the Faculty of Agriculture of the National University of
Somalia. The General Manager of the National Range Agency would be the
Project Manager. He would be assisted by an internationally recruited Project
Coordinator with qualifications, experience and terms and conditions satis-
factory to the AssociaLion; this appointment would be an additional condition
of effectiveness (Development Credit Agreement, Sections 4.02(c) and 6.01(c)).
The Project Coordinator would supervise and coordinate the implementation
of various project components. He would be working through the responsible
departments which would be strengthened by internationally recruited technical
directors.
37.       A new law for the development of range management has been signed,
but not yet enacted and gazetted. This law authorizes the Minister of Live-
stock, Forestry and Range, on the recommendation of the National Range Agency,
to establish range development and conservation areas and gives the Agency
additional authority regarding rangelands management. It would be a condition
of Credit effectiveness that the law for the development of range management
had been enacted and gazetted (Development Credit Agreement, Section 6.01(e)).
Staff and Training
38.       In all, the Project would provide 100 man-years of internationally
recruited staff who would be distributed over 30 posts at various stages of
project implementation during a six-year period. At present Somalia has only
one degree holding range management officer. A total of 15 graduates from the
Faculty of Agriculture would be sent to the United States for a two-year
post-graduate course in range management. The funding for the first group of
four students is provided for under the Project Preparation Facility. The
expenses from year two onward would be financed by USAID under a regional



- 13 -
manpower development program. The Livestock and Range School at Afgoi would
graduate 30-40 Range Assistants annually from year five of the Project. The
Project would provide four lecturers for this school. In the meantime,
on-the-job training of range assistants would be carried out in the field
under the non-formal training component of the Project. The training courses
are intended to enable the Somalis to take over full responsibility upon
departure of the technical assistance staff.
Annual Work Program and Project Review
39.       A detailed annual work program and budget for project implementation
would be prepared by the National Range Agency and would be furnished to IDA
for review by November 15 of each year, starting in 1979 until 1984 (Project
Agreement, Section 2.07). This would ensure that necessary provisions for
project implementation are included in the Agency's budget and the relevant
staff are in place or being recruited, and that the program complies with
project criteria and conditions.
Monitoring and Evaluation
40.       A Monitoring and Evaluation Unit would be established under the
planning service of the Research Training and Planning Department of the
National Range Agency. The Unit would initially be staffed by one profes-
sional staff. The International Livestock Center for Africa (ILCA) has agreed
to provide technical assistance for establishing a monitoring package, with
particular emphasis on establishing an appropriate methodology.
Project Co2t Estimates
41.        Project costs would amount to US$46.3 million over the six-year
implementation period. The foreign exchange component amounts to US$32.7
million or 71% of total cost. The Project cost estimates are summarized
below.
Foreign
Project Component       Local Cost   Foreign Cost   Total Cost   Exchange
-- …---US$ million-- - -------…         -      %
Range Development           5.0            7.7            12.7          61
Training                    1.8            4.9             6.7          73
Range Studies & Trials    0.4              2.9             3.3          88
Veterinary Services         0.8            2.4             3.2           75
NRA Headquarters            1.5            6.1              7.6         80
Physical Contingencies    0.7              1.8             2.5          72
Price Contingencies         3.4            6.9             10.3         67
Total Costs          13.6           32.7             46.3          71
Costs are estimated on the basis of the January, 1979 prices. Physical and
price contingencies combined represent 38% of the base cost. Costs of inter-
nationally recruited staff are estimated between US$50,000-US$100,000 per man
year depending on the job to be performed and the source of recruitment.



- 14 -
Financing
42.       The financing of the Project would be shared in the following
amounts and proportions.
Amount           % of
Total
US$ million
IDA                        8.0              17
IFAD                       9.0              20
USAID                     15.0              32
ODM                        4.0               9
WFP                        4.3               9
Government                 6.0              13
Total                46.3             100
43.       Under a joint financing arrangement, IDA would contribute a Credit
of US$8 million, and IFAD a Loan of US$9 million equivalent for financing
civil works, vehicles and equipment, technical assistance, and local salaries.
Both contributions would be on IDA and IFAD standard terms to the Government
of Somalia, who would pass on the proceeds to NRA as a grant under a subsidi-
ary agreement. The joint IDA/IFAD financing would consist of 67 percent
foreign exchange and 33 percent of local costs. The local cost financing is
justified in view of the country's poverty. Assistance from USAID, ODM and
WFP would be under paraliel financing arrangement. The USAID grant would
assist in financing the range and stockwater development components, part of
the formal education and training, the range investigations, soil conservation
and grazing cooperatives components, technical assistance to NRA Headquarters
and the Range Monitoring Unit and Stockwater Service. ODM would finance
technical assistance and specialized equipmejnt for part of the formal training
at the Livestock and Range School, the Town Shelter Belts and Nurseries, the
Veterinary Services and the Maintenance Service. The World Food Program (WFP)
would provide food for unskilled laborers under an ongoing project. The
Government would gradually take over all local salaries and allowances by year
4 of the Project. The Government would deposit a sum of So.Sh. 5.0 million
(US$0.8 million) in National Range Agency's account with the Central Bank of
Somalia and would replenish this advance every six months throughout project
implementation. Deposit of this advance would be a condition of Credit
effectiveness (Development Credit Agreement, Section 6.01(d)).
Procurement
44.       Procurements under the IDA Credit and the IFAD Loan would follow
World Bank procurement guidelines. Except for advance procurement of
vehicles, equipment and furniture (US$0.25 million) needed during the
first project year (where international or domestic shopping would be used),



- 15 -
procurement of vehicles, equipment and furniture would be subject to Interna-
tional Competitive Bidding. Internationally recruited staff (US$1.7 million)
would be selected in accordance with IDA guidelines. The construction, program
(US$4.5 million) would also be subject to International Competitive Bidding
(Project Agreement, Schedule 1). USAID, ODM and WFP would follow their own
procurement guidelines.
Disbursements
45.       The! disbursement of the IDA Credit and the IFAD Loan would be admin-
istered by IDA. Disbursements against project expenditure would be shared
between IDA aLnd IFAD in the ratio of about 8/17 to 9/17 on the basis of the
following cat.egory costs: (a) 100% of expenditures for: (i) refunding of
advances under the Project Preparation Facilities (US$0.3 million); (ii)
construction (US$4.5 million); (iii) vehicles (US$1.5 million); (iv) equipment
and furniture (US$0.8 million); (v) professional services, internationally
recruited staff and fellowships (US$3.4 million); (vi) local salaries and
allowances (UIS$0.6 million); (vii) other local operating costs (US$1.9 mil-
lion); and (b) an unallocated amount of US$4.3 million, representing the
contingencies on the above categories and transferable to them as required.
The schedule of estimated disbursements of the IDA Credit is given in Project
and Credit Summary. An advance under the IDA Project Preparation Facilities
(PPF) was approved on June 18, 1978 in the amount of US$0.3 million. As of
March 14, 1979, US$74,250 had been disbursed under the PPF.  This amount would
be repaid to the Association from the IDA Credit Account after Credit effective-
ness.
Coordination
46.       Mernoranda of Understanding between the Association and all co-
financing agencies, covering project composition and financing plan, procure-
ment and disbursement procedures, project supervision, consultation and
exchange of :information on various matters of mutual interest would be agreed
and signed by the Association and all co-financing agencies after approval of
all the co-financing agreements.
Accounts and Auditing
47.       The General Manager of the National Range Agency, supported by the
internationally recruited Financial Controller, would be responsible for all
procurement procedures, withdrawal applications for the Credit and accounting
under the Project. The National Range Agency would open a Project Account at
the Central Bank of Somalia through which all foreign and local funds for the
Project would be channelled. The Veterinary Services, the Afgoi Livestock
and Range School and the Faculty of Agriculture would direct their requests
for their share of Project funds to the General Manager of NRA, would keep
separate accounts and submit them to NRA for consideration and preparation of
withdrawal applications under the IDA credit and IFAD Loan.



- 16 -
48.       The Magistrate of Accounts, which is an independent national auditing
agency and reports directly to the President, would make annual audits of the
Project Account. The Government intends to strengthen the Magistrate of
Accounts with the support of the IDA Technical Assistance Credit. The National
Range Agency would submit accounts for each Project component together with
audited accounts for the Agency to the Association no later than six months
after the end of each fiscal year (Project Agreement, Section 4.02(a)). The
National Range Agency would prepare semi-annual reports on the progress of all
project components and submit them to all financing agencies. The Government
would submit a completion report on the execution of the Project, its costs
and benefits and its major accomplishments within six months of the closing
date of the Project (Project Agreement, Section 2.05(c)).
Environmental Impact
49.       Implementation of proposed range management would have a positive
ecological impact especially in range areas adjacent to town and villages
which are now denuded of vegetation and subject to erosion. In the long-run -
30-50 years - the rationalization of range use would restore many valuable
species of vegetation which are now being severely decimated.
Production, Benefits and Risks
Production
50.       The Project derives its production benefits from increased live-
stock off-take. The establishment of range reserves would increase the forage
resource and allow for more animals to be grazed. The improved Veterinary
Services would result in higher livestock off-take rates by reducing mor-
tality. Production benefits would also take the form of increased milk and
meat consumption. However, due to lack of data, no attempt has been made to
estimate incremental quantities and value of these products. It is estimated
that incremental production would start from year 6 of the Project. At full
development (year 15) the annual incremental off-take due to the Project is
estimated to be: 115,000 sheep and goats, 4,000 cattle and 2,400 camels at an
economic value of So.Sh. 67 million (US$7.5 million). Improved veterinary
services would not only benefit the animals grazed in the new reserves but it
would also help the entire livestock population of the Project area, for which
the incremental coverage with repeated treatment has been calculated at 30
percent. Herd model calculations show that improved productivity and reduced
mortality as a result of veterinary treatment would allow an increase in
off-take rates of 2.1 percent for sheep and goats, 1.4 percent for cattle and
0.6 percent for camels.
Pastoralist Income
51.       The average per capita income of all pastoralists (400,000 people)
from animal sales and consumption would increase by about 17% in real terms
from US$83 in year 5 to about US$98 by year 15 of the Project. The expected
real price increase for livestock beyond 1985 has been neglected, since the
producers would have to face slightly higher production costs resulting from
water charges and increased use of veterinary drugs. In drought years, the
famine grazing reserves would save not only the incremental animal population,



- 17 -
but also about 5 percent of the existing herds from starvation. Therefore,
the income of the pastoralists would be more stable than before, herd and
flock losses would be reduced, and market and price fluctuations would be less
pronounced.
Economic Evaluation
52.       The Project would, over 30 years, have an overall economic rate of
return (ERR) of 15 percent. The rate of return of the Veterinary Service
component would be 28 percent, a relatively high figure explained by the sunk
costs of the existing infrastructure and staff. The range management component
would have a lower rate of return of 12 percent. This is because of the
heavy initial investments required for infrastructure and institution building.
For the purpose of calculating the ERR, 40 percent of Project costs have been
excluded. These include the costs of range studies and trials, education and
training and that part of Veterinary Services and National Range Agency
headquarters which do not contribute to the quantifiable benefits from the
Project.  Furthermore, a shadow wage rate of 50 percent of the financial value
has been used for the evaluation of the food rations for unskilled labor under
the "Food for Work Program". The foreign exchange costs and benefits have
been shadow-priced at the rate of US$1 = So.Sh.9, or about 43 percent above
the officiaLl exchange rate.
53.       T'he Project would also generate a number of unquantifiable benefits
such as improved subsistence, additional employment, beneficial env:ironmental
impact and adult education.
BeneficiariLes
54.       The main beneficiaries of the Project would be the pastorialist
population of 400,000 people in the project area, who would reach a higher
level of subsistence. A gradually achieved self-sufficiency in forage and
stockwater in the project area would also lead to shorter distances of migra-
tion. This would eventually bring about a more sedentary way of life and
thereby increased access to social and educational services. A variety of
private anad public institutions would further benefit from increased animal
production and trade.
Cost Recovery
55.       The Project would create some Government revenue, though not suffi-
cient to cover all recurrent costs of the Project. The National Range Agency
would collect water charges from stock water points. At full development of
the Project, these revenues of the Agency would amount to about 24 percent of
the financial recurrent costs of the Project. In addition, the Veterinary
Services would recover about 14 percent of its financial recurrent Project
costs through the sale of drugs. For some years to come, the Government would
have to subsidize range development because of the low level of income of the
pastoralists. However, the livestock industry should, in due course, be able
to carry a larger share of development costs. Accordingly, the Government
would prepare the terms of reference for a study on increasing cost recovery
in the livestock sector in consultation with the Association, would consult
with the Association from time to time in carrying out the study and would



- 18 -
furnish the results of the study to the Association for its review not later
than December 31, 1983 (Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.03).
Project Risks
56.       A major risk in project implementation would be a slower than
expected rate of acceptance by the pastoralists of Project interventions which
might result in withholding of their cooperation. The Project might also
be slowed down by delays in the recruitment of international staff. Without
the concurrent enforcement of range management practice, stockwater develop-
ment in ecologically fragile areas could lead to overgrazing and serious
deterioration of rangelands productivity; in that case the Project could
compound the problems which it is designed to solve. Finally, stockwater
points could be inadequately managed resulting in an overall drop in range-
lands carrying capacity.
57.       In order to enhance the participation of pastoralists and their
acceptance of restrictions on grazing, a strong non-formal training component
has been incorporated into the Project. Establishment of grazing reserves and
stockwater development has been made contingent on the formation of grazing
associations and the declared willingness of the pastoralists to cooperate.
In order to safeguard against ecological deterioration in connection with
stockwater development, assurances have been obtained that no stockwater
supplies would be developed if they were not incorporated in a range grazing
reserve for which a grazing association had been formed. The grazing asso-
ciation has to agree to abide by any restrictions on grazing and water use
which may be imposed by the National Range Agency (Development Credit Agree-
ment, Section 4.06).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.       The draft Development Credit Agre'ement between the Somali Democratic
Republic and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for under Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Associa-
tion are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
59.       Features of the Development Credit Agreement of special interest
are referred to in Annex III of this report.
60.       Additional conditions of Credit effectiveness would be that:
(i) the law for development of range management had been enacted and gazetted;
(ii) Government had deposited a sum of So.Sh. 5.0 million in NRA's Project
Account; (iii) the Project coordinator had been appointed; (iv) fulfillment of
all conditions precedent to effectiveness of the other co-financing agreements,
and (v) a satisfactory Subsidiary Agreement between the Borrower and NRA had
been executed.
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Association.



- 19 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
April 25, 1979.
Washington, D.C.






ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                              Page  1  of  4
SONALIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEE!T
REFERENCE CROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
SOQALIA                                                 /.
LAND AReA (THOUSAND SQ. 2S.)                                                 - XOST RECENT ESTIMAILE)
TOTAL            637.7                                                  SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL     299.0                                MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960  Lb    1970 Lb ESTIMATE lb      REGION  Gc GROUP /d   GROUP Le
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  60.0        80.0      110.0           223.6      182.9       432.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      19.0        39.0      36.0             86.7       88.9       251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION. KID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                         2.6         3.1       3.7
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 18.0        25.6      28.3             13.6       15.0        24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        3.0         4.0       6.0             18.4       46.8        42.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      7.0         9.0       12.0            53.6      254.1        95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         43.8        46.5      45.0             44.4       43.6        44.9
15-64 YRS.                         53.5        51.6      53.0             52.7       53.3        52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   2.7         1.9       2.0              2.8        2.9         3.0
POPULATIMN GOWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.0         2.4       2.4              2.6        2.4         2.7
URBAN                              2.9         6.1        7.0             5.8        4.0         S.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAED)     47.3        47.7      47.2             46-.9      44.3        42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOLUSAND)    27.6        23.8      21.7             20.6       19.7        12.4
GROSS REPROWCTION RATE                ..         3.0        3.0             3.1        2.9         3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..          ..        ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARBRED WOMEN)    ..          ..        ..              2.5       14.6        14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)             96.1       100.0      92.2             94.2       96.4       104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIReNTS)                     77.0        80.0      79.0             90.1       92.3        99.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          57.0        57.0       55.1            55.2       50.0        56.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       19.0. t     27.0      28.0             17.1       13.9        17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALIT! RATE       ..          ..        ..               ..         ..         7.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (TYEARS)    35.1       38.5      41.0             43.7       45.8        53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             ..          .          ..           138.4      102.7        82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (P>CENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        15.0       38.0            22.4       26.4        31.1
URBAN                               ..         17.0      77.0            66.3       63.5        68.5
RURAL                               ..        14.0       22.0            10.4       14.1        18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OP POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..      47.0             21.9       16.1        37.5
URBAN                               ..           .       77.0            70.3       65.9        69.5
RURAL                                .          ..       35.0            14.2        3.4        25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         33220.3    21420.0   15760.0 Ia.h    21757.5   13432.7         9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     3780.0      3260.0    2900.0           3473.8     6983.3      2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BE
TOTAL                            630.0       580.0      579.0 /i        645.4     1157.6        786.5
URBAN                               ..          ..         ..           172.9      183.3       278.4
RURAL                               ..                                 1292.6     1348.8       1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..         ..            19.2       19.5         19.2
HOUSING
AVEACE SIZE OP HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..              4.9        5.2
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..              5.0        4.8
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..              4.7        5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..           .         ..
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..               ..        1.8          2.3
RURAL                               .            ..        ..
ACCESS ro ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..         ..              ..       25.9         28.3
URBAN                               ..          ..         ..
RURAL                               ..          ..         ..              ..        8.7         10.3



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4
TAILS 3A
SI(ALIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
uRRNCz GROUPS (ADJUSTD AVERAGES
- MOST RUCZIT ESTESASZ)
sAM         sun      NMr 1Gsn
NST aZcIIT    CEOGRAPRIC    INCUm          INCOME
1960 /b     1970 a   STSUIEn  /b      REION Ic  GROtP Id    GOUP Le
UUCATION
ADJUSTED ENMOLLME   RATIOS
PUIT:        TOTAL                  9.0         9.0      34.0             52.1        62.9        75.8
PFIALI                5.0          5.0      41.0             37.6       45.9         67.9
SECOIMAR:   TOTAL                   1.0         5.0       4.0              8.0        14.4        17.7
IKfALE                0.2          2.0       2.0              5.0        8.8         12.9
VOCAIONAL (PERCST 0F SECONDALY) 26.0            3.0       14.0             7.2         6.6         7.4
PUPIL-TEALHU RATIO
PRIMAY                             29.0        33.0      57.0             43.2        38.5        34.3
SECONDARY                          20.0        23.0      21.0             22.B        !9.8        23.5
ADULT LITERACY 1.ATH (PERCPT)         1.5         5.0       50.0 /b         20.3        36.7        63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENCER CAIS PER THOUSAND
POPUILATIOII                        1.2         2.4        2.7             3.9         3.1         7.2
RLADIO RECZEVES PER THOUSAND
POPULATIaO                         12.0        18.0      22.0             40.1        31.1        71.1
TV RCEIVERS Pn THOUSAND
PoULATIO                             ..          ..         ..             2.2         2.8        14.1
NESPAPER (-DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCUIATION PER
TOnUSAND POPUIATTIN                   1.0         2.0        1.0             3.9         6.0        16.3
CINEHA ANNUL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.4           1.7         ..             1.2         1.4         1.6
!PLOIMEUT
TOTAL LABOR PORCE (THOUSANDS)       930.0      1100.0    1250.0
P.KALE (PERCENT)                   30.1        29.7       29.4            32.6        24.2        28.0
AGRICULTURE (PECENT)               88.0        a2.0       77.0            73.3        60.7        54.1
INDUSTRT (PERCENT)                  4.4         5.9       7.0
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                41.5        38.9       39.1            42.0        39.8        37.8
MLE                                  58.4        55.3       55.9            54.8        53.3        50.3
PEAL!                                24.7        22.8       22.S            27.3        19.6        20.9
ECONMaC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.1         1.2        1.2              1.2        1.3         1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT o3 PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIZVD SY
RIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          ..         ..            25.7        20.3        19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENr OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..           ..        ..             55.1        45.1        48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT or HOUSEHCLDS      ..          ..         ..             5.3         5.7         5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          ..         ..            14.5        16.8        15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED AOSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (U5$ PER CAPITA)
RSAN                                 ..          ..        ..            108.8 a      8.5        155.9
RlRAL                                ..          ..       50.0            74.1        71.9        97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
JRBAN                                ..          ..       73.0           124.4       100.8       143.7
Rlj'RAL                              *-          *'       35.0            59.6        42.0        87.3
ESTLhATED POPULATION 3EI.OW POVERTY
llCOM  LZVEL (PERCENT)
UJRAN                                ..          ..       25.0            26.8        46.0        22.9
RURAL                                ..          ..       30.0            47.6        48.0        36.7
. ot available
lot applicable.
NOTES
'a   Phe adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-veighted geo_tric means, excluding :he extreme
values of the indicator and the most popu1atad country in each group.  Coverage of countries arng the
tt,icarors depends an availability of iata and iL met nlform.
'b    Unless 3therw1se aoted, dara 'or 1960 refer ro any pear between 1959 and 1961; for :970, between 1969
and 1971; and for 'ost Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
c  Africa South of Sahara;   /d  Low ;ncOm  ,s280 or Less per :aoita, 1976);   'e  Lower itddle bncowe
'$281-550 per caoLta, 1976);    f  1963;   'i  1971;  'h  Including midwives and assistant murses;
'1  1972;   J   ;overnzant estimate.
aeptember, 1978



ANNEX I
DEitt'rlToNS OP SOCIAL. tgflCATORl                                                   Page   3   of   4
loLaU;  The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-aetghted geometric means, excluding th.extoreme values of the Indicator and the mos t
populated cuuvrrv  in each group.  Coverage of coutrrres among the indicators depends on availability of data and in not 'aniforn.  Due to lack of data,
group averages fur Cap~tcl Surplas dii Exporters and indicators of access to water end encreta disposal,  hosn,   income distribution and poverty are
ninpioy.spslation-weighted geometric~ means  without the exclusion of ectrem  vlus
Lift 'IlRA (thr-aud sq. in)                                                                  Ponul.istn per hospital hod - total.  -rb-n, and rura  - Popuiarioo  (totai,
TurdI - Total surface area copris-og land area and t-land waters.                             arhan, and rural) dicided ho choir rSespotl,e number of hospItal beds
Accotrl-  ast recent estinara o  ogrivulrtrl arsa  -od tanpvrariiy                    ailbei. oubLic  nod private generai  and spec.ali-od hoa~ttal aedto
or  oraconctlo  for urcps, pastures, market and kitchent gardens or to                    babilitatron renters.  fonpitals are estabiisbmer;Co  Permanently Staffed bY
Ito  -a la-                                                                                at least one physiciao.  FIsLblahllo aeos prooldino; prixcipally cus todial
,tar are not included. Rursi hospitals, however, coolode, health and cedi-
TI?  hiE  CAPITA   dl)    TO  per capita oniLoaco  at o-ren  moriet pridos,                    cal centers not permanently staffed ho a physician (hut by a medical us-
cacuanac  aae ro-erolon  erood as World data  Atlas (1975-77 basis);                 sistart, nre   idwifo, etc.) which offer lt-pa.:iani accorodation  and
1960, T9h0, and 1977 da.ta,                                                                 provide a limited tango of medical facilities.
idmlaias pr hspial hod - Coral num,ber of adolusoos to or dischargos
1011C  C0SS0~tCC  PIe  ElCh    unnul conumpton ofoxamevial  nergyfrom   ospltlo dvided by the somber of beds.
(coal aod lignite, petroleum, natural gas aod hvdro-, nuclear and oco-
tharma  electricity) Ln kilo.gramas of coal equivalent par capita.                     HOUOSIN
hvr..Aa.  isir  of houoshoid            Parro h..on   boasold) -total, urban. aond trura  -
PnIPLAICON clOD '[IIAL STALESTICO                                                              A no..oehold consists of a group of individuals wnShare lLivig quarters
Totai -opclatio,   md'-tsa  (m"ilnss   - As .  lof  ly 1; if -c  a-alahis,                   und their coin meals.  A boarder or lodger say oroy sot he Iooluded in
average of two end-peer eatimateol; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                              che household for statistical purooses.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urhos. pupulati-o fpeetrot of total) - Raio of urban. to tonaL popaLa-                        hold very.
tics; difforent definitions of urban areas nap affect cxeparabllity'                     hverooe nan       fproscnro     ttl   ra,adrrl-Average tum-
of data amng z.ounires.                                                                    her of pnrnons per room ix aLl, urban, and rural occupced conventional
PopulatIon density                                                                            dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings oxclude non-permanent atc-niures and
Per  so. ho. - (lid-year populatIon per sqoare kxilameter (100 hecrares)                     unoccupied parts.
of total :area                                                                           Acstoeetiiy(ecnofdei )-ttal, sroas, and rural1 -
Per so. ho. agriculture lan.d - Computed as above for agricaltural land                      Conventionoal dwellings oath electrIcity In living quarters as percentage
cxlv.                                                               a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f total, urbao, and rural dwellings respectively.
Popularicn age structure (perceont - Childres 10-lb ysaos , -orking-age
(15-64 vears), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-                  EDUCATION
roar population.                                                                        Adjusated enrollment ratios
Porulonho  Arowto rare (pert-nri - total, and orban - Coopsu-d annual                       Primary School - total, and fo..ala - Total and fesaie enrollment of all ages
growth rates of total. and urbao old-pear populations for 1950-60,                         at the primary Level as percentages of -eepecti%el" primary achoal-ag e
lgO5-0, aod 1970-75.                                                                       po,pulatlaso; normaly Includes children. aged 6-11 years bet adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per  :honoand) - Arnn.al live, births per thousand of                       different lengths of Primary education; for counrires with unioersa1 ed.-
aid-yea- ouain   ten-peat arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                           catIo  e 1cilet nay enceed 155pexo   since tam  pupls are below or
1970 and five-year average ending is 1975 for mast rcance  estimate.                       above the official school age.
T:rude death rate (per theusand) - AnnalI deatha par thousand of mid-                       Secondary school - total, and female - Camputed an caloe; Secondary educa-
Year popsiaxion; ten--year arithmetic averages ending In 1960 and 1970                      tilo, requIres at least four Yearn, of approved primary iastraction; pro-
and live-year average ending in 1975 for, east recent estimate.                            vidas general vocational, or teacher training Inatructions for pupils
Iro-s renrodactiomn rats~ - Average nuaber of daughtars a wdoman will bear                    usaucly of 12 to 17 years of agel correspondenceo cousres are generally
in 'ret norma  reproductive period if she oxperimanes present age-                         excluded.
sp-aocf!  fertility rates; usually fine-pear averages ending in 196Q,                    Vocational enrollment (Poment of secondary) - Vccetioa ..InsctitationaIn
1970, and 1975.                                                                            dlude technical, industrIal, or other programs 'ahich operate  indepeindently
Family olooie 2- acetr,an-al (th .us.nds) - Annoa1 somber of                                  or as departments of seo.ndary tnatdtutiene
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                    Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total Students enrolled Is
pl.annig program                                                                            poimary and Seconodary levelo divided by numbers of teachers in the cores-
PFmilo planning - users (percent of married woman) - Percentage of                            sponding Levels.
mar-in  women of ohild-heanrig age (15-b4 years) who uae birth-co-t-I                   Adult literacy rare fpenceox) - literatec adults  (able to read aad wrIte) aa
devices to all married woman in Same age group,                                            a percentage of total adult popolatino aged 15 Years and over.
loden of food productanpe or capita (1970.100) - Indeo somber of per                      Passenger cars (net thousand population) - Passeneger cars comprise motor cars
capita annual production cf oil fsod comadities.                                         Seating laso them eight persons; excludes ambulnance, hearses and military
Per ..anita sopply of clories  (percent of requirements) - Compared from                    vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country par capita                  Radio receivers (per thousand ponulatiun) - All t?peS of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies vomprise domsestic prndsction, imports less                 broadcants to general public per tho.ssad of oopc.lationl e.cludes uolixe-sed
exports, and changesi in stock.  Net Supplies exclude amimai feed, Seeds,                reseivers In, countries and in pears when registration of radIo  sets was In
quantities ased in f'ood pracassing, and lasse s in distribution.  Re-                   effect; data for recent years may nor be coeparable, since root counatries
quir.emets were estimated by FAO based on physiologicai needs for nor-                   aboliabad licensing.
Msl activity and heatlth considerang environmental temperature, hody                    TV receivers (per thousand populationl - '07 rerei,ers for broadcast to genert
weights, age and sea, distributions of papuietics, and allowing IS per-                     p.blic Par thousa.nd poaafn          nludes unliors-d TV s cfaain coos
cent for waste at household level.                                                          tries and in years when registraticon of TV Salts was in effect.
Per capita supply of p,rotedine(arm   per, day) - Protein casnent of per                  Newspaper cirno tianin(erlp thousan  oaans)- Show, the    . aengs oircola-
capit.aect suppi  of fon  per day.  70er Supply of food Is defined as                      tian of "daily genra  iterest new spaper", dej'inec as a periodical publl-
above.  lequirem-sts for oil co...ttl..es  stabliabed. by USDA provide for                  cation devoted primarily to rcocrding general sews.  1I is considered to
a,ninnm- allowance of 60 grams of total proteio per day and 120 grams                     be 'dolly' if it appears at least four tI.es a  eech.
of snical and pulse protein, of whioh 10 grams Shauld he animal protein.                Cinema annual attendance per capita vet yeor - 5.soed on the noeber of tickets
-.se utaodards ar e lew-  than those of 75 grams of total protein and                     sold during the year.  including admissions to frosoe-in cinexas and mobile
gr oss of an-Ima  protein as an average for tha world, proposed by                      units.
Par  oxra praeo.s spply fran anirai and poIse - Protein suppiy of food             E.MPI0YP5NT
der-oe  from animals and pulses io grams per da~y.                                     Total labor fnrce (thousanas) - fcaomn.callv active Persons. Including arned
Child  ~aces I-Al mortalIty race (pen thous.and) - Annual deaths per thous-                   forces mod unemployed hout a-oadiog hoswles,i..  rtodento, ec..  Defini-
and in age droop 1-4 Years, Ino children in this age groop.                                 tiona is varions co...nries are nor coeparabie.
Female (pernant, - Pestale labor force us percentage of total l-abor torte.
HtOICS                                                                                     AenicoIt-r  )percent) - Labor force In frmIg, forestry, hun.ting and fiening
hit0 oxpecrancy st birth (veers) - Average number of Years of life                            as nercentage of total labor (orce.  f
remaining ax  irth; osually five-year averages ending In 1960, 1970,                   Industrv (percent) -Labor force to mi-og, o.nntructiox,                             -dsacuin s
and 1_971.                                                                                 electricity, water and gas as Percentage off total labor force.
cxc ac  .rervlot: ruts (erthusnd   - An-_oI deaths of infaonts nad,er                     Panriclos,anio  rare )osnrt-)-  toal  male, and (seam.   - Total, mae,sd
one  ear of Sag  yet thousand lion birhts.eml  lobor '.rce as peccetagcfthat creoec tIre poo.a.o.
b-c-soroat    ater (preto_oplno)-toa,ubn   nd rural -                                          hese are ILl's sd)usted particiosrivo totes sefle-...ooa..-.e.
Tunber of perple (ortal.  orban, and rural) with reas..manle access to                      structure or r-h osito.   ad 1,,r  cite trrr,d.
sate aater supply flnciusas treated surface waters or untreated hut                      cnoidenecyratio - Ratio of pulto    rcer L; and  S cod coat t
n.contamintaed water suco as that fr.. protected boreholes, Springs,                       rho laboar lonce on, og. crown of  :.-ocr
un5anitary wells, 00 percentages of their respective. populations.
onuban area a p0011c fountoln or stndpast locared nor more                        IpCOME DISTRIBUTION
tor.TI  .erotr   T    a hous.e map be considered as being within tea-                Paro-e-ntage of private Income  (both inosad kIn'd) r-eIved at rconoot~ 
ocal  sciess of c-hat rouse,  In rural areas reasonable access would                    pooret, rirhean 20 perce..r. poorest 70 ter-o, a-d p-oreo, r      potoo-
-.      rot re  oSewof  or nembers of the household do nor have to                      of households.
oo-  adisryot         -ac   at of- the day cx fertching the family's
rotorreaOa                                                                          POVERTY TAP.OET GROUPFS
0000-    -c-rcna oruoso-1 o--ot of rncplatios) - total,  rat n                            lotncated obsolate  --ort, ion-e level C:S)  o   ccc                 -hsvdtta -
rots.a   Tcor of vo-La  o-ctal. orhan. aed rurl) served by enoreta                            Absolaote povert' Ito -elov   I.To r-ott  .cnI-r hb   -ouho  a --ocoa
~oouar  orcoroetagc as risrropaction popila-con.  focroto                          urcoal  adequate dtet                 -eo onrtrca  r--ucsir,ett-  [solot
,.ooc  a  ; vr-e  ne collectIon. anid Sisposai, with or without                       a(fotdoble.
-aaoocrr  aod ..aste-water by -errbceosytens                        laiao   eaiepvrt   oceo;l'i    at occr    - orhn and rural-
coy so  cc orclos.co  -.ntlac installations.                                  holative Poverty income lovol -sfo-,cw    or   lass than one-tairo
.ac - Psncacoodilvidad by tumier of pracctclog                                 yo-  capita personal income ofrorurr
orrto7a coio  a neucal school at  -rtoerSlry, level.                        Eotroated  poplation oclocrretorom             -lon   -eront  - than Sanicos -
S-I ..co ocr  .oro:oororuor- ?ovoacon oliaoobysuse  oiPercent of pcyclatica   arbon coo r,ro~  -rreether  aesclot. oyoot
-oocco  cl  or) e(ale graduaoto c-nes, practical ourses, ond                          "relative poor" obioh...or in 6reater
iconomcic  'nalt-s onu Pro7ocr-os Tnr



ANNEX I
SOMALIA                                         ~Page 4 of 4
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
I!
GNP PER CAPITA: US$110 (Approx. 1977)
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                                           MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES
Prel.  - Budget                                            Dec.       Dec.       Dec.   June
1975      1976       1977       1978                                              1975       1976      1977   1978
(million US$)                                                                 (million So.Sh.)
Current Revenue                   99.1      106.0     121.2      231.1         Bank Claims on Government (net)  -238.2    124.4         -97.8  -161.8
Current Expenditure               90.1      103.1     121.5      216.5         Bank Claims on Private Sector
Current Surplus                    9.0        2.9       -0.3      14.6          and Public Enterprines             1041.7    986.4    1280.7  1392.5
Development Expenditure           56.4       99.1     150.1      184.7         Money Supply                         825.8    994.9    1325.1  1482.8
Extra Budgetary Expenditure       91.8      48.8       15.1
Overall Deficit                  139.2      145.0     165.5      170.1                                                 (Percentgeyr Index
General Price Index (1966=100)    163.0    190.1         210.9    -
Annual Percentage Changes in:
General Price Index                   7.9      16.6       10.9
Bank Claims on Privete Sector
and Public Enterprises              7.8      -5.3      29.8    8,7
Money Supply                         31.4      20.5       33.2   11.9
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                 MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1974-765
US$ Mln.    5.
1974      1975       1976       1977
(million US$)                 Livestock                               46.9       60.3
Bananas                                 13.2      16.9
Marchandins Exports (f.o.b.)    64.0         88.6       81.0      71.3         Meat and Mest Products                   6.5        8.4
Merchandise Imports (f.o.b.)  -133.7    -141.1    -153.1    -175.1             Hides and Skins                          4.8        6.2
Trade Balance                   - 69.7    - 52.5    - 72.i    -103.8           Fish and  Fish Products                  2.2        2.9
Others                                   4.2        5.3
Services,Net                    - 33.6    - 49.7    - 38.0    - 36.9              Total                                77.8      100.0
Transfers, Net                    51.8      102.2      40.8    1j8.0)
Current Account Balance         - 51.5        0      - 69.3    - 32.7          EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31. 1977
US $ MIl..
Long-Teem Capital                 61.0       52.8       69.6      64.2
Short-Tern Capital and                                                         Public  Debt                                      872.8
Errors and Omissions             -1.9      -26.2      13.3        5.3          of which Disbursed                              (398.9)
Reserves and Related Items        -7.3      -26.6     -13.7      -36.9
International Reserves                                                         DEBT SERVICE RATIO FO11 1977                        h
(end year)                      42.4       68.5       85.0      120.5
Public Debt                                         5.5
Petroleul   Inportn               11.0       19.1      18.5       38.7
RATE OF EXCHANGE    US$1.00 = So. Sh. 6.295 (Since 1973)                             IDA LENDING.  (March 31. 19791       (Million US$):
TDA
Outstanding and Dinbursed                58.0
Undisbursed                              54.1/2
Outstanding incl. Undisbursed           112.1/2
1/ No National Accounts available
Not available
Not applicable
1/ Includes US$14.5 million not yet effective.



ANNEX II:
Page 1 of 5
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SOMALIA
A. Statement of IDA Credits (as of March 31, 1979)
(US$ Million)
Amount        lJndisbursed
(Net of cancellations
No.      Year    Borrower           Purpose                 and exchange adjustments)
(C'{)
Five credits fully disbursed                                33.7
123-SO   1973    Somalia    Highway-Supplementary            2.7                0.3
(Afgoi-Baidoa Road)
462-So   1974    Somalia    Trans-Juba Livestock            10.0                6.1
511-SO   1974    Somalia    Second Education                 8.0                2.3
586-SO   1975    Somalia    Mogadishu Port Extension    5.2                     0.6
623-SO   1976    Somalia    Drought Rehabilitation           8.0                4.5
635-SO   1976    Somalia    North-West Agriculture          10.0                7.5
698-SO   1977    Somalia    Somali Development Bank          5.0                4.9
699-SO   1977    Somalia    Third Highway (Hargeisa-    7.0                     5.7
Borama)
738-So   1977    Somalia    Third Education                  8.0                7.7
821-SO   1978    Somalia    Technical Assistance 1/          3.0                3.0
822-SO   1978    Somalia    Mogadishu Water Supply 1/   6.0                     6.0
838-SO   1978    Somalia    Fourth Port 1/                   5.5                5.5
Total                       112.1               54.1
of which has been paid        0.5
Total now held by IDA       111.6
1/   Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
B. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION - SOMALIA I/
Credit No. 123:    Highways Supplement (Afgoi-Baidoa); $2.3 million Credit of
June 26, 1968: Date of Effectiveness: February 25, 1969;
Closing Date: originally December 31, 1971 and postponed
eight times to June 30, 1979.
The construction of the Afgoi-Baidoa road was completed in March 1971.
The International Chamber of Commerce made an arbitration award to the Contractor
(Joint Venture) on December 3, 1975, in an amount of DM 11,648.333.04 with in-
terest at DM 1,356.20 per day from December 15, 1975; a Government counterclaim
against the Contractor was rejected. A series of meetings were held between
Government and the Contractor to try to resolve the matter, the last such
meeting, convened by the European Development Fund, took place at Brussels on
October 4, 1977; representatives of the IDA attended the meeting as observers.
No final settlement of the dispute was reached. However, we have since been
informed that a Somali Delegation met a representative of the Contractor in
Bonn in March and September 1978, and proposed a DM 10 million settlement and
a schedule of payments. The contractor's representative expressed interest
and promised to discuss the proposal with his Board of Directors and convey
their reaction to the Somali Government. We have been informed recently that
the Contractor has refused the Government's offer to pay the proposed settle-
ment by installments. The Government-Contractor negotiations continue.
Credit No. 295:    Highways II (Hargeisa-Berbera); $9.6 million Credit of
March 30,1972; Date of Effectiveness: May 11, 1972;
Closing Date: originally December 31, 1975 and post-
poned thrice to June 30, 1978.
The construction of the Hargeisa-Berbera road was completed in
June 1975. The feasibility study and detailed engineering for the Hargeisa-
Borama road and technical assistance in transport planning have also been
completed. The Project was completed successfully.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
Credit No. 359:    Port of Mogadishu; $12.95 million Credit of March 15, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness; September 10, 1973; Closing Date:
originally June 30, 1977 and postponed once to June 30, 1978.
Credit No. 586:    Mogadishu Port Extension Project; $5.2 million Credit of
October 15, 1975; Date of Effectiveness; January 15, 19;76
Closing Date: Originally December 31, 1978 and po,stponed
once to June 30, 1979.
The civil works, including the extension, were completed in
October 1977, six months behind schedule. Several outstanding claims of the
contractor were settled in July 1977 and payment effected in April 1978. The
port operating equipment has been delivered. Because of the continuiLng
shortage of skilled staff in the country as a whole, the Somali Port Authority
continues to face problems in finding staff with the necessary skills to take
full advantage of the training aspects of the consultancy services provided
under the credit. As a result of the recommendations made by the colnsultants,
tariffs have been revised. The Port Regulations have been enacted.
Credit No. 462:    Livestock (Trans-Juba) Project; $10 Million Credit of
February 20, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: October 29,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Stock route and ranch development have made good progress but bore-
hole drilling and the veterinary assistance component are delayed. FAO
has supplied an irrigation engineer, and 4 senior staff have been recruited by
the Livestock Development Agency directly from India to replace supervision
consultants. Certain measures to improve Project management and to enable
satisfactory completion of the Project have been proposed by the Government,
which are acceptable. The measures provide for execution of the Project to be
the responsibility of the Ministry of Livestock, through the Livestock Develop-
ment Agency.
Credit No. 511:    Second Education Project; $8 million Credit of September 19,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: December 19, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980.
The Elementary Teachers Training College is complete and in use.
Construction of the nomadic centers, the Academy of Somali Studies and the
Fishery and Marine Institute are about a year behind schedule due to staffing
shortage ofE the Project Implementation Unit and delays in establishing criteria
for locating the Nomadic Training Centers. Construction contracts have now
been awarded for 19 of the 22 project institutions and disbursements are
expected to increase rapidly as a result. Latest cost estimates indicate an
overrun of about 3 percent which is manageable.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
Credit No. 623:    Drought Rehabilitation Program -- Juba-Shebelli Emergency
Settlement Scheme; $8 million Credit of July 7, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: August 31, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
Project implementation, especially procurement of vehicles and
equipment and land clearing, is slow, mainly due to high turnover of con-
sultancy staff. One settlement location as originally selected is unsuitable
and the settlers may have to be moved as soon as the studies confirm suit-
ability of a new area. The interriverine study financed under the Project
points to a much lower irrigation potential than previously expected. In-
adequate staffing of the Settlement Development Agency has presented a problem,
and therefore 13 middle level staff have been recruited from India.
Credit No. 635:    North-West Region Agricultural Development Project; $10
million Credit of July 7, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
February 9, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
After the Credit was declared effective on February 8, 1977, the
project suffered a setback when the ULG Consultants' team withdrew from
Somalia in February 1978 on the basis of force majeure following the Ogaden
War. Project management has been actively replacing the ULG team by recruit-
ing individual specialists from Pakistan for supervisory posts, and other
consultants for feasibility studies. With the delivery of most of the con-
struction equipment in October-November, 1978 and operators' training well
advanced, the conservation work is expected to start on schedule in 1979.
Credit No. 698:    Somali Development Bank; $5 million Credit of June 1,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: February 27, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981.
SDB's volume of operations, and also disbursements to date under
the IDA Credit, have so far proceeded at lower than expected levels due mainly
to slower growth in SDB lending to industry. Implementation of the technical
assistance component of the Project including training of Somali staff and
recruitment of expatriate advisers is progressing satisfactorily.
Credit No. 699:    Third Highway Project; $7 million Credit of June 1, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: January 24, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The contract for construction works on the Hargeisa-Borama road,
with a link to Tug Wajale, has been awarded and consultants engaged to carry
out supervision. The construction work started on January 10, 1978. However
the construction work came to a standstill at the end of November 1978 follow-
ing a bombardment at Gebile, near the Contractors' main camp. All expatriate
staff of the Contractor left the Project site. We have been recently informed



ANNEX It
Page 5 of 5
that the Contractor resumed construction during the first week of February,
1979. Technical proposals, from a short list of consulting firms, for pro-
vision of services covering feasibility study for the Dinsor-Bardera-Gelib
road were evaluated by the Government and subsequently consultants satis-
factory to the Association have been selected. The feasibility study has
commenced.
Credit No. 738:    Third Education Project; $8 million Credit of September 30,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: March 13, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983.
Physical implementation is still in the preparatory phase. Design
work and tender documents have been completed for the State Printing Agency
extensions and for the new Health Personnel Training Institute. Technical
assistance has been recruited for the manpower survey and for the National
Trade-Testing Center. Nine Somalis have commenced studies abroad related to
curriculum development. The technical and accountancy sections of the Project
Unit are adequately staffed and overall progress is satisfactory.
Credit No. 821-SO    Technical Assistance Project; $3 million Credit of
June 6, 1978; Planned Date of Effectiveness:
May 31, 1979; Closing Date: December 1, 1981.
Efforts are underway to recruit a Senior Project Advisor. A suitable
candidate has been identified. This appointment is required for Credit
effectivenzess.
Credit No. 822-SO    Mogadishu Water Supply Project; $6 million Credit of
June 6, 1978; Planned Date of Effectiveness: May 31,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Efforts are underway to recruit a Technical Operations Advisor
and a Financial Advisor. These appointments are required for Credit
effectiveness.
Credit No. 838-SO    Fourth Port Project; $5.5 million Credit of July 6,
1978; Planned Date of Effectiveness: May 31, 1979;
Closing Date: October 31, 1980.
This Credit has not yet become effective.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SOMALIA
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
I. Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare Project:    7 months
(b)  Preparation by:                    Government assisted by
World Bank (RMEA) team.
(c)  Initial discussions with Bank:    October 1977
(d)  First Bank mission:                October 1977
(e)  Appraisal mission departure:       January 1978
(f)  Negotiations:                      March 1979
(g)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:    September 1979
II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
III. Special Conditions
1.  No stockwater supplies would be developed unless (i) they are incor-
porated in a range grazing reserve, (ii) a grazing association had
been formed for supervision of the reserves, and (iii) the grazing
association had agreed to abide bQy any restrictions on grazing and
water imposed by the NRA accordance with the Law (Para. 57);
2.  An annual work program and budget would be furnished to IDA for
review by November 15 each year, starting in 1979 until 1984
(Para. 39);
3.  The Government would prepare and submit to the Association by
December 31, 1983 proposals for increasing cost recovery (Para. 55).
IV. Additional Conditions of proposed Credit effectiveness would be:
1. The Project coordinator had been appointed (para. 36);
2. The law for development of range management had been enacted and
gazetted (Para. 37);



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
3. Government had deposited in NRA's Project Account with the
Central Bank of Somalia an advance for project implementation
in the amount of So.Sh. 5.0 million to be replenished to this
level every six months during the implementation of the Project
(para. 43);
4. Fulfillment of all conditions precedent to effectiveness of the
other co-financing agreements regarding the Project (para. 60);
5. The Subsidiary Loan Agreement had been executed on behalf of the
Ba,rrower and the National Range Agency (para. 60).






IBRD 14175
-                                              _( 2 48 FEBRUARY 1977
rPEOPLES DEMOCRATIC
/.'DnBOUTI                      REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
~~>r           / ~DJIBOUXTI                                                     Gu/f  of  Ade n                                            -!7rd f2
IBO.I                                                                                                   t BO TI
-   h   j>Seyla                                                 Adado  Bososo           +
<~~~~~~~~~~~eb                                    11                      rigV avo=r* 
t      nrigOvo                 f z~~~~~Laz  uP  
scuscijbon          /9
-   Ju~  *     ;       2        - \d<                >      )                        Gardo +                      c dBender Beile
SOMALIA                                                                  N    s '~ ,
CENTRAL RANGELANDS                                              Weir
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT,
ENTRkt. BAN,..AN.S  ..... M..T PROjPT Aee8
voEtBvreN zUi7    vs DEEfN.C RK                .,      
;           ~~~NO7RTHERN7 RNE7 AW)g DEVEE7FPME7i .7N1T A              ,                     $' J             
- GTmr4ouG FO ,Es                                    rY 6
GMB77 F7 7iMTH7 SFAS1ZG GOO                                                                                                    0           
74      r,EF GFu5FT3 AtSE1>.
ITWMfv4ATWNMAL AIRIFFE5W9
REvR3t WUN0ARVES                                                          '..
-   "lTtRNATJOSA9. SUNSA9RSS
Goron -J Luk >   Wagit                        B1g'e                El Bur
non                                        B                                              0    50    100   150   200   250   300
e   Bonka                                                                 KILOMETERS
i  /         of3r''-ztjd~~~~~~Bur Aka|a        X             
.    , , ,}  .> f * i   - - 1  -     :   -   ; UJ~~owhOr 
) ! / Wa;;> 1 / / r,,                                                                          "M    . vWA,# S,r.= 
r - - ~~~~DlnsOr                                          GaEflar &,8,,~,v,,, ,-
r  Eardere              ..         4 f   <n 
, --- -                               l  ve-'-t  -5 D
,bo,          o,;
0' .         ELT H tOPI A        j7
Kolboa                                                                                                             A,smayo  ,4-.> .
. A g ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KENYA| 
badae,r; 
44\                                                      48'        W>                    INDIAN   OCEAN
L                                 44-                                                       48         Tar8ZA L4 1_



