eFFICAL
CREDIT ~UMBER 906 SO
DOCUMTS
Projeet                 esment
(Central Rangeland Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
NATIONAL RANGE AGENCY
Dated                    4        , 1979
. .. .. .  ....m                                                           o m


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 906 SO
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      Q<;a.t, P.-, 1979, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION    (hereinafter called    the
Association) and NATIONAL RANGE AGENCY (hereinafter called NRA).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even
date herewith between    Somali Democratic Republic (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make" available to the -Borrera       amutivros
currencies equivalent to eight million dollars ($8,000,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreemert, but only on condition that NRA agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
(B) the Borrower has applied to the -International Fund
for Agricultural Development (hereinafter called the Fund) for a
loan (hereinafter called the Fund Loan) in an amount equivalent
to seven million Special Drawing Rights (SDR7,000,000) to assist
in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in
an agreement (hereinafter called the Fund Loan Agreement) between
the Borrower and the Fund;
(C) the Fund has appointed the Association as Cooperating
Institution to administer the Fund Loan in accordance with the
provisions of this Agreement, and the Association has accepted
such appointment;
(D) by a Subsidiary Agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and NRA, the proceeds of the credit provided for under
the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to NRA on
the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS NRA, in consideration of the foregoing, has agreed to
undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General, Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
%4.4


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. NRA shall carry out Parts A, B, C, D (a), E,
G, H and I and coordinate execution of Parts D (b) and (c) and F
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement and the procurement of all items financed under the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices,
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
Section 2.02. In order to assist NRA in the prepariation
of plans and specifications for the Project, the" preparation of
bidding documents for the Project and the procurement of goods
financed under the Project, NRA shall employ architectural consul-
tants, procurement experts and technical assistance staff whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provi§ions
of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) NRA undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan made available
to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or instal-
lation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by NRA to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, NRA
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit or the Fund Loan made available to NRA by the
Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project until its com-
pletion.
Section 2.05. (a) NRA shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
....  .   ..


﻿-3-
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reason-
ably request.
(b) NRA: (i) shall maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of the Project (including its
cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
the Fund Loan and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii)
shall enable the Association's and the Fund's accredited repre-
sentatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included
in the Project and to examine, the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Fund Loan and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to-othe Association at
regular intervals all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived flom ita the xpenditures
of the proceeds of the Credit and the Fund Loan and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
( (c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in, any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between NRA and the
Association, NRA shall prepare and furnish to the Association
and the Fund a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by NRA and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Project
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit
and the Fund Loan.
(d) NRA shall enable the Association's and the Fund's
representatives to examine all installations, sites, works,
buildings, property and equipment of NRA and any relevant records
and documents.
Section 2.06. NRA shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Stbsidiary Agreement. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, NRA shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. NRA shall prepare detailed annual work programs
for the Project and furnish such programs together with relevant
parts of its regular budget to the Association for its review


﻿-4-
not later than November 15 of each year, starting November 1979
until 1984.
Section 2.08. (a) NRA \,hall at the request of the Associ-
ation, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) NRA shall promptly inform the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit
or the Fund Loan, or the performance by NRA of its obligations
under this Agre.-ment and under the Subsidiary Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of NRA
Section 3.01. NRA shall at all times carry on its operations
under qualified and experienced managerial staff, with sufficient
supporting staff, in accordance with appropriate management
practices.
Section 3.02. NRA shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
I4
Section 3.03. NRA shall adequately maintain the works,
installations, vehicles and equipment used in NRA's operations
and promptly make all necessary renewals and repairs thereof,
all in accordance with appropriate engineering and management
practices.
Section 3.04. NRA shall at all times take all steps neces-
sary to maintain its right to carry on its operations, includ-
ing the Project, and shall, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, t..ke all steps necessary to acquire and retain
such land, interest in land and properties, and to acquire,
maintain and renew such licenses, consents, franchises and
other rights, as may be necessary or useful for carrying on
its operations.
k


﻿ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. NRA shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. (a) NRA shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association
and the Fund; (ii) furnish to the Association and the Fund as soon
as available, but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by' said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to
the Association and the Fund such other information concerning
the accounts for all expenditures under the Project and financial
statements of NRA and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
(b) NRA shall open a separate account for the Project
at the Central Bank of Somalia.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date L!pon which the Development Credit Agreement or
the Fund Loan Agreenient becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement ad all obligations of
the Association and of NRA thereunder sh '11 terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i), the earliest date on which both the Development
Credit Agreement and the Fund Loan Agreement
shall have terminated in accordance with their
respective terms; or
,MF


﻿J .. ......
-6-
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (il) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
NRA of this event.
(c) If either the Development Credit Agreement, or the Fund
Loan Agreement, terminates in accordance with its terms before the
date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section and the other
Agreement remains in force, all obligations under this Project
Agreement of NRA and of the Borrower under that other Agreement
shall remain in force.
(d) If the Association shall notify NRA that its appointment
as Cooperating Institution under the Fund Loan Agreement has
terminated, all references in this Agreement to the Fund, to the
Fund Loan and to the Fund Loan Agreement shall be deemed to be
deleted.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement 8hall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram  to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿ 7 -
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For NRA:
National Range Agency
P.O. Box 1759
Mogadishu
Somali Democratic Republic
Cable address:
SOMALRANGE
Mogadishu
Section 6.02. Any action, required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of NRA may be taken or executed by
the General Manager or such other person or persons as NRA shall
designate in writing, and NRA shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated speci-
-men signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbiå, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
NATIONAL RANGE AGENCY
By
Authorized Representative
41


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Parts B, C and D hereof, civil works,
vehicles, furniture and equipment shall be procured under con-
tracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those
set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (here-
inafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For works, vehicles, furniture and equipment to be p-rocured
on the basis of international competitive bidding, in addition
to the requirements of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, NRA
shall prepare and forward to the Association as soon as possible,
and in any event not later than 60 days prior to the date of
availability to the public of the first tender or prequalification
documents relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procure-
ment notice, in such form and detail and containing such informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request; the Association
will arrange for the publication of such notice in order to
provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the oppor-
tunity to bid for the goods and works in question. NRA shall
provide the necessary information to update such notice annually
so long as any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis
of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to NRA of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿-9-
.   Somalia may be granted a margin of preference.in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall'clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stageO that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be     lassified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufadtured in
Somalia if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of Somalia and the Association that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Somalia equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Somalia.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the tyported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; ,or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C


﻿-10-
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
With respect to the evaluation of bids for any contract for
civil works included under Category 2 of the table set forth in
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement and to be procured
in accordance with the procedures described in Part A of this
Schedule, NRA may grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2% to
domestic contractofs, in accordance with, and subject to, the
following provisions:
1.   Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided
in Part A of this Schedule and applicants for qualification
applying for such preference shall be asked to provide, as part
of the data for qualification, such information, including details
of ownership, as shall be required to determine whether, according
to the classification established by the Borrower and accepted by
the Association, a particular firm or group of firms qualifies for
a domestic preference. The bidding documents shall clearly indi-
cate the preference and the method that will be followed in the
evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect to such pre-
ference.
2.   After bids have been received and reviewed by NRA,
responsive bids will be classified into the ,fvllowing groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
D.   Other Procurement Procedures
Vehicles, equipment and furniture under Parts B, C, D and
G of the Project estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent may be
procured through local or international procedures acceptable to
the Association and the Fund for a period not exceeding twelve
months from the date that the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.


﻿E. aReview of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for works, vehicles, furniture
and equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or
more:
(a) Before bids are invited, NRA shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, NRA shall, ,
before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Associa-
tion of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time
for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants referred to
in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and compari-
son of the bids received, together with the recommendations for
award of the said consultants and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform NRA and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of -funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, NRA shall furnish to the Association, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Association


﻿12
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Accdunt in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform NRA and state the
reasons for such determination.
.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time .for performance of such contract, or
issuing- any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, NRA shall inform the Asso-
ciation of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or change
order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform NRA and state the reasons
for its determination.
ZZ,'
.  ..


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Developmefft Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
tate and affixed the Seal of Ihe Association
thereunto the            day of
197F                         S    E
FOR SECRETARY


