  DC  NT      CREDIT NUMBER 906 SO
Development Credit Agreement
(Central Rangeland Project)
between
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                   m             1979


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 906 SO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated4                             , 1979, between
SOMALIA DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION    (hereinafter called  the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has applied to the International Fund for
Agricultural Development (hereinafter called the Fund) for a
loan (hereinafter called the Fund Loan) in an amount equivalent
to seven million Special Drawing Rights (SDR7,000,000) to assist
in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in
an agreement (hereinafter called the Fund Loan Agreemit) between
the Borrower and the Fund;
(C) the Fund has appointed the Association as Cooperating
Institution to administer the Fund Loan in accordance with the
provisions of this Agreement, and the Association has accepted .
such appointment;
(D) parts of the Project will be carried out by National
Range Agency with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to National Range
Agency the proceeds of the Credit and the Fund Loan as hereinafter
provided;
(E) the Borrower has requested the Government of the United
States of America to assist in financing the,, same Project and
the Government of the United States of America, acting through
its Agency for International Development, is expected to make to
the Borrower a grant (hereinafter called the AID Grant) in an
amount equivalent to fifteen million dollars ($15,000,000);
(F) the Borrower has requested the Government of the United
Kingdom to assist in financing of the same Project and the Govern-
ment of the United Kingdom, acting through its Ministry of Over-
seas Development, is expected to make to the Borrower a grant
(hereinafter called the ODM Grant) in an amount equivalent to
four'million dollars ($4,000,000); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower 'upon


﻿Ffl
-2-
-the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
National Range Agency;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as a follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set, forth.
herein (said General Collditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinaftei called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms. defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set ,forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Fund Loan Account" means the loan account established
under the Fund Loan Agreement;
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and National Range Agency of even date herewith, as
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules to the Project Agreement and all agreements supple-
mental to the Project Agreement;
(c) "Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and National Range Agency pursuant to
Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(d) "NRA" means National Range Agency of the Borrower
established by Law No. 23, 1976 of the Borrower and operating
under Law No. 15, 1969 and Law No. 68, 1970 and such Laws may
be amended from time to time; and
(e) "Special Drawing Rights" and "SDR" mean, according to
Section 2.01 e(27) of the General Conditions to Loan and Guarantee


﻿-3-
Agreements of the Fund, the Special Drawing Rights as defined from
time to time by the International Monetary Fund.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees %to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to eir,it million dollars ($8,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended "from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Assoi-
ation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in, respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1986,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2606. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual TAstallments payable on each Janu-
ary 15, and July 15 commencing July 15, 1989, and ending Jan-
uary 15, 2029, each installment to and including the installment
payable on January 15, 1999, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
"of 1%) of such principal amount, and each Installment thereafter
o be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
4v
43


﻿-4-
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Allocation and Withdrawal of Proceeds
of Credit and Fund Loan
Section 3.01. Subject to the rights of suspension and can-
cellation set forth in the Development Credit Agreement and- the
Fund Loan Agreement, the amount of the Credit and the Fund Sban
may be withdrawn from the Credit Account and the Fund Loan
Account, respectively, in accordance with the provisions of this
Agreement and with the allocation of the proceeds of the Credit
and the Fund Loan set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such allocation may be modified from time to time pursuant to the
provisions of such Schedule or by further agreement between the
Borrower, the Association and 'he Fund.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw
from the Credit Account and from the Fund Loan Account for expen-
ditures made (or, if the Association and the Fund shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and ser-
vices required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Fund Loan.
(b) As of the Effective Date, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of
the Project Preparation Facility withdrawn and outstanding as
of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwith-
drawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation
Facility shall be cancelled from the Project Preparation Facility
Account as of the same date.
Section 3.03. (s) When the Borrower shall de3ire to withdraw
any amount of the Gredit or the Fund Loan, the Borrower shall
deliver to the Association a written application in such for"
and containing such statements and agreements as the Associatio:
or the Fund shall reasonably request. Applications for withdrawal,
with the necessary documentation as hereinafter provided shall,
except as the Borrower, the Association and the Fund shall other-
wise agree, be made promptly in relation to expenditures for
the Project.


﻿-5-
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence in support of the application as
the Association or the Fund shall reasonably request, whether
before or after the Association shall have approved any withdrawal
requested in the application.
(c) Each application and the accompanying documents and
other evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to
satisfy the Association or the Fund that the Borrower is entitled
to withdraw from the Credit Account or the Fund Loan Account
the amount applied for and that such amount is to be used only for
the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. Each such application by the Borrower for
withdrawal shall be deemed to be a request to withdraw funds
from the Credit Account and from the Fund Loan Account and the
funds to be withdrawn pursuant to such application shall be
apportioned by the Association, as nearly as practicable in the
circumstances, between the Credit and the Fund Loan in the ratio
of 8/17:9/17, or such other ratio as shall be agreed between the
Association and the Fund.
Section 3.05. (a) When. the Association shall have approved
an application by the Borrower for withdrawal, the Association
shall:
(i) if withdrawal is requested from the Credit Account,
pay the amount, if any, which the Borrower is
entitled to withdraw from the Credit Account
to or on the order of the Borrower in accordance
with the provisions of the Development Credit
Agreement;, and
(ii) if withdrawal is requested from the Fund Loan
Account promptly notify the Fund that it has
received an application for withdrawal from the
Fund Loan Account in the aggregate amount specified
in such notice, that it has approved payment of the
portion, if any, to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in the amount set forth in such notice, and
that the portion to be withdrawn from the Fund Loan
Account in the amount set forth in such notice is
eligible for payment by the Fund.
(b) Upon receipt of such notice of the Association, the
Fund will, subject to the rights of suspension and cancellation


﻿7                                  -6-
of the Fund Loan set forth in the Fund Loan Agreement, pay the
amount so to be withdrawn from the Fund Loan Account in the
currency and to the payee stated in the notice.
Section 3.06. If at any time the amount of the Credit or
the Fund Loan shall have been fully withdrawn or cancelled,
applications by the Borrower for further withdrawals shall be
deemed to be requested for withdrawal of the full amount applied
for from the Credit Account or the Fund Loan Account only, and the
provisions of this Article III except for Section 3.04 hereof
shall continue to apply mutatis mutandis until the full amount
credited or to be credited to such Account shall have been with-
drawn or cancelled.
Section 3.07. Upon the Borrower's request and upon such
terms as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association,
the Association may enter into special commitments to pay amounts,
out of the proceeds of the Fund Loan in respect of the cost
of goods required by the Project. Any such special commitment
shall, once it has been notified to the Fund, constitute an
obligation on the part of the Fund to pay, notwithstanding any
subsequent suspension or cancellation of the Fund Loan, and in
conformity with Section 3.05 above, such portion of the total
amount to be disbursed out of the proceeds of the Fund Loan in
fulfillment of such special commitment as agreed pursuant to
Section 3.04 of this Agreement.
Section 3.08. Except as the Association and the Fund shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit or the Fund Loan shall be governed by the provisions of
the Procurement Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.09. NRA is designated as represenative of the
h5orrower for the purpose of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Article III of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE IV
Execution of the Project
Section 4.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause- NRA to perform in accordance
Y.


﻿-7-
with the provisions of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary
Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate
to enable NRA to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
and the Fund Loan for Parts A, B, D (b), G and I available to
NRA under a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and NRA under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Association.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Association and the Fund and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit and the Fund Loan, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision
thereof.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause NRA to carry out
Parts A, B, C, D (a), E, G, H and I of the Project and carry
out Part D (b) of the Project through the Faculty of Agricul-
ture of the National University of Somalia, as well as Part D (c)
of the Project through the Project Management Unit within its
Ministry of Education and art F of the Project through the
Department of Veterinary Services of its Ministry of Livestock,
Forestry and Range with,,due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, and financial prac-
tices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purposes.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that appointments to the posi-
tions of General Manager, as well as Directors of Administration
and Range and Environment departments of NRA, shall be made in
consultation with the Association.
(c) The Borrower shall appoint a Project Coordinator whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employ-
ment shall be acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall prepare the terms of refer-
ence for a study on increasing cost recovery in the livestock


﻿- 8--
-8-
sector in consultation with the Association, from time to time
consult with the Association in carrying out said study, and
shall furnish to the Association for its review the results
of said study not later than December 31, 1983.
Section 4.04. Without any limitation or restriction on
its obligation under Section 4.01 (a) above, the Borrower shall
(i) deposit an advance of not less than Somali shillings five
million in NRA's Project account towards its share of local
operating cost and (ii) replenish said account to this level
semi-annually until project completion.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to make available to NRA
all suCh land and rights in respect of land as shall be required
to carry out the Project.
Section 4.06. The Borrower hereby undertakes to take all
necessary measures to ensure that no stock-water supplies shall be
developed unless: (i) they are incorporated in a range grazing
reserve; (ii) a grazing association for the purpose of supervising
said reserve has been established; and (iii) said grazing associ-
ation shall have entered"into an agreement to abide by NRA's
regulations and instructions regarding grazing and watering.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) NRA shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement
or obligation of NRA under the Project Agreement.
(b) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that NRA will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c) Law No. 23, 1976, Law No. 15, 1969, Law No. 68, 1970 and
Law No.3, 1979 of the Borrower shall have been amended, sus-
pended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to materi-
ally and adversely affect the ability of NRA to carry out the
covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in the Project
Agreement.


﻿C1
-9-
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or edisestablish-
ment of NRA or for the suspension of its operations.
(e) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grants or loan (including the
Fund Loan) made to the Borrower for the
financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or
in part, pursuant to the terms of the agree-
ment providing therefor, or
(B) Any of the loans referred to in the Preamble
to this Agréement shal have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if: (A) s.uch suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement, and (B) adequate
funds for the Project are available to, the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions consis-
tent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) the events specified in paragrapýhs (a), (c) and (e) (i)
(A) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall
continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have
been given by the Association to the Borrower and National Range
Agency; and
(b)  the events specified in paragraphs (b), (d) and (e) (i)
(B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit


﻿10
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the execution and delivery on behalf of the Borrower
of the Fund Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary governmental action and all other conditions
precedent to the effectiveness of the Fund Loan pursuant to the
Fund Loan Agreement (other than the effectiveness of this Agree-
meit) have been duly fulfilled;
(b) the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf
of the Borrower and NRA;
(c) the Borrower shall have complied with its obligation
under Section 4.02 (c) of this Agreement;
(d) the Borrower shall have complied with its obligation
under Section 4.04 (i) of this Agreement;
(e) the Borrower shall have enacted and gazetted Law No.3,
1979 acceptable to the Association, governing NRA's development of
range management; and
(f) the Agreements for AID Grant and ODM Grant referred
to in the Preamble to this Agreement, shall have become effective
or are concurrently declared effective with this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the (eneral
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by NRA, and is legally binding upon NRA in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the Borrower and the NRA and is legally binding
upon the Borrower and the NRA in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date                      is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Sec ion 12.04 of the General Conditions.         K
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
A.


﻿- 11 -
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
Section 6.05. If (i) the Fund Loan Agreement shall have
come into force and effect and the Development Credit Agreement
shall have failed to come into force and effect by the date,
specified in Section 6.03 of this Agreement or a later date
established by the Association for the purposes of Section 12.04
of the General Conditions, or (ii) the entire principal amount of
the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account and all charges which
shall have accrued on the Credit shall have be6n paid before the
Fund Loan Agreement shall have terminated, then, notwithstanding
the provisions of Sections 12.04 and 12.05 of the General Condi-
tions, the Development Credit Agreement shall be deemed to be, or
to remain, in force and effect but only to the extent required for
the purpose of implementing the Fund Loan Agreement and of orderly
settlement of matters of mutual interest to the parties there-
under, subject to such modifications of the Development Credit
Agreement as shall be agreed between the Borrower, the Association
and the Fund for such purposes.
Section 6.06. If (i) the Fund Loan Agreement shall terminate
in accordance'with its terms before ,the Development Credit Agree-
ment shall have terminated, or (ii) the Association shall notify
the Borrower that its appointment as Cooperating Institution under
the Fund Loan Agreement has terminated, the provisions of this
Agreement shall, to the extent that they relate to the Fund Loan,
forthwith terminate.
ARTICLE VII
Represintative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purpose of Section ll..0 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Minister of Finance
Government of the Somali Democratic Republic
Mogadishu
Somali Democratic Republic
A4


﻿12 -
Cable address:
MINFIN
Mogadishu
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington,,,D.C. 20433
United,States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
By4
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By              V
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿-13-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
and the Fund Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Fund Loan,
the allocation of the amounts of the Credit and the Fund Loan to
each Category and the percentage of expenditutes for items so to
be financed in each Category:
Amount Allocated
Credit      Fund Loan
(Expressed   (Expressed        % of
in Dollar     in SDRs     Expenditures
Category            Equivalent) Equlvalent)   to be Financed
(1) Refunding of           300,000         -      100%
advance under
Project prepara-
tion facility
(2) Civil works          2,1?0,000     1,820,000   100%
(3) Vehicle.s              710,000       630,000  100%
(4) Furniture and          380,000       350,000  100%
equipment
(5) Technical            1,300,000'    1,400,000   100%
assistance
(6) Local salaries         280,000       280,000  100%
and allowances
(7) Other local            890,000       770,000  100%
operating costs
(8) Unallocated          2,020,000     1,750,000
TOTAL        8,000,000     7,000,000


﻿14
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association and the Fund that
no proceeds of the Credit or the Fund ,Loan shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation, manufac-
ture, procurement or supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of
any such taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Association and the Fund.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement or the date of
the Fund Loan Agreement whichever shall be the later.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit or the Fund Loan then allocated-
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percen-
tage of all expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by
notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the
Credit or the Fund Loan which are then allocated to another
Category and which in the opinion of the Association are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
5.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Fund Loan and the Association may, without
in any way restricting or limiting any other right, poweroor
remedy of the Association under the Development Credit Agreement
or of the Fund under the Fund Loan Agreement, by notice to the
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit and for the Fund
Loan as, in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been


﻿-15-
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit and/or
the Fund Loan.
o1
.          tIa  sm ue --s


﻿- 16 -
SHEULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's program to improve
the national rangelands and the standard of living of the pas-
toralists through range management, better veterinary services
and gradual concentration of 'communities and consists of the
folliwing Parts:
Part A:   Resource Inventories
Aerial surveys of the Riiran,' Galgudud and Mudug regions
(Central Rangelands Project area) as iell as ,of the
Nugal, Tugder and Sanaag regions in Northern Somalia
leadinjk to the production of vegetation maps and
descriptions of land systems, as well as information
about human and animal populations, water points and
cropping activities.
Part B:   Non-Formal Education and Training
A survey of pastoral communities; a dialogue between
the Project and the pastoralists; formation of grazing
associations and in-service training of NRA field
s4aff.
Part C:   Range and Water Development
(a) In the regions of Hiiran, Galgudud and Mudug:
(i) a Range Ground Survey;
(ii) the establishment of about 45 town and village
grazing reserves, 12 famine reserves and 20 range
grazing reserves including access tracks;
(iii) the establishment of stockwater points (boreholes
or surface water ponds as appropriate) for the
famine and range grazing reserves;
(iv) the provision of staff, offices, workshops and
housing for the NRA field services;
(v) range investigations through the establishment
of about 92 range reference areas, analysis of
forage species and firing and bush-clearing trials;


﻿17 -
(vi) tests of soil conseryation and water. spreading
techniques at three locations and demonstrations
of anti-ero.ion measures; and
(vii)  assistance to three experimental grazing coopera-
tives; evaluation of existing grazing cooperatives
and recommendatiog\ to Government regarding their
viability.
(b) At NRA Headquarters of:
(I) strengthenIng of the Department of Range and
Environment through Technical Assistance;
(1i) establishment of a Range Monitoring Unit; and
(iii) establishment of a Stockwater Service with the
c4pacity to develop, operate,, and maintain stock-
Water supplies inorange areas.
Part D:   Formal Education and Training
(-a) overseas on-tlie-job training of counterpart- staff
for the range monitoring team;
(b) Technical Assistance to the Faculty of Agriculture
of·the NMional University of Somalia as well as 20
man-years of post-graduate fellowships in range manage-
ment; and
(c) Technical Assistance to the Livestock and Range School.
Part E:   Town Shelter Belts, Nurseries and Forestry
(a) establishment of nurseries and town shelter belts
for the three regional capit,als of the Project area;
and
(b) technical assistance to the NRA Department of Forestry.
Part F:   Veterinary Services
(a) support to the field service in the Project area through
Technical Assistance and the provision of staff, labora-
tories, stores, transport, equipment, drugs and vac-
cines; and


﻿- 18 -
(b) strengthenIng of the Serum and Vaccine Laboratory
at Mogadishu through Technical Assistance, staff,
housing, transport and equipment.
Part G:   Strengthening of Administration and Management of NRA
(a) Technical Assistance;
(b) Establishment of 'a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit;
(c) Provision of transport and operating costs for vehicles
and machinery; and
(d) Provision of office equipment and house furniture.
Pa-t R:   Maintenance Service
Technical Assistance, transport and equipment for
the establishment of one central and three regional
workshops to maintain vehicles, machinery, water pumps
and engines.
Part I:   Buildings
(a) Construction of NRA Headquarters Office building,
a central workshop and staff houses;
(b) three NRA regional centers with offices, stores, work-
shops, and staff houses;
(c) twelve NRA district centers with offices, stores and
staff houses; and
(d) one diagnostic laboratory and three stores for the
Regional Veterinary field services.
*             *              *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1985.
..       .   .   .   .   .   .   . .i . ..~ - .--.".-.-. .......


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Developmient Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of
19791
FOR SECRETARY
g4'


