Document of                 FE   COPY
The World Bank                    FLE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2798-TU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR A
SUMERBANK COTTON TEXTILE
RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
April 30, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their oficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TURKEY
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                  Calendar 1978           July 1979        Jan. 198011
US Dollar 1           =            TL 24.28             TL 47.10 /2    TL 70.00 13
TL 1                  =           US$ 0.04              US$ 0.02        US$ 0.01
/1  Since January 1980 the rate is being adjusted for the differential
inflation between Turkey and its major trading partners. TL70/$1
was used for this report.
/2 Except for imports of crude oil, petroleum products and fertilizer raw
materials, and exports of agricultural products benefitting from official
price supports, for which it was TL35 = US$1.00
/3 Except for imports of fertilizers and insecticides/pesticides, as well as
raw materials and inputs for their manufacture, for which the rate is
TL55 - US$1.00.
FISCAL YEAR
Republic of Turkey                                    March 1 to February 28
Sumerbank                                             January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
CTD                                   Cotton Textile Division in Sumerbank
DYB                                   State Investment Bank
EEC                                   European Economic Community
LIBOR                                 London Inter Bank Offer Rate
M & LT                                Medium and Long Term
PPF                                   Project Preparation Facility
SEE                                   State Economic Enterprise
SPO                                   State Planning Organization
SYKB                                  Industrial Investment and Credit Bank
TSKB                                  Turkish Industrial Development Bank
UNIDO                                 United Nations Industrial Development
Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TURKEY - SUMERBANK COTTON TEXTILE RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Turkey
Beneficiary:         Sumerbank
Amount:              $83 million equivalent in various currencies.
Terms:               Seventeen years including four years grace, at 8.25 percent
per annum.
Relending Terms:    Twelve years including four years grace, at 10.5 percent
per annum. Beneficiary will bear the foreign exchange
risk.
Project
Description:        Rationalization and modernization of Sumerbank's cotton
textile operations to increase annual production of yarn
from 41,000 tons per year to 52,000 tons, of woven fabrics
from 207 to 250 million m2, finished fabrics from 152 to
207 million m2, and of garments by 1.7 million pieces.
Except for garments, the increases will come from better
use of existing capacity.
The project includes: The provision or modernization of
spinning, weaving, finishing and printing equipment, the
equipping of a new garment plant, the general rehabilita-
tion of existing factory facilities including ventilation,
effluent disposal and lighting; about 45 manyears of
training abroad; and about 460 manmonths of technical
assistance for improved management, operations, training,
financial and budgeting systems.
The project will help meet the large domestic demand for
textile products in Turkey and will yield net foreign
earnings of about $5 million per year at full production.
The principal risks include the possibilities of delayed
price adjustments resulting in inadequate cash genera-
tion for the project, delays arising from the need to
carefully coordinate relocation and rehabilitation in 19
widely dispersed plants and delayed improvement in
Sumerbank's financial position resulting from better
organization and management.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:                                               US$ Millions
Local    Foreign   Total
Machinery and Equipment                        3.6        49.7      53.3
Freight and Insurance                          0.1         4.O       4.1
Civil Works, Engineering and Erection          8.1         3.0      11.1
Consultancy and Training                       1.7         6.8 1/   8.5
Base Cost Estimate                            13.5        63.5      77.0
Contingencies:
Physical                                       1.0         3.7       4.7
Price                                          3.5        20.8      24.3
TOTAL PROJECT COST                       18.0        88.0    106.0
(of which taxes)                         (2.3)       (0.0)    (2.3)
Financial Charges During Construction          3.5        14.2      17.7
Project Incremental Working Capital            5.2         1.8       7.0
Working Capital for Existing Operations    17.8            2.0      19.8
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED                 44.5       106.0    150.5
Financing Plan:
Bank                                           0.0        83.0      83.0
Suppliers Credits                              0.0         5.0       5.0
Internally Generated Funds (Sumerbank)        26.5        18.0      44.5
New Equity Funds (Government)                 18.0         0.0      18.0
TOTAL                                    44.5       106.0    150.5
_ - 
Estimated
Disbursements:                                               US$ Millions
CY     1980    1981    1982    1983
Annual                                    1.0      36.0    38.0      8.0
Cumulative                                1.0      37.0    75.0    83.0
Economic Rate
of Return:          24 percent
Appraisal Report:   No. 2887-TU dated April 30, 1980.
1/   Including $1 million of advances under the Project Preparation Facility
(P-013/018-TU).



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY FOR A SUMERBANK COTTON TEXTILE
RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Turkey for the equivalent of US$83 million, to help finance
a Sumerbank Cotton Textile Rationalization Project. The loan would have a
term of 17 years including 4 years of grace with interest at 8.25 percent per
annum. The proceeds of the loan will be on-lent to Sumerbank for 12 years
with 4 years of grace, with interest at 10.5 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A Special Economic Mission visited Turkey in April/May 1979 to
evaluate the Fourth Five-Year Plan (1979-83). Following discussion with the
Government in mid October 1979, its report entitled "Turkey: Policies and
Prospects for Growth" (No. 2657a-TU dated December 12, 1979), was distributed
to the Executive Directors on December 26, 1979. A Postscript to the Special
Economic Report was distributed to the Board on March 24, 1980. Their find-
ings are reflected in this Part. Annex I contains the Basic Country Data.
Development Trends and Policies
3.        As the result of a strong commitment to rapid growth and moderniza-
tion, GDP increased at an average annual rate of 6.4 percent, 6.7 percent
and 7.2 percent respectively during the First Plan (1963-67), Second Plan
(1968-72), and Third Plan (1973-77) periods. This compares favorably with
the experience of 55 "middle income" developing countries, whose GDP grew on
an average 6.0 percent per annum between 1960-70 and 6.1 percent per annum
between 1970-77. Moreover, the relatively high growth rate in Turkey was
achieved without significant deposits of oil or other important natural
resources.
4.         Growth was accompanied by significant social changes.  Although
population grew at 2.5 percent per annum, rapid GDP growth nevertheless
allowed substantial advances in per capita income. However, rising income
levels were not accompanied by better income distribution and significant
sectoral and regional inequalities in income exist, although basic needs have
been satisfactorily met.
5.        The public sector has played a key role in Turkey's development.
Between 1963-77, its share in total fixed investment fluctuated around 50
percent, and its share of fixed investment in manufacturing increased from 21
1/   This part is identical to Part I of the President's Report on the
Karakaya Hydropower Project (P-2789-TU), dated April 25, 1980.



- 2 -
to nearly 49 percent. The public sector dominates basic industries. Never-
theless, the private sector has emerged as an increasingly important and
dynamic element in the economy and is beginning to shift its orientation from
consumer goods to intermediate and investment goods, and from the domestic
market to exports. Private sector investment increased at nearly 11.5 percent
per year in real terms during 1967-77 compared to an average annual increase
of only 4.8 percent between 1963 and 1967.
6.        Turkish development between 1963-77, however, exhibited a number of
structural characteristics which are of considerable relevance for future
development policy.  First, for a country of Turkey's size and per capita
income, it has a very low level of exports relative to GDP--about 4 percent
in 1977--as against a more or less "normal" import level of around 20 percent
for middle income countries; this highlights the vulnerability of the balance
of payments and the importance of export development to sustain the needed
inflow of foreign exchange resources. Second, while the level of investment
relative to GDP increased rapidly and compares favorably with other developing
countries, mobilization of domestic savings has lagged; the ratio of domestic
savings to GDP is well below the average for middle income countries; the
growing gap between domestic savings and investment led in the mid-70s to a
relatively high level of external borrowing, and domestic inflationary pres-
sures emanating from excess demand and deficit financing. Third, a relatively
high proportion of the labor force is still in agriculture, reflecting signif-
icant disguised unemployment and the need for accelerated job creation in
non-agricultural activities; that in industry is low compared to other large
middle income countries; furthermore, the relatively inadequate generation of
additional employment has become more serious following the near cessation of
workers' migration to Europe since 1974. Fourth, despite the growing dynamism
of the private sector, the industrial scene is dominated by inefficient State
Economic Enterprises (SEEs) which have not been exposed to market forces and
serve not only economic but social goals; their growing deficits have imposed
an inflationary burden on the budget, while their ambitious investment programs
were financed through Central Bank borrowings, since their controlled prices
have, until recently, not enabled most of them to generate sufficient cash to
cover costs or investment expenditures. Fifth, due to the successes achieved
since the early sixties through economic planning, there has been an increas-
ing tendency to plan to a micro-level and seek to achieve changes through
administrative fiat; however, the economy has reached a stage where such
excessive reliance on this becomes counter productive; planning needs to be
increasingly geared towards setting a framework in which market forces
could secure the desired economic results in both the public and private
sectors.
The Economic Crisis and Stabilization Efforts up to Mid-1979
7.        These economic, institutional and structural characteristics of
the economy made it particularly vulnerable to the sharp increase in import
prices (including oil) in 1974 and the simultaneous occurence of recession,
inflation and rising unemployment in the industrial countries. These factors



- 3 -
played a key part in the deterioration of the Turkish economy. However, the
politically weak governments, their policies in response to these factors and
their efforts to pursue high growth policy despite the worsening international
environment with increasing reliance on short-term external financing, together
created forces that brought about the economic crisis that began in mid-1977
and still continues. The detailed analysis of the causes of this crisis and
the government's attempts to stabilize the economy in the short-run up to
mid-1979, is provided in the above-mentioned Special Economic Report and in
paras. 8 through 15 of the President's Report (dated February 29, 1980) for
the Structural Adjustment Loan approved by the Board on March 25, 1980.
8.        The new IMF Standby, which replaced the one arranged in April
1978, was negotiated after the government took the following overdue measures
in March/April 1979, to reverse the continuing adverse economic trends: (a)
to improve the balance of payments, the TL was devalued in several steps until
June, when a new buying rate of TL 47.10 per US$1 was established for most
foreign trade and all invisibles; the new rate represented a depreciation in
export-weighted terms of nearly 75 percent since the end of 1970, and more
than offset the differential inflation rate during the course of 1978-79
between Turkey and its major trading partners; (b) to further stimulate
exports of industrial and mining products, exporters were allowed to retain 50
percent (up from 25 percent) of their foreign exchange earnings to finance
their imported inputs or those of their local suppliers; (c) to improve the
financial position of SEEs, further substantial price increases (34 percent to
110 percent) were announced for a number of products, raising them above world
prices at the new exchange rate; these increases were estimated to yield an
additional TL 80 billion in FY1979, to help reduce the overall borrowing
requirement of the public sector; and (d) to ensure more effective mobiliza-
tion and allocation of resources, interest rates for deposits and loans were
increased substantially, from up to a maximum of 16% p.a. to over 24% p.a.;
repatriated savings of migrant workers were allowed an additional interest
premium.
9.        The July 1979 Standby covered a twelve month period, and foresaw
total purchases of SDR 250.0 million in four tranches - SDR 70.0 million
initially, and SDR 60 million each after November 1979, March 1980, and June
1980. It provided for a series of specific performance targets to strengthen
the public finances, reduce inflation and improve the balance of payments
situation in the short term. These measures were expected to prevent further
deterioration in the balance of payments during 1979, with essential imports
projected at $5.0 billion, about the same level as the previous year in real
terms. A substantial increase in workers' remittances to a level of $1.2
billion was expected to compensate for the increasing interest payments on
foreign debt. At the same time, disbursements of medium- and long-term
foreign aid (including the Bank's Program Loan) were expected to increase
markedly in 1979, thus reducing the need for renewed short-term borrowing.
10.       In 1978, short-term debts continued to grow.  However, 1979 wit-
nessed the completion of a major Turkish effort to alleviate the primary



- 4 -
external debt issue through: (a) slowing the growth of short-term liabilities;
(b) debt relief arrangements; and (c) efforts to pursue new sources of credits,
especially M&LT credits. The first debt relief operation, arranged through
the OECD Consortium for Turkey in May 1978, involved consolidation of $1.14
billion in arrears on guaranteed short-term and bilateral M&LT debt, as
well as amounts due over the 13-month period May 21, 1978 to June 30, 1979. A
second such major rescheduling took place in July 1979 involving about $1.02
billion of the official bilateral and private guaranteed credits due between
July 1, 1979 and June 30, 1980. A third major arrangement, finalized in July
and August 1979 with commercial banks, rescheduled convertible lira deposits
($2.3 billion), banker's credits ($429 million) and third party reimbursement
credits ($300 million). About $317 million in oil debt was also rescheduled.
The total amount thus rescheduled was about $5.5 billion. This is perhaps the
largest debt rescheduling operation anywhere.
11.       Turkey also succeeded in 1978 and 1979, though to a limited extent,
in diversifying the sources and increasing the level of M&LT commitments,
including $250 million in project credits from the Saudi Fund. Perhaps the
most important arrangement arrived at was the May 1979 OECD sponsored pledging
of $1.45 billion in special assistance, including about $900 million in M&LT
bilateral credits and export credits, besides $407 million of medium-term
credits from commercial banks (finalized in September 1979). Agreements for
all these funds were expected to be finalized before the end of 1979. By that
time, about $750 million of this was estimated to be disbursed.
Economic Situation As Of End 1979
12.       The economic crisis still continues.  The measures taken in the
context of the July 1979 Standby Arrangement have essentially succeeded in
arresting further economic deterioration. Since it came into effect only in
July 1979, it was recognized that the stabilization objectives which could be
realized within one year were necessarily limited, and the progress towards
them within the remaining six months of 1979 would also be quite modest.
13.       After a surge up to mid 1979, worker remittances slowed down;
nevertheless, they totalled about $1.7 billion, against $983 million in 1978
and the Standby's target of $1.2 billion.  Industrial exports rose quite
strongly in the first half of 1979 in response to the changes in the parity
value of the TL in April and June 1979; but they subsequently slowed down,
presumably, partly due to severe shortages of imported inputs and partly due
to the anticipation of further devaluation in the second half of that year.
Overall, exports totalled about $2.3 billion in 1979, against the Standby's
target of $2.7 billion.  As a result of higher prices and the necessity of
purchasing oil on spot markets, the 1979 oil bill rose from the projected $1.7
billion to nearly $2.5 billion. While imports in 1979 were contained at $5.1
billion, marginally higher than the Standby's target of $5.0 billion, the
large oil bill necessitated more than anticipated reductions in essential
imports. The problem was compounded by a much lower inflow of new capital
than that envisaged in July 1979, because a significant part of the $900
million committed by bilaterals in May 1979 at the OECD meeting had not been
made effective up to December 1979; besides, only a portion of what was made



- 5 -
effective was available to finance imports in 1979. Disbursements were
also lower than expected against the $407 million of new commercial bank
financing, because of its linkage with the November 1979 tranche of the
Standby Arrangements which could not take place in time due to a change of
government in Turkey in late 1979. Consequently, while the estimated current
account deficit of $1.6 billion in 1979 was more or less in line with the
target in the Standby Arrangements, the volume of imports declined by about 15
percent in 1979, following a decline of about 30 percent in 1978. Overall,
GNP growth in 1979 was about 1.5 percent. Under the great pressure imposed by
extremely limited supplies of vital imported inputs and products, including
oil, the resulting shortfalls in export earnings, the shortages of a wide
variety of consumer goods, and much stronger pressure on wages than antici-
pated at the time of the Standby, the rate of inflation reached 64 percent in
1979.
January 1980 Economic Program and Policy Objectives
14.       Despite the difficult stabilization measures adopted since 1978
and those reflected in the July 1979 Standby Arrangements, the economic crisis
persisted throughout 1979. Following elections in October 1979 a new govern-
ment was formed. It obtained a vote of confidence in late November 1979.
Bold and far-reaching measures to reverse the economic situation were announced
on January 25, 1980. These are summarized in Annex II and more fully discussed
in Part II of the President's Report (No. P-2725-TU) for the Structural
Adjustment Loan approved by the Executive Directors on March 25, 1980. The
announced economic policy objectives underlying these measures represent a
basic departure from the past planning objectives. Turkey has undertaken,
through this program, the essential first steps to initiate major structural
and institutional changes in the key areas summarized in para 6, so as to
foster medium-term economic development on a stable basis.
15.       Following the announcement of this program, the IMF approved a
modification of the terms of the July 1979 Standby Arrangements, and the
release of a larger second tranche on February 21, 1980. On March 24, 1980,
it approved the release of an increased third tranche. Thus, of the balance
of SDR 180 million remaining in their July 1979 Standby, only SDR 20 million
remains for release by end June 1980. In addition, compensatory financing of
SDR 71.6 million has been provided on February 21, 1980 together with the
modification of the Standby. Together, this results in the provision of $301
million (SDR 231.6 million) now with $26 million (SDR 20 million) to be
provided in June 1980. In addition, Germany took the lead in organizing the
provision of sizeable external assistance, as well as a further debt relief
operation. Also, in meetings sponsored under OECD auspices on March 26 and
April 15, $1.16 billion of bilateral aid was pledged. The success of the
January 1980 measures is clearly dependent not on Turkey's own further efforts
alone, but also on the willingness of the international economic and financial
community to provide adequate and timely assistance in the period immediately
ahead. The alternative for Turkey would be to cut back on imports, already
pared to the bone; this, in turn, would postpone the possibility of economic
recovery even further, jeopardize its efforts to curb inflation, and hamper
the success of the bold structural changes it has initiated.



- 6 -
16.       The new economic policy oblectives underlying the Government's
stated goal of "bringing about a major reorientation of the economy," can
be summed up as follows:
(a) Greater reliance on market mechanisms and forces by both the
public and private sectors, and lesser reliance than hitherto
on planning up to micro-levels and on administrative fiats to
realize planned targets and objectives.
(b) Reduction in the rate of inflation and improved management of
balance of payments and external debts have the highest
priority; in the process, Turkey may have to accept temporarily
a lower GNP growth.
(c) Import substitution and protection oriented policies, on
which Turkish development policy hitherto relied and which
resulted in a bias favoring production for the domestic
markets, must give way to policies encouraging the public
and private sectors to be efficient and internationally
competitive.
(d)  In future, reliance must be placed on exports and foreign
currency earning activities to finance Turkey's economic
needs; the implementation of rational exchange rate policies
and of measures encouraging exports are essential to achieve
this objective.
(e) The SEE sector must be reformed, by exposing it to market
forces, by allowing it to set its own prices and by improv-
ing its management; through such actions, it must generate
its own resources to cover operating costs and investment
expenditures.
(f) Domestic resource mobilization efforts, unlike the past, must
be substantially augmented through increased tax efforts, the
banking system, increased savings and the development of
financial markets; the elimination of deficits of the public
sector is an important objective of budgets from 1980 onwards.
(g) Investments aiming at fuller utilization of existing produc-
tive capacity and completion of those ongoing projects
requiring modest inputs should have first priority; there-
after, the priority should be for new investments stressing
exports and employment or those removing critical infra-
structural bottlenecks; in any event, investments should be
tailored to scarce resources.
(h) Conditions to stimulate foreign investments in oil, industry
and agriculture must be created, in contrast to the past when
such investments were not encouraged; prudent external debt
management policies to create confidence in and flow of large
external resources to Turkey should be followed.



17.       These are radical departures from past Turkish economic policy.
Considerable effort will be required to implement the new policies and com-
plete the structural and institutional changes which Turkey has begun. The
difficulty of the task should not be underestimated. The key policy areas
are: (a) a rational exchange rate policy; (b) policies ensuring increased
export earnings and encouraging foreign investments; (c) reform of the SEE
sector, and the use of market forces to improve its efficiency and output as
well as that of the private sector; (d) policies to improve domestic resource
mobilization; and (e) formulation and pursuit of rational external debt
management policies.
18.       The actions taken by Turkey since 1978 in these areas, including
measures in the January 1980 program and those planned for implementation in
the medium-term, are summarized in the Table in Annex II. Progress in
implementing them so as to foster economic recovery in the medium-term will
be the focus of two reviews in July 1980 and December 1980, under the recently
approved Structural Adjustment Loan. While all the issues listed in the Table
are important, two of them merit further discussion: (a) external debt
management and (b) public sector investment program.
19.       Turkey's external debt management policy has to grapple with several
difficult issues. First, the large overhang of debt, and the relatively hard
terms of the recent debt reschedulings, together raise a question regarding
the need for further rescheduling in the near-term. A substantial improvement
in the repayment profile of the rescheduled debts and the containment of
Turkey's short-term indebtedness over the medium-term to no more than the
present level of about $3.8 billion is necessary to alleviate the heavy debt
servicing burden over the next 5 years; a critical element here is the likely
posture of commercial creditors, which cannot be easily anticipated. Second,
it is important that Turkey obtains sizeable external credits on as long-term
and concessional a basis as possible, to complete ongoing projects and under-
take new ones in accordance with its stated investment criteria (para. 20).
Recognizing the importance of these issues and the longer-term concerns
regarding its creditworthiness that its creditors have, Turkey has been
focussing its attention on evolving a balanced and prudent policy for external
debt management. The Government has already initiated a comprehensive study
of external debt, which it expects to complete before October 31, 1980. This
study should help Turkey to further improve and refine its present external
debt management policy; that should also assist Turkey in exercising greater
control over the level and terms of new external financing it would seek from
various external sources over the next five years.
20.       As discussed earlier, the overall size and quality of the public
investment programs until 1977 have contributed to the economic crisis.
Actions taken over the last several months provide some evidence that given
the severe domestic and foreign exchange constraints, public investment
expenditures are being channelled towards projects meeting strict investment
criteria. However, the January 1980 program and the policy announcements
accompanying it go beyond that. They emphasize that since control of
inflation is more important at present than the past Turkish strategy of
concentrating only on higher growth, the projected level of annual investments



- 8 -
must be rigorously tailored to meet the availability of scarce resources
each year. Investments in fiscal 1979 were lower in real terms than those
in fiscal 1978. The Government proposes to continue that trend for fiscal
1980. Priority is to be accorded first to investments designed to utilize
existing productive capacity more fully and to complete ongoing projects which
can yield attractive returns with modest additional investments. Thereafter,
the priority for new investments is for productive projects either contributing
to exports or employment, or for those which remove critical infrastructural
bottlenecks. A new Incentives and Investment Department has been established,
whose purpose is to review which ongoing investments should be stopped,
deferred or completed on an accelerated basis.
21.       Successful implementation of the economic reorientation begun in
January 1980 will take time, require persistence and courageous action on
the part of the Government and call for substantial support from the inter-
national community. In the medium term, it will strengthen the basis for
Turkey's creditworthiness and reestablish a path of stable economic growth.
Turkey's Medium-Term Economic Prospects
22.       The Fourth Five-Year Plan (1979-83), approved by Parliament in
November 1978, was in many essential ways an extension of the traditional
Turkish development planning. It set out to complete the unfinished tasks
of the Third Plan, and continued to emphasize a high growth rate, a large
investment allocation for import substitution in basic and intermediate goods
industries, and reliance on administrative controls rather than on market
incentives. But it also attempted to address some development issues which
came to the fore during the economic crisis, i.e. export growth and increased
savings. Consequently, an export growth target of 18 percent p.a. in real
terms and a marginal savings ratio of 34 percent were set, and priority was
also accorded to export-oriented investments. But investment allocations
provided mixed signals, favoring import substitution. In view of the continua-
tion of the economic crisis, the unattainability of the targeted marginal
savings ratio, and the difficulties that Turkey is facing currently, the
Fourth Plan targets of investment and growth are clearly not going to be
achieved.
23.       Against this background, the Bank has made its own prognosis based
on a general equilibrium model of the economy which permits quantification of
alternative policies and a detailed and consistent examination of Turkey's
medium-term prospects. Given the accumulation of economic problems of the
last three years, the political difficulties besetting the country, the addi-
tional resources needed to cover the significantly increased cost of imports
(including oil), and the limitations which Turkey is likely to encounter over
the medium-term in significantly increasing the net inflow of capital, GDP
growth in real terms may average around 4 percent p.a. with a real growth of
exports about 12 percent p.a., during 1980-85. These growth rates appear
attainable, assuming continuation of appropriate economic policies (including
those announced in January 1980), and taking into account the low export base



- 9 -
and present underutilization of capacity. I/ The international oil situation,
following the recent substantial oil price increases at end-1979, has a
major impact on future prospects. Even if Turkey allows only a marginal
increase in oil imports during 1980-1985 to sustain a lower level of growth,
the oil import bill is estimated to increase to $3.2 billion in 1980 and $6.1
billion by 1985, which as a percentage of merchandise exports and non-factor
services reached 78.1 percent in 1979 and is likely to remain at a level of
about 68 percent until 1985. The pressure this will exert on Turkey's already
difficult balance of payments position is obvious. Although in constant
dollars the ratio appears manageable, in current prices the projected current
account deficit as a percent of GNP increases from 3 percent in 1979 to about
5.3 percent in 1980 and remains at a level of about 4 percent thereafter until
1984. Considering the limitation on the gross inflows of available external
assistance and given the need for sound external debt management, Turkey can
sustain an average annual current account deficit of the order of $2-2.2
billion annually over the next 5 years.
24.       Taking into account international inflation and the growing obliga-
tions for debt amortization, this situation necessitates a large and sharply
increasing gross annual average inflow of foreign capital, rising from the
current relatively low levels to about $5.2 billion during the next five
years, implying an annual average of about $2.3 billion of net capital inflow
for the same period. Such major inflows of foreign capital can only be
sustained on the basis of prudent external debt management. In any case, debt
service obligations are likely to remain very high over the coming 5 years.
In 1978, total debt service payments had risen to 26.7 percent of exports of
goods, non-factor services and workers' remittances after making allowance for
the rescheduled service payments. In 1980, the ratio is projected to reach
close to 37 percent, and is likely to peak in 1985 at a high level of about 48
percent, before declining. This, however, should represent the culmination of
the financial consequences of the present crisis and the debt burden should
remain manageable, provided the new policies are successfully implemented and
the export drive is sustained.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
25.       A-large lending program for Turkey essentially began following the
introduction of its 1970 Stabilization Program. To date, the Bank/IDA have
lent $2,320 million through 56 projects. Agriculture accounts for 30 percent
of funds lent, industry and DFCs for 34 percent, power for 14 percent and
urban development, transportation, education and tourism for the rest. Annex
III contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC invest-
ments as of March 31, 1980, with notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
1/   See "Turkey:  Postscript Special Economic Report", Attachment 1, Report
No. 2918-TU dated March 20, 1980, circulated to the Executive Directors
on March 24, 1980.



- 10 -
26.       Since mid-1975 the implementation of private sector projects has
been satisfactory. Political uncertainty, limited coordination amongst
ministries and staffing problems resulted in uneven and delayed project imple-
mentation in the public sector. Therefore, a system of joint project reviews
between Turkey and the Bank was instituted in June 1975. This resulted in
distinct, but modest, improvements up to end 1977. The situation was again
reviewed with the Government in March 1978, and further discussed during
my visit in April 1978. Subsequently, Turkey established a new high-level
coordination team. This team set up procedures for monitoring and achieving
realistic implementation and disbursement targets. As of December 1979
disbursements increased to 69 percent of appraisal estimates against 51
percent in June 1975. The last joint review was held in April 1979. The
encouraging progress that is now manifest allows cautious optimism that
performance will gradually improve further.
27.       Bank lending is now aimed at supporting Turkey's efforts to improve
its: (a) capacity to earn foreign exchange, through promotion of industrial
and agro-industrial exposts; (b) income distribution, employment opportunities
and living standards, through rural and urban development projects; (c) lagging
public sector savings, through the encouragement of improved management
and financing of the investments of key SEEs; and (d) infrastructure posing
critical bottlenecks for development. The Bank has begun discussions with the
new government on how its lending can best contribute to the government's
medium-term objectives, especially export promotion, without being handicapped
by past policy and institutional obstacles. Meanwhile, agriculture and
industry remain the key sectors for lending. In agriculture, projects empha-
size livestock, exports, and rural development; in industry (including DFCs),
the emphasis is on promotion of exports and employment, as also the gradual
strengthening of the SEEs. Projects for urban development, public utilities
and transportation supplement these efforts. We propose to maintain a close
macroeconomic and sector dialogue with Turkey. The economic and sector work
planned over the next few months includes an updating economic mission and
completion of sector memoranda on industry and energy. In addition, the
progress made in fostering the structural adjustments initiated by the Govern-
ment through the January 1980 program will be discussed in the context of the
disbursements of the Structural Adjustment Loan.
28.       A thirteenth TSKB loan designed to stimulate investments in export
projects of the private sector, loans for a Private Sector Textile Project
and an engineering loan to assist the alleviation of air pollution in Ankara,
were approved by the Board in the first four months of FY80. A loan for
Structural Adjustment was approved on March 25, 1980. The Karakaya Hydropower
and the Fifth Livestock Development Projects are scheduled for Board considera-
tion this fiscal year. Projects being processed for future fiscal years
include those for pilot enhanced oil recovery and oil exploration, fruit and
vegetables, livestock products, rural development, fertilizer production,
employment generation in selected cities, pulp manufacture, seed production
and sewerage disposal in Istanbul.
29.       The Bank Group's share of the estimated total external debt (includ-
ing short-term obligations) was 5.9 percent in 1978, and is expected to grow
to 10.0 percent by 1981 and to 12.5 percent by 1985.  The Bank's share of



- 11 -
service payments is projected to fall slightly from its level of 7.7 percent
in 1978 to 6.4 percent in 1981, thereafter increasing to 7.6 percent by 1985.
30.       IFC has invested in synthetic yarns, pulp and paper, glass, aluminum,
iron and steel products, motor bicycle engines, piston rings and cylinder
liners, and tourism. It has also invested in TSKB. As of March 31, 1980,
gross IFC commitments totalled about $208 million, of which $96 million were
still held by IFC. New investment opportunities are being pursued.
PART III - THE TEXTILE INDUSTRY AND SUMERBANK
Background
31.       Textiles has long been one of the most significant industrial sub-
sectors in Turkey. Second only to food processing in value of production,
it is the largest source of manufactured exports and the largest source of
industrial employment providing over 300,000 jobs. It is built upon the firm
basis of significant domestic cotton production, plentiful labor and a large
domestic market.
32.       Turkey is the world's sixth largest cotton grower, and the third
largest cotton exporter. There is considerable scope for further domestic
value-added through the development of the cotton textile industry, especially
weaving, finishing and garment making. Wage levels, although above those in
some developing countries, are well below those in the industrialized coun-
tries. Labor productivity is also low when compared with the latter. Never-
theless, some firms are internationally competitive. Over 90 percent of
domestic cotton textile production, which reached 288 thousand tons of yarn
and about 1.0 billion m2 of fabric in 1978, goes to meet domestic demand.
Domestic textile fiber consumption averaged 7.7 kg per capita in 1978, higher
than most comparable developing countries, but lower than the industrialized
countries. Textile exports were estimated at $352 million in 1979. Of this,
about 80 percent went to the EEC, where Turkey's share ranged from 22 percent
in cotton yarn to 1 percent in fabrics and garments.
33.       The private sector now accounts for 80 to 85 percent of textile
production. Sumerbank--the only public sector textile company--accounts for
the remainder. The organized private sector includes some 1,400 establish-
ments, in which some 200 large integrated plants provide 73 percent of employ-
ment. There are another 8,000 or so small establishments in the unorganized
private sector. Sumerbank controls 26 large textile plants.
34.       The textile industry faces many of the general problems of industry
in Turkey: low capacity utilization, low productivity, power shortages, short-
ages of spare parts and materials due to constraints on foreign exchange and
excessive orientation to the domestic market at the expense of exports. In
addition, the textile industry suffers from bottlenecks--an estimated 60 per-
cent of yarn can be absorbed by domestic looms--and a need for rationalization,



- 12 -
balancing, modernizing and increased efficiency. There are regional shortages
of finishing capacity and a national shortage of dyeing capacity. A consider-
able portion of dyeing and printing and finishing equipment is obsolescent,
and requires replacement. Garments, while a fast growing segment, is rela-
tively undeveloped and most units are small and poorly organized.
35.       In light of these factors, national planning emphasizes renewal
and rehabilitation of existing facilities and expansion of capacity mainly
to correct bottlenecks and balance the various segments in the industry.
Investment in spinning capacity is to be discouraged, while investment in
intermediate goods and auxiliary materials for garments and knitting is to be
fostered. The overly domestic orientation of the textile industry has arisen
from its protected position, the large and profitable domestic market, and
trade restrictions imposed by Turkey's major trading partners.  The economic
policy packages of recent Turkish governments, including the January 1980
package described in Part I of this report, have begun to reorient the incen-
tives provided to manufacturers toward export markets, and to encourage the
domestic processing of raw cotton and yarn into finished products.
36.       The Bank is supporting Turkey's initial efforts to modernize key
selected segments of this industry and improve its efficiency through the
Private Sector Textile Project (Lns. 1754 & 1755 for $80 million to TSKB and
SYKB), approved by the Executive Directors in September 1979, and the proposed
project. In the past, the Bank Group has supported the textile industry
through loans by IFC (about $11 million total), textile subprojects under
loans to TSKB (about $30 million total), and through SEE subprojects under
loans to DYB (about $26 million). The Private Sector Textile Project, besides
providing subloans for equipment, provides for technical assistance for an
extension service providing training and consultancy services, establishes a
fund for supplementary training, technical assistance and technology, and
supports training in textile research, oriented towards improved export
performance.
Markets and Marketing
37.       Based on past trends, the Fourth Plan projects a 9 percent annual
increase in the value of production and a tripling of textile exports. How-
ever, in view of recent economic developments, much lower expectations for
per capita income growth and constraints on imports in the major trading
partners, the Bank projections are more conservative. Production of yarn and
woven fabrics are projected to increase at about 4 percent and 3 percent per
annum respectively in volume through 1985, with most of the increased yarn
production going to meet the domestic yarn requirements of weaving and knitting
and most of the increased fabric production going to meet increases in domestic
fabric demand.  Because of trade restrictions, exports of yarn and woven
fabrics are expected to grow only by 3 percent per annum. The main prospects
for increasing exports lie in garments and made-up goods where exports are now
expected to grow by 8 percent per annum during the 1980-85 period.



- 13 -
38.       Marketing of fabrics in the private sector is generally carried out
through large central wholesalers, mostly located in Istanbul, who sell in
turn through regional wholesalers. These large wholesalers keep in touch
with market trends and developments and provide guidance in production plan-
ning and product design to the mills. They often finance the working capital
needs of the manufacturers. Exports are usually handled by agents; only a
limited number of firms have their own overseas offices or representatives.
Garment firms in particular are inexperienced in export marketing. The
technical assistance provided under the Private Sector Textiles Project is
focused on improvements in export marketing with special emphasis on the
garments sector for which the extension service will provide export marketing
assistance. The proposed project provides similar and complementary assistance
for Sumerbank (para. 49).
Sumerbank
39.       Sumerbank was founded in 1933 as one of the original conglomerate
SEEs with operations in banking, manufacturing and retailing. Sumerbank has
spawned a number of independent SEEs over the years and presently has opera-
tions in leather products, building materials, ceramics, chemicals and vege-
table oil, as well as a small banking division. However, its main business
is textiles, which account for about 80 percent of its total sales revenue
(60 percent from cotton, 20 percent from wool). The cotton textile operations
include ginning, spinning, weaving, finishing and garment manufacture in 19
plants employing 25,600 people and located throughout the country (Map IBRD
14575). Annual installed capacity is 79,800 tons of yarn (524,000 spindles),
315 million meters of woven fabric (7,800 looms), 215 million meters of
finished fabric, 3,500 tons of yarn dyeing and 1.7 million pieces of garments.
The company's retail division, which also sells some private firms' products,
has 430 shops throughout Turkey, mostly in rural areas. Like other SEEs,
Sumerbank's objectives go beyond profit making, and include the provision of
mass consumption fabrics to the rural and urban poor throughout Turkey,
stabilizing prices in the domestic market, generating employment in less
developed regions and training textile industry personnel.
40.        Sumerbank's operations are directed by a six member Executive
Committee, or Board, comprising the General Director, two deputy directors
and representatives each of the Ministries of Industry and Finance and a labor
organization. Like other SEEs, Sumerbank has suffered from frequent manage-
ment changes, inadequate compensation and incentive systems, overstaffing and
overcentralization of operational and investment decision making at the senior
management and board levels. Moreover, until recently, functional respon-
sibility for cotton textile operations was scattered among a number of divi-
sions, plants and subsidiaries. Coordination between headquarters, the
production units and the retail division is weak. Operational efficiency is
low, ranging from 48 percent of installed capacity in spinning, to 58 percent
in weaving.
41.       To provide a more cohesive organization with better coordination
between units and a clearer understanding of responsibility and function,
Sumerbank consultants (provided under the Project Preparation Facility, para.
46 below) recommended consolidating and reorganizing all the functions related



- 14 -
to cotton textile operations, except retail sales, under a single organization.
Initially, consideration was given to forming a subsidiary company along
private sector lines under a separate law. However, this would have required
lengthy legislative changes. Sumerbank therefore, in March 1980, established
a new Cotton Textile Division (CTD) within the company, responsible for
administering, coordinating and directing all cotton textile operations,
including the 19 existing plants. This is a major step towards improving
the situation. An understanding has been reached on the main functions of CTD
and the key principles for its operations. Detailed proposals, satisfactory
to the Bank, covering these functions and responsibilities, the relations with
the plants and other Sumerbank units, will be provided to the Bank by December
31, 1980 (Project Agreement, Section 3.02(c)). Amendment of Sumerbank's
Statutes, or of the board decision establishing CTD or of the SEE laws in a
way to adversely affect the project are conditions of suspension or cancella-
tion (Loan Agreement, Section 5.01).
42.       With the creation of CTD, the individual cotton textile plants
retain their independent legal status as "establishments" to encourage their
operation as profit centers. They are to be given additional autonomy in
noncentralized areas, including increased freedom to hire staff. They will
also propose their own production targets, costing and industrial engineering
standards, pricing of their products and plans for rationalization and expan-
sion of their capacity, which CTD would coordinate. An improved information
system between the units will permit faster management decisions by CTD.
Technical assistance, and action programs financed under the loan, will help
foster these changes.
43.       About 75 percent of CTD's production is currently sold to the
semi-autonomous retail division of Sumerbank for sale primarily through
its 430 retail outlets, and occasionally to private wholesalers. An addi-
tional 15 percent is sold directly to government institutions, 5 percent
sold directly to the public, and 5 percent exported. Yarn is mostly used
internally and up to 50 percent of garments are exported, the rest being sold
through Sumerbank's retail division's stores. Under present practices, the
retail division sells CTD's products on a consignment basis. This has been
costly and inefficient since CTD carries the financial risk of the accept-
ability of the products, but has limited direct contact and feedback from the
markets on the acceptability of various items, while the retail division has
little incentive to ensure a proper product mix. This situation will be
corrected in connection with the project (see paragraph 56).
Financial Performance
44.       Sumerbank's total sales reached TL 29.6 billion in 1979, of which
about 40 percent were intercompany sales. Net profit as a percent of sales,
has fluctuated between 0 and 3.5 percent over the last five years for Sumer-
bank as a whole. The cotton textile operations showed losses prior to 1979,
and a modest profit in that year, reflecting the burden of low production
efficiency, low capacity utilization and prices lagging behind costs. The
debt/equity ratio for the cotton textile operations had increased from 31/69
in 1975 to over 50:50 in mid 1979 and the current ratio was below 1; reflect-
ing the increased recourse to debt financing from the Government and short-
term borrowings from the Central Bank, mainly to finance raw cotton purchases.



- 15 -
45.       To partly correct this situation, the Government recently increased
the authorized capital of Sumerbank to TL 8 billion and converted approx-
imately TL 4.6 billion of outstanding debt owed to the Treasury into paid-up
capital. Sumerbank allocated TL 2.5 billion of this converted debt to CTD's
plant. After the conversion, CTD's debt/equity ratio declined to 33/67 and
the current ratio improved to 1.1. Past financial performance also suffered
from government control of Sumerbank prices. Under the economic policy
package introduced in January 1980, this situation has been liberalized and
Sumerbank is now free to set its prices in accordance with market conditions.
Immediately on the introduction of this change, Sumerbank's Board increased
textile prices by 100 percent, which exceeded the inflation rate since the
last increase in May 1979. Sumerbank prices, however, are still 10-15 percent
below those of the private sector, partly because the latter peg their lower
price items to Sumerbank's. Individual plants have now been authorized to
make further increases of up to 20 percent if needed. Assurances were obtained
from Sumerbank, that prices would be adjusted as needed in future, in order to
meet competitive market conditions, production cost increases due to inflation
and earn a reasonable return on capital (Project Agreement, Section 4.09).
Assurances were obtained from Government that it would assist Sumerbank in
meeting this requirement (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(b). However, these
steps alone are not sufficient to restore the viability of the textile opera-
tions. What is needed is a phased rationalization and modernization of these
operations, to ensure improved productivity, higher capacity utilization and
increased financial viability. That is the essence of the proposed project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
46.       A Bank mission visited Sumerbank in April 1977 to review an invest-
ment program Sumerbank had prepared. The mission and Sumerbank concluded
that investments in equipment alone could not bring about the needed improve-
ment in its textile operations. In September 1978, the Government requested
an advance of $400,000 under the Bank's Project Preparation Facility (PPF) to
prepare a comprehensive project that would lay a basis for a phased moderniza-
tion and rationalization of Sumerbank's cotton textile operations, including
integration of operations and improved product mix as well as improvements in
management, nrganization, marketing and other policies.  Sumerbank completed
the feasibility study in September 1979, with the assistance of the Swiss
consulting firm, Gherzi. The project was appraised in November 1979. Imple-
mentation of the proposed institutional and technical improvements proposed
under the said feasibility study has begun under a second PPF tranche of
$600,000. Negotiations took place in April 1980 with a delegation headed by
the Acting Economic Counselor, Turkish Embassy and representatives of the
Treasury and Sumerbank.
Project Objectives and Description
47.       The project is the first phase of a six year (1980-86) rationaliza-
tion and modernization program. Phase I (1980-83) is a self contained project
that addresses the immediate needs of Summerbank's textile operations, while



- 16 -
Phase II will address long term structural changes notably in finishing and
garments. The main objective of the Phase I project is to increase the
overall efficiency, capacity utilization and labor productivity in the plants
operated by Sumerbank's Cotton Textile Division (CTD) in order to achieve a
significant increase in production volume, reduction of production costs,
upgrading the product mix and improvement in the product quality. The project
is designed to optimize the production from the existing spinning facilities
through a relatively inexpensive modernization and rehabilitation program and
to utilize practically all the yarn produced to manufacture fabrics (80 percent
of which will be in the finished state), as well as to increase the production
of garments in view of their better market prospects.  It will also rationalize
the production schedules within and between the plants so as to achieve a
maximum utilization of the existing and new equipment. Equipment will be
transferred between plants to increase standardization and economies of scale
and permit better spare parts management.  Maintenance will be restored to
acceptable levels. The project will thus result in higher revenues and higher
value added than at present. As part of the project, CTD will assume increased
responsibility for marketing its production domestically and abroad, pricing
its products, market research, product development, as well as coordination
between production and marketing. In view of Turkey's severe domestic and
foreign financial constraints, the project was scaled-down to the essential
elements needed to achieve its objectives of balancing existing capacity to
achieve the highest return. Civil works have been kept to a minimum and
limited to rehabilitation and repair of floors and ceilings in existing mills,
improvements to lighting, ventilation, humidification, steam delivery and
effluent disposal systems.
48.       The project will replace and rehabilitate equipment in CTD's 19
existing plants (Map IBRD 14575). It will result in increased production
without increasing installed capacity, except for garments, as follows: (a)
yarn from 41,000 tons per year to 52,000 tons per year with significantly
higher overall quality; (b) woven fabric from 207 million m2 to 250 million
m2 with overall improvements in quality, and increased volumes of wide fabric,
color woven materials, blended materials and terry fabrics; (c) finished
fabrics from about 152 million m2 to about 207 million m2; and (d) garments by
about 1.7 million pieces.  Details of the project are provided below and in
the Loan and Project Summary and the Staff Appraisal Report (No. 2887-TU dated
April 30, 1980), distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
49.       The project thus includes general improvements as well as the
following specific items:
(i) Spinning. Modernization of about 50,000 spindles and 8 opening
lines; provision of about 30 new drawing and 12 new combing units;
installation of overhead cleaners in 8 plants and electronic yarn
cleaners in 6 plants; provision of testing instruments; and the
replacement of 72 drawing frames and modernization of 126 cards,
46 roving frames and 232 ring frames in 2 plants;
(ii) Weaving. Provision of about 800 new looms; rehabilitation or
replacement of about 800 looms and auxiliary machinery;



- 17 -
(iii) Finishing and Printing. Modernization of equipment in 11 plants,
and provision of new equipment at 7 plants including: 9 new
machines for preparation, 9 machines for dyeing and 6 machines for
fabric finishing;
(iv) Garments. Equipping of a new garment plant in the vacated spinning
section of the Bakirkoy plant, with a capacity of 1.7 million pieces
per year;
(v) Engineering Facilities. Providing new boilers in 4 plants, effluent
treatment units in 9 plants and water softening facilities in 3
plants;
(vi) Technical Assistance. Provision of about 360 manmonths of technical
assistance in carrying out the project, reorganizing operations
under CTD, and imDroving marketi ng (of which 60 manmonths has been
started under the second tranche of the PPF) and about 100 manmonths
of technical assistance for improved financial and budgeting systems.
The first stage of the technical assistance program, 60 manmonths,
will focus on improvements in CTD's headquarters and general manage-
ment, with operational assistance to two pilot plants. The second
stage, 400 man months, will focus on plant level improvements.
UNIDO has provided an additional 20 man months to initiate the
financial technical assistance, for which consultants have been
selected.
(vii) Training. About 45 manyears of training abroad for technical
instructors, supervisory and management staff to backstop Sumer-
bank's existing staff and technician training facilities at Bursa.
Project Costs and Financing
50.       The total cost of the proposed project (including an average 31
percent price and 6 percent physical contingency on base costs) is estimated
at $106 million, including about $2.3 million of taxes. International escala-
tion rates have been used for local costs, on the assumption that differences
between local and international inflation will result in exchange rate adjust-
ments in line with the Government's January 1980 economic package. The esti-
mated foreign exchange cost is $88 million. These costs include $1 million
to repay the abovementioned advances from the PPF. Costs of expatriate
consultants are expected to be about $14,500 per man month, including expenses
and a man month rate of about $10,800, which is reasonable in view of the kind
of expertise required. In addition, about $25 million (of which $16 million
is foreign exchange) is required for financial charges during construction and
incremental working capital. Besides the project working capital requirements,
another $20 million are required to restore working capital for existing
textile operations to a reasonable level. Total requirements are thus about
$151 million.
51.       The proposed Bank loan of $83 million will finance 94 percent of
the estimated foreign costs and 80 percent of the total project costs net of



- 18 -
taxes. The Bank loan will meet 56 percent of the total financing requirements,
net of taxes, which include financial charges during construction and working
capital requirements. The company intends to obtain the remaining $5 million
of foreign exchange prior to December 31, 1981 either by seeking suppliers
credits or by demonstrating to the Bank that its retained foreign exchange
earnings will be sufficient to meet this need (Project Agreement, Section 3.04).
The remaining foreign exchange requirements for working capital as well as the
financial charges during construction ($18 million), will be met by Sumerbank
from retained earnings.
52.       The $45 million equivalent required for local costs, local interest
during construction and the local component of working capital will be financed
as follows: about $27 million equivalent will be provided by Sumerbank from
internally generated funds; about TL 1.7 billion (about $18 million equivalent
allowing for exchange rate adjustments in line with inflation) will be provided
in the form of additional equity contributions by the Government. This cash
equity is required, in addition to the TL 2.5 billion of debt recently conver-
ted into equity by Government, because of the need for outside funds early in
project implementation when internal cash generation is low and to provide a
cushion against the risk of delay in price increases. The initial cash equity
contribution of TL 400 million is thus.a condition of effectiveness (Loan
Agreement, Section 6.01(b)). An understanding was obtained that an additional
TL 800 million will be provided prior to December 31, 1981 and the remaining
TL 500 million by December 31, 1982 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02(ii)).
Moreover, to ensure that sufficient funds are generated for the project, CTD
will not make non-project investments costing more than $3 million equivalent
per year unless the Bank shall agree (Project Agreement, Section 4.08).
53.       The Bank loan will be to the Government for 17 years including 4
years of grace, and will be onlent to Sumerbank at 10.5 percent per annum for
12 years including 4 years of grace. Sumerbank will bear the foreign exchange
risk. Exchange rate adjustments are expected to compensate for the difference
between the rate of inflation in Turkey and that of its major trading partners.
Inflation was 24 percent in 1977, 53 percent in 1978 and 64 percent in 1979.
Because of uncertainties associated with changes in economic structure expected
in response to government policy initiatives, it is difficult to forecast the
rate of inflation. It is tentatively projected to decline to 50 percent in
1980, 45 percent in 1981 and 35 percent in 1982, if Government policies are
effectively implemented. Interest rates charged by domestic lending institu-
tions for broadly similar types of lending have fallen behind the rate of
inflation and range from 16 to 22 percent, plus, in some cases, fees and
taxes. However, when adjusted for interest rebates, differences in exchange
risks, service charges, etc., the effective cost of domestic loans with terms
and currencies similar to Bank financing is between 10 and 11 percent.
Project Execution and Operation
54.       Sumerbank will implement the project through CTD, with the technical
advice and assistance of qualified operational and financial consultants.
Signing of the contract for the second stage of the operational technical



- 19 -
assistance is a condition of effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(c)).
The financial consultants for the second stage will be employed prior to March
31, 1981 (Project Agreement, Section 2.02). CTD will be primarily responsible
for marketing its products, planning its investments, production planning,
financial planning, and centralized purchasing for Sumerbank's entire cotton
textile operations. To ensure that sufficient qualified senior staff are pro-
vided, in view of low Government salaries for management positions, authority
for 55 contractual positions (which can pay higher than official pay scales)
have been provided to Sumerbank for CTD by Government. Assurances were obtained
that these positions will be maintained until project completion (Loan Agree-
ment, Section 3.01(b)). The Director of CTD has recently been appointed.
Because of overstaffing at certain levels, an understanding was reached that
the further growth of personnel in CTD beyond the levels approved in 1980 will
be limited to positions needed for operating requirements. To encourage
increased productivity with the new equipment provided by the project, Sumerbank
will provide the Bank, prior to April 30, 1981, proposals for improvements in
the existing workers' incentives based upon recommendations made by the
consultants provided under the project (Project Agreement, Section 3.02(e)).
55.       A project implementation unit within CTD, headed by a project
manager and supported by 16 financial, technical, marketing and engineering
employees, has been established and will be directly responsible for the
project and work closely with the consultants. Because of the 19 plants
involved and the planned relocation of existing equipment between plants, the
project unit and the consultants will have a key role in coordinating procure-
ment and installation of equipment with production and relocation schedules in
order to minimize the interruption of production. After an initial period,
staff of the project unit will be assigned to individual plants to assist
plant level project managers to carry out the project with minimum disruption
of production. Quarterly progress reports will be prepared at the plant level
and assembled at the division level for Sumerbank management, with copies
furnished to the Bank. In addition, each plant will prepare annually an
action program covering the upcoming year's production, maintenance, technical
assistance, training and investment programs (Project Agreement, Section 3.03).
56.       A key project reform is to centralize primary responsibility for
planning and contracting domestic and export sales of its products in CTD,
and thus broaden its contact with the markets. Direct sales to private whole-
salers would be sought in order to permit CTD and its individual plants more
direct feedback on market trends. Export sales promotion will be provided by
CTD through active participation in trade fairs, canvassing of export markets
and use of the export promotion facilities provided under the Private Sector
Textile Project. An understanding on the main features of the marketing
arrangements was obtained during negotiations. Detailed proposals for imple-
menting marketing arrangements satisfactory to the Bank will be provided to
the Bank prior to December 31, 1980 (Project Agreement, Section 3.02(c)).
57.       To ensure effective use of the equipment provided under the project,
a detailed training and staffing program satisfactory to the Bank, the former
utilizing Sumerbank's existing training center at Bursa, will be prepared by
Sumerbank and its consultants prior to April 30, 1981 (Project Agreement,
Section 3.02(d)). Initially, about 50 technical instructors will be sent



- 20 -
abroad for training arranged by the consultants. On return, they will organize
short training courses in the plants. It is expected that over 1,000 techni-
cal staff will be so trained. In addition, about 40 specialized staff will be
sent abroad for special six-month training programs.
58.       Existing environmental standards for industrial effluents in Turkey,
issued in 1973, are generally less stringent than current Bank guidelines.
Thus, agreement was reached that CTD's dyeing and finishing plants will meet
acceptable environmental guidelines for textile plants (Project Agreement,
Section 3.01(e)). In addition, the project provides for rehabilitation of
ventilation and air conditioning equipment, the provision of exhaust systems
and the improvement of lighting and fire protection systems.
Procurement and Disbursement
59.       Machinery and equipment totalling about $52 million will be procured
under international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Proprietary items (largely spare parts) required for compatibility with the
existing equipment (about $17 million total) will be purchased under competi-
tive procedures appropriate to the circumstances (Project Agreement, Schedule,
para. C2). Items costing less than $100,000 equivalent, but not exceeding an
aggregate amount of $4 million will be purchased through limited international
tendering on the basis of suitability, availability and price considerations
(Project Agreement, Schedule, para. CI). The lists of goods will be approved
by the Bank before tendering. Domestic manufacturers will be allowed a
preferential margin under international competitive bidding of 15 percent or
the actual customs duty, whichever is lower. The Bank loan will be disbursed
as follows: 100 percent of the foreign expenditure for imported equipment and
spare parts, foreign consultants (including repayment of advances under the
PPF) and training; and 100 percent of the ex-factory local costs of contracts
won by local suppliers under international competitive bidding. Invitations
to bid are expected to be issued in mid-1980 and the project completed by
December 31, 1983.
Financial Analysis
60.       Financial projections for CTD have been prepared assuming the
production build-up will begin in 1982 and reach full capacity by 1986 and
that regular price increases are made in line with inflation. These show that
improved results may be expected as early as 1982, as spare parts, components
and technical assistance begin to yield substantial improvements in efficiency.
By 1983-84, sales, profits and internal cash generation are expected to be
substantially improved. Given the high rate of inflation, the projections are
very sensitive to pricing policy. Net profits after tax as a percentage of
sales for CTD are projected at 1.4 percent in 1980 increasing to 3.0 percent
in 1984 and 4.1 percent in 1986, in line with industry norms. More important,
internal cash generation is expected to increase from about $11 million in
1980 to about $37 million in 1984, in current dollars. The total surplus cash
flow in the 1980-83 period, after meeting payments on existing loans, is con-
servatively estimated at about $50 million, of which, about $45 million will
be required to finance project related expenditures. CTD's other financial



- 21 -
ratios are expected to remain within acceptable limits throughout the imple-
mentation period. Assurances were obtained that CTD's consolidated debt/equity
ratio will not exceed 1.5, its current ratio will not fall below 1.2 after
1981, its debt service ratio will be above 1.5 before additional debt is
incurred, and, during project implementation, its current ratio will be above
1.5 before profits are transferred from CTD (Project Agreement, Sections 4.06
and 4.07). CTD will maintain separate consolidated accounts for its operations
and plants and have these audited annually (Project Agreement, Section 4.01
and 4.02).
61.       Incremental financial projections, a better measure of the impact
of a rehabilitation project, show an incremental operating profit as a percent
of sales of about 34 percent after 1984. The incremental financial rate of
return before tax for the project is estimated at 25 percent. A 10 percent
increase in operating costs would reduce the return to 22 percent while a 10
percent decrease in sales revenue would drop it to 19 percent, underlining the
importance of technical assistance and regular price adjustments in an infla-
tionary environment. A one-year delay in project implementation would reduce
the return to 20 percent.
Benefits and Risks
62.       The incremental economic rate of return is estimated at 24 percent,
which is due to the low capital investment and the low present state of main-
tenance of equipment.  If operating costs increase 10 percent, the return
would drop to 20 percent; but if sales decrease by 10 percent, the return
would drop to 18 percent.  The return is not very sensitive to changes in
capital costs or working capital requirements.  When operating at full capac-
ity in 1986, the project is expected to yield net foreign exchange earnings of
$5 million per annum. After project completion, CTD's products are expected
to be cost competitive both in Turkey and internationally for the low and
medium quality items which it will produce.
63.       Direct employment effects are small in relation to the investment
and total about 1,680 new jobs being provided in the garment sector, offset
by a possible attrition of about 940 redundant jobs in spinning, weaving and
processing, or a net gain of 740 jobs. However, this ignores the very large
amount of over-employment in the present facilities and the very low produc-
tivity of the present work force. The main anticipated benefit of the pro-
posed project is substantially increased production from the same labor force,
achieved through a careful balance of modernizing investments, better orga-
nization and management. In spinning, capacity utilization is expected to
increase from 47 to 78 percent and production to increase by 32 percent. In
weaving, the corresponding increases are from 67 to 74 percent in capacity
utilization and 21 percent in production, while in finishing they are from 51
to 78 percent and 36 percent respectively. Since these levels can be achieved
with less employees than at present, the productivity increase of the labor
force is expected to be even greater. Besides demonstrating how to organize
production and plant more efficiently, the project is expected to have a major
impact on the financial viability of the company, help meet substantial local
demand, particularly for low cost textile products, and lead to increased
exports and foreign exchange earnings.



- 22 -
64.       The main technical risks arise from the need to carefully coordinate
the relocation and rehabilitation of existing equipment in CTD's 19 widely
dispersed plants, so as to minimize the disruption of current operations. The
technical risks are acceptable, in view of: (a) the amount of expatriate
technical assistance provided by the project; (b) the allowance already given
for production losses due to dismantling, transport and erection of the
equipment; (c) a special physical contingency provided for new machinery to
replace existing equipment damaged during relocation or rehabilitation; and
(d) the fact that production levels anticipated after completion of the
project are estimated to be only marginally higher than those already achieved
in 1973. The project's technical success will also depend on Sumerbank's
management's ability to complete the reorganization of its cotton textile
operations along the lines discussed earlier. Delays or problems in that
direction, could delay implementation and benefits.
65.       Risks also arise from the general economic situation, in particular:
the severe inflation, which will require frequent price adjustments to maintain
cash flow and provide the substantial internally generated funds required for
financing and operating the project; the very tight budget position which
could delay the provision of even the minimal cash equity funds required; and
the possibility of power shortages disrupting production. The pricing risk
has been mitigated by the new government policy of letting the SEEs set prices
and the budget risk minimized by keeping the requirements for such funds at
a minimum. In addition, there are the risks usually associated with the
deficiencies of the SEE sector in Turkey, especially the lack of management
continuity, inadequate management compensation and lack of incentives to
produce efficiently. Again, the new government policy of exposing the SEEs
to market forces is a step towards correcting some of these deficiencies and
assurances have been sought in connection with the project to minimize the
impact of others. The major risks are thus those related to common economic
or SEE problems. While in aggregate, they are not insignificant, care has
been taken to take all possible steps to minimize their effects.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
66.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and Sumerbank and the
report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of Articles
of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. The
special features of the Loan and Project Agreements are referred to in the
text and listed in Section III of Annex IV.
67.       Special conditions of loan effectiveness include:  (i) execution of
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and Sumerbank;
(ii) provision of the initial portion of cash equity of at least TL 400
million; and (iii) hiring of the operational consultants for the Stage II
technical assistance (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01).
68.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of Bank.



- 23 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
69.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By
Ernest Stern
Attachments
April 30, 1980
Washington, D.C.



- 24 -
ANWEX I
7>JL jA2Page  1 of 6
JO  20112CATOU DAU  m7s
TTL               0.                                                   SAM         SAM      Wm i
ACULAI          iU352.0                i>      S                     O    AC    INCONZ Dc o mr
194  gb    1970 LI U?OIAZ .L         104 0      am ai       amo
GP  m   CAPIA COUS)                 10.0        320.0   1230.0          219.3       1097.7      L942.6
BF&        r COAL IMIulimm)       2'5.0       479.0    743.0           2023.2      730.7      1"6.7
ioTLZ F. Iron)    27.3                   33.3      42,9
05t6 POPTIUA?ON (ftADT O 70=) 29.7              .       42.9,            J.3       49.0       31.i
10Y0L20U ps2000118
POMUM    2Y4 2000 (eZU4=)                              64.0
30910162 p      10U (onUU)                             99.0
scu    529006A1  WPMAIKS 2n U6D                      2070
1020U2200 USD22
m  sq. i.                        35.0        45.0      14.0            61.3      6.6         26.2
ID m . DI .   .ZcmLUIL           51.0        64.0      76.0           133.8      140.7      1De.i
1VULLTIOI Ads DUOCUD (PIUT)
0-14l YU.                        41.3        41.7      61.0            25A       41.4        355.
15-4 Yu.                          S5.2        54.0      54.0           62.9       33.3 e6.3
65 us. Ae AIM                      3.5        4*a        S.e            10.2        3.4        5.1
MVZoW mlw mulA (11int
in"                               2.6         3.5       3.              0.9        2.4        1.7
ORM                               S. 1"L      5.1       4.7             2 .       44          3.0
cam  arm  32t (MU fmeS)            43.0        3.0       30.0           a1.3         14        27D5
010b0  hAUA RAT  CMUOUI)           16.0        13.0      10.0             9.2      *9.2        191
mis &      QIoUOTI  am              1.9         3.6       3.1             1.2                   LA.2  1a
IA*ILJ ?LAI30
cWrIou, An   c2S11131)             ..        65.6   .   .6
U-R (PUD   0o *A4   V)    5.2 0f          e0                            ..       36..
PM tutu2 (1969-71100)             1.5       100.0      0.0            115.7      10.4   e 02.0
s6oL     t nac    er
- UQI3U )                     10.0        112.0    113.0            134.2  e 35           10a
72=wXS (033   U 0)               75.0        76.0      72.7             5.4      64.    e     0.9
Or WI610 AML LO   r              ..        22.01A    24.7            4s.4      23.5        31.3
cI  (MU 1-6) IsA           Sa  2A4.0           34.0      10.0             Li        3.6    *     .1
rw m    mCsAz -AT 1WK             51.0   s     7.0        .70                     40.2        6sa
OD)                      lts7 en~~~~~IV01  153 es    uo 0                  45.7       as
iNousA)                            W.a15J    114.0                      31.5       4.7          53
1090U.IOV)
SOUL                               ..        52..0     7. e              .       60.5        6.4
u                                  ..        51.0      70.0              .       7 .7        63.1
EMML                               ..        33.0       0.0              .       60.0        43.0
ACCESS TO  cUZ ST  D7SPo9L (1W
or PrMToN)
20013.                             ..          _.        ..              ..      46.0        70.1
01165                              ..          _.      1:                ..      44.0        404
an"J.                              _           ..        _.               .      22.5         3.2
FOPU=1OM SD 20C2300            30000.0:   2350.0    i0o.o             "L.      226.4       123.2
P00A.7I0N MS  iU?Ui rs               ..      19.0   1430.0             677.1     1195.'       753.0
PO9ULAfoMr SD wauL so
L0=                          Sa0./LJ    * e.o    460.0           u190.1     433.4       197.6
aw                              190.01      200.0    210.0            .253.1                260.2
rD02                               ..      390.0   5750.0                      2732.4      1055.0
Asoauzoms i PU SPAL U0               ..        20.0      20.0           15.3       22.1        17.3
AVffA   SIEO   S=   0
2074A.                            5.7         5.9        ..             ..         5.3        4.7
ULIM                       .           .        ...                       5 2        4 A
SLIAM                              ..          ..        ..             ..        5.4         5.:1
Avt&  nin orS Psm nLm
TO0L                               ..         2.2        ..             ..         1.9        1. 1
03161                             2.0         1.9        ..             ..         1.6        1.2
L                                  ..          ..        ..             ..        2.S         1.2
ACCESS  O EXCTZLIC7   ( C
or DWS3L.IVS)
,0-.A-'                          29.0        40.0      57.0             ..       50.0        66.0
lShf                              2.         18.0        ..               '       71-        85 1
~~~~~~~~~~~~2.0iS . .. :                                 ., ,3 ,



-25 -                                             ANNEX I
-TALE 3A                                        Page  2  of  6
TURlJK    - SOClAL :NDjCa2ORS OATA SHErT
REFEP.EWCE GROUPS ( AISTEtD AVIRAGES
TUrIZY                       - MOS .CIE%N" ESTYAT7    a
SAME       SAME     SEX: H1G4R
WoST RECE?tT    GtOCRAPHIC    LSCOME     LNCOI(E
1960 /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb      REGION /c  GROUP /4   GROUP ie
EDUCATION
ADJl,STED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    tOTAL                75.0       109.0     104.0           105.7      10Z.5       10i.7
MALE                90.0       124.0    114.0            107.1      108.6       110.0
FTMALE              58.0        94.0      94.0           104.5       97.1        92.8
SECOINDAMY:  TOtAL               14.0        28.0      29.0            65.9       33.5        51.2
.ALE                20.0        39.0      39.0            70.3       38.4        56.4
FEMALE               8.0        16.0      19.0            62.2       30.7        43.7
VOCtILONAL 54ROL. (1 OF SECONDALY) 18.0        14.0      15.0            20.4       11.5        18.3
PUPIL-TEAClMR BATIO
PRUtlAY                          46.0        38.0      34.0            26.7       35.8        27.1
SECOHDAIS                        19.0        28.0      27.0              ..       22.9        25.3
ACT LISElACY RATE (PECEZNT)        38.0        55.5/k   60.0               ..       64.0        86.1
CONSUMSPTION
PASSENGER CARS PEIL TESANO
FOPULATION                        2.0         4.0      11.4           105.5       13.5        53.4
RADIO RECEIVMS PL THOUSAND
POFULATION                       49.0        89.0    105.0            233.7      122.7       225.9
TV RECEIVERS Pm THOUSAND
POPULATION                         ..         3.0      12.0           146.0       38.3       102.6
E'wSPAP   (DAILY GEUAIL
IOFrzET") CIRCULATION PER
TROUSAND POPULATION                51.0          ..        ..              ..       40.0        78.5
CINEMA APNUAL AmTNDANCE M  CAPITA  1.1          6.7        .,             6.4        3.7         3.6
LABOR FORCE
1DTAL -LOR TaLCE (THOUSANDS)   13783.0      15591.0  17052.0                                    24,  
FMALE (PRCE!?T)                  40.2        37.2      37.3            32.3       25.0        24.5
AGRICULTUSL  (PCIT)              7S.5        67.7      62.O           25.8       43.5        28.9
BDuSTR  (PERCENT)                10.5        12.1      14.0            33.1       21.5        30.b
PARTTCIPATION RATE (PRICE2?)
TOTAL                              50.1        44.3      42.8            37.6       33.5        33.8
MALE                               S8.7        54.9      53.2            37.0       48.0        51.3
TFIALE                             41.2        33.4      32.1            28.0       16.8        16.3
EOaSOIIIC  ExNDmc  RATIO              0.9         1.0       1.1             1.0        1.4         1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PUVATE TSCOME
RECEIVED aY
IEGSTS   PFrNT OF WUURSEOLDS   33.0/b        32.8/1      ..              .,       20.8
KlICEST 20 PRICE!T OF 0ROUSUWOLS 61.07i      6o.671T   56.5/a          47.9       52.1       57D6
tOWEST 20 PECn OF lOUSROLDS    4.27d          2 97T     3 47            5.0        3.9         3.4
LOWEST 40  C2NT Of ROUSMIULDS   10.671;       9.:4     1i.&7-          15.4       12.6        11.0
POVERTY TARGES CROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUE POVESTY INCOME
LVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..    330.0               ..      270.0
RURL                               *'          ''    162.0               .       1U3.3
ESTIMATED RElJLTIVE POVERTY IN4COHE
LEVEL (ISJ PlER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..    385.0               ..      282.5       550.0
RURAL                              ..          ..    367.0            436.1      248.9      403.4
IST!LMATED POPMLATION PELWW ABSOLDT
POVERTY INCOME LtEVEL   C (PUgCLAI)
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..              ..      2,0.5         .
RURAL                              ..          ..        .,             ..        35.3
Not available
.Not aon1hsble.
_ zeOro
/a   The *djustedioup averages for each Indicator are population-weighted geomtric means, excluding the extrtem
values of the indicator and the most populated couinry in each group. Coverage of countries aong the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not unifors.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; tor 1970. becteen 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, berween 1974 end 1977.
/c   Europe;  /d  Intermediate Middle Incose (5551-1135 per capita, 1976);  /e  Upper Middle Income (51136-2500
per capita, 1976);  If  1955-60;  /e  1965-70;  lb  1963;  /i  1967; IT  1962;  Ik  Six years and above;
I  1968;  1m  1973.
most Rcentc Estimate of GMN per capita is for 1978.
. February 1980



-26-                                     ~X
me1gy,~en mui MM=e                                                           Pa~ge3 ~of 6
atittie ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ MAMq    "IIte tl~aaa  s  Ia   5Mt1a   sIlI edm smarpt  U."4 Wt AlMe.m   a.tmr,.5  is     Umse os  t  dais. ft. dats Ure, alss
a   n  ne,   ota  ss  ls'llast.r an. pop.isl.SSmihtta  #pelvs  mm, -UAlaset Ot, 0n                    n SWtm -ia. oft i. isdlasitr em  tea mi4t Pspsitas
,AA%-  i~  ~    -7ns   TEL, to  ecl or 145k  prIsi owpoa or 54, tim,skan, icr i.pita,  wvw.s oil LaP-e   ?. se  of  rM~tn    at ane.s We eawwr am5 &xsnt
Laen  M,t~jt,e   me N-tha      for otheruis   owl.7 greAe orea povim.toe-icatnl     -Lin  me-s  ektLet             ork.a&   et   .    rumov  "sIc.  "A
jj.2a'=7='_'.              wi0t"Iy  a    red me LloAlma'sler.w                                 I.   least1.  as,sesri)aea   pses).  ipsi
-            &a.  -Pa.i pitleal   Ottesr*l  taJ  u.sb saleU   U                   $le. AvUettee.a ci  m dienat",.1   o pasLetL.,% LenAmm. Clc.i =a --Ue
~ areaaaii(inItdie,  seiris  inst m  aisAmEseAI 5  155ad  ~a,so-aim  kw 4l5p..ai  altrewerv at et  i ora pit.  Prmmse.t
Iiaa It sIte                                                     meSca.tsr ~~~~~~~~~~~~ mi .hs.e    ei   en di sA NeW siu ati peaLasi   Pl km
MWP per orpit -'o0e  vw  s bleAt  atk mAins mist6.7 b"i55    I           ylta   a   l         is   fps9ikmladeb   mr  tPitta    sa
1960,  m,    198    aIm c.m   aWndm    55  19?   .a5i"TUW                                      Ta    .e  at mla.r,ely Iow.51
y C,                Anevel..    moki  of s~ U                                                   -r. asimse", pr.. titti mar.., w4 as  eisti .Asmm.
tis.sI ~       .                      b'~s.    aim    ~~.                    aeamu-la a" mais .tci.;...elro-.   Pcs).tt  (5WA. 58m
197, WA 1T  Asi etbil P00.51""  P-Win. linia  Md speatsl.Ls   kaatpl  alme r.ahii.is  sst
owrib"& s 5..  Smb"hl.sou emmesk  taftlse my atloerk -   a.ei Lea.
POMMCM A" "TLL                                                  ft"bl~~~~~~~~ASems  Psunitla  .eteupal  qvatelI" ea.  a.-       ed. SOLPea"l
iiitom) - as O aLly ig 10W,  pitawe,howwwt, Sleiem  sitt ame 10.11a,14  o*"", met p,amsstl. Itatu
by a priakms Isbt or a mlkaai sslLe%t.. mors., sidsts, et. Istu,  sttsr
Po-L.lso (o,wot I r      ta) e St o wim is itooal iouatsami           laspattea ft du.a  me pasJdm  a Uitaas  ,Ms of Milsa  fatel.il.a
.'M  ",PAX  isic   a" Lyn ame.                                                  mobw ~?cat mlrSiam..s                ll          a
'"_   fojommmpwsmgem   UAm1s5 psiaim emupL   Wm Ur"_ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _
1.5.1.  me"L'l. l U          a""M     " t  Im   shpei vai   mWTry              Wlist  dust m.1.s. A AmiAmw   len  ma ow en NW eat i  Imuma  is VW
pe  Amotte WAsi  1l.ni AM  fm.l. 2.11 ssPse5M  st.1uiL2.a  as                   AMesiiad ten sttteitt*11 pwpss.
-'l  0 p..ar.  It  cam"mn far twtulhty v"   1.5 am l ft"       1825            515 Stnatlow"tm-ce,  SSl.                              rs 
tsiln amhePm'taIna. Wet meort Lo Wm  mailC m                    f o  mmo         rm*ma4vshy.  WeimeA owlade  mspm            m  aasfmis  me memtee, Powe.
-ec    -ieui   St mueyme ftetlMw  U". LEn PsaJeatl                             ftmaseS.ti.I ft            -o         se1sesM usln  ssrra 
massiveShinLhly   Si                            Wrm    a." pmm,.w drve
Ia  5n   pop"Slai, mis e  a.i peaisa              .tsl. miss,a  gmeam2  *Nhiaw rspsstlwb.
La. ds  i i.Ase volt, meal.3d  U. "M
Amela. is AaAaiso mlmo  2.e-2 St mia eat                                                                                      ON  ot",mMatMm l.a., ml
Ladled a.md wa atimie  Mn me isais sr IN preajeatbe mmSnits                        ml          as" at      peO      Ms  "I PenmAmmem    IC cmpotw"     WAnwy
Si isa ,mate"Am,1 is  yea    r SW. MeAs U. t W."o  emoive et taralAb               mmmmol-ems pspsatlnded  a-OAF looette.  tAldavm me" 1-il pmn, bat
neds is ,isls.mmf Icusi.                                                           *&%A" "W is i      trt teinii  of P5rin ty    hinmi tin weedrmas -i
~~   lee ~it reo    - Usyw5j au                    m   OLM               N"nt           .5.eAm  m.luam   Aw moe 2   paome Ns"m           ~    i.
~~esma pm  *~~~~~. ~~~ae  ~~j.  ~~~p -                                    nol             55mwm     so MhAAm csmoNW7
1L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~v.  afwlwmual,  eb  stw-s we-nts amamAhUSs
__    g             -=M   -   A M c. -2 yam) o                              mId *L27 w.  a                            latnjstimmlI lsitsume Anued
__                           ____ ssmm  a      m    ___rm                                              PO    U75' mm... a,,              sUp o  o
alw7fl                    4im *     s Amami aroms emot mat Ssu   NWt                                         *  t          I         emesiu Amlietlin  Um
3-   vevwtissw im ,         memin La?. pm               ih w                smek,lu ,e                                                    Aslwse I   U.  msrm
L -            mal        .r  -               Teamum  of Aml5                 .         stes        .                      ii  m a    aldt
eve gm 3.950-60, rW-7D. M    3.970-75.                              (FM    I - "$arm"S  aft&" Nsie. to M.& Me wile) ft
RIM             - beemL U"blamst pw m             S or  i.             aPOMN     sm             "%pepaaUs  o -5 Vowp s md "W.
~-5IT   PO. estl.aAm   -Annal imam  VW ummm& or a"A.m W
~~~ me~~~~"t,                                            ___Pea1                              sA      it~.Iswm r  -  .n.t.a ease  mis
UredAZCMl    ot  -Aoo-m         W    _      - aies  JU Ima            '91Mam.., mi    me talvery
leb-som"Stm-dmu    iir-   it i.s  Epwaek m  Ps t mas-                             ..
spmitti  tenuJ.t  rlM& uomIl  ft"i-p   aw &"""nonl. a I1110et).area  e   tsd  instlati                                         All on" of urnslumort,  ladle,W
even                                -     .         tem a  smuaesm   h                                    m's     ef lstsatle   t? ladle setS   M Is
seastn. SiL-aaeu.i d      le..men   spl    StmemI tOr                                     -=go- mate    L.pm..-p  WhAv is sW fttie  ofm    e  me'o veto
*  -   camin                                                           mIlAn~~~tm   Of"% do"im MAIs. M     wM   . upru     im        "ebLt
is eli innnim  is mm ~~                                               me is mm.  Ur       .gtea.   tu  l9   TaV atesveis .ttml.       er ' wve
t. .1.1  -Led  1. evemSt pmjimeipa                                  MIel    Wtelya. v-t                ss  amot      t is mmotd.rd1is5**
.me. ~aet. sO  41 mr,cie    (f7 saets    . Mf.   Of Pesea    lAm me-% i ermma. a  nsto  isr,e tIme                   mm.111   oldr                , 10
lase   e is   mim .I pmd bai.         Fltts     eoow-  ee pas             Cit  AIt  at   Aitain. ear  tait.  took,    s.       t  m             tthtl
food st. LoMe teleee en esmlsid. hgmmoatie peujet,rln a 11t mis4,
I'.mattemooLe7  ci a, ifrsa imnarlt oro .eeelr..ae -d 0.0s   a Mf.
5-M                        v,"r   y soiss  .  meileies  ssi  P.n comi slt,tn.I.tse,iaaee,msqm
"l iI  .-iai  magni             is-     a 5ra              i   I5.,            sae II-  qess.ese Silea   l.m   te. ...                  ...m     r
ma me. am  eI'tlbitm.a  pp Waiy  Amgu aP.nilyi              Import.e  "en      iae,a~p7              sa  tans  INS          eat'  im    a.tmmelm  me"
metat as'.eaas.            I".leL    "bA is-afsk.ee".                        In  iii7,ea.eri me. gS" spesae   i ..   aet
ase tl   " to room arovms etasak ralt   e  s    e2   r   ci             tail.r 1970. me41,  -P19h te.  Thea an.   rmom  of. %riseasi   rise aflrenta
pat.w t.is,, a   .a. i,t gam  sassie5 55re    pee- . wa-ens sris..,..   ULb    f peistos  m ftrft  Tipestim,  CmLm  optsUmr
-0.1t alae    a.  lmeea   s. s   7.ec  etipaeam                                   re t          _nm  mfI-ni em,
t. -  sem, at mtimiset4om,  a. - spcar, enWe mUelt, lapn.e  bymm     PIt       kami      acAea  si       at   tppitmm. ime to meu emm
i  15the    IAni laeasn7.ae  er  e a                                                           s m  ala  et P.-:t. n.s.ao.           "wfr
ft                                    me,k                 -ftfPe                 S1.111              i.r.al        inll    me                        t 
.iatesia-    etli  sam    do             isaofusi. 15. A.Cper aem                                         oA     t5        ie   SesiA  revt tksaaa
We C 4ati-i P,5,5  i.1aaLea  is ttk     l el m byt MM  _.re-                          ore.et   %..ab, -.L p.ens mat,  psars t it   .rt  me peanet rero prelas
5914,    rta " _t   eoon trm orit."  v_"Ia.  pra           42    -o               19o. abICa. fd1nd.                be       10.WL,tv    t            ntf
emtr-ni vo~ at-    -*,o 51,-It  nre    e drov Aet st-I pm    ti. Um  PeiiL.r.   Atsnti   oarri th.             ,. p iprt.nt -ilt ncr naptis tr"    -  -iaassartut
Urtata  i  tintd., -1 --9.0,       -or7 gem,o tO.. a.a i,CI.data.                  b-etet  -ttaa..I tea.. Is   ausieatr    ai   tc      ii
i 23,. S-ijt  asi  nano i---...aese-   ".al asit U. molatestq. eay me            ltstniimL  slD  aiaqeis 41. Mu.s asrapmtlesieW.",e eits am           ta -rt
LA eai at   a           ft- -to ees tr l-en trite.Aep arastia
Idr   1I  .a   i,5aeeJrete  n.c   eatLe acasr                                      t.htootta  ..ary   t.e  ias  i   .,.afLhn-.   - lbaers.sa   117 rsbta
555ft.eoiAIt.g.e   rsa   ns.ctr  er.P earesile t dornms.ip isat, r                                  tL.L 'srry h-i  est is damls  toea. isa   posi ks-a
steed  a.; iat  e,  -awutt ste   c.csa-Lh.  ofaw. samai Apatee,
Ats. iCe  Ias.5   a        .r   ti.5,st.dC set  Ar  isd  -I 5                                            -a.5.es  hi   la
Iti.rsp,ttiIst  pat ofatesq  s Isatlg ia Emly'  mit                                    L-ses      rs.mIWNA  es-ksi me1. ln-jetem --I ntea
~th"J -    .,L~     t  1  1.Feb ua y              98



- 27 _
TUUIY . 6C81N8IC 2    lEpiWMNT DATA SHEET -
AOE  I
P.g. 4 of 6
Sh-r of
igo     A n t   . I                   P,oiln.1Pp   1.   7.d06T.                                              G-toh 6ot.e        _     00D
1973  1975    17       1978       1_        1980      198       1          1         1         70.78     79 85      85-90     1978
A. NATIULAL ACCOUNTS (TL Billin. 1978 Pio...)
1. Goo. do-eti. produeL                         720.3    876.1    1034.2    1172.1    1212.7    1230.9    1249.3    1344.7   1405.2    1534.6   1912.3            6.7       3.7       4.5    100.0
2.  CaIn from leon. of toed.                     t.70      3.8      .0.2      -10.1       0.0    -14.2    -22.8        -33.0    -37.8      -69.1    -89.6          -        -    -              0.0
3.  Co... do-oti, in-ono                        714.3    879.9    1034.0    1162.0    1212.7    1216.7   1226.6    1311.7    1367.5    1485.5   1822.7            6.8       3.4       4.2      100.0
4. Elport. (C No S)                              42.7     66.3      50.8       54.4      67.2      64.0      86.0      101.1     126.3     11.3      230.9       5.8      15.4       8.8        5.5
5. Ilport. (G o NFS)                             60.0     o3.9     140.6      167.4     118.6     103.1     114.9      131.3    136.1      145.2     176.6        8.9       5.9       4.0      94.3
6.  Iove.l.e01                                  130.0    158.1     265.0     273.2    248.4       238.5     238.5      253.4     266.6     285.1     380 2        8.4       3.6       5.2      20.5
7. CoOeoOptiO-                                 590.6    723.7    846.5       974.4    1015.9    1021.9    1036.4    1186.6    1168.6   1233.9    1677.8          7.0        3.2       3.7      83.B
8. loCetic earIng.                              129.9    152.4     187.7     197.7      196.8     209.8     212.9     238.1      256.8     301.1     434.0        5.3       6.3       7.6      16.2
9. NIllonol  vioge                              143.3    191.3    216.2      213.0      212.7     225.2     229.2     257.8      277.7     321.7     459.0        9.1       6.1       7.4      17.5
B. Sll.TOI OUTPUT                                                                        Shore 0f  0t0.1 Otpt (Peroonl)
1.AS I .1to-                                   29.6     27.9      295       28.        27.       26.       26.7      26.2       23.9      29.0      24.2
7.  Indutry                                     227.2     26.5      26.1      26.1      277       27.5      27 4      27 8       28,2      25 4      31.0
.1.   h--                                       43.2      45.6      44.4      45.8      45.4       45.7      45.9      46.0       45.9      45.6      44.8
-      C. .hl..o \1978 - 100)
1. Cp-r prl...                                 43.2     63.81     86.0      95.:6     1100.0    103.6     110.1     122.2      128.9     143.9     186.9
2.  loport p0100.                               47.7      61.8      8442      95.6      100.0     125.6    147.9      170.8    183.8       213 1     305.5
3. TIr., of trod                                 91.0    103.2      99.7      99.6      100.0     864.1      76.       71.5       70.1      67.5      61.2
4.  GDP d.fl-tor 2/                              90.2     13.7      50.2       73.4     100.0     160.0    240.0      452.0    543.0       718.0   1444.2
5.  --g 06  och.'go -ato (S1.00 . TL)            11.0-    14.2      14.4      18.0       24.3
U. r'U6LIC FINANCE                                               Pe..ent of GODP
I  ConTrl1 g..o.nen..t ......                   22.6      20.9      23.1      24.2      24.2
2   C-n4ral  govrn-en-t eopoPdit-oe              24.9     22.0      23.7      27.9       28.5
3.  P.b,l cIi  d0.i0it 3/                          -       2.1       6.1       9.0         -
1970-78                                                                            1970     1975     1977     1978
E. SELCTej 1NDICATOFS1                                                             .  1A0R FORCE
I  rt                                            30                                Citli n labor, force (nillion)                 13.6     15.7    16.2      16.2
loPort oloetlolty                                 2.6 Yj                          Unoopley-.t od nndr.-ploy-t (. of GDP)   I1.0            12.3     13.      13.
Averag  dor-ti.c .:OiOg r-ot                     16.9                              Cltllon  pL:y-lt (dllion)                     13.1     14.7     14.6      14.7
Fmrgin1_  do-etic ievlog rote                    13.6                                of e61ah (1)
I-oo.tmnGI/C?P                           -       20.2
I.por-t/GDP                                      11.4                             A8rielloro                                      67.1     64.5     61.6     61.3
1ndn.tr7                                       13.3     14.9     16.3     16.7
0th6.                                          19.6     20.6     22.1      22.0
Totnle  y not *dd oP b-... of -n.di" en.
2/ Pro.jeEtd r.t., of 8lfAtioo  -r0 hihly ep l.Utlv8 ond wbjet te eh.         .
Boovonig r.qoi-t.o  of nonEnl gooo.et, 5t5t0 uoone.  eotnWUl.  od  telhr pb%1   r*$ E.e
-   For 1970-77 priod.                                                                                                                       Fober    1980
Pebroery 1980



ro o                     n                             r                                                  ? 
OCo0              000       0             0   CsvW_aFo.n    r_c0Z'  o.O_oCoIn 4r0o                   o  _ :
c~~~~~~~~~t    02                                        rn   0             0                  .....@  . .   r*'**'**'*'*'s
*nC             e      t             -     -C        5       ot     * O.    3             3    0 1ncX8@]
o   ,-oe                1-.  0                  0             ---   ,-s  2  ,-n 0  a   .-  0   000g
0*~n                        0'    _             0    r 0  es             zo 5*_   mO      -t3o  _.~ w0    w
00-   n                  S            o. .,0 o                -ItI          O 0 C         e
be o--                                      r-0 3-                        '- o        b               00
oe, 0 *~ ee                                                                             .0
eCto C.                                                                    .         .0 .e 0' 
.to  em           tN  WCC 
* 0.40vsP                    0@            n                               C    .za^    ,> rNO _ >O   Oowu   0, 0 .
to  V           W  No.        0 NC  \0W    0 Pv              Pv       0_W u ON0               
e-    e                                  2                                                               
oeec       _pio-.,    W                    00 000W                    W0                f__o W-  
oi                                                           o8o  '    tIC  0   0  0 mOo-< 0.C:C0:-.C - Cf
noto                  0      C  P0         C                   gI g1: to  u.    oe eLO     toS -
e ~ ~  ~     ~     ~    ~ ~ O           0                  C\ tI    C   Cf  O--         -. 
n        . .                                              * C   I C  to'- a0  0   tolt      CC   Cr C
to-p                                                              t ,H    t          a         at  ~E r z-_        ,e
o~  ~ ~ t  to"                                                  _            -     to  |Wo  C L  t               i
to  B5o8                                                              ""o o31|ri                                to      o



- 29 -
TURKEY - EXTERNAL DEBT AND CREDITWORTHINESS                            ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
Actual                                      Provisional
1970        1973        1975        1976        1977       1978              1979
A.  OUTSTANDING DEBT (Million US Dollars)
1.   Public Medium and Long Term (M and LT)(Disbursed)  1/              1854        2869        3176        3519        4326       6100             10956
2.   Private M and LT (disbursed)  1/                                     42         115         160         253         479         557              650
3.   Short Term  2/                                                        .         279        1398        3441        6600        7469             3770
4.   Total Outstanding Disbursed Debt                                   1896        3263        4734        7313        11405      14126            1537b
5.   Undisbursed Public M and LT  1/                                     840        1101        1641        2393        2804       3500              3800
B.  DEBT SERVICE (Million US Dollars)
1.   Interest on all Debt (net of relief)  3/                           -47          -59        -150        -300        -570       -710              -930
2.   Amortization of M and LT Debt (net of relief)                     -146          -72        -117        -119        -214       -380              -550
3.   Total Debt Service Payments                                       -193         -131        -267        -419        -784      -1090             -1480
C.  DEBT BURDEN
1.   Debt Service Ratio  4/                                            18.8          4.4         7.7        11.2        22.2       26.7              30.2
2.   Total Outstanding Disbursed Debt/GDP  5/                           15.0        15.7        13.1        17.9        23.9       28.3              28.5
D.  EXPOSURE
1.   Bank Group DOD/Total Outstanding Disbursed Debt                    7.2          7.8         3.1         7.6         6.1        6.0               6.9
2.   Bank Group Debt Service/Total Debt Service                          3.2        14.9        12.2        10.8         8.3         7.7               7.7
E.  COMPOSITION OF TOTAL OtTSTANDING DISBURSED DEBT                                    1978                                   19796/
(Million US Dollars)                                      (Amount)  (As ' of Total)              (Amount)  (As 2. of Total)
1.  Medium 6 Long-Term Debt                                                    6657          47.1                    11606          75.5
a.     Public Medium and Long-Term                                         6100          43.2                    10956          71.3
(i)  Bank Group                                                     836           5.9
(ii)  Other Multilateral                                             612           4.3
(iii)  Governments                                                   3900          27.6
(iv)  Suppliers                                                      170            1.2
(v)  Financial Institutions                                         545           3.9
(vi)  Bonds                                                           35           0.2
b.     Private Medium and Long-Term (Total)                                 557            3.9                     650           4.2
2.  Short Term                                                                 7469           52.9                    3770          24.5
(i)  Convertible Turkish Lira Deposits                             2860          20.2
(ii)  Suppliers' Credits/Comm;ercial and Oil Arrears                1675           11.9
(iii)  Acceptance Credits                                             862            6.1
(iv)  Bankers Credits, Reimbursement Credits,Overdrafts              924            6.5
(v)  Dresdner Bank                                                  363           2.6
(vi)  tMF                                                            622           4.4
(vii)  Other                                                          163            1.2
3.  Total Outstanding Disbursed Debt                                          14126          100.0                    15376         100.0
1/  Bank DRS data.
2/ Based on Turkish Central Bank estimates.
3/ Based on Turkish Balance of Payments data, except for 1979.
4/ Total debt service (line B3) divided by exports of goods and non-factor services plus workers' remittances.
5/  At market prices.                                                                                                        Eebruary 1980
6/ Bank staff estimate.
EMENA CPIIA



- 30 -                    ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
Economic Policy Package
On January 25, the Government announced,through several inter-
locking decrees, a rather comprehensive economic policy package. It is
not only a strong stabilization program, but also one that lays the foun-
dation for some structural economic changes and desirable modifications
in medium-term economic policies. The detailed decrees are being trans-
lated. Meanwhile based on extensive explanations of what they contain,
the principal elements are summarized below.
Exchange Rate Regime
(a)      The Turkish Lira, whose parity value was TL35 = US$1.00 except
for several commodities that had a premium fixed at TL47 = US$1.00, has
been devalued by nearly 100 percent to TL70 = US$1.00. A lower multiple
rate of TL55 - US$1.00, now applies only to the import of fertilizers,
insecticides and inputs for both.
(b)      In future, cross rates will be adjusted automatically by the
Central Bank. The principle is also established that so will the ex-
change rate vis a vis the US$ (after discussion with a new Money and
Credit Committee (para. q below)), generally determined by the differen-
tial rate of inflation in Turkey and its trading partner having the
weakest currency.
(c)      The temporary 20 percent stamp duty on imports is reduced to
1 percent, thus linking exports and imports directly to the exchange
rate.
(d)      The difference between TL earned from exports of key agricultural
commodities and the prices fixed on a weight basis by the Government as
those which provide sufficient incentives to the producers, are to be chan-
nelled into a Price Stabilization Fund now with the Central Bank. From this
Fund, the Government will cover subsidies on fertilizers, provide export
credits etc. to exporters and cover export risk insurance until institu-
tional facilities in that regard are approved by Parliament.
Export/Foreign Investment Incentives
(e)      Except for commodities covered by agriculture support prices, for-
eign exchange earned in exports totalling less than $50,000 can be retained
abroad by the exporters. Over that, the exporter is allowed to retain 50
percent of export earnings to be applied towards the import of his inputs,
provided he advises his bank handling the transaction within 6 months of
export of his intention to do so.



- 31 -                   ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
(f)      Commercial banks are now allowed to maintain accounts in which
they will retain 80 percent of export earnings or worker remittances made
by their clients (20 percent goes to the Central Bank). Once the importers
get clearance from the technical ministry concerned for the import of com-
modities on the Restricted List, they get foreign exchange from these banks,
out of such accounts, instead of from the Central Bank. This is a major
structural change for liberalizing the export and import licensing regime.
(g)      From the 50 percent legal reserve placed by commercial banks with
the Central Bank, the commercial banks can provide export credits, term
credits and working capital to exporters, as well as finance export invest-
ment proposals, at an interest rate of 11 percent only, with the discount
rate of the Central Bank being 8 percent.
(h)      Investments up to $50 million, in which foreign investors must
have a minimum investment of $2 million and no more than a 49 percent share,
are to be automatically approved by a new department created in the Prime
Minister's office (para. r). Those over $50 million, will be reviewed on
merit by that Office. Investments involving IFC or Islamic Bank have no
limit on size or field of investment and will be automatically approved,
provided the investor holds no more than 49 percent. Even this ceiling
is not applicable to investments made by Arab OPEC countries, or for hotels
with more than 400 beds, where 100 percent foreign ownership can be allowed.
The repatriation of the sale of an investor's equity is also guaranteed,
as IFC had been insisting.
(i)      To encourage oil exploration/investments by foreign oil companies,
the well-head price of oil is further increased over the sizeable increase
made in April 1979. For oil found or produced by such companies after Jan-
uary 1, 1980, they can export 35 percent of oil produced, as their share of
the profits.
(j)      To resolve the problem of unguaranteed trade credit arrears of about
$1.9 billion, foreign creditors must opt within 90 days between: (i) consoli-
dation in US$, with repayment over 10 years including 4 years grace, with
7 percent interest at the TL parity on January 25, 1980, or (ii) consolidate
in TL with smaller amounts repaid in 18 months and larger ones with 24 to
30 months. Such TL amounts can be used by them to invest in Turkey, within
the liberalized investment rules mentioned above.
SEE Reforms
(k)      Substantial increases in prices of SEE products such as petroleum,
cement, steel, sugar, coal, lignite and printing paper, as also in tariffs
of service SEEs like railways, Soil Products Office and Maritime Bank (which
collectively accounted for nearly 50 percent of budgetary deficits) have



-32 -                      ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
been announced, to add about TL350 billion to 1980 gross revenues. In this
the average tariff for bulk power has been increased from about 120 krs/kwh
to an average of 280 krs/kwh.
(1)      So far, the prices of several SEE products/services were arbitrarily
constrained and could be increased only by Cabinet approval, since they were
placed on "a list of basic items". All goods and services have now been re-
moved from this "basic list", except for fertilizer, coal/lignite, the cargo
tariffs of Railways, Maritime Bank and Turkish Cargo Lines, and electricity
rates only for ferro chrome and aluminium production. In other words, the
Board of Directors of the SEEs concerned will now set their own prices depend-
ing on market forces, so as to generate enough not only to cover their oper-
ating deficits, but cash for their investment programs. Through the price
mechanism and improved management and efficiency in the SEEs themselves,
the SEEs will have to meet all of this. Their operating deficits will no
longer be met from the Budget. While their investment projects would in
future be reviewed by the SP0 from the viewpoint of whether they fall within
the Plan objectives and are viable proposals, such projects will no longer
be financed from the Budget. Nor will SEEs have any access to Central Bank
borrowings, except seasonal credits for some of them. This is a major mile-
stone in Turkish economic policy, which has been accomplished by decree under
the existing SEE law, and does not require parliamentary approval.
Domestic Resource Mobilization
(m)      Since continuing increases in SEE prices could price them out of
the international market, revenues are instead to be augmented through a
"significant tax package" being tabled to the Parliament soon. After study,
new simple indirect taxes, like value added taxes, are proposed to be in-
troduced in future, along with others, to raise resources on a continuing
basis. This is another major shift in Turkish economic policy, since pro-
posals for new taxes have rarely been proposed to the Parliament, nor has
the Parliament passed any tax package for the last 8 years.
(n)      All lending rates have been increased by 2 percent over those
prevailing before January 25, 1980. In addition, interest rates for
medium-term credits of beyond 5 years no longer have any ceiling and
can be negotiated between the borrower and the banks concerned.  This
freeing of interest rates on loans beyond 5 years, is a major step to-
wards gradually reducing the negativeness of the interest rate structure
in Turkey.
(o)      As part of the Government's objective to bring down inflation
in 1980 to about 50 percent, and then continue to exercise a downward
pressure on inflationary growth, legislation is being introduced in
Parliament to contain wage increases in public and private sectors by
allowing automatic rate adjustments of only half the rate of inflation
in a given year, if the overall rate exceeds 40 percent.



_ 33 _               ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
Administrative Arrangements
(p)      A small Coordination Committee under the Undersecretary in
the Prime Ministry and having the Undersecretaries of SPO, Industry,
Energy and Treasury, the Governor of the Central Bank and the Head of
the Economic Department of SPO, will expedite formulation and implementation
of economic policies, trade regimes and the coordination of external aid.
(q)      A new Money and Credit Committee, again under the Undersecretary
in the Prime Ministry, with the Undersecretaries of SPO, Treasury and Com-
merce as well as the Governor of the Central Bank, the Head of the Economic
Department of SPO and the Head of Internal Revenue's Economic Department,
are to coordinate monetary and credit developments, solve financial bottle-
necks, decide on pricing policies and quickly approve adjustments in cross
rates and exchange rates.
(r)      A new private Foreign Investment Department has been created under
the Undersecretary in the Prime Minister's Office. It alone will review
and approve applications of foreign investors for investments in Turkey.
(s)      An Incentives/Implementation Department has also been established
under the Undersecretary in the Prime Minister's Office. It will not
only develop and deal with all export promotion incentives, measures and
institutions in order to promote export and export oriented investments,
but will also continuously review the ongoing investments in the country
from the point of view of establishing which of them should be stopped,
deferred or processed quickly, besides reviewing and proposing general
investment incentives for investments considered desirable in the Turkish
context.






-34 -                                                                                          ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
TURKEY:  Key ileneots of  orkeyrs Ongoing and Modium-Tere Recovery Efforts
Policies and He-ore
Main Issues                        197879 Trenda                                     Measuren tp to January 1980                                          for the   Met-re                                               Eapected Impact
A   balanne of Payments         C-rent ale deficit was $3.6 b. in '77,                 Admlcistratiwe moasurea to pre-e-t incre--e in
51.8 b. in '78 and '79.                                deficit bonood '78  oeSe.
a. Eohange Rute Poliny          Evoovafoation and inadequote adjuntbents               Adoption it  June  79 of a realictic  -ochaneg rait        Frequent and almost automatic adjostoent by the              Strengthen balanne of payments; encoorage eports
encooraged imports and capitol intenaive              ti  help alleviate aitoetion, eas folloeed up in            Central Bek, in onnultation with o ceo Money                 and workers' remittances; atimalt  ls cpital
investments; discouragnd eeports.                     Jan. '80 by a furthor drastic de-aluati-o fiticg         Jan  dBokic0 Coordination Coemitteo, of the                    intensive investments-
a rote of TL70 = 51, encept for fertilieer and             aexhenge rate to cover the diffsrontiai inflation
ih...ticide iRports.                                       i  Turkey and of her tain trading partoars
b.  Eports                      Ageichltoral e-ports still dominate;  e-port           Measures tokhn in '78/79 boosted exports by 15% pa         Steps to farther minimiee export procedures;                 Cootined eaport growth by at mast 10% ho ra  tnrm
orientatono is gradually ineteasi.g in the            in real tm-   in '78  nd '79.  Realiotic e-change           review by Ot, '80, of the effinaoy of the interi            between '80 and '83.  Atioos should nnreaibte to
iod-stal cantor.-  H-oever, cumbersone export          rate should holp maintain grnUth trend.  Peroision i        rregeents for aeport rich  feuoronc  and priority              rease of  non-traditional exports, impre  eapaoity
-setrintinos and licensing procedures-  nd morn        to exporters to retain 50% of export earoings for          access to nendita to exportern, as wall -   a of             utilisation, end inereaseempl ymp nt.
lucrative dnmeetic market disco.raged eopnrta.        impot needs helped stimlate eopo-ta.  De-rens in            institutines I rrongemeots to further develop
M'ay  79 and Jan. 80 have redoced procednral delayn    traditional and non-traditionl exports.   Incentives
drastically; inte-i= arrngenents ostoblished               and priority for eaport oriented inveetmeots in
to provide export risk Insurance coverage                  priote *ector.   Study of procention to be initiated
on cell an term and rorkiog  -apital crodits to            in April '80.
enpor ters.
c.  Extenal Debt                Substantial annumulation of short-nerm indebt-    CGuranteed bilateral debts rescheduled op to June               Farther re-chedoling on ext-eded teens of guar-nteed         Gradual rnstoration of creditworthinesa, to maintain
ednesa imposes and inordinately heavy borden,          '79:  IMF Stondby  Arrangement in July '79; tea-           bilateral debt, containment of  hort-term debts over          iebl  gowth ad           ic  tbility.
in the medium-term  on balance of payments;            serciai bank debts of $429 m  reenbodgiod and              _edium-t.e  to no mor.   than torrent level of shout
short-tern debt west up in ' 78 by anothee 52 b.    forthen rescheduling of $2 46 b. negotioted                   $2.8 b., aecurig of new credit. on as . .oneasei.nal
benaose Turkey borrnwed net chart-term, annd Jon  '80 econonic package includrd reasonable                        torns ae po..ible, and completion by Oct.  d  of an
valoation adjust ent of old debt, doe to $             altern_ti_e proposaln to settle about $1.9 b. of           ongoing etdy to further improve and -efine thin
sltpping against Eo-carenn-ies.                        ungoaronteed export credits.                               eaternaI debt policy.
B. Domestic Policies
a.  ICflotion                   Ras encouraged nonaumption, diacouraged savings    Effort to control poblic oector doffiita cod                   With thr objeotire of reducing the rate of growth            Gradual reduction in inflation in
and eroded pt ntiji benef its fIr   Go  er- ont'       C-entr-a  nok bo-rowing  in '78/79.  Upward                of inflation in '801  limit nt one e C-ta  Bk                '80.  Slight dlie in pivte  onaumption  nd  oe
ntnbi isatio  plce.  Budget definit of                 adjuntoent of iner-t -atea in May '79, fo1lhned            ordlis in public setor to Ti94 b. in FY79/80.                denlins in private Ried investments.
TL61 b. (47%1 dGP) sod overall public  -ector          up in Jan.  '80 with further 2 percenta8n point            Cootinue policy of limiting wage increases   R-vi wd
deficit of TiLl5 b.  8.8% GDP) in  78. Net             innraeas    in all raite, and liberalitation of the        Toriky's comploted Financial Sector Study by Sank;
publie sector borrowing from Central Sask             intereat rote region through allowing borrowers             By  id '80, rei e  meaness to en         g8e
TL63 b. in '78.                                         nd beeka to agree on rates for depocita beyond            iomr.eE  hahd  aiga ad deposits an  part
4  e-r  and lending bopynd 5 year-                         of  -eaore  to in prov  re-uneabiietcalo
cation.    estrocturing of tea aysten to augment tox
renusto be done.  Eloimiatioc of defictt
fi-aoolg of poblic sector, to be an important
feature of 1980 sod future budgets.
b.  Prie.  Policies of liEs    Doestic resource mbilization and tot-l                  Sy.tenstio  incrnaset in prices dring '78/79,              Continue polity af encouragInS SlEE  to improve              Strengthen public s.oot  finances.  Improve res-urce
definits have increased.   'fic itn of SEE. 4.1%       followed up t  Jan.  '80 by increases  of bet.wen          produntivity and management, and generate their              a11 tin.
G.P in '78   Underpricing of industrial goode          50 tc  300% in pr-docta and servings of SEEs, t.           resources to cover their invot.ent prgma.
produced or distributed by SEE., h.e resuIted          net TL350 b. in '80; this should help alleviatr
in sukbtantial1 .on.e, met through the budget          sitoation   Coortolt'  excpt for  .o.lJ/ignite,
and Central Bnok borrowings.  gas R  ggeancted         railway and chipping freights and power toriffa
inflation and the economic cais.                       for alonuo and ferrochrome production.  liEn are
no allored to fio their own prio.s depoeding on
market price- Throogh prices and improved
efficiency, they arr to cover oil coats and
generate caeh for inveateotts, since thoir
elionce on the budget and Central Bank borrowingi
for both purposes, has been stopped.
c   Public Secto- In-est-       An investment progra-, es-eesive in tho light          Topmst priority ac_o- ded to  -onpIntion of ongolo         R-esteaint on nsw inveotments in Iight of available          Si.esble reduotion in public fixed Investments
ment Progrem              of available resourcsa, and emphhasi  on large         projects which non give good returns  Rith modest          resources; all inveatnta to ho  made according to            stimulate faster disburnenents on priority p-oject
projects with iosg gestation period and morginal   investmeots, aod those that  not one existing                  strit criteria oentiond und-r "Measurea up to                losn    Positive effect on containing inflatio.i
returns, has increased country's debt burden           prodactivocapacity folly.  New inve-tments,                January 1980" comtI ._ Should r...arce  fall short           Progmtion of ppblie sector  sp-t.
snd fueilld inflation.                                 tailred to ava-llerersources, to be made  a-              hi  any ye-r to those e-tiEmatd in the relavs  annual                                       e
on priority proiects for rrwving iofrastrseturol           Program, they would Rn channelled to project having
bottlenenks, or peomotingfenporto and employment           highent priority acoording to that criter.s, the list
.f which is to be provided shortly to Bank.






- 35 -                                 ANNEX III
Page 1 of 9
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDIT
(As of March 31, 1980)
Loan and
Credit                                                                      (Less Cancellations US$M)
Number    Year   Borrower                  Purpose                          Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Nineteen loans and twelve credits fully disbursed                           533.0   160.2
748-TU   1971   Republic of Turkey        Education                         13.5                3.9
844-TU   1972   Republic of Turkey        Istanbul Water Supply             37.0                9.5
324-TU   1972   Republic of Turkey        Istanbul Urban Development                  2.3      0.7
330-TU   1972   Republic of Turkey        Livestock II                               16.0       0.1
883-TU   1973   Republic of Turkey        Ceyhan Aslantas                   44.0               20.0
892-TU   1973   Republic of Turkey        Istanbul Power Distribution    14.0                   0.2
893-TU   1973   Turkish State Railway  Railway Project                      46.7                2.3
957-TU   1974   Republic of Turkey        Antalya Forestry                  40.0                0.9
1023-TU   1974   TEK/TKI                   Elbistan Power                   148.0              59.0
1024-TU   1974   DYB                       Industry                          40.0                1.5
1078-TU   1975   TSKB                      Industry                          65.0                0.8
1130-TU   1975   Republic of Turkey        Rural Development                 75.0              46.5
1248-TU   1976   Agriculture Bank of
Turkey (TCZB)         Agriculture Credit                54.3               33.1
1258-TU   1976   State Pulp and Paper
Industry (SEKA)       Newsprint                         70.0               13.8
1265-TU   1976   Republic of Turkey        Livestock III                     21.5               16.2
1194-TU   1976   TEK                       Power Transmission II             56.0              21.4
1310-TU   1976   Republic of Turkey        Tourism                           26.0              23.3
1379-TU   1977   DYB                       Industry                          70.0              47.5
1430-TU   1977   TSKB                      Industry                          74.0              22.5
1585-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey        Northern Forestry                 86.0              73.5
1586-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey        Livestock IV                      24.0              23.9
1606-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey        Erdemir Steel Stage II            95.0              94.2
S-13-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey        Oil Recovery                       2.5                1.0
1741-TU   1979   Republic of Turkey        Ports Rehabilitation              75.0              75.0
1742-TU   1979   Republic of Tur14ey       Grain Storage                     85.0              85.0
1748-TU   1979   TSKB                      Industry                          60.0              60.0
1754-TU   1979   TSKB                      Private Sector Textiles           65.0              65.0
1755-TU   1979   SYKB                      Private Sector Textiles           15.0               15.0
S-15-TU   1979   Republic of Turkey        Ankara Air Pollution Control    6.0                   6.0
1818-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey        Structural Adjustment            200.0             200.0
Total                                                   2141.5   178.5   1021.8
of which has been repaid                               185.5      6.1
Total now outstanding                                    1956.0   172.4
Amount sold                        3.6
of which has been repaid        3.6                    - 0 -   - 0 -
Total now held by Bank and IDA /a                        1956.0   172.4
Total undisbursed /b              -                      815.0      0.8    815.8
/a   Prior to exchange adjustments.
T7   Excluding loans not yet effective.



- 36 -                          ANNEX III
Page 2 of 9
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1980)
Fiscal                                                    Amount in US$ Million
Year     Obligor       Type of Business                    Loan   Equity   Total
1964     TSKB          DFC                                   -    0.92      0.92
1966     SIFAS I       Nylon Yarn                         0.90   0.47       1.37
1967     TSKB II       DFC                                   -    0.34      0.34
1969     TSKB III      DFC                                   -    0.41     0.41
1969     SIFAS II      Nylon Yarn                          1.50   0.43      1.93
1970     Viking I      Pulp and Paper                     2.50   0.62       3.12
1970     ACS           Glass                             10.00   1.58    11.58
1971     NASAS         Aluminum                            7.00   1.37      8.37
1971     SIFAS III    Nylon Yarn                          0.75      -      0.75
1971     Viking II    Pulp and Paper                         -    0.05     0.05
1972     SIFAS IV      Nylon Yarn                            -    0.52      0.52
1972     TSKB IV       DFC                                   -    0.43      0.43
1973     TSKB V        DFC                               10.00      -      10.00
1973     Akdeniz       Tourism                            0.33   0.27      0.60
1974     Borusan       Steel Pipes                        3.60   0.44      4.04
1974     AKSA          Textiles                          10.00      -      10.00
1975     Kartaltepe   Textiles                            1.30      -       1.30
1975     Sasa          Nylon Yarn                        15.00      -      15.00
1975     Aslan         Cement                            10.60      -      10.60
1975     DOKTAS        Steel                              7.50   1.37       8.87
1975     TSKB          DFC                               25.00   1.22    26.22
1976     NASAS         Aluminum                           1.58      -       1.58
1976     TSKB          DFC                               25.00      -      25.00
1976     Asil Celik   Steel                              12.00   2.20    14.20
1977     Borusan       Steel Pipes                           -    0.06     0.06
1978     DOKTAS        Steel                                 -    0.10     0.10
1979     Ege Mosan    Engines for Mopeds                   2.15     -       2.15
1979     ISAS          Motor Vehicles & Accessories       8.00   1.40       9.40
1979     Asil Celik   Steel                                  -    1.80      1.80
1979     Trakya Cam   Glass                              31.15   4.00    35.15
1980     TSKB          DFC                                   -    1.09      1.09
1980     ISAS          Motor Vehicles & Accessories          -    0.56     0.56
Total Gross Commitments                        186.86  21.65   207.51
Less Cancellations, Terminations,
Exchange Adjustments, Repayments
and Sales                                    109.48   2.43   111.91
Total Commitments now held by IFC               77.38  18.22    95.60
Total Undisbursed                               10.84   6.12    16.96



- 37 -
ANNEX III
Page 3 of 9
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ln. No. 748 Education Project: US$13.5 million loan of June 9, 1971. Effec-
tive Date: September 29, 1971. Closing Date: September 30, 1980.
The project was substantially delayed due mainly to initial diffi-
culties in providing the project unit with adequate qualified staff and
authority commensurate with its responsibilities. Implementation is now
proceeding satisfactorily, with equipment procurement progressing smoothly.
Completion of some training institutions, including the Management Training
Institute, has been delayed by contract disputes. However 90 percent are now
complete or almost complete, and remedial actions are being taken by Govern-
ment to accelerate completion of the remaining schools. The Government is
also considering alternative steps to formally establish the Management Train-
ing Institute without need for parliamentary action. Training of teachers
for technician schools, adult training centers and practical trade schools has
made considerable progress. Sixty-seven local advisory committees for voca-
tional and technical education have been established, one in each province.
Ln. No. 844 Istanbul Water Supply Project: US$37 million loan of June 30,
1972.  Effective Date:  January 4, 1973.  Closing Date:  June 30, 1980.
Project construction was delayed about 2-1/2 years due mainly to
problems in the use of ICB procurement procedures and inefficient management.
However, construction moved swiftly in 1977 and the two major water resources
development programs were completed in early 1979. Substantial improvements
to the distribution system are required, however, to enable full utilization
to be made of the new water sources. Tariff increases have been implemented
recently, and a reorganization of the management, accounting and financial
systems is under consideration.
Cr. No. 324 Istanbul Urban Development Project: US$2.3 million credit of
June 30, 1972. Effective Date: January 4, 1973. Closing Date: June 30,
1980.
Consultants have completed Phase I of the general urban planning and
urban transport/land use modelling studies as well as studies on wastewater
and bus/traffic engineering and control. Phase II studies to prepare a
shelter project for Bank financing are under discussion with the Government.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 38 -
ANNEX III
Page 4 of 9
Cr. No. 330 Second Livestock Project: US$16 million credit of September 28,
1972. Effective Date: January 5, 1973. Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The fattening subproject has been completed. All unspent funds
have been reallocated to the village livestock development subproject, which
is expected to be completed on schedule.
Ln. and Cr. Nos. 883/360, Ceyhan Aslantas Multipurpose Project: US$44 million
loan and US$30 million credit of March 22, 1973. Effective Date: March 20,
1974. Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Following delays due to difficult rock conditions and inappropriate
tunnelling methods, two diversion tunnels have been completed, about two years
behind appraisal estimate. The upstream coffer dam has also been completed.
Progress in 1979 was disappointing because of the difficulties that the
contractors encountered in obtaining sufficient fuel, construction steel and
cement; the supply situation has eased recently. The construction of the
irrigation system is progressing, with the system now ready to transport
irrigation water to about 40,000 ha, one third of the target. On-farm works
are progressing slowly, with about 40 percent of the land leveling, 25 percent
of the surface drainage, and 35 percent of the feeder roads completed. Tile
drainage is being delayed until the main drains are located. Staffing of the
extension service is satisfactory except as regards consultants, but the
Government is taking steps to hire the latter.
Ln. No. 892 Istanbul Power Distribution Project: US$14.0 million loan of
May 25, 1973. Effective Date: September 28, 1973. Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The project has been delayed by about four years mainly by slow
procurement action; however, this is now almost completed. Both local and
foreign costs have increased substantially over appraisal estimates. Consul-
tant studies of the Istanbul power market and of the proposed reorganization
of the company's electricity, transport and gas services have been completed.
IETT's tariffs have been raised substantially in the recent past, and addi-
tional increases as a result of the Government's January 1980 economic package
should help cover the increased project costs and revitalize the company's
finances.
Ln. No. 893 Turkish State Railways: US$47 million loan of May 25, 1973.
Effective Date: August 28, 1973. Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
After initial delays, physical progress, including track renewals,
rolling stock, and locomotive production, the latter financed by the European
Investment Bank, is satisfactory. Over 90 percent of the loan has been dis-
bursed and procurement action has been or is in the process of being completed
for use of the remaining loan funds. Despite several tariff increases since



- 39 -
ANNEX III
Page 5 of 9
the loan was made, the Railways have continued to fall short of the financial
targets in the revised Plan of Action agreed with the Bank in mid-1975.
However, it is hoped that further increases in passenger fares and freight
tariffs averaging 70 to 170 percent, which became effective in January 1980,
will improve the Railways' financial situation. While the dieselization
program is making satisfactory progress, other measures to improve operational
efficiency, such as appropriate manpower planning, have not been given suffi-
cient attention.
Ln. No. 957 Antalya/Akdeniz Forest Utilization Project: US$40 million loan of
January 28, 1974. Effective Date: May 26, 1976. Closing Date: June 30,
1980.
Following the approval by the Executive Directors of needed changes
in the agreements arising from relocation of the pulp and paper mill, the loan
was declared effective. Construction at the new site is underway, and the
project is expected to be completed by mid-1981, two years behind the revised
schedule. Some cases of sub-standard civil works construction have occurred,
but a corrective program and strengthened supervision by SEKA have produced
some improvement. Arrangements have been made to complete the foreign exchange
financing plan, and procurement for the industrial part of the project is well
advanced. Local currency payments for the Akdeniz establishment are also now
being made. Price increases of 127-345 percent in January 1980 should enable
the company to meet part of the local currency requirements.
Ln. No. 1023 Elbistan Lignite Mine and Power Project: US$148 million loan of
June 28, 1974. Effective Date: June 1, 1976. Closing Date: July 30, 1982.
Project implementation had been delayed by critical problems,
including insufficient staff, inefficient management, inadequate coordination
among various agencies and unsatisfactory performance of civil contractors.
Following continuous Bank and co-lender reviews of the situation with the
Turkish authorities from early 1977, the remedial measures initiated by Turkey
have recently resulted in significant improvement of project execution. The
Government's expected continued provision of adequate local funds for this
high priority project, and early arrangements to finalize plans to meet the
substantial foreign exchange gap, are likely to maintain project momentum in
future. The Government is reviewing possible action to overcome remaining
implementation problems.
Ln. No. 1024 DYB (State Investment Bank of Turkey): US$40 million loan of
June 28, 1974. Effective Date: September 30, 1974. Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The loan was fully committed in February 1977, with eleven sub-
projects approved by the Bank. Project implementation is satisfactory and
disbursements are nearly complete.



40 -                           ANNEX III
Page 6of 9
Ln. No. 1078 TSKB (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey): US$65 million
loan of January 22, 1975. Effective Date: April 24, 1975. Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The loan is fully committed and project implementation is satis-
factory. Disbursements are nearly complete, although somewhat behind original
appraisal estimates, as a result of difficulties with a few subprojects.
Ln. No. 1130 Corum-Cankiri Rural Development: US$75 million loan of June 23,
1975. Effective Date: January 22, 1976. Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Corum dam has been
completed and the works to divert run-off from 5 nearby watersheds have been
completed. Kumbaba pumping station is ready. Diversion tunnels for Alaca and
Guldercek dams are more than 90 percent completed. Designs for the irrigation
systems of the Guldercek and Alaca areas have been completed and tendering is
beginning in April 1980. The project extension service and credit components
are operating successfully. The Government is taking steps to replace two of
the three extension consultants who resigned for personal reasons. Further
construction of village centers is being delayed until a satisfactory plan for
using and maintaining existing centers is drawn up and plans for additional
centers are revised.
Ln. No. 1194 Second TEK Power Transmission Project: US$56 million loan of
June 14, 1976. Effective Date: April 21, 1978. Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
Procurement action is complete, somewhat behind schedule, and almost
the entire loan is committed. Some deliveries have also been delayed because
of foreign exchange shortages. Improvements are expected to continue in over-
all project implementation and the rate of disbursement.
Ln. No. 1248 Agricultural Credit and Agroindustries: US$54.2 million loan of
May 5, 1976. Effective Date: May 11, 1977. Closing Date: September 30,
1981.
The ferryship component has been implemented, and the two roll-on
and roll-off ships purchased under this project and the Fruit and Vegetable
Export projectX are now operating a regularly scheduled service between ports
in Turkey and two ports in Italy. Selection of agro-industries sub-loans has
been delayed, but some have recently been approved. The Agricultural Bank
(TCZB) has introduced improved lending procedures for its ongoing supervised
credit program, and this component is being implemented satisfactorily.
After considerable delay, consultants will shortly begin to carry out the
study of TCZB's structure and procedures. At the Borrower's request, a
cattle-fattening component of the Project, and US$7.7 million of the original
Loan amount of $63 millions allocated for this purpose, were cancelled on May
5, 1977. Also, as provided for in the Loan Agreement, $1.04 million for
training was cancelled on December 22, 1977, following approval of UNDP funds
for this purpose.



- 41 -                         ANNEX III
Page 7 of 9
Ln. No. 1258 Balikesir Newsprint: US$70 million loan of May 21, 1976.
Effective Date: October 15, 1976. Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project is proceeding slowly due to delays in civil works and
procurement caused by insufficient local funds. Recent price increases of
130-345 pe-cent are likely to correct this situation and the project is
expected to start production in early 1981, 2 years behind the appraisal
schedule. Erection of machinery and equipment began in early 1979 and trial
runs are expected to begin in 1980.
Ln. No. 1265 Livestock III: US$21.5 million loan of May 26, 1976. Effective
Date:  February 25, 1977.  Closing Date:  March 31, 1982.
After a slower than anticipated start-up, project implementation is
now satisfactory. Project area offices have been established and are fully
staffed. Preparation of farm development plans has been slower than expected
but is now satisfactory. A higher than expected proportion of subloans has
been made to small farmers.
Ln. No. 1310 South Antalya Tourism Infrastructure: US$26 million loan of
July 9, 1976. Effective Date: March 1, 1978. Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Implementation of most project components is satisfactory, with
progress being made in preparation of specifications and project design work,
although the pace of overall project implementation is somewhat slower than
expected due to staffing constraints and difficulties in ensuring adequate
inter-ministerial and inter-agency coordination. However, measures to
strengthen the Project Unit and its consultants, the Tourism Bank, are
being taken, and the project is still expected to be completed without major
delays.
Ln. No. 1379 DYB (State Investment Bank of Turkey): US$70 million loan of
March 23, 1977.  Effective Date:  July 21, 1977.  Closing Date:  March 31,
191
The loan has been fully committed. DYB still has severe staff
constraints, which it has in part overcome by recruitment of additional junior
staff. It hopes improved contract terms will enable it to fill more senior
positions as needed.
Ln. No. 1430 TSKB XII (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey): US$74.0
million loan of June 3, 1977.  Effective Date:  August 29, 1977.  Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
Progress is satisfactory and 83 percent of the loan has been
committed. TSKB has essentially reached its agreed targets for allocation of
its resources to projects in less developed regions and small and medium-scale



- 42 -                          ANNEX III
Page 8 of 9
labor-intensive enterprises. It has so far been unable to raise resources in
international capital markets as expected because of Turkey's economic diffi-
culties, but the interest of several financing sources is anticipated once
conditions permit renewed efforts.
Ln. No. 1585 Northern Forestry: US$86.0 million loan of June 5, 1978.
Effective Date: October 30, 1978. Closing Date: March 31, 1986.
Industrial wood production for 1979 will be close to forecasts but
there will be significant shortfalls in some other targets, principally
as a result of Government budget cuts. Foreign procurement for 1979 is
effectively up to date but local state enterprises have been unable to supply
much of the locally produced equipment (principally vehicles to replace
existing stocks). Most technical problems have been resolved.
Ln. No. 1586 Livestock IV: US$24.0 million loan of June 5, 1978. Effective
Date: October 31, 1978. Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The supervised credit program for farm development has not yet been
initiated, mainly because of difficulties being encountered in recruiting
veterinarians and agronomists to serve in eastern Turkey. The final draft of
the milk industry study is expected shortly. International recruitment of
technical specialists is underway.
Ln. No. 1606 Erdemir Stage II Steel: US$95.0 million loan of June 30, 1978.
Effective Date: July 30, 1979. Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Procurement for the phenol treatment plant, the raw material handling
system and the hot rolled shear line are underway. Following technical review
by the company's cons,ultants, the fourth blast stove and the third down coiler
have been deferred until a later date. Prices have been substantially
increased in January 1980. Production from existing facilities however, have
been restricted because of the lack of raw materials due to the limited
availability of foreign exchange.
Ln. No. 1627 Import Program: US$150.0 million of November 8, 1978.
Effective Date: November 16, 1978. Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
In accordance with Schedule I of the Loan Agreement a satisfactory
review of Turkey's export policies and performance was made by the Bank in
April 1979 and a determination made to continue disbursements after April 30.
The loan is almost fully disbursed.
Ln. No. S-13 Bati Raman Engineering: US$2.5 million of November 30, 1978.
Effective Date: February 27, 1979. Closing Date: September 30, 1980.
The engineering study has been completed and detailed design of a
pilot project to test the chosen technology has begun.



- 43 -
ANNEX III
Page 9 of 9
Ln. No. 1741 Ports Rehabilitation: US$75 million of July 2, 1979.
Effective Date: January 22, 1980. Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project coordinating committees are in place and functioning
effectively. Preparation of equipment specifications and tender documents
is making good progress. UNDP has appointed a project manager to implement
the project related training programs. The port sector planning studies have
been delayed by lack of staff, but steps are being taken to correct this.
Ln. No. 1742 Grain Storage: US$85 million of July 2, 1979.
Effective Date: January 21, 1980. Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Project implementation has begun. Tender documents to be sent to an
approved short list of consultants are under review.
Ln. No. 1748 TSKB XIII (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey): US$60
million of July 12, 1979.  Effective Date:  October 25, 1979.  Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
TSKB and ITC finalized in November the technical assistance program
for training and export development. Project screening is now underway.
Lns. Nos. 1754 TSKB ($65 million) and 1755 SYKB ($15 million) Private Sector
Textiles loans of September 17, 1979. Effective Date: February 29, 1980.
Closing Date:  December 31, 1984.
Consultants have prepared the preliminary program for local training.
The additional consultants for technical services and for the extension ser-
vices are being recruited. Revised Action Plans are being prepared.
Ln. No. S-15 Ankara Air Pollution Engineering: US$6 million loan of
December 12, 1979. Effective Date: April 4, 1980. Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Consultants being selected for project studies.
Ln. No. 1818 Structural Adjustment Loan: US$200 million loan of March 26,
1980.  Effective Date:  April 1, 19B0.  Closing Date:  September 30, 1981.
The loan has just become effective.



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2
TURKEY - SUMERBANK COTTON TEXTILE RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by Sumerbank to prepare
project:                                     2-1/2 years (April 1977-
September 1979)
(b)  Agency which prepared project:               Sumerbank assisted by Gherzi
consultants financed by PPF
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:              September 1979
(d)  Departure of pre-appraisal mission:          October 1979
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:              November 1979
(f)  Negotiations completed:                      April 1980
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:               September 1980
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
A.   Special Conditions of Effectiveness:
(i) Provision of the initial portion of new cash equity of at least TL
400 million (para. 52);
(ii) The operational consultants for the second stage of the technical
assistance have been employed (para. 54); and
(iii) Execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Republic of
Turkey and Sumerbank (para. 67).
B.   Other Main Conditions:
(i) Prior to December 31, 1981, Government to provide an additional
TL 800 million of cash equity for the Cotton Textile Division (CTD)
and prior to December 31, 1982 another TL 500 million (para. 52);



- 45 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2
(ii) Sumerbank not to divert profits from CTD to other operations until
the needs of the project have been met and CTD to limit other
investments in cotton textiles during project execution to $3
million per year (paras. 53 and 60);
(iii) CTD to prepare consolidated financial statements and to maintain
appropriate financial ratios (para. 60);
(iv) Sumerbank and CTD to review cotton textile prices frequently and
adjust as necessary (para. 45);
(v) Sumerbank to submit proposals satisfactory to the Bank on the
detailed responsibilities and functions of the units of CTD and
its marketing arrangements to the Bank prior to December 31, 1980
(paras. 41 and 56);
(v) CTD to prepare annual staffing and training requirements and submit
the first program to the Bank prior to April 30, 1981 (para 57);
and
(vii) Government and Sumerbank to maintain 55 contractual positions for
CTD and the project unit until project completion (paras. 54 and
55).



I



r   ,g,,=, ;;  1 ;              Nt 0    g   g                  0 ?    + tR
,   ., < *,,  *   2 Z  x     A G' 
iiDu  o     mtv                  <         X    S,    -/;          ( ''~~~~~~~~TNI
Lg  r9>'''>X>-2' C-2   7; >              ':,i;      0'J    . 
F _ _, r                                     f            ;X   ,               L  /S 0z
/~~~~~ z<  \           =r^>- ;;
F.,1.  . .                            W<,,r
x~                                      _                     e



