OFFICIAL       LOAN NUMBER 1847 TU
DOC,UMENTS
Loan Agreement
(Sumerbank Cotton Textile Rationalization Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                              , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1847 TU
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated        M      2             , 1980, between
the REPUBLIC OF TURKEY (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by Sumerbank with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Bor-
rower will make available to Sumerbank the proceeds of the Loan as
hereinafter provided;
(C) by letters dated November 10, 1978 and December 17, 1979
addressed by the Bank to the Minister of Finance of the borrower,
the Bank granted an advance to the Borrower totalling $1,000,000
equivalent for the purpose of assisting in the preparation of the
Project;
(D) pursuant to the terms of said advance, the aggregate
amount thereof is to be refunded to the Bank out of the proceeds
of the Loan; and
(E) Sumerbank intends to contract suppliers credit in an
aggregate principal amount of $5,000,000 equivalent to assist in
financing the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project
agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and Sumerbank;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with


﻿- 2 -
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings theein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and Sumerbank of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all sch-dules to the
Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the Project
Agreement;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and Sumerbank pursuant
to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c) "Lira" or "TL" means the currency of the Borrower;
(d) "Sumerbank's Statutes" means the Law No. 2262 of the
Borrower as amended from time to time;
(e) "Cotton Textile Division" or "CTD" means the division,
established by Sumerbank pursuant to the decision of its Board
dated March 14, 1980, No. 16/526, including all cotton textile
plants and cotton ginneries owned or controlled by Sumerbank;
(f) "Subsidiary" means a legal entity owned or controlled
by Sumerbank;
(g) "Completion Date" means the date on which the Project
shall be deemed completed on the basis of the installation and
rehabilitation, as the case may be, of the equipment specified in
Part A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, at the same time, an
aggregate monthly production of the facilities included in CTD of
at least 4,400 metric tons of yarn and 17,000,000 square meters
finished fabrics over a period of not less than 60 consecutive
days; and


﻿- 3 -
(h) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepara-
tion advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the
letters of the Bank to the Borrower dated November 10, 1978 and
December 17, 1979.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
eighty-three million dollars ($83,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures nade (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) As of the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the
amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project
Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and
to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the
authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall automa-
tically be cancelled as of the same date.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a) procurement of the goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement; and
(b) the Borrower shall provide as and when needed, the
foreign exchange required to meet the expenditures for imported
inputs of contracts for the Project awarded to local suppliers.


﻿Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1984
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eight and twenty-five hundredths per cent (8.25%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. The Director General of Sumerbank is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking
any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement,
the Borrower shall cause Sumerbank to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations
therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all rction,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services ana other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Sumerbank to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions
of paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall approve the
contractual positions referred to in Section 3.02 (b) of the
Project Agreement until completion of the Project and take all


﻿- 5 -
reasonable action to assist Sumerbank in meeting its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to
Sumerbank under a subsidiary loan agreement to t  entered into
between the Borrower and Sumerbank, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall,
for purposes set forth in Section 4.03 of the Project Agreement,
contribute to Sumerbank's paid-in capital cash equity funds (i)
of not less than TL 400,000,000; and (ii) as and wher needed for
carrying out the Project, an additional amount of not -ess than TL
1,300,000,000, of wh.ch, in any event, TL 800,000,000 shall be
provided by December >1, 1981, and the remaining TL 500,000,000 by
December 31, 1982.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,
in normal circumstances, special security from the member con-
cerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distri-
bution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority
for the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the
allocation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange,
such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan,
and the Borrower, in creating or permitting the creation of
such lien, shall make express provision to that effect; provided,


﻿- 6 -
however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason
such provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on
assets of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, the
Borrower shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an
equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or
any such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) Sumerbank shall have failed to perform any covenant,
agreement or obligation of Sumerbank under the Project Agreement;
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that Sumerbank will be able to perform
its obligations under the Project Agreement;
(c) Law No. 440, of the Borrower dated March 21, 1964,
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived
in such a way as to materially and adversely affect the ability
of Sumerbank to carry out the covenants, agreements and obliga-
tions set 'orth in the Project Agreement;


﻿- 7 -
(d) Sumerbank's Statutes shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to materially and
adversely af.fect the ability of Sumerbank to carry out the cove-
nants, agreements and obligations set forth in the Project
Agreement;
(e) Sumerbank's board decision dated March 14, 1980, No.
16/526, establishing its Cotton Textile Division shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as
to materially and adversely affect the ability of Sumerbanks to
carry out the convenants, agreements and obligations set forth in
the Project Agreement; and
(f) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of Sumerbank or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof: the events specified in paragraphs (a),
(b), 'kc), (i), (e) and (f) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur and st,all cont'nue for a period of 60 days after notice
thereof shall have b en given by the Bank to the Borrower and
Sumerbank.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Condi-
tions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and Sumerbank;
(b) the Borrower has contributed cash equity funds to
Sumerbank in accordance with Section 3.02 (i) of this Agree-
ment; and
(c) Sumerbank has employed consultants with respect to Part
B (i) of the Project in accordance with Section 2.02 of the
Project Agreement.


﻿- 8 --
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12,02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished co the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by Sumerbank, and is legally binding upon Sumerbank
in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and Sumerbank and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and Sumerbank in accordance with
its terms.
Section 6.03. The date   *               2    l1
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General   Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Maliye Bakanligi
Hazine Genel Mudurlugu ve
Milletlerarasi Iktisadi
Isbirligi Teskilati Genel Sekreterligi
Ankara
Turkey
Cable address:                     Telex:
Maliye                      821-42285 (MLYE-TR) or
Hazine                      821-42689 (ANK-TR)
Ankara


﻿-9-
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By          cr      C!    4
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)  to be Financed
(1) Equipment and                 68,000,000      100% of foreign
spare parts                                  expenditures
and 100% of
local expen-
ditures ex-
factory
(2) Consultants' ser-              7,800,000      100% of foreign
vices and training                            expenditures
(3) Refunding of Project           1,000,000      Amounts due
Preparation Advance                          under Section
2.02 (b)
(4) Unallocated                    6,200,000
TOTAL         83,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.


﻿- 11 -
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuffi-
cient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallo-
cation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Rationalization and modernization of the existing 19
plants of Sumerbank's Cotton Textile Division through:
(i) provision and installation of equipment and spare
parts with respect to spinning, weaving, finishing and
printing, and garment manufacturing includirg rehabili-
tation of about 50,000 spindles and about 800 looms and
provision of about 800 new looms and auxiliary equip-
ment, and increasing production for yarn to about 52,000
metric tons per year, for woven fabric to about 250
million square meters, for finished fabric to about 207
million square meters and for garments by about 1.7
million pieces; and (ii) provision of improved lighting
and environmental facilities.
Part B:   Provision of technical assistance of: (i) about 360
man-months to assist in carrying out of the Project,
and reorganizing Sumerbank's cotton textile operations
into a separate and autonomous Cotton Textile Division
within Sumerbank and improving cotton textile manufac-
turing and marketing; and (ii) about 100 man-months for
financial control and planning.
Part C:   Carrying out of a training program for technical
instructors, supervisory and management staff including
about 45 man-years of training abroad.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning November 15, 1984
through November 15, 1996               3,190,000
On May 15, 1997                              3,250,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 14 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1.45%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                    2.90%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                             5.35%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                             7.30%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                             8.25%


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this2    4    dayof A    "  I 1980-.
FOR SECRETARY


﻿0FFICIAL        LOAN NUMBER 1847 TU
Project Agreement
(Sumerbank Cotton Textile Rationalization Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SUMERBANK
Dated                2 2             1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1847 TU
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     yo, 1980, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and SUMERBANK.
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Turkey (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to eighty-three million
dollars ($83,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Sumerbank agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are hereinafter set
forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreemant to be entered into
between the Borrower and Sumerbank, the proceeds of the loan
provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to
Sumerbank on the terms and conditions therein set: forth; and
WHEREAS Sumerbank, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Sumerbank shall carry out the Project described
in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due diligence and effi-
ciency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, finan-
cial, engineering and ecological practices, and shall provide, or
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. For purposes set forth in Part B of Schedule
2 of the Loan Agreement, Sumerbank shall, until completion of the
Project but at least until December 31, 1983, employ and cause
its CTD to employ textile and financial consultants whose quali-
fications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to the Bank, said financial consultants to be
employed by March 31, 1981.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Sumerbank undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the
Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, transpor-
tation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a cur-
rency freely usable by Sumerbank to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, Sumerbank
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively
for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) Sumerbank shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) Sumerbank: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it),
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii)
shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Bank at regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.


﻿- 3 -
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between Sumerbank
and the Bank, Sumerbank shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of
the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived
from it, the performance by Sumerbank and the Bank of their
respective obligations under the Project Agreement and the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Loan.
(d) Sumerbank shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of Sumerbank and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 2.06. Sumerbank shall duly perform all its obliga-
tions under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, Sumerbank shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provi-
sion thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) Sumerbank shall, at the request of the
Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of
the Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agree-
ment and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) Sumerbank shall promptly inform the Bank of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by Sumerbank of its obligations under this Agree-
ment and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of Sumerbank
Section 3.01. (a) Sumerbank shall at all times conduct its
operations and maintain its financial position and cause its
CTD to conduct its operations and maintain its financial position
in accordance with sound financial and industrial standards and
practices, with qualified management and assisted by qualified and
competent staff in adequate numbers.


﻿(b) Sumerbank shall maintain such personnel employment
policies as shall increase and promote its labor productivity.
(c) Sumerbank shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Bank for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
(d) Sumerbank shall operate and maintain and cause its
CTD to operate and maintain all plants, equipment and properties
included in the Project and from time to time make all necessary
renewal and replacements thereof in accordance with sound indust-
rial and financial pract4ces.
(e) Sumerbank shall maintain and operate and cause its CTD
to maintain and operate the facilities included in the Project in
accordance with occupational health, environmental and ecological
standards acceptable to the Bank.
Section 3.02. Sumerbank shall: (a) establish and maintain
within CTD until completion of the Project, a Project Implewenta-
tion Unit with qualified and experienced staff in sufficient
numbers whose terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Bank;
(b) until completion of the Project, employ on a contract
basis pursuant to the BuIget Law of the Borrower not less than
55 staff whose qualifications and experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, such number
of staff to be increased as may be required for carrying out
the Project;
(c) prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than Decem-
ber 31, 1980, detailed proposals satisfactory to the Bank for
functions, authorities and responsibilities of and within CTD,
for each plant for implementing the Project and for suitable
marketing arrangements for CTD, and promptly thereafter imple-
ment such proposals;
(d) cause CTD to prepar2 and furnish to the Bank not later
than April 30, 1981 a training and staffing plan satisfactory to
the Bank including staff required for .arrying out the Project and
staff employed on a contract basis pursuant to the Budget Law of
the Borrower and promptly thereafter implement such plan; and


﻿-5-
(e) prepare and furnish to the Bank by April 30, 1981
recommendations for improving the existing incentive scheme for
workers, exchange views on such recommendations with the Bank, and
thereafter take appropriate steps within its power, to implement
such recommendations.
Section 3.03. Suwarbank shall ensure that the management of
the plants included in CTD will prepare and furnish to the manage-
menc of CTD by November 30 of each year: (a) plans for the follow-
ing year with respect to production, profits, costs, investments,
exports, maintenance, technical assistance, staffing and training,
such plans to be reviewed, coordinated and revised and adjusted by
management of CTD on a quarterly basis in consultation with the
management of the plants included in CTD; and (b) five-year
rolling financial projections to be reviewed and revised annually
by management of CTD in consultation with the management of
the plants included in CTD.
Section 3.04. Sumerbank shall contract the suppliers credit
referred to in paragraph (E) of the Preamble to the Loan Agreement
not later than December 31, 1981 unless Sumerbank establishes to
the satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for the Project
are available to Sumerbank from other sources on terms and condi-
tions consistent with the obligations of the Sumerbank under this
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) Sumerbank shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition,
including separate consolidated records for CTD showing, inter
alia, actual retirement severance payments and those projected for
the following 5 years.
(b) Sumerbank shall cause the management of CTD to prepare
and maintain for CTD the records referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section and establish and maintain for CTD appropriate
systems for financial planning, budgeting and control.


﻿- 6 -
Section 4.02. Sumerbank shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) including those for CTD, for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Bank; (ii) furni3h to the Bank as soon as available,
in any case not later than six months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for
such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of
Sumerbank and CTD and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. Sumerbank shall: (a) by December 31, 1981,
raise the aggregate nominal capital of the Subsidiaries included
in CTD to not less than TL 5,000,000,000 in the aggregate in
proportions acceptable to the Bank; and
(b) not later than 1 month after receipt of the funds
referred to in Section 3.02 of the Loan Agreement contribute to
the paid-in capital of the Subsidiaries included in CTD cash
equity funds in corresponding amounts.
Section 4.04. As used in this Agreement with respect to
the financial obligations of Sumerbank and its CTD:
(a) "Current assets" means the sum of unrestricted cash
available for use in current operations, marketable securities
(excluding securities, whether marketable or not, acquired for
purposes of control, affiliation, or other continuing business
advantage), receivables collectible in the normal course of
business within one year, and inventories valued at the lower of
cost or market.
(b) "Current liabilities" means all obligations due on
demand or within one year or whose liquidation is reasonably


﻿- 7 -
expected to require the use of existing resources classified
as current assets. Obligations shall include but not be limited to
customers' advances, accrued taxes on, or measured by income,
other accrued taxes and current maturities of long-term debt.
(c) "Capital additions" means the aggregate of all the
expenditures or costs incurred for the acquisition and ownership
of land, buildings, machinery, equipment, furniture, fixtures and
all other tangible fixed assets and investments in, or loans to,
other entities.
(d) "Net revenues" means gross revenues from all sources
less operating and administrative expenses, including taxes,
surcharges and other levies, if any, but before provision for
depreciation and interest and other charges on debt.
(a) "Debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount
of amortization (principal payments and any mandatory sinking
fund payments) on long-term debt, interest and other charges on
other debt payable during the period con' erned.
(f) "Long-term debt" means any debt maturing more than
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred;
and
(i) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under
a loan contract or agreement (including the Loan
Agreement) on the date of such loan contract or
agreement; (B) under a guarantee agreement, on
the date the agreement providing for such guarantee
has been entered into but only, except in the case
of a guarantee of debt of a subsidiary, to the
extent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding;
and
(ii) whenever in connection with this Article it shall
be necessary to value in terms of the currency of
the Borrower debt payable in any other currency,
such valuation shall be made at the prevailing
lawful rate of exchange at which such other cur-
rency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable
by Sumerbank and its CTD for the purposes of
servicing such debt or in the absence uf such rate
of exchange, another rate acceptable to the Bank.


﻿-8-
(h) "Equity" means the aggregate of the unimpaired paid-up
capital, surplus if it is represented by a positive number and
free reserves of CTD.
Section 4.05. Sumerbank represents that at the date of this
Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security for any
debt except as otherwise currently reported to the Bank or stated
in writing.
Section 4.06. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
Sumerbank shall cause its CTD: (i) to conduct its operations and
affairs in such manner as shall be necessary to maintain, at all
times, its debt/equity ratio at such level that its aggregate debt
shall not be greater than 1.5 times its aggregate equity; and (ii)
if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond Sumerbank's control,
be exceeded, take all such reasonable action as shall be necessary
or advisable promptly to bring such ratio within such limit.
(b) Sumerbank and CTD shall not make any repayment in
advance of maturity in respect of any of their outstanding debt
which would materially and adversely affect their ability to meet
their financial obligations.
Section 4.07. Except a. the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a) Sumerbank and CTD shall not prepay any long-term debt or
make any financial commitments to or in respect of any subsidiary
if, after giving effect to such action, the aggregate current
assets of CTD would be less than 1.2 times the aggregate current
liabilities of CTD;
(b) Sumerbank and CTD shall take such action as shall be
necessary to maintain the aggregate current assets of CTD at a
level of at least 1.1 times its aggregate current liabilities
until December 31, 1980 and 1.2 times its aggregate current
liabilities thereafter;
(c) Until completion of the Project, Sumerbank and CTD shall
not make any transfer of profits from CTD unless the requirements
of the Project have been met and after such transfer the aggregate
current assets of CTD will be at least 1.5 times the aggregate
current liabilities of CTD; and
(d) CTD shall not incur any long-term debt in any year
unless a reasonable forecast of its revenues and expenditures
shows that its aggregate projected net revenues for each full


﻿-9-
fiscal year during the term of the long-term debt to be incurred
or for the following ten years whichever is shorter shall be at
least 1.5 times the aggregate projected debt service requirement
in such year on all long-term debt of CTD. For purposes of this
paragraph, "a reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by
Sumerbank in the fiscal year in which the debt in question is
proposed to be incurred and reviewed by the Bank which both
Summerbank and the Bank accept as reasonable and as to which the
Bank has notified Sumerbank of its acceptability, provided no
event has occurred since the Bank's acceptance of such forecast
which would have a material adverse effect on the financial
condition or future operating results of Sumerbank.
Section 4.08. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree,
Sumerbank and its CTD shall not, in any year prior to the comple-
tion of the Project, make expenditures or commitments for expendi-
tures for capital additions of CTD exceeding $3,000,000 equivalent
excepting expenditures required to carry out the Project.
Section 4.09. Sumerbank and CTD shall, from time to time,
review its prices for cotton textile products and adjust such
prices if necessary :o reasonably meet competitive price levels
for cotton textile products and to earn sufficient revenues to
cover the cost of the operations of CTD and provide a reasonable
return on their capital.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effec-
tive.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of Sumerbank thereunder shall terminate on the date on
which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms, and the Bank shall promptly so notify Sumerbank thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For Sumerbank:
Sumerbank Genel MUdUrlUgU
Ulus
Ankara, Turkey
Cable address:                      Telex:
SUMERBANK                        821-43231 ABCD TR
Ankara
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of Sumerbank, may be taken or executed by
the Director Generai of Sumerbank or such other person or persons
as the President shall designate in writing, and Sumerbank shall


﻿- 11 -
furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By//?        eC
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
SUMERBANK
Authorized Representative


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, Sumerbank shall prepare and forward to the
Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60 days
prior to the date of availability to the public of the first
tender or prequalification documents relating thereto, as the case
may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and detail and
containing such information as the Bank shall reasonably request;
the Bank will arrange for the publication of such notice in order
to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the
opportunity to bid for the goods and works in question. Sumerbank
shall provide the necessary information to update such notice
annually so long as any goods or works remain to be procured on
the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   To the extent possible, contracts for goods shall be grouped
into single bids of not less than $100,000 equivalent.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.


﻿- 13 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
the Republic of Turkey may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
the tkepublic of Turkey if the bidder shall have
established to the satisfaction of the Republic of
Turkey and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of
such goods includes a value added in the Republic
of Turkey equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid p ice of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bid3.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eval-
uated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would


﻿- 14 -
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent shall be procured through limited international
tendering on the basis of a list of goods satisfactory to the
Bank, provided, however, that (i) contracts shall not be awarded
unless the Bank has approved said list of goods, and (ii) con-
tracts of goods so procured shall not in the aggregate exceed
$4,000,000 of equivalent.
2.   Contracts for proprietary goods (equipment and spare parts)
for existing equipment may be procured on the basis of a list
of goods satisfactory to the Bank pursuant to such competitive
procedures as are appropriate under the circumstances provided,
however, that (i) contracts shall not be awarded unless the Bank
has approved said list of goods, (ii) contracts for goods so
procured shall not in the aggregate exceed $17,000,000 equivalent.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $350,000 or more:
(a)   afore bids are invited, Sumerbank shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the biddin-, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, Sumerbank
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform


﻿- 15 -
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform Sumerbank and state the reasons
for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, Sumerbank shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application fo.- withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of surh contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform Sumerbank and state the reasons
for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 5% of the original price, Sumerbank shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform Sumerbank and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this Jg    Lday of    4     , 198 0
FOR SECRETARY


