Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9880-MAL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT
NOVEMBER 21, 1991
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department V
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
-~~~~~ *                              *7 U



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
(as of July 1991)
Currency unit = Maldivian Rufiyaa (Rf)
US$1.Q00  Rf 10.06
Rf 1.00  -  US$0.099
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES - METRIC SYSTEM
1 millimeter (mm)   -  0.038 inches (in)
1 meter (m)         =  39.37 inches (in)
1 kilometer          -  0.62 miles (mi)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BITS        -   Swedish Agency for International Technical and
Economic Cooperation
DMP         -   Dekunge Mastgatange Project
EA          -   Environmental Assessment
EEZ         -   Exclusive Economic Zone
EPCS        -   Economic Planning and Coordination Section
ERU         -   Environmental Research Unit
FAO         -   United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization
FAO/CP      -   FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
FAO/TCP     -   FAO Technical Cooperation Project
FFE         -   fresh fish equivalent
FPID        -   Fisheries Projects Implementation Department
FRPI        -   Fisheries Research and Projects Implementation
Section
FTPP        -   Felivaru Tuna Processing Plant
GOM         -   Government of Maldives
GRT         -   Gross Registered Ton
LWST        -   Low Water Spring Tide
MDP         -   Manpower Development Plan
MFC         -   Maldives Fisheries Corporation
MOFA        -   Ministry of Fisheries and Agriculture
MTS         -   Ministry of Transport and Shipping
MPE         -   Ministry of Planning and Environment
MPW         -   Ministry of Public Works and Labor
MTI         -   Ministry of Trade and Industry
NAP         -   National Action Plan for Environmental Management
and Planning
NDF         -   Nordic Development Fund
NORAD       -   Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation
OPEC        -   Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PCC         -   Project Coordinating Committee
PIU         -   Project Implementation Unit
PPF         -   Project Preparation Facility
STO         -   State Trading Organization
UNDP        -   United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICL4U USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT
Credit and Prolect Summarv
Borrower:             Republic of Maldives
Beneficiaries:        About 2,000 relatively poor artisanal fishing households
in the south of the country and the Fisheries Projects
Implementation Department (FPID) of the State Trading
Organization (STO)
Amount:                SDR 7.6 million (US$10.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                Standard, with 40 years' maturity
Onlendina Terms:      Part of the proceeds of the Credit, equivalent to
US$2.6 million will be onlent by the Government of
Maldives (GOM) to STO/FPID, at an interest rate of
13 percent per annum, with a repayment period of 20
years, including 5 years of grace. GOM will bear the
foreign exchange risk.
Proiect Obiectives
and DescrArtion:    The six-year project will assist GOM to:  increase fish
production, government revenues, and foreign exchange
earnings, at a lower processing cost; increase incomes
of fishing households to alleviate relative poverty;
reduce migration to the capital, Male, through balanced
regional growth; and create the environment for
increased private sector participation in the fisheries
sector. The project is intended to reinforce the
existing system of artisanal fisheries and small-scale
fish collection. The project, which would serve the
southern atolls of Gaafu Alifu and Gaafu Dhaalu, would
include the following components: (a) construction of a
port at Kooddoo in Gaafu Alifu for fishing boats and
collector vessels, including a deep-water berth for
direct loading of frozen fish onto refrigerated (reefer)
vessels; (b) construction of a fish freezing/cold
storage complex on the same island, consisting of a
brine frezing and cold storage plant, support facilities
such as power and water desalination plants, workshops,
stores, offices and staff housing, and miscellaneous
operational equipment such as forklifts, cranes and fish
containers.; (c) strengthening of the atoll-wide fish
collection system, including the provision of a fleet of
seven collector vessels (three new and four retrofitted)
and local training for collector vessel captains and
engineers; and (d) provision of technical assistance
(TA) to: (i) the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) for
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance I
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
technical studies and preparation of detailed design of
some project facilities, procurement and supervision of
the construction work; (ii) STO/FPID for its own
restructuring; (iii) the Ministry of Fisheries and
Agriculture (MOFA) for strengthening fisheries research
and statistics, further improving the desi-n of existing
fishing vessels, creating a fisheries economics unit to
advise GOM on fish pricing and related policies and
provision of training to MOFA staff; (iv) the Ministry
of Planning and Environment (MPE) for monitoring key
environmental parameters during project implementation;
and (v) the Ministry of Trade and Industry for preparing
and implementing an Action Plan, emanating from the
recommendations of an ongoing GOM study, for encouraging
increased private sector participation in the fisheries
sector.
Benefits and Risks:   The project would maintain the current tuna catch in the
project area and ultimately increase it by about 26
percent to 16,300 tons (about 23 percent of 1990
national tuna catch). Tuna exports will be increased by
about 23 percent to 14,000 tons a year (about 25 percent
of 1990 total national tuna exports), at full
development, representing gross foreign exchange
earnings of about $12.0 million annually. The project
would provide direct employment to about 240 Maldivians
in processing and support services, maintain the annual
tuna income of about 2,000 relatively poor fishing
households and ultimately increase it by 32 percent,
whereas the annual tuna income will decline by
83 percent in the "without project" scenario. The
project will also increase government revenues. The ERR
of the project is estimated at 24 percent. The risks
appear modest. Fish resources are abundant, although
seasonal shortages could occur due to changes in oceanic
temperature distribution and weather patterns. Export
markets are well established and demand for frozen tuna
is expected to grow. Malidvian tuna is well considered
in the world market due to its relatively large size and
good quality, and would continue to be so, especially
because it is "dolphin friendly" in an increasingly
environmentally sensitive sector. Involvement of
several cofinanciers in project financing could lead to
some delays and coordination difficulties. However,
experience under the first two IDA projects has
demonstrated that such problems can be minimized by
proper planning aind advanced consultation during
preparation and appraisal, as has been done for this
project. The operation of a new fish processing complex
will present a challenge and will require strong
management. Continued incentives to fishermen to svpply
adequate throughput could also affect performance of the
fish processing complex. TA and production enhancement
strategies within the project would address these risks.



- qii -
Proiect Cost:                                     Local     Foreign      Total
-(US$ '000) ------
Kooddoo Port and Freezing/Cold Storage Complex
Port Works                                         0       5,541       5,541
Freezing/Cold Storage Plant                      204       7,737       7,941
Office, Housing, Workshop                         66       1,258       1,324
Supply of Miscellaneous Equipment                  0       3,571       3,571
Vessels                                            0       3,445       3,445
Navigational Aide                                 22          112        135
TA/Training for Vessels                            0         138         138
Design/supervison for the Port and Plant           0       2,468       2,468
Subtotal                                        293      24.270      24.563
Technical Assistance
Support to FPID                                    0         660         660
Support for Restructuring FPID                     0         388         388
Support for MOFA                                 113         971       1,084
Support to Environmental
Research Unit                                   52         173         225
Private Sector Encouragement                       0         200         200
Subtotal                                        165       2.391       2.556
Base Cost                                          458      26.661      27.119
Physical Contingencies                            16       1,134       1,149
Price Contingencies                               82       2,194       2,276
Total Proiect Cost /a                           556      29.988      30.544
Financing Plan:                                   Local     Foreign      Total
------ (US$ million) --
Government                                       0.2        2.9         3.1
IDA                                              0.0       10.0        10.0
Norway                                           0.1        6.4         6.5/b
Sweden                                           0.1        2.3         2.4
Nordic Development Fund                          0.1        5.5         5.6
OPEC Fund                                        0.0        2.6         2.6
UNDP                                             0.0        0.3         0.3
Total                                           0.5       30.0        30.5
Note: Totals may not add up due to rounding.
/a Project items are exempt from duties and taxes.
/b Norway will provide an additional US$0.2 million equivalent to cover
guarantee fees for the Norwegian credit.



-2.v-
!         Estimated-IDA Pisbursements:
*             IDA F4.scal Year          1992/a   1993      1994      1995     1996      1997
-                   (US$  000) -------------------
Annual                     825    1,639    2,756    2,437    1,728         616
Cumulative                 825    2,464    5,219    7,656    9,384   10,000
!          /a  Disbursement in FY52 relates to PPF.
Economic Rate of Return: 242
IBRD 23246



- v -
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    BACKGROUND    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  1
A. Sectoral Performance .................. .                   1
B. Resource Base  . . . ... . . . . . .     * .    .  . ...    . .  1
C. Fishing Operations and Processing  . . . . . . . . . . .   3
D. Fish Marketing . . . . . .  . . . . . .  .  .   ......     . .  5
E. Sectoral Institutions  . ...............  .                6
Key Sector Constraints .       .  .  .  .  .   .  . . . . .  8
II. BANK EXPERIENCE AND RATIONALE FOR IDA INVOLVEMENT . . . . .    11
A. Bank Experience  . . .. . . .  . . . . . . . . . *.        11
B. Strategy and Rationale for Future IDA Involvement  . . .    14
III.    THE  PROJECT   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  15
A. Project Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    15
B. Brief Project Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    15
C. Project Area . .....  . . . . . . .  . . * .  . . . .    16
D. Detailed Project Description . . . . . . .      . . . . .    17
E. Environmental Aspezts  . . .  .      .  .  .  .  .  ...   23
F. Role of Women  . . . . .  . . ....     .... . . . .   e *    24
IV.  PROJECT COST AND FINANCING  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    24
A. Project Cost  .    .  .  .  .  .   ..   . . . . . . . . . . .    24
B. Financing  Plan  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  26
C. Onlending Terms  . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .    28
D. Procurement  .#. .#.  .                              o. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..  28
Eo Disbursements    .  .  . . o.  .  .  . . .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  .   .  .  .  30
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission comprising
Messrs. Ohene Owusu Nyanin (Task Manager), Anthony Byrne (Financial Analyst),
Akihiko Nishio (Economist), and Gert van Santen (Fisheries Specialist), which
visited Maldives during April 22 - May 10, 1991. The peer review group
included Messrs. E. Loayza (AGRPS), E. Chobanian (ASTAG), A. Byrne (ASTAG),
K. Chung (ASTIN) and Ms. S. Braatz (ASTEN). Mrs. Marianne Haug, Director, AS5
and Mr. Antony P. Cole, Chief, ASSAG have endorsed the report.



- vi -
Page No.
V. ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION . . . . . . . .    31
A. Project Implementation       . . . . . . . . ..            31
B. Project Coordination . .      ..... ........  . .34
C. Human Resource and Manpower Development  ... .   ....    35
D. Project Implementation Plans and Status  . . . . . . . .    36
E. Monitoring and Evaluation .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    36
F. Accounts and Audits  . .  . .. . .     o .   ...          37
VI. PRODUCTION. MARKETS AND PRICES  .                             37
A. Production . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..    .37
B.  Markets  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  38
C. Projected Market Demand  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    38
D.  Prices   .   ..    .    ..   ..    .    ..  0.    .    ..   ..      39
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    40
A. Project Beneficiaries and Benefits . . . . . . . . . . .    40
B. Financial and Economic Analysis  . . . . . . . . . . . .    42
VIII  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION . . . . . . . . . . .    45
ANNEXES
Annex 1    Fisheries Sector Project Performance Audit Reports  . .    47
Annex 2.1  Summary Accounts by Year  . .  . . ..  . . . . . ...      48
Annex 2.2  Project Components by Year  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    51
Annex 2.3  Summary Account by Project Component  . . . . . . . . .    54
Annex 3.1  Financing Plan by Project Component . . . . . . . . . .    56
Ahnnex 3.2  Financing Plan by Foreign Exchange/Local/Taxes  . . . .    57
Annex 3.3  Cost Recovery from STO/FPID  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    58
Annex 3.4  Disbursement Category Limits  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    59
Annex 3.5  Disbursement Schedule by Semester . . . . . . . . . . .    60
Annex 4.1  National Fish Catch and FPID Tuna Collection
by Atoll, 1990  . .    .  . .    0 .. .    .    .       61
Annex 4.2  Fish Catch by Type of Vessel, 1990  . . . . . . . . . .    62
Annex 4.3  Fish Poduction and Exports, 1990  . . . . . . . . . .   .    63
Annex 4.4  Export of Marine Products, 1990 . . . . . . . . . . . .    64
Annex 4.5  Marine Products Exports by the Private and Government
Sector by Country of Destination, 1990  . . . . . . .    65
Annex 4.6  Official Pri^es for Fresh Tuna Purchased by STO)  . . .    66
Annex 4.7  Average Price of Fuel for Fisherman relative to
Tuna  Prices   .  .  .  .  *  *  *  .  .  .  .  .  .  *  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  67
Annex 5.1  Technical Assistance Schedule . . . . . . . . . . . . .    68
Annex 5.2  Terms of Reference (Detailed Design of
Kooddoo Port and Fish Freezing Complex) . . . . . . .    69
Annex 5.3  Terms of reference (Survey and Design of
Fish Collector Vessels) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    78



- vii -
Page No.
Annex 5.4   Terms of Reference (FPID Restructuring
Management Consultancy) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    84
Annex 6.1   Assumptions for Financial and Economic Analysis . . . .    88
Annex 6.2   Useful Life, Depreciation Costs and Replacement
Schedule of Plant ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .. ...  .  91
Annex '.1   Boat Model (Financial Prices) . . . . . . . . . . . . .    95
Annex 7.2  Annual Operating Costs of Fleet (Financial Prices)  . .    96
Annex 7.3  Annual Operating Costs of Freezing/Cold Storage Plant
(Financial Prices)    .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   97
Annex 7.4   Projected Profit and Loss Account . . . . . . . . . . .    98
Annex 7.5   Projected Balance Sheet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    99
Annex 7.6   Projected Cash Flow ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .. ... .   .    100
Annex 7.7   Financial Rate of Return  . .        . . . . . . . . . . . . .   101
Annex 7.8  GOM's Incremental Cash Flow from the Project     . . .       102
Annex 8.1   Projected Economic Price of Marine Diesel Oil   . . .       103
Annex 8.2   Boat Model (Economic Prices) .  . . . . . . . . .. .        104
Annex 8.3  Annual Operating Costs of Fleet (Economic Prices) . . .    105
Annex 8.4  Annual Operating Costs of Freezing/Cold Storage Plant
(Economic Prices) . . . . . .    .    . . . . . . . . . . .   106
Annex 8.5   Incremental Operating Costs and Benefits of the Project
at Economic Prices  . . .    *. ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    107
Annex 8.6   Economic Rate of Return .. .                                Los
Annex 9     Selected Documents Available in the Project File  . . .    109
CHARTS
1    Organization Chart (State Trading Organizatinn) . . . . . .    110
2.1   Organization Chart (Fisheries Projects Implementation
Department) .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      1
2.2   Major Functional Activities (Fisheries Projects
Implementatior, De'3artment)  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    112
3     Organization Chart (Ministry of Fisheries and Agriculture)      113
4.1   Project Facilities Engineering Drawings (Proposed Future
Layout) . .                                     . . . . .    114
4.2   Project Pacilities Engineering Drawings (Harbor Facili-.:ies
and Elevated Accessway)  .    .  .  .  ..  . . .  . . . . .    115
4.3   Project Facilities Engineering Drawings (Typical Cross
Section and Constructional Details) .       .  .  .  .        116
4.4   Project Facilities Engiaeering Drawings (Preezing and
Cold Storage Facility)     .. . ..... .              .. .     117
4.5   Project Facilities Engineering Drawings (Water ar.d Fuel
Storage and Distribution Systems) . . . . . . . . . . .       118
4.6   Project Facilities Engineering Drawings (Sewerage and
Services Layout)  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   .    119
5     Implementation Schedule . . .l ........    .  .  .  .   * * .  .   .    120
MAP     IBRD  23246    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  123



- 1 -
I. BACKGROUND
A. Sectoral Performance
1.1       During the past two decades, the Republic of Maldives has astutely
and successfully developed the assets of its marine environment. Blessed with
abundant fish resources, the fishing industry has been transformed from a
predominantly cottage industry to a modern industry able to compete
effectively in world markets through mechanization of traditional fishing
boats and provision of fish processing infrastructure. Fish production
increased from around 30,000 tons p.a. in the late 1970s to more than 76,000
tons in 1990.1/ Of the 1990 total fish landings, consisting mainly of tuna
(92 percent), about 59,000 tons (77 percent) of fresh fish equivalent (FFE)
was exported in frozen, canned or dried form (Annex 4.3), accounting for about
80 percent of Maldivian merchandise sold abroad. Tuna production in Maldives
is not environmentally destructive, since the artisanal pole-and-line method
of fishing is highly selective and "dolphin friendly".
1.2       Fishing is the most important primary activity in the economy,
accounting for over 5S percent of the value added of primary sector and more
than 15 percent of GDP. Its actual share of GDP may be higher because of
unreported catches and processing activities related to dried fish.
Furthermore, k'sh processing, transport, and distribution a:count for a
significant proportion of the manufacturing and trading activities in the
country. Fisheries is also the most imporatnat single activity for the
Maldivian labor force; in 1990 fishing provided direct employment for
20 percent of the country's labor force, down from almost 25 percent in 1985.
On many islands, notably in the extreme north and south of the country,
fishing is the main and sometimes the only economic activity. Thus
maintenance of an economically healthy fishing sector is one of the crucial
conditions for slowing the migration of young people to the severely congested
capital island, Male, where about 26 percent of the population live. Apart
from fishing being a major source of employment, income, and foreign exchange
earnings, fish itself is the main source of protein in the Maldivian diet.
Maldivians consume an annual average of about 90 kg (FFE) per capita, one of
the highest consumption levels in the world.
B. Resource Base
Tuna Resources and Production
1.3       Maldives' tuna fishing is unique in the region; it is totally
artisanal, continuing a tradition first documented 600 years ago. By
contrast, most tuna fishing by other Indian Ocean countries is predominantly
industrial and has only been developed over the past 25 years.
1/   The quality of fisheries statistics in Maldives, particularly with
regard to fish catches or landings, needs to be improved as there are
presently inconsistencies in the data.



1.4       The reefs and islands of Maldives act as shelters for many types of
fish, which attract oceanic tuna. The two dominant tuna species in Maldive
waters, skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis) and yellowfin tuna (Thunnus albacores),
are part of stocks throughout the Indian Ocean, and they extend well beyond
Maldives' present fishing zones. Skipjack, which currently constitutes almost
80 percent of total Maldivian fish catches, may originate from three stocks:
one is shared with South India and Sri Lanka; a second is oceanic and extends
south, west, ard east; and a resident stock exists around Maldives. The
limited assessments of Indian Ocean tuna stocks and the analysis of catch
records indicate that skipjack resources may yield well over 350,000 tons on a
sustainable basis, while current catches are about 200,000 tons. However,
this estimate is considered conservative in the light of consistently
increasing catches observed throughout the Indian Ocean. A recent
international scientific meeting in Maldives concluded that skipjack resources
are only moderately exploited in the Indian Ocean and that stocks are healthy.
This is based on the increasing catch-per-unit-effort of industrial and
artisanal fisheries in the region. Nevertheless, the rapidly expanding
exploitation of the tuna resources in the Indian Ocean necessitates collecting
the data now to determine future management of the resource. Yellowfin tuna
resources appear more heavily exploited but are of limited interest to
Maldives since yellowfin constitutes only about 7 percent of the total catch.
1.5       Tuna Production.  The artisanal pole-and-line fishery of Maldives
exploits only the coastal zone and only occasionally extends beyond 15 miles.
So far Maldives has not licensed any industrial fishing activity within its
200-mile Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ). Records for the past 10 years show a
substantial increase in tuna landings (Table 1.1). The growth of catches may
reflect some changes in the availability of fish stocks, due to temperature
changes, but are mainly due to the increased effectiveness of the fishing
vessels used in Maldives. Catches per vessel per year have increased alrost
six-fold over the past 10 years.
Table 1.1: FISH LANDINGS IN MALLIVES (1981-90)
(thousand tons)
1981 1982 1983 1984 1985 1986 1'987 1988 1989 1990
Total Landings   34.9  30.3  38.5  55.0  61.9  59.3  56.9  71.8  71.3  76.4
Tuna Landings    28.7  23.8  31.5  44.1  53.7  53.7  51.9  68.0  67.8  70.4
Source: MOFA.
1.6       Scope exists for further expansion of tuna fisheries in the Indian
Ocean. The availability of tuna for the various fishing methods is likely to
be more dependent on factors such as water temperature distribution and
weather patterns rather than on actual stock size. However, the present
catches of skipjack amount to about 60 percent of the estimates of sustainable
yields (of which Maldives catches le8s than a third), which means there is



also a need to strengthen the knowledge about the resources.  Th±s would
enSure a more detailed stock assessment once total catches approach
sustainable yield levels. Because of (i) the preliminary nature of the
estimates of tuna stocks in the Indian Ocean and the Maldivian EEZ, (ii) the
long lead time necessary to collect relevant data, and (iii) the importance to
the Maldivian economy of sustainable exploitation of tuna resources, it is
prudent that Maldives continues to expand current efforts, at both national
and international levels, to increase the knowledge of tuna resources.
1.7       Fishing Seasons.  Seasonal factors--wind, sea currents, overall
weather patterns--in the proposed project area around the Gaafu atoll reflect
the occurrence of the Northeast and Southwest monsoons, which take place from
December to March and from May to July, respectively. Tuna aggregate
generally at the windward side of the atolls, or near upwellings of colder
water; excellent catches can be expected on the northeast side of the atolls
from December to April, when winds are moderate. Catches on the southwest
side are moderate much of the rest of the year. However, fishing is hampered
by strong winds from April to July.
Bait Fish Resources and Production
1.8       Pol. %nd-line fishing depends on bait fish (see para. 1.10).
Studies have revealed seasonality in the abundance of the various species used
for bait, with some available throughout the year and others only during
certain periods. Up to 1 kg of bait is required for 10 kg of tuna caught, and
the present bait production is, therefore, estimated to be about 7,000 tons.
With the mechanization and efficiency improvement of fishing vessels,
particularly concerning the use and storage of bait, indiscriminate capture of
bait has substantially declined. Currently, mechanized fishing vessels use
bait sparingly and highly efficiently, compared to the former sailing vessels.
Fishermen do not consider the bait resour, e a constraint for expanding their
fishing effort.
C. Fishing Operations and Processing
Fishing Operations
1.9       Traditional all-purpose boats used by fishermen in Maldives, or
dhonis, are among the most cost-effective tuna fishing vessels in the world.
The registered fishing fleet consists of two types: about 3,700 small craft,
mostly used for reef fishing inside atolls and for transport, ard about 3,000
mas dhonis up to 15 meters in length, mostly motorized (more than 1,650) and
engaged in pole-and-line fishing for tuna and occasional reef fishing. Under
the First Fisheries Project (Credit 302-MAL) finar-ed by IDA and UNDP, an
improved version of the vessel was designed (1983). About 200 of these highly
successful vessels are currently operating. The catch from the motorized
dhonis reportedly accounts for about 97 percent of the country's total fish
landings; the rest comes from small craft (Annex 4.2).
1.10      Pole-and-line tuna fishing involves two separate operations:
fishing for bait and for tuna. Bait fish are caught in lagoons early in the
morning with small mesh netting; afterwards the boats go prospecting for tune.
outside the atolls. Tuna schools are often found in the channels separating



- 4 -
the atolls or on the windward side of the atolls, often le6s than 3 km
offshore.  On sighting the school, the fishermen throw live bait and water
around the boat to attract the fish. From the stern9 the fishermen, using
barbless hooks, capture the fish.
3.13.     Fishing in Maldives is traditionally limited to one-day trips.
C&cttch raites per boat trip vat:y from area to area and depend not only on
weather and fish resources buc aiso on the fishermen's ability to sell the
fish. In the area around Male the large urban population (estimated at about
55,000 people) provides a ready market for tuna. At Felivaru, in Laviyani
atoll, the canning complex buys most of the tuna delivered by fishermen.  In
i         these areas, as well as in other areas ir. the south of the country where
regular collection of tuna takes place, fishermen normally make almost 220
fishing trips per year and catch on average 700-800 kg/trip.  In contrast, in
areas where limited facilities exist to dispose of fresh tuna and where most
of the catch is for local consumption and traditional processing, fishermen
usually make fewer than 100-120 trips per year and may catch 350-500 kg of
tuna and other fish per trip. Catches could be easily increased in some of
these areas if facilities for collection and processing of fresh tuna were
improved and fuel was readily available. In arear, where "mother vessels"
operate, production is often constrained by the limited operational freezing
and cold storage capacities of these vessels and the lack of adequate fish
collection capacity from nearby fishing grounds.
1.12      Fish Collection System.  Dhonis deliver fish directly to the mother
vessels or deliver fish to collector vessels that temporarily store the catch
for eventual delivery to the mother vessels or to the cannery. Twenty-three
collector vessels exist, but several are in a very bad state of repair. In
general, they are too small for efficient operation and have inappropriate
technical specifications. Collection cosir.- for most of the old collector
vessels are around US$125/ton as compared to US$60/ton for recently
introduced, larger collection vessels operating for the cannery.
Fish Use and Processing
1.13      Traditionally Processed Products. Although tuna is a major item in
the Maleivian diet, tuna landings far exceed domestic consumption. Excess
production has been exported in frozen, canned, or traditionally processed
forms. This last oompris@6s "Maldive Fish", dried salted skipjack, and dried
salted reef fish. Until the early 1970s, exports were predominantly of
Maldive Fish, a parboiied, smoked and dried (skipjack) product, a women's
cottage industry (see par&. 3,28)c Maldive Fish is exclusively exported to
Sri Lanka, but because the Sri Lankan market for Maldive Fish declined in the
1970s9 due to import restrictions, and because Maldive Fish processing
requires increasingly scarce fuelwood, pr'duction declined. With the lifting
of import restrictions in Sri Lankag e:xpoL 8s of Maldive Fish to Sri Lanka have
been increasing steadily (para. 6e7). Dried salted skipjack and dried reef
fish are also processed locally for export to Sri Lanka. Maldive Fish and
other traditional products are an important source of income and a social
"safety net" ror many local fishermen who have no access to regular collection
of fresh tuna.



5 -
1.14      Freezing and CannQi rat1on.  The State Trading Organization
(STO), through its Fisheries Projects Implementacion Department (FPID),
operates 10 mother vessels that can receive and freeze fish, and a land-based
cannery at Felivaru (para. 1.19). The motlier vessels9 which have a total
freezing capacity of about 300 tons per day and cold storage capacity of about
5,000 tons, mostly operate in the extreme southern and northern atolls. The
frozen fish are transferred at sea to refrigerated (reefer) veetl^  for
shipment. The Felivaru cannery has the capacity to can up to 50 tolne por nay,
and in addition has a 40 tons/day installed freezing capacity and a 750-ton
cold storage, which is predominantly used to freeze and hold fish in excess of
daily canning needs.  Three motheo  veessels, each with substantial freezing and
holding capacity, are more than 20 years old, and their operation, repair, and
maintenance costs are relatively high, at about US$225-275/ton.  Four mother
vessels are converted fishing vessels between 10 and 20 years old.  Their
freezing equipment is not adequate to freeze and store tuna that will be used
for canning, and thus, with limited freezing capacity9 their operAt±ilg costs
are very high at US$300-350/ton. Only three mother vessels, specifically
designed to operate in Maldives and each about six years old, are in
reasonable condition, although their freezing capacity is also less than what
is needed. In contrast, freezing costs are around US$120-140/ton at the land-
based Felivaru freezing plant.
D. Fish Marketing
Local
1.15      In 1990, about 23 percent of total fish production went for
domestic consumption, including an estimated 1,500 tons of reef fish for
resort hotels. There is no conventional retail trade for fresh fish, as
fishermen usually retain part of their catch for their families, except in
Male where fish is commercially traded. Prices for locally-consumed fish are
not controlled and are extremely variable, as supplies fluctuate from day to
day and there are no facilities to preserve or store fish.
ExpoRrts
1.16      For 20 years, diversification of markets and tuna products has been
a central theme of the country's fishery policy, in part because of the
historical expirience of being dependent exclusively on a single product
(Maldive Fish) and a single market (Sri Lanka) for Maldives' entire export.
At present Maldives still exports a substantial amount of traditional products
to Sri Lanka, but it also exports frozen and canned tuna to other markets,
notably Thailand, Japan and the United kingdom (Annex 4.5). This arrangement
reduces the country's dependence on a single product and market, but the
prospects for further diversification or product substitution appear limited
in the shlort term. In 1990, around 17,000 tons of tuna or about 22 percent of
Maldives' total fish production was frozen whole for export, valued at about
US$13.2 million; 20,800 tons (FFE) or about 27 percent was exported in canned
form or as fishmeal, valued at US$13.3 million; and 20,700 tone (FFE) or
27 pereent of the total catch was exported as traditional product, valued at
about U;, .7  il.l{On (Annenxc  4.3 and 4.4).  1'1ith world tuna markets
inereasingly cCtlcoived  wbiut oatu caught in *nvironwentally destructive ways,



- 6 -
including purse-seining and drift-netting, Maldives' tuna, being "dolphin
friendly", is particularly well placed for exports.
E. Sectoral Institutions
1.17      Ministry of Fisheries and Agriculture.  The Ministry of Fisheries
and Agriculture (MOFA) has overall responsibility for making policy in the
fisheries sector. Its activities also include collection of statistics,
execution and coordination of research programs, administration of some of the
credit provided to fishermen, and issuing of fishing licenses. In its
activities, especially with regard to policy and major sector investments,
MOFA works closely with STO, the Maldives Monetary Authority, and the Ministry
of Planning and Environment (MPE). MOFA's statistics program has
deteriorated, due to problems with collecting data from individual boats and
from islands and on traditional products; its capacity to undertake data
analyses to underpin its policy work needs strengthening. To address these
problems, MOFA is expanding its statistical unit into an Economic Planning and
Coordination Section (EPCS). Through the Fisheries Research and Projects
Implementation Section (FRPI), MOFA is involved in international efforts to
assess tuna resources in the India:i Ocean and monitor fish resources in
Maldives. However, it has limited technical staff and financial resources.
Other ministries playing important roles in the fisheries sector are the
Ministry of Trade and Industry (MTI), which deals with the licensing of
various fish collection and processing activities; the Ministry of Defense and
National Security, which is responsible for the surveillance of the fishing
zones; and the Ministry of Transport and Shipping (MTS), which operates and
maintains navigational lights and markers. An organizational chart of MOFA is
presented in Chart 3.
1.18      The State Trading Organization.  STO occupies a critical place in
Maldivian trade, commerce, and industry. It is the dominant factor in
Maldives' fishery sector. Although STO is a unit of MTI, it has considerable
autonomy. It is managed by an appointed board of directors with the Minister
of Trade and Industries as chairman and chief executive. It is the principal
trading arm of the Government of Maldives (GOM), responsible for procurement
for all ministries and parastatals and for a range of basic commodities. In
addition, STO is the largest buyer, processor, and exporter of fish in the
country; it owns all mother vessels and the cannery complex at Felivaru; until
recently it had a monopoly in the collection and export of Maldive Fish. It
also operates a boat building yard and is engaged in construction, insurance
and, through shareholdings in joint venture companies, the manufacture and
export of garments (Chart 1).   It has been the implementing agency for IDA's
Second Fisheries Development Ptoject (Credit 1320-MAL).
1.19      Fisheries Prolects Implementation Department.  STO's fisheries
operations are carried out through FPID, which accounted for over 30 percent
of STO's total turnover in 1989 and which comprises:
*    Dekunge Mastgatange Project (DMP), which handles the general
collection of tuna and its freezing on mother vessels (para. 1.14);
*    Felivaru Tuna Processing Plant (FTPP), which runs the canning
operations (para. 1.14); and



a    General Section, which deals with the purchasing of dried and
Maldive Fish, through two buying stations, other marine products
such as shark liver oil, and the export of the fish products
produced by DMP and FTPP.
Details of the FPID organizational and management structure are presented in
Charts 2.1 and 2.2, respectively. FPID employs expatriate advisors and
managers in a number of key positions and uses labor from neighboring
countries for jobs for which there is no Maldivian interest.
1.20      STO/FPID Financial Performance.  The overall financial performance
of STO has been satisfactory. Consolidated net operating profits increased
from Rf 55 million in 1986 to an unaudited Rf 66 million in 1989, of which
Rf 56 million were from general trading operations on a sales turnover of
Rf 469 million. In terms of US dollars, however, profits fell slightly over
the period 1986-89. STO's gross profits, as a proportion of sales, fluctuated
between 18-25 percent during 1986-89 while net profits slowly deteriorated
from 17.3 percent in 1986 to 8.3 percent in 1989. Until 1987, the return on
STO capital as a whole was over 35 percent. Since 1988, however, the return
has dropped, due to the increase in contributed capital in 1989 after the
upgrading of the Felivaru cannery, and because this facility, which started
operations in 1987, has yet to show a profit. In 1986, FPID had a turnover of
Rf 108.0 million and net operating income (before transfers to GOM) of Rf 4.0
million on capital employed, of Rf 12.0 million--a return of 33 percent on
invested capital. By 1989, based on unaudited results, FPID's sales had grown
to approximately Rf 357.0 million and the net operating profit to an estimated
Rf 20.0 million on capital employed of Rf 30.0 million, representing very
substantial growth and a return of around 66 percent on invested capital,
despite its modest staff resources and aged facilities. Forecasts of FPID's
net operating income for 1990-92 indicate a steady growth in net operating
income and a continuing satisfactory return on capital employed, which should
permit transfers of net income to GOM in excess of Rf 10.0 million per annum
during this period and beyond. The increase in FPID's size and complexity,
although it has yielded satisfactory financial results, has made management
and control more difficult. There is, therefore, a need for performance
improvement, especially in key elements of operational and financial
management, to ensure effective and efficient management in the medium to long
term. Separation of FPID's fisheries activities from other STO operations
would enhance the transparency of FPID's financial structure, to avoid cross-
subsidization of operations and make each operation financially and
managerially independent.
1.21      STO/FPID Restructuring.  IDA staff prepared a Fisheries Sector
Strategy Note, which was discussed with GOM prior to appraisal of the project.
It contained recommendations on, inter alia, restructuring STO/FPID to address
the above issues. Following these recommendations, GOM has decided to take
the first step in restructuring STO/FPID and to make FPID a more independent
operating unit, by separating its financial and accounting functions from STO
as of October 1, 1991 by a Presidential Decree. As part of this move, GOM has
appointed the director of the Second Fisheries Project to head the autonomous
FPID as its director. FPID will become accountable for all financial
transactions affecting its business activities, including those involving
foreign exchange (export proceeds and foreign payments), bank accounts and



financial reporting, which are at present subject to substantial delays due to
the accounting arrangements with STO. It was recommended further that STO
consider the eventual establishment of FPID as a separate legal entity under
the Limited Liabilities Companies Decree (1988), with its own board of
directors, which would include representatives of relevant ministries and
authorities, particularly MOFA. Such a company, which would facilitate future
private sector participation, would take over all of STO's current fisheries
activities. The final legal and detailed organizational structure of FPID
would, however, be decided upon by GOM following the recommendations of
technical assistance within the proposed project (para. 3.16).   The final GOM
decision is expected by July 31, 1992. It is STO's intention that the
present, experienced staff responsible for the management of its fisheries
activities would remain with the restructured FPID (para. 5.10).
1.22      Ministry of Planning and Environment.  In recognition of the
increasing importance of managing resources in a sustainable manner, the
Ministry of Planning and Development was recently redesignated as the Ministry
of Planning and Environment (MPE). This Ministry is responsible not only for
planning economic development but for environmental monitoring and management.
Under the Minister are sections for Administration, Statistics, Projects and
Planning, and Environmen_al Affairs. Under the Director of Environmental
Affairs there currently exists an Environmental Research Unit (ERU) and a
Media and Public Awareness Unit.  Professional personnel and equipment
resources available to Environmental Affairs are meager, and the equipment
required to collect and manage environmental resource data are lacking. The
Ministry has plans to send five staff members overseas for graduate level
training, provided through a bilateral agreement with the United Ringdom.
Other national agencies that support MPE in collecting environmental data
include MOFA and its FRPI and STO.
F. Key Sector Constraints
1.23      As indicated, the main constraint to increased fish production and
export is inadequate collection and processing capacity (paras. 1.12 and
1.14). While tuna stocks in the Maldivian inshore waters are not under any
undue pressure (para. 1.4), it is p-udent for GOM to continue to increase
knowledge of the stocks. In addition to the need to restructure STO/FPID
(paras. 1.20 and 1.21): (i) further participation of the private sector in
the processing and marketing of fish would be opportune (paras. 1.24 through
1.27); and (ii) improvements in fish pricing/tariff policy are required (para.
1.28).
The Role of the Public and Private Sectors in Fisheries
1.24      Fishing, traditional processing, and the bulk (over 80 percent) of
the export of traditionally-processed products are handled by the private
sector. It accounted for about a quarter of the 1990 fisheries exports by
value (Annex 4.5). Nevertheless, the influence of the public sector in the
fisheries sector is substantials STO/FPID plays a dominant role in th-
collection, processing, and exporting of non-traditional tuna product and
GOM regulates producer prices for fresh tuna for export and, until r itly,
for traditional tuna products.



- 9 -
1.25      There are two good reasons why the public sector should continue to
play a key role in the fisheries sector in Maldives:
(a)  Monopsony.  Economies of scale and spatial distribution create
natural spatial monopsonies in the collection and processing of
fish, necessitating government regulation. Current fishing
techniques make it virtually impossible for fishermen to sell fresh
tuna beyond the atoll where it is caught. Encouraging competition
in establishing collection and storage facilities on each atoll
would be wasteful, as it would require large investments in
additional plants, while raw material would be insufficient to
satisfy minimum throughnut requirements. With a single party
collecting tuna, and with fishermen unable to process and sell all
tuna in a traditional way because of limited markets, GOM needs to
administer certain price guidelines. Some guidance is also
required to ensure that the interests of the country (in terms of
volume of fish exported and income generated) are satisfied, by
ensuring that fish is collected from all areas where this can be
profitably done, since monopsonists tend to concentrate on the most
profitable collection areas.
(b)  Legal, Fiscal and Regulatorv Framework.  To facilitate viable and
sustainable private sector participation in tuna processing and
collection, while maintaining the sector's contribution to GOM's
budget, the legal, fiscal and regulatory framework needs
substantial strengthening and transparency. Such an enabling
environment does not exist currently and cannot be formulated
immediately, while there is a pressing need to invest in
collection, freezing and storage of tuna.
1.26      Past attempts at expanding the role of the private sector have not
always been successful. In the early 1970s, as the demand for Maldive Fish
declined, GOM attempted to diversify and maintain exports by contracting with
three foreign companies for the collection and export of frozen tuna. It also
attempted to develop a local privately-owned and controlled frozen fish export
industry. One by one these enterprises ceased operations, leaving the current
situation where STO/FPID is the sole collector and exporter of frozen and
canned tuna.
1.27      However, there is renewed interest by GOM, especially in the last
year, in encouraging the private sector to play a larger role in fisheries,
particularly since the investment needs of the sector are straining the public
sector's borrowing, management and absorptive capacities. GOM would like to
focus the public sector's involvement on the provision of intrastructure and
regulatory and support services, while encouraging the private sector to
assume a larger role in the collection, processing and marketing of fish. In
this regard, GOM recently deregulated the export of traditionally processed
products to allow private sector participation and has invited proposals from
private entrepreneurs interested in the collection and freezing of fish for
export.



- 10 -
The Agenda for the Future
1.28      There are two major requirements to encourage the effective
participation of the private sector:
(a)  Legal. Fiscal and Regulatory Framework.  As noted above, a strong
and transparent legal, fiscal and regulatory framework will be
required to facilitate private sector participation. Without such
framework, it is doubtful that new private participation, either
through direct investment or through participation in existing
operations, can be secured.
(b)  Pricing/Tariff System.  A government-regulated pricing system is
required to deal with monopsonistic situations and to allocate the
rent of tuna fishing. The present ad hoc system needs to be
replaced by one that fulfills several requirements:
*    producer prices for fresh tuna destined for freezing or
canning and export should be adjusted at reasonably frequent
intervals;
*    such producer prices should reflect medium/long-term
developments in world market prices for these products;
*    government revenues derived from the fishing sector should not
be adversely affected, while such revenues should be
increasingly derived from corporate taxes and/or other
efficient taxes or tariffs on frozen or canned products as
well as traditionally processed products; and
*    in the longer term, with increased private sector
participation, the pricing system could provide for more
competition among private investors through, for example,
setting of floor prices for purchases of tuna.
1.29      To assess the future development alternatives for the sector, and
particularly to review the future role of the public sector in generating more
effective development, GOM has initiated a sector study, financed by the Asian
Development Bank, that is scheduled to be completed by the end of 1991. The
proposed project would take the process one step further, by assisting GOM to
put in place the required legal, fiscal, regulatory and pricing policy
framework, (see paras. 3.17 and 5.7). It will also provide technical
assistance for strengthening pricing policy (paras. 3.20 and 5.6). IDA staff
have had, and will continue to have, consultation with IFC on the former TA
and on the FPID restructuring (para. 1.21).



- 11 -
II. BANK EXPERIENCE AND RATIONALE FOR INVOLVEMENT
A. Bank Exverience
2.1       During FY1980-FY1990 the Bank financed 13 fisheries projects,
involving total lending of about US$266 million, and fisheries components in
another 77 projects for about US$334 million. According to a 1984 OED report:
"Harvesting the Waters, A Review of Bank Experience with Fisheries
Development", six of the fisheries projects reviewed had achieved a creditable
proportion of their original aims, while seven were judged at audit to have
failed in their major objectives or to have offered an uncertain or marginal
outcome. Virtually all the major problems encountered can be traced back to
(i) technical and managerial inadequacies; (ii) the lack of understanding of
key institutional and economic issues of the sector; and (iii) the Bank's
limited fisheries expertise and technical input during design, appraisal, and
supervision of investments. The report stresses that, unlike in the past, all
sectoral issues need attention, as is the norm for other sectors. Key areas
that have sometimes not received sufficient attention are: the technical and
administrative capacity of national fisheries agencies; deficiencies in the
assessment of the potential of fish resources; fish catch statistics; civil
engineering aspects of fishing ports; and coordination and liaison within the
Bank and with FAO's Cooperative Program and Fisheries Department staff.
2.2       In contrast to this general pattern, Maldivian projects have been
an exception. Bank experience with fisheries investments there has been
highly satisfactory compared with the experience of the two other tuna-related
fisheries projects the Bank has financed and with fisheries projects in
general.
IDA Fisheries Prolects in Maldives
2.3       Fisheries has absorbed a major portion of IDA lending to Maldives,
with two credits of some US$8.2 million. The First Fisheries Project (Credit
907-MAL) mechanized 500 existing tuna sailing boats and provided engine repair
centers and navigation lights. The project substantially increased fish
production, fishing efficiency, and vessel safety. Its technical assistance
component succeeded in designing and testing one of the most efficient
artisanal tuna fishing vessels in the world. Since then, more than 200 have
been constructed. Its highly effective credit program, with virtually
100 percent loan recovery, executed by a small unit of MOFA, contrasted with
the negative experience of previous fisheries credit programs executed by non-
specialized credit institutions. The Second Fisheries Project (Credit 1302-
MAL), which was closed on June 30, 1991, financed a tuna freezing complex to
handle about 30 percent of the catch of the country. With its own resources,
GOM expanded an old tuna cannery adjacent to the freezing plant. With the
freezing complex and the tuna cannery completed and operational, the project
has succeeded in substantially increasing the fish catch and exports in the
project area while vessel productivity has also improved markedly.
2.4       In addition to the two Maldives fisheries operations, IDA has
financed two projects that deal with the same type of catching and processing
of tuna as will the proposed Maldives project--Indonesia First Fisheries and



- 12 -
Fisheries Credit Projects--while 16 other fisheries projects dealt with
various other fish species.  These projects and the 1984 OLD report on the
Bank experience with fisheries development are detailed in Annex 1.
Maior Lessons from Maldives Tuna Fisheries Proiect
2.5       The lessons from the Maldives First Fisheries Project, similar to
those emerging from the just-completed Second Fisheries Project, and reflected
in the sector note prepared by the Bank with FAOICP assistance, are:
(a) Technical. (i) project preparation and supervision were effective
because missions contained the appropriate range of technical
expertise; (ii) tuna resources, despite lack of some detailed
information, appear ample and able to sustain higher catches;
(iii) civil engineering aspects were thoroughly assessed; and
(iv) project design was simple and flexible and involved proven
technology.
(b) Institutional and Managerial. (i) project design reflected the
management and institutional capability of the implementing
agencies; and (ii) although STO, the implementing agency for the
Second Fisheries Project, has performed well, its managerial
resources appear stressed, and adjustment of its structure appears
desirable; and
(c) Economic. (i) even though key government fish pricing policies were
adjusted, previous policies need more elaborate analysis and
adjustment to reflect rapidly changing circumstances better and
ensure production efficiency and equitable distribution of
proceeds; and (ii) canning of tuna is only marginally profitable in
Maldives, while tuna freezing can be highly remunerative.
Ma1or Lessons from Overall Bank Experience in Fisheries
2.6       Technical.  The design of fishing and transport equipment is highly
location-specific; some projects have failed because they employed
inappropriate vessel technology. Fishing vessels need to incorporate proven
technology or must undergo elaborate design and testing of more efficient
vessel technology before vessels are introduced on a large scale. Similarly,
fish collector vessels need to be designed for local circumstances. In
Maldives, the Second Fisheries Project designed special collect t vessels that
took into account the experience of an assorted group of collec.or vessels
introduced by private parties and another donor in Maldives in the 1970s.
These vessels were too small, had inappropriate fish cooling and storage
facilities, and had insufficient deck-space. The new vessels, although much
more effective, still have minor flaws, which will be rectified for the
proposed third project.
2.7       In competitive world tuna markets, tuna freezing has to be a highly
efficient process, with minimum handling and wauimum energy nff:tiaincy, while
maintaining reasonable quality standards. Some freezing plants (First
Indonesian Fisheries Project) proved inefficient and involved freezing
technology inappropriate for the species concerned. The freezing plant



- 13 -
financed by the Second Fisheries Project in Maldives was based on the
experience gained in various parts of the world with tuna processed for direct
human consumption and for canning. Its blast-freezing system ensures very
high quality standards--which are not actually required for the raw material
for the canring irdustry, the market for Maldivian frozen fish--the plant was
perhaps over-designed in that respect. Brine-freezing technology, which has
been used for many years on some mother vessels in Maldives, would have been
more appropriate. The proposed project would adopt such brine-freezing
technology.
2.8       Many fishing harbors incorporate design flaws, reflecting planners'
insufficient attention to the physical environment and likely future
operations. Harbor lay-out is sometimes inefficient for the movement of fish,
vessels, or vehicles. Both in the Indonesia and Maldives projecte, it had
been assumed that reefer vessels would be loaded by lighter, i.e., no
expensive deep-water berth would be needed. But when large volumes of frozen
fish had to be loaded frequently, such a system proved time consuming and
costly. In the proposed project, the port is designed to allow reefsr
berthing.
2.9       Institutional.  State fisheries corporations in several fisheries
projects have been unable to run fishing or processing operations effectively.
In the few cases that state enterprises were efficient in processing fish,
management was: (a) highly competent; (b) made responsible for the success of
the company; and (c) able to minimize government interference, but such
conditions seldom exist for extended periods of time. In Maldives, STO has
had relatively strong and competent management and has experienced limited
direct interference from other GOM agencies. However, GOM intends to break-up
STO's main activities into separate corporations and to increase the role of
the private sector in fisheries activities, through participation in the
processing and marketing of fish, since the investment needs of the sector are
straining STO's borrowing, management and absorptive capacities. The proposed
project includes TA to help achieve this objective.
2.10      FinanciallEconomic.  The major financial/economic lesson is that in
those cases where fish prices are regulated by governments, pricing policies
should be flexible and pragmatic. While the recently closed Maldives Second
Fisheries Project dealt with measures (periodic review) to make the fish
pricing system effective in promoting increased production, further adjustment
of fish pricing and the institutional ability to handle improvements are still
required, as the existing system has been slow in adjusting prices and lacks
an analytical basis (see Annexes 4.6 and 4.7). The proposed project would
address this issue through: (i) assurances for continued periodic review and
adjustment of tuna prices, taking world market prices, average production
costs, and the sector's contribution to GOM revenues into consideration; (ii)
the creation of an economic unit (EPCS) within MOFA; and (iii) provision of
technical assistance to EPCS (paras 5.6 (b)].
2.11      Human Resources.  Experienced local staff and management are
essential to successful fisheries projects. Several Bank projects suffered
from lack of technical staff and weak management. Judicious use of expatriate
technical specialists, working in close cooperation with local staff, is often
essential for project success. If local management or technical expertise is



- 14 -
in short supply, extensive training should be made part of the project.
However, for senior management and technical positions, on-the-job training
with assistance from expatriate staff is usually the only way to gain the
necessary experience. In Maldives, some technical capability is available,
but management experience is in short-supply, necessitating the use of
expatriate staff. For the proposed Third Fisheries Project, a manpower
development plan will be prepared for the implementing agency through
technical assistance (para. 5.11).
2.12      Determinants of Sustainability.  The main determinant of
sustainability to be addressed in the proposed project, in addition to
adequate management and O&M, would be the long-term availability of tuna
resources. The risks associated with long-term fish resources and
availability in Maldives are modest since fish resources appear abundant. In
spite of the large recent increases in tuna catches, there is little evidence
to suggest that resources in the western Indian Ocean are under pressure
(paras. 1.4 and 1.5).
B.  Stratezv and Rationale for Future IDA Involvement
2.13      GOM's Oblectivee and Strategv.  GOM's objectives for the sector are
to increase fish production and its contribution to GDP; preserve marine
resources and the environment; improve export performance; and raise the
income and living standards of the traditional fishermen, who remain the
backbone of the sector, and thus maintain critical human resources in the
sector. The medium- to long-term strategy envisages focusing the role of the
public sector on the provision of infrastructure and support services while
encouraging the private sector to participate in the processing and marketing
of fish. GOM believes that private sector participation in the collection and
processing of fish should be formulated in the context of a revised
regulatory, legal, and fiscal environment. GOM intends to complete such a
study by the end of 1991. As recommended by the Bank, GOM has made a policy
decision and taken initial steps to restructure STO by, inter alia, creating a
separate company to handle its fisheries activities (see para. 1.21). In the
short term, GOM wishes to replace and augment the aging and inefficient
floating freezer vessels with shore-based freezing facilities in the resource-
rich south and north of Maldives and possibly invest in a second cannery in
the south. After IDA staff review of these proposals and concern that a
cannery may not be viable, GOM decided to delay the establishment of a second
cannery until the existing one becomes fully viable and to proceed with the
shore-based freezing facilities, in a phased manner. An assurance was
obtained that, prior to committing to a cannery on Laamu Atoll or a
freezing/cold storage facility in the north (Haa Alifu/Haa Dhaalu), GOM will
inform IDA of the details of such investments.
2.14      IDA StrateRy.  Recognizing the past performance and potential of
the fisheries sector, and taking account of the risks of becoming too
dependent on the only other major sector of the economy, tourism, IDA fully
supports the GOM policy of giving high priority to development of the
fisheries sector. IDA's strategy is to support GOM's efforts to improve the
contribution of the fisheries sector to balanced regional growth, foreign
exchange earnings, employment, and poverty alleviation. The strategy, which
includes coordination of other donor investments in the sector, takes the



- 15 -
lessons from past Bank experience into consideration and: (i) aims for
projects that concentrate on eliminating sector constraints of immediate
priority; and (ii) begins to deal with the institutional and incentive
questions of the sector that will eventually determine the roles of the
private and public sectors.
2.15      Rationale for IDA Involvement.  Based on its successful experience
with the previous two operations in the sector, including assistance with aid
coordination, as well as experience with similar projects in other countries,
IDA is well placed to assist GOM in developing this important sector a step
further. In addition to financing specific investments, IDA's assistance to
GOM is needed at this critical juncture to address emerging policy,
institutional and environmental questions. IDA's experience with private
sector participation in development, strengthening of environmental
monitoring, and institutional development would be instrumental to the further
sustainable development of this key sector of the Maldivian economy. Other
donors to the sector have come to appreciate IDA's leadership role within the
donor community in assisting the Maldives fisheries sector and are looking
forward to assisting the sector further in collabo.-ation with IDA. The
proposed project, which would support small-scale fisheries, would conform to
IDA's fisheries sector policy.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Prolect Obiectives
3.1       The proposed Third Fisheries Project was prepared by GOM with
assistance from FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program (FAO/CP) and the FAO
Technical Cooperation Project (FAO/TCP) and is intended to reinforce the
existing system of artisanal fisheries and small-scale fish collection. The
main objcztives would be to:
(a)  increase fish production, government revenue, and foreign exchange
earnings at a lower processing cost;
(b)  increase the income of fishing households to alleviate relative
poverty;
(c)  reduce migration to the capital, Male, through balanced regional
growth; and
(d)  create the environment for increased private sector participation
in the fisheries sector.
B. Brief Proiect Description
3.2       To help achieve these objectives, the project will include the
following components:
(a)  construction of a port at Kooddoo in Gaafu Alifu in Southern
Maldives for fishing boats and collector vessels, including a deep-



- 16 -
water berth for direct loading of frozen fish on to refrigerated
(reefer) vessels;
(b) construction of a fish freezing/cold storage complex on the same
island, consisting of a brine freezing and cold storage plant,
support facilities such as power and water desalination plants,
workshops, stores, offices and staff housing, and miscellaneous
operational equipment such as fish containers, forklifts and
cranes;
(c)  strengthening of the atoll-wide fish collection system, including
the provision of a fleet of seven collector vessels, comprising
three new and four retrofitted existing boats equipped with
refrigerated sea water systems, and one mooring tug, and local
training for collector vessel captains and engineers; a-ad
(d)  provision of technical assistance to:
*    the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) for technical studies and
preparation of detailed design of project facilities,
procurement, and supervision of the construction work;
*    STO/FPID for its own restructuring;
*   MOFA for strengthening fisheries research and collection of
fisheries statistics, further improving the design of existing
fishing vesaels, and strengthening EPCS to advise GOM on fish
pricing and related policies and provision of training to its
staff;
*    ERU of MPE for monitoring key environmental parameters during
project implementation; and
*   MTI for preparing and implementing the Action Plan based on the
reco mendations of the ongoing 'OM sector study, for the
encouragement of increased private sector participation in the
fisheries sector.
A technical assistance schedule, listing the above consultancies and their
required person-months, is attached as Annex 5.1.
C. Proiect Area
3.3       For the purpose of fish collection, the project area would cover
two atolls, Gaafu Alifu and Gaafu Dhaalu, situated south of latitude 1.5 (the
One-and-Half-Degree Channel). The area is approximately 250 nautical miles
from Male. Gaafu Alifu and Gaafu Dhaalu are actually one natural atoll
divided into two administrative units. The atoll consists of about 90
islands, of which 20 are inhabited. The population totals nearly 18,000,
including around 3,200 fishermen, and the main economic activities are
fishing, fish processing, and agriculture. Around 141 motorized fishing
dhonis in the atoll fish regularly. Criteria for selecting the site for the
port and freezing/cold storage complex includeds (a) distance of the



- 17 -
shoreline from the coral reef; (b) exposure to wave climate; (c) proximity to
open sea for access or anchorage of reefer vessels; (d) proximity to fishing
grounds and fishing fleets; and (e) adequate land for shore facilities. The
uninhabited island of Rooddoo, located at the northern fringe of Gaafu Alifu
atoll, satisfied all criteria best. It is approximately 2 km away from the
atoll's administrative center (Villingili Island), from which it is separated
by a deep channel that provides access to the atoll and to large reefer
vessels. Kooddoo is fairly sheltered from both the southwest and northeast
monsoons--from the southwest monsoon by a bulge in the reef west of the
shoreline, which would facilitate the construction of relatively low-cost
marine structures. Beyond the reef, depths are well suited for mooring reefer
vessels. Kooddoo is also close to excellent fishing grounds, with a
relatively large number of mechanized fishing vessels resident in the nearby
islands. Tides, current, and littoral drift do not constrain construction of
a fishing port.
D. Detailed Proiect Description
Kooddoo Port and Freezing/Cold Storage CoMplex
3.4       The facility comprises a small port that incorporates both
unloading and outloading berthing for fish, fuel, materials, and other
consumables; and shore-based freezing and cold storage facilities housed in a
single large building. The complex would be supported by a self-contained
infrastructure comprising a power generation plant; fuel storage; water
collection and desalination, storage, treatment and distribution; waste
disposal facilities; offices, workshops, housing, and worship and recreational
facilities. The shore facilities would be in a landscaped and replanted area
to minimize any visual environmental impact on the existing vegetative
backdrop.
3.5       Fishing Port.  The port provides fish landing lnd vessel servicing
berths constructed within a dredged basin close to the freezing and cold
storage complex and enclosed within protective rubble-mound breakwaters. A
separate fish outloading and fuel oil loading berth would be provided at the
edge of the fringing reef. This is adjacent to water that is sufficiently
deep to accommodate refrigerated reefer and oil supply vessels.
3.6       The unloading berths would be constructed over the existing beach
and would comprise about 290 meters of berth structures, including bollards
and tenders, sufficient to accommodate alongside up to five 15-meter dhonis
and three 23-meter collector vessels. Mooring space would also be available
for a mooring tug and National Security Service patrol vessel. Fresh water
and fuel supply service points would be provided at separate service berths
for the collector vessels and dhonis. At the dhoni unloading berths, four
off-loading pits would be provided to hold fish baskets and to facilitate the
grading of fish. Weighing points would be adjacent to the unloading pits and
the collector vessel unloading area. The inner port basin will be about
190 m x 100 m and dredged to provide a depth of 3 meters at low tide. The
inner harbor basin would be protected on the north and east by a rubble-mound
breakwater approximately 215 meters long, and to the west by a rubble-mound
causeway about 170 meters long, which also would provide access to the
outloading berth. The breakwaters and causeway would be constructed of



18 _
imported rock rather than mined local coral, a feature designed to minimize
negative impact on the local coral reef environment. A 250 meter-long
entrance channel, 25 meters wide and dredged to 3 meters below Low Water
Spring Tide (LWST), would provide access from deep water to the port basin.
The outloading berth would comprise a 30 m x 15 m loading platform
sufficiently large to accommodate frozen fish outloading trailers and of
sufficient length to permit one- or two-hatch-loading of the reefer vessel.
The area and length of the platform would be further reviewed during the
detailed design stage after information is obtained on the configuration of
the reefer vessels likely to use the facilities. The outloading platform
would be protected from vessels' berthing impact by two "breasting dolphins"
while two "mooring dolphins" would be provided for securing the vessels
alongside the platform. The load platform would comprise a reinforced in-situ
or precast concrete deck supported on vertical piles. The loads from the fish
outloading train would require only a relatively light deck structure.
However, a design according to those criteria would seriously restrict utility
of t'.e berth and its potential contribution to subsequent development in the
atoll. The structural strength of the deck and its approach trestle would,
therefore, be such as to permit its use for general cargo operations. The
berth at the load-out jetty would be dredged to 7 meters below LWST to
accommodate refrigerated reefer vessels of up to 2,000 GRT.
3.7       The loading berth would be connected to the island by a 300-meter
causeway and elevated access trestle with a roadway width of 8 meters; the
innermost 170 meters would comprise a rockfill breakwater.  The outer 130
meters of the access trestle woule comprise an in-situ or precast reinforced
concrete deck structure supported on precast concrete beams and raked piles
driven into the seabed. The causeway and trestle would also support oil and
water pipelines and power lines. Technical drawings for the port and other
project facilities are presented in Chart 4.
3.8       Wharf Equipment.  To unload fish from dhonis and collector vessels,
transport fish and for loading of frozen fish to reefer vessels, the
following equipment would be provided: (a) fixed hydraulic cranes, (b) heavy-
duty platform weighing scales with electronic weighing heads, and weighbridge
to weigh incoming and outgoing tuna; (c) tanks to receive refrigerated
seawater and bilgewater from collector vessels; (d) forklifts; (e) small
tractors and trailers; (f) overhead gantry cranes to move fish containers over
the chilling and freezing tanks; (g) hot-dip galvanized open contai'kers able
to hold one ton of fish, for freezing tuna; (h) stainless or hot-dip
galvanized steel-plate fish containers, each designed to hold one ton of fish,
for storage of tuna; and (i' double-walled plastic fish boxes of 1.5 m 3
capacity, for multi-purpose use.
3.9       Freezing and Cold Storage Plant.  This plant would consist of:
(a) a 100-ton/day brine freezing and chilling facility; (b) a 1,500 ton cold
storage facility; (c) a 30-ton/day block ice plant and 60-ton storage
facility; and (d) miscellaneous equipment. The freezing and cold storage
facilities would be designed to receive around 14,000 tons of tuna per year.
Based on this annual throughput and on the size of reefer vessels, the
capacity of the cold storage would be 1,500 tons, with brine freezing capacity
designed to cope with peak landings of around 100 tons/day. Freezing
facilities would consist of eight brine tanks each of 10 tons capacity, able



- 19 -
to reduce the temperature of fist to -20- C. The cold store would consist of
two 750-ton capacity rooms, each able to hold 750 containers, at a temperature
of -25- C and equipped with airlocks, two entrances, four air coolers, and an
emergency alarm system. To hold fish until they can be frozen, four
refrigerated seawater chilling tanks, which could also be operated as brine
freezers, each holding 10 containers, and designed to chill fish from ambient
temperature to around 3- C would be provided. During detailed design,
consultants will review the need for the multi-purpose tanks, or alternatively
install four more brine freezing tanks. The block ice plant would have a
capacity to produce 30 tons/day of 25 kg blocks and a storage capacity of 60
tons maintained at around -6- C to -8- C. The refrigeration plant would be
operated on a two-stage compression system using screw compressor units;
condensers would be of the water-cooled vertical type.
3.10      Services and Support Infrastructure.  This would include:
(a) a power plant of 2,500 KVA, consisting of five diesel generators,
each with an output capacity of 500 KVA to supply electricity to
the entire complex;
(b) a desalination plant to generate 20 m3 of fresh water per day using
waste heat from the power plant to back up rainwater collection;
(c)  two 400 m3 steel diesel fuel storage tanks with retaining wall and
fuel distribution pipes to the power plant and refueling points at
the fisheries harbor;
(d) two 200-250 m 3 steel rainwater storage tanks, filters, pumps,
chlorination plant, pressurized tank, and distribution network for
potable water;
(e) aerating unit, buffer storage, pumps, pressurized tank, and
distribution network for well water to be used for flushing and for
ordinary washing purpose;
(f) seawater system consisting of supply pumps, pipes, seawater buffer
storage tank, pumps and pipes, for condenser cooling and the
freezing complex and for the harbor area for washdown purposes;
(g) sewage and waste disposal systems designed to reduce potential
negative effects of any identified pollutant loading factors;
(h) miscellaneous equipment consisting of battery chargers, compressed
air units, special tools and workshop equipment, internal
telephones, radio station, incinerator, fire fighting equipment to
contain oil spills, etc.; and
(i)  staff housing, dormitories, guest houses, office block, stores and
miscellaneous buildings of around 1,830 m2.
3.11      Fish Collector Vessels.  Tuna is currently purchased at eight sites
in Gaafu Alifu and Gaafu Dhaalu atolls. However, it may be purchased at six
sites at any one time, depending on the season. It is estimated that seven



20
collector vessels are needed for adequate collection of tuna. Three would be
new vessels9 while four existing vessels would be refurbished. The new
vessels9 made of steel, would have an overall length of about 23 meters with a
beam of about 6.5 meters. Six fish holds would be able to keep 25 0ons of
fish in chilled temperature to around 3 C, and would operate in combination
with block ice to deal with large landings. The vessel would have a main
engine of about 250 JiP for & service sperd of 8.5 knots at full load. Since
the collector vasselE are the moin nourcC of diesel fuel sales to dhonis, each
vessel would be equipped with a fuel storage tank of about 5,000 liters
capacity. The vessels would go to Colombo for annual maintenance.
3.12      Four existing collector vessels would be selected from nine
financed under an earlier Kuwait Fund-financed project. The vessels would be
examined by a marine surveyor prior to selection. Conversion of the vessels
would include correction of structural defects; enhancement of crew
accommodation; provision of life-saving, electronic navigation, and fire
fighting equipment; increase in generating capacity; adjustment of fish hold
refrigeration systems; and modification of steering, anchoring, and mooring
systems. These vessels would be able to keep 18 tons of a mixture of fish,
chilled seawater, and ice in their holds and would be equipped with extra fuel
tanks for distribution purposes.
3.13      Mooring Tug and Navigation Lights.  For docking and moving reefer
vessels, oil tankers, and collector vessels, a suitable mooring tug equipped
with twin diesel engines of a total of about 300-350 HP would be provided.
The fish collection system would require navigational lights within the atoll,
to allow night passage from collection points to the cold storage complex. A
total of 32 navigational lights and 30 beacons would be provided and installed
on reefs and on buoys near entrance channels to the port. Those sited near
water would have a concrete base; all would have galvanized steel towers and
be solar powered. To determine the exact location of these navigation aids,
the Ministry of Transport and Shipping, which is responsible for maintenance
of navigational aids, would carry out a survey.
Technical Assistance
Support to the State Trading Organization (STO)
3.14      Detailed Design and Constructior Supervision.  An engineering
consultant firm financed under the Project Preparation Facility (PPF)
(para. 4.5), will carry out pre-design wind and wave, climate, geotechnical,
hydrological, and coastal processes studies as well as an environmental
baseline study and an impact assessment anid mitigation plan. The consultants
will then prepare detailed designs and tender documents for the port and
refrigeration complex. Similarly, a naval architect consultant will be hired
to prepare detailed designs for the collector vessels and mooring tug. A
total of up to 114 person months (pm) would be required for these (pre) design
studies, of which 2705 pm would be for technicians. For supervision of
construction of the works, refrigeration plant, and vessels, a total of up to
98 pm would be required, of which 44 pm would be for technicians. The TOR for
detail design of the port and plant, and of the collector vessels, are
attached as Annae 5.2 and 5.3, respectively. GON has begun the process of



- 21 
recruiting the consultants,9 which is expected to be completed by February
1992.
3.15      Su Port to FPID,  To strengthen financial controls and management
of FPID, an accountant would be appointed foor the PIU for up to 36 pm. To
train captains and engineers for the collector vessels operating out of the
Kooddoo freezing/cold storage complex, consultant services (5 pm) of a master
mariner and a marine engineer will be provided. The training will involve
formal generic instructions and delivery trial voyages. Short-term
refrigeration and other engineering consultant services (12 pm) would also be
provided to &66ist the PIU ir. FPID in its day-to-day activities.
3.16      FPID Restructuring.  Consultant services (12 pm) will comprise a
Management and Organization Specialists a Financial and Accounting Specialist9
a Legal Expert, and a Manpower Development and Training Specialist. They will
review FPID's: (i) present and planned business operations; (ii) organization
structure and links to STO; (iii) manning charts; (iv) financial structure and
systems, procedures and reporting formats; and (v) legal stature, and make its
recommendations to enable COM to make final decisions on FPID's: (a) exact
legal status; (b) its links with STO, its financial structure and a detailed
organization structure; and (c) manpower requirements and plans for their
attainment. This will also assist FPID in implementing its new structure,
including preparation of manuals, and instituting financial controls to enable
efficient and profitable units. The TOR for this consultancy are attached as
Annex 5.4.
SUport of Ministry of Trade and Industry (MTI)
3.17      Private Sector Participation in the Fishing Sector.  Consultant
services (16 pm) will be provided to MTI to draw up an action plan for
detailed design and implementation of a framework to facilitate and encourage
private sector participation in the collection, processing, and exporting of
fish, emanating from GOM's ongoing sector study. The TOR for this consultancy
would be prepared by MTI upon completion of the sector study and GOM's final
decisions.
Support to Ministry of Fisheries and Agriculture
3.18      Tuna tagging and length-frequency studies.  MOFA is currently
involved in tura tagging studies, supported by technical assistance from
various sources. This assistance will expire in early 1992. The proposed
project would provide FRPI with the ccnsultant services of a marine resource
biologist (36 pm) and equipment to maintain the tuna tagging program and
expand it to include length-frequency, age composition and length:weight
measurements that are needed for resource assessment. In addition, two
biologists would be trained with funds rrom IDA's ongoing Education and
Training Project (Credit 1981-HAL).
3.19      Statistics,  Consultant services of a statistician (5 pm) would be
provided to assist MOPA to enhance the reliability of current catch statistics
and to initiate the analyses of economic data related to catches and fishing
effortse



- 22 -
3.20      Economic Planning and Coordination Section (EPCS).  Consultant
services of two economists (14 pm) would be provided to the EPCS to, inter
alia: (i) develop a pricing formula for fresh tuna that would take world
market prices, production costs of fisherman and collectors/ processors, and
sector contribution to GOM revenues into consideration; and (ii) design
studies, including studies on sector contributions to the economy and on
incentives to fishermen and collector/processors to increase fish production
and exports in a sustainable manner.
3.21      Vessel Design.  Most fishing operations in Maldives are carried out
by traditional mechanized dhonis and by the improved dhonis developed under
IDA's Second Fisheries Project (Credit 1320-MAL). These boats are only
suitable for day trips. The Second Fisheries Project had a component to build
a minifleet of extended range fishing vessels to enable Maldives to start
exploiting distant fishing grounds beyond the reach of traditional fishing
vessels. STO jointly with MOFA decided in 1987, for technical and managerial
constraints, not to go ahead with the component. It is MOFA's firm belief
that, with their improved capabilities, a developmental harvesting sector
component should be included in the proposed project. To assess the
feasibility of longer trips, the project would provide for construction of two
experimental vessels equipped for fishing outside the traditional near-shore
fishing areas. To assist MOFA in design and construction supervision, the
project would engage a naval architect for 12 pm. The vessels would be used
particularly to fish for shark and deep-swimming yellowfin tuna (seasonally)
and for surface tuna the rest of the year The assistance to the MOFA will
include funds for short familiarization visits to neighboring countries with
similar boat designs and construction technologies as those to be undertaken
under the project.
Support to Ministry of Planning and Environment (MPE)
3.22      As part of the pre-design studies (para 3.14), design consultants
engaged by STO/FPID will carry out an environmental baseline survey and impact
assessment for ERU in MPE. The objective is to strengthen the capacity of ERU
during the environmental assessment to enable its staff to evaluate proposed
environmental assessment/mitigation measures and see them through the
construction and operating stages of the project. The survey would include an
assessment of the environmental baseline conditions of the site, a study of
the environmental impact of the construction and operation of the Kooddoo
complex, and the identification and costing of mitigating measures (paras.
3.23-3.27). A consultant environmental specialist will be provided (9 pm) to
assist the ERU to: (i) design and monitor key environmental parameters during
project implementation, to ensure that mitig ting actions recommended in the
environmental assessment are carried out and achieve the desired environmental
objectives of the project ,and (ii) train ERU staff in the collection and
management of environmental data, including not only data for (i) above, but
for nationwide needs, in line with the National Action Plan for Environmental
Management and Planning. Equipment, including microcomputers and software,
water quality equipment and testing kits, and land survey gear will also be
provided for environmental monitoring.



23 -
E. Environmental Aspects
3.23      Based on environmental assesome.t during preparation and appraisal,
the project is not expected to pose any major environmental risks. However,
further environmental assessment and mitigation plan will be prepared as
indicated in para. 3.14. Regarding fish rejources, the catch-per-unit-effort
is still increasing for the Maldivian artisanal fishermen, and the increased
production under the project is not expected to have negative effects on fish
resources (para. 1.4). However, tropical marine ecosystems, although rich and
fast in turnover. are deliratp and could be damaged unless carefully
monitored.  Under the project, provisions have been made for FRPI to monitor
closely catch and effort data, including assessment of changes in the age
composition and length:weight relationship of the catch, over the life of the
project, to carry out tuna fish stock assessment programs, and to implement
management measures if and when necessary (para. 3.18).
3.24      To minimize adverse effects on coastal processes, a detailed
assessment of sand transport mechanisms at the site of the port would be
carried out by field investigations and numerical modeling procedures at the
detailed design stage. The layout and lengths of the rubble-mound breakwaters
would be reviewed in light of the findings of these studies, and mitigation
measures would be devised to overcome any significant adverse consequences.
Marine and groundwater pollution would be mitigated by a collection system
linked to treatment facilities. These facilities would include, among other
things, a brine/blood coagulation system for removing blood wastes, septic
tanks for all sanitary facilities, closed loop evaporative condensers for the
cooling systems, cutter suction dredging for the port operations, disposal of
dredged material on shore, incineration of solid wastes, and the recycling of
brine. Furthermore, fuel oil installations would be surrounded by oil-proof
containment structures and floating booms, while absorbents will also be
provided for accidental spills from oil transfer activities.
3.25      Adverse environmental effects will be further eliminated by not
mining sand and coral for rubble and concrete aggregates, as these materials
would be imported. Important species of vegetation would be specified for
landscaping of the site once construction work has terminated. Power
generation would be equally environment-friendly through sound-proofing and
exhaust gas discharge measures. Employment opportunities would allow the
nearby islanders, currently resident in Male for temporary work, to return to
their islands, thus supporting GOM's policy of reversing the trend of worker
migration to Male. In spite of the above, some environmental degradation
would occur, noticeably in the loss of some of the reef and a few terrestrial
resources such as coconut trees and shrubs.
3.26      During preappraisal of the project, it was ascertained that the
island of Kooddoo is not an important nesting area for turtles. The limited
nesting and eggs laid on the island do not occur in the area designated for
the project facilities. Nevertheless, an assurance was obtained that GOM
would take all measures required to prohibit the digging for turtle eggs and
the taking of live turtles on and around the island of Kooddoo, by December
31, 1992.



- 24 -
3.27      In compliance with the mitigation plan, environmental aspects of
the project will be monitored by ERU, both at construction and operational
stages (para. 3.22), including: changes in coastlines, sand movement,
effluent disposal, and water quality parameters, such as dissolved oxygen and
salinity as well as nutrients, biochemical oxygen demand, and heavy metal
presence, and any additional measures identified by the EA process and
recommended in the mitigation plan. Every effort will be made to protect
unique or sensitive habitats or other marine flora/fauna, if necessary, by
employing appropriate mitigation measures during construction, such as silt
barriers, sound disposal of dredged material, or other means identified in the
mitigation plan.
F. Role of Women
3.28      Women's responsibilities on the islands have mainly included the
processing of Maldive Fish, the gathering of firewood, now in short supply,
and subsistence agriculture. Other traditional income-generating activities
include coir-rope making, thatch and mat weaving, crafts, midwifery, and
traditional medicine. Processing of Maldive Fish done by fishermen's wives,
while contributing to family incomes, is an arduous nocturnal task and a
strain on the health of women.
3.29      The project would not change the current production opportunities
for Maldive Fish in the project area (see paras. 6.2 and 7.6) and, therefore,
would not reduce the employment and incame opportunities of fishermen's wives.
The guaranteed fresh fish collection capacity to be provided by the project
would, however, increase beneficiary family incomes by about 32 percent, from
an estimated Rf 6,300 (US$590) presently to about Rf 8,300 (US$780) (see
para. 7.7. and Annex 7.1). These higher incomes would allow women in the
project area the choice of continuing to process Maldive Fish or engage in
other productive activities, which may not be as remunerative as processing
Maldive Fish but would improve their quality of life.
IV. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
A. Proiect Cost
4.1       The project cost includes investment costs associated with various
project components and incremental recurrent costs of the components, such as
support for tuna resource assessments, improved fisheries statistics, and
maintenance of navigational aids, which would be implemented by GOM
ministries. Costs of operating the freezing/storage complex and vessels are
not included, as these costs would be covered from revenues generated by the
operations of the complex.
4.2       Project base cost, including supporting activities, are estimated
at Rf 272.8 million, equivalent to US$27.1 million. Of these costs, Rf 55.7
million, or US$5.5 million, will be required for the port; Rf 79.9 million, or
US$7.9 million, for the construction of the freezing and cold storage complen;
Rf 35.9 million, or US$3.6 million, for equipment for the freezing and cold
storage complex; Rf 34.7 million, or US$3.4 million, for the vessels; Rf 24.8



- 25 -
million, or US$2.5 million, for design and construction supervision of the
port and plant; Rf 13.3 million, or US$1.3 million, for office, housing, and
workshopes and Rf 25.7 million, or US$2.6 million, for supporting activities.
Around 37 percent of the total base  cont would be spent on civil works, about
16 percent for refrigeration and ancillary equipment and 13 percent for
collector vessels, mooring tug, and navigational aids. Another 7 percent
would be require'c for transport and handling equipment, 19 percent for
technical assiitance and training, and the remaining amount for shipping,
mobilization, miscellaneous equipment, and incremental recurrent costs. With
all equipment, boats, technical assistance, and raw materials and labor for
civil works being imported, the foreign exchange content of the project is
over 98 percent.  Detailed costs are given in Annex 2, and  vsummary project
costs are given in Table 4.1 below.
Table 4. 1: PROJECT COST la
I Total
Rf ' 000              US$ '000        2 Foreign Base
Local Foreign Total    Local Foreign Total Exchange  Coate
Rooddoo Port and Freezing/Cold Stor#Ae COmolex
Port Works                    0  55,745  55,745      0   5,541  5,541    100       20
Freezing/Cold Storage Plant 1,965  77,923  79,889    204   7,737  7,941    98      29
Office, Housing, Workshop   637  12,680  13,317     66   1,258  1,324      95       5
Supply of Misc. Equipment     0  35,925  35,925      0   3,571  3,571    100       13
Vessels                       0  34,657  34,657      0   3,445  3,445    100       13
Navigational Aids           223   1,133   1,356     22      112    135     84       1
TAITraining for Vessels       0   1,383   1,383      0      138    138    100       1
Design/Supervision for
Port, Plant                 0  24,828  24,828       0   2,468  2,468    100       9
Subtotal            2,825 244.275  247.100    293  24.270 24.563     99     91
Technical Assistance
Support to PPID               0   6,640   6,640      0      660    660    100       2
Support for Restructuring PPID  0   3,898   3,898    0      388    388    100       1
Support to !OPA           1,137   9,764  10,902    113      971  1,084     90      4
Support to Env. Res. Unit   516   1,746   2,262     52      173    225     77       1
Private Sec. Encouragement    0   2,012   2,012      0      200    200    100       1
Subtotal             1,653  24.061  25,714    165    291  2.j         94      9
Total BASELINE COST         4.479  268.335 272.814    458  26.661  27,119    98    100
Physical Contingencies      158  11,403  11,562      16   1,134  1,149     99       4
Price Contingencies         953  21,942  22,895     82   2,194  2,276      96      8
Total grolect Cost          51589 301.681 307,270    556  29.988 30.544      98    113
La Project items are exempt from duties and taxes.
4.3        Estimates of the cost of all civil works are based on preliminary
engineering studies (para. 5.13), soil analysis, and designs with detailed
measurement of quantities, applied to construction costs obtained from local
and foreign contractors working on similar construction work in Maldives and
neighboring countries. Costs of most construction materials, such as
aggregates, sand, and concrete blocks, are based on quotations from suppliers
in neighboring countries, such as Sri Lanka.  Costs of refrigeration .quinuent



- 26 -
and machinery and fish handling equipment for shore facilities are based on
recent c.i.f. quotations from some Nordic countries. Coots of fully equipped
collector vessels are based on price quotations obtained from foreign boat
builders. Although detailed design for the project has not yet been
completed, the estimated cost for the project has been reviewed in detail and
updated over several stages (para. 5.13).
4.4       The following physical contingency rates have been applied to the
base costs: 10 percent for civil works on the port; 5 percent for vessels and
civil works for the plant; 3 percent for the freezing and cold storage
complex; 2 percent for the miscellaneous equipment including the jetty and
transportation equipment; and 0 percent for technical assistance and recurrent
expenses. Price contingency estimates assume an increase in local currency
costs of 7.5 percent per annum throughout the project implementation period.
For imported items the estimated annual price escalation is 3.7 percent per
annum for 1991 and beyond.
B. Financing Plan
4.5       The proposed IDA credit of SDR 7.6 million (US$10.0 million
equivalent) would finance 33 percent of the foreign exchange cost and
9 percent of local costs of the project. This corresponds to 33 percent of
total project cost. The proposed Credit would finance:
(a) the civil works contract to construct the port, office/housing/
workshop, and navigational aids;
(b)  the construction supervision of the port, plant, and vessels;
(c)  TA support to FPID for project implementation; and
(d)  TA (including equipment) support to MOFA.
The pre-design studies for the port, detailed design for the port, plant and
vessels, and TA for the restructuring of FPID are being financed by IDA's
Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance of US$1.5 million. In accordance
with the standard terms and conditions for the advance, upon effectiveness of
the Credit, the advance would be repaid through reimbursement refinanced under
the Credit.
4.6       It is expected that Norway and Sweden would separately provide
funds amounting to US$6.7 million and US$2.4 million equivalent, respectively,
to finance the freezing/cold storage plant. The Norwegian financing is a
mixed credit comprising a grant (about 22 percent) from the Norwegian Agency
for Development Cooperation (NORAD) and a credit from Eksportfinans (about
78 percent) guaranteed by the Norwegian Guarantee Institute for Export Credit,
Den Norske Bank and NORAD. The Swedish financing, also in the form of a mixed
credit, will be provided by the Swedish Agency for Technical and Economic
Cooperation (BITS) through Nordbanken of Sweden, with a guarantee to be issued
by the Swedish Export Credit Guarantee Board. About US$0.2 million of the
Norwegian funds would be used to finance guarantee fees of the guarantors.
The Nordic Development Fund (NDF) is expected to lend US$5.6 million
equivalent to cover equipment for the freezing/cold storage plant, upgrading



- 27 -
of existing collector vessels, a mooring tug and TA to ERU. The OPEC Fund and
UNDP would, respectively, provide a loan of US$2.6 million equivalent for the
new collector vessels and a grant of US$0.3 million equivalent to fund (with
IDA) the TA for FPID restructuring. The OPEC Fund loan would be administered
by IDA. GOM would contribute about US$3.1 million equivalent to finance the
remaining costs of the civil works contract, part of the TA to MOFA, and the
recurrent costs of the navigational aids.  Even though the GOM contribution
will be spread over five years (1992: US$1.7 million; 1993: US$1.3 million;
1994-1996: US$0.1 million), it means a major financial effort on the part of
GOM. An assurance was obtained that GOM will make adequate overall budgetary
provisions covering the entire implementation period and any unforeseen
contingencies. The financing plan is summarized in Table 4.2 below and
presented in detail in Annexes 3.] and 3.2.
Table 4.2: FINANCING PLAN
Percentage of Prolect
Total    F. Exchange
Local   Foreign   Total      Cost         Cost
----- ($ million) -----    --------- Z --
Government                      0.2       2.9       3.1       10.2          9.7
IDA                             0.1      10.0      10.0       32.8         33.3
Norway                          0.2       6.4       6.5/a    21.3          21.3
Sweden                          0.1       2.3       2.4        7.9          7.7
Nordic Development Fund         0.1       5.5       5.6       18.4         18.3
OPEC Fund                       0.0       2.6       2.6        8.5          8.7
UNDP                            0.0       0.3       0.3        1.0          1.0
Total                        0.6      30.0      30.5        100          100
Note: Totals may not add up due to rounding.
/a Norway will provide an additional US$0.2 million equivalent to cover
guarantee fees for the Norwegian credit.
4.7       GOM has completed negotiations with the Nordic (Norway, Sweden and
NDF) cofinanciers. The Board of the OPEC Fund has approved OPEC Fund's
financing, while UNDP's contribution has also been approved through the
regular program of assistance to Haldives. Cofinancing will be by parallel
arrangements, except financing for the TA to restructure FPID, which will be
financed jointly by IDA and UNDP. A detailed plan by financing agency and by
component is shown in Annex 3.1. This plan has been agreed to between GOM and
the cofinanciers and has been finalized with GOM. A condition of
effectiveness for the IDA Credit will be the effectiveness of the Norwegian,
Swedish, NDF, and OPEC Fund agreements.



- 28 -
C. Onlendint Terms
4.8       The IDA credit would be on standard terms.  GOM would onlend to
STO/FPID about 69 percent of the foreign assisted and GOM funds which would
benefit FPID directly (65 percent of total project costs),including US$2.6
million of the proceeds of the IDA credit, at an interest rate of 13 percent
per annum, with a repayment period of 20 years, including five yeewc of grace,
with GOM bearing the foreign exchange risk. These terms and conditions were
agreed to in view of the fact that the interest rate reflects commercial rates
prevailing in Maldives, provides adequate coverage for GOM to bear the foreign
exchange risk and is positive '.n real terms (given the projected long-term
interest rates in Maldives).2/ The signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
between GOM and STO/FPID for onlending the proceeds from the IDA credit,
embodying these terms and conditions and acceptable to IDA, is a condition of
effectiveness for the IDA credit. Details of the costs to be recovered from
STO/FPID are presented in Annex 3.3. The prcject-suppoited port and
navigational aids represent basic public sector infrastructure with benefits
beyond the project; these costs, totalling about 25 percent of the total
project cost, would remain a charge against the GOM budget rather than being
onlent to STO/FPID. The costs of all technical assistance except for design
and construction supervision of the plant, amounting to about 9 percent of the
total project cost, would also be charged directly to GOM. Port operations
and maintenance (not including those of navigational aids, to be maintained by
the Ministry of Transport and Shipping) would be covered from STO/FPID
revenues, while revenues from the investment paid to GOM would represent an
indirect cost recovery for the capital costs of the port.
D. Procurement
4.9       Procurement under the project would be undertaken by the respective
implementing agencies.
IDA Financed Components
4.10      Civil Works (USS8.1 million),I/ comprising port works (US$4.1
million),A/ staff housing and offices (US$1.0 million),A/ and navigational
aids (US$0.1 million),4/ would be procured as a package following
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (the Guidelines). In bid
2/   Interest rates in Maldives are regulated, with an upper ceiling of
3.5 percent above New York Prime, which will be 11.5 percent9 given the
prevailing New York Prime rate during negotiations. A recent IDA
economic mission to Maldives has reco-mended that these ceil:tngs on
interest rates be removed.  IDA's projected inflation rate (CWI\ for
Maldivee is 6.6 percent per annum for the period 1992-1995 und
4.3 percent per annum for 1995-2000.
X/ Total for project.
A/   IDA financed.



- 29 -
comparisons, eligible domestic contractors would be allowed a margin of
preference in accordance with the Guidelines.
4.11      Equipment and Materials (US$92.000),3/ including tags, applicators,
calipers, and small research equipment required for the TA to MOFA
(US$24,000),4/ would be procured through intern&tional and/or local prudent
shopping, under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers.
4.12      Vessels (US$4.1 million).3/  Construction of two prototype fishing
vessels (US$94,000)4/, under the vessel design TA for MOFA, would not be
suitable for ICB given the small size of the potential contract and,
therefore, would be procured by direct contracting from STO's Alifushi
boatyard, the only local boatyard with the requisite qualifications to
undertake the construction in the country, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to IDA.
4.13      Consultant Services and Training (USS5.1 million).3/  Consultancy
services (US$4.7 million) A/ would be procured under Bank Guidelines for the
use of consultants.
Components Financed by Cofinanciers and GOM
4.14      The three new collector vessels financed by the OPEC Fund (US$2.6
million) would be procured following Limited International Bidding (LIB)
procedures on the basis of the evaluation of bids invited from at least three
qualified suppliers, in view of the limited number of potential suppliers for
such vessels. The refriferatiox: Plant and eguiDment (US$5.4 million) and
transport equipment (US$2.0 million) financed by the Nordic cofinanciers would
be procured under a turnkey contract, according to the Nordic financiers'
respective procurement procedures. An assurance was obtained that GOM would
allow IDA to comment on the specifications of the proposed plant and
construction contracts prior to issuing the bidding documents.
4.15      Vessels (four to be refurbished--US$1.1 million, and a mooring tug
--US$0.3 million) to be financed by NDF would be procured according to NDF's
procurement procedures. Technical assistance consultants and eauipment for
ERU (US$0.3 million) financed by NDF would also be procured according to NDF's
procurement procedures.
Review of Procurement
4.16      Prior review by IDA of bidding documents and proposed contract
awards would be required for all IDA and OPEC Fund-financed contracts
exceeding US$40,000. The estimated total value of the IDA financed contracts
that wiY. be subject to prior review would be US$9.98 million (99.8 percent of
the credit), and that of the OPEC Fund financed contracts would be US$2.59
million (100 percent of the OPEC Fund loan).
4.17      The procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 4.3 below:



- 30 -
Table 4.3: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS La
(US$ '000)
Procurement Method
Project Element                         ICE      LIB      Other /b       Total cost La
Civil works                            8,109                5,512           13,621
(5,190)                              (5,190)
Refrigeration plant and equipment                           5,429            5,429
Transport equipment                                         1,961            1,961
Equipment and materials                                       92               92
(24)             (24)
Vessels                                         2,588       1,468            4,056
(94)             (94)
Consultant services and training                            5,148            5,148
(4,692)         (4,692)
Incremental Recurrent costs                                  237               237
Total                               8.109    2.588      19.847           30.544
(5,190)             (4,810)         (10,000,
la Inclusive of physical and price contingencies.
/b  Includes prudent shopping, direct contracting and consultant selection procedures, as well as
items financed by the Nordic cofinanciers in accordance with their respective procurement
procedures.
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by the Credit.
E. Disbursements
4.18       Disbursements under :he IDA Credit will be completed by June 30,
1997, almost six years after Board Presentation. Disbursements from the
Credit, detailed in Annex 3.4, will be made on the following basis:
(a)  Civil Works:  64 percent of the total expenditures;
(b)  Equipment and Materials:  100 percent of foreign expenditures;
100 percent of local expenditures (ex-factory); 90 percent of otler
local expenditures;
(c)  Prototype Fishing Vessels:  100 percent of foreign expenditures;
100 percent of local expenditures (ex-factory); 90 percent of other
local expenditures;
(d)  Consultant Services:  100 percent of total expenditures;
(e)  Refunding of PPF Advance.
A disbursement profile has not yet been developed for Maldives. Following
anticipated completion of detailed designs by October 1992, the civil works
contract for the port and housing is expected to be completed by end-1994; the
refrigeration/cold storage plant and the collector vessels by early-1995; and
the technical assistance and training activities will continue until mid-1997.
The six year disbursement period of the IDA credit in basically in line with



- 31 -
the Second Fisheries Project. The estimated Project Completion Date would be
June 30, 1997. The closing date of the Credit will be December 31, 1997. The
schedule of disbursements is summarized in Table 4.4 below and presented in
detail in Annex 3.5.
Table 4.4:  ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
($ '000)
IDA Fiscal Year
1992     1993     1994      .^95      1996     1997
Annual                     825/a  1,639    2,756    2,437    1,728         616
Cumulative (amount)        825    2,464    5,219    7,656    9,384   10,000
Cumulative (percent)       8.3     24.6      52.2      76.6     93.8    100.0
/a Relates to PPF.
4.19      Documentation.  Full documentation would be required to support
withdrawal applications for all consultants services and training and all
contracts above US$40,000 equivalent, for civil works, vessels and materials,
and equipment. Disbursements for sivil works, equipment and material
contracts less than US$40,000 equivalent would be made on the basis of
statement of expenditures (SOEs). The documentation for SOEs would be
retained by the PIU and made available for review by IDA supervision missions.
Disbursements against SOEs are estimated at about 0.2 percent of the credit.
4.20      Special Account.  To enable STO to implement the project
effectively and to make prompt payments to contractors and consultants, an
assurance was obtained that a Special Account would be opened at the Maldives
Monetary Authority and would be maintained in US dollars. IDA wo'sld make an
initial deposit (authorized allocation) of US$500,000, representing an
estimated average of four months' expenditures. Th:s account would be used
for eligible expenditures of less than US$50,000 equivalent, both foreign and
local, under all categories. Expenditures above US$50,000 equivalent could be
submitted directly to IDA for payment. An assurance was obtained that this
Special Account and the SOEs would be audited annually by an independent
auditor acceptable to IDA.
V. ORGANIZATION. MHNAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Implementation
5.1       General.  The project will be implemented primarily by STO/FPID,
while the non-FPID TA subcomponents will be implemented by the respective
beneficiary ministries, i.e., MOFA, MPE, and MTI. PPID, through the existing
PIU for the Second Fisheries Project, will have overall responsibility for



- 32 -
project implementation and coordination, with the assistance of the inter-
ministerial Project Coordinating Committee (PCC).
State Trading Orsianization: Fisheries Proiects Implementation Department
5.2       FPID will be responsible for the construction of the Rooddoo
refrigeration/cold storage complex, for the collector vessels, and for the
operation of the complex after construction. The day-to-day planning and
management of the construction activities, and the supervision of the work of
consulting engineers and contractors will be the responsibility of PIU, which
will be a separate unit within the managing director's office of the
restructured FPID.  The PIU will be headed by a project manager who will
report directly to the managing director. Pending the completion of FPID's
restructuring, the Second Fisheries Project's director, appointed as director
of FPID, will have full responsibility ior PIU.
5.3       PIU will review and approve designs, tender documents, bid
evaluations, and contracts prepared by consultants; approve construction
programs; supervise construction; arrange for procurement of collector vessels
and all equipment and materials; maintain project accounts; submit
disbursement requests; and prepare quarterly progress reports and completion
reports for PCC consideration and IDA review. To carry out these tasks, PIU
will be assisted by consulting engineers to carry out pre-design and
environmental baseline studies, preparation of final designs, review of
specifications and tender documents, construction supervision, and
commissioning of plant and other facilities. In addition, direct support to
PIU would be provided with specific technical experts, as outlined in
para. 3.15.
5.4       Proiect Operations.  On completion of construction of the project
facilities, FPID would appoint a general manager, who would supervise the
following sectionF at the Kooddoo complex:
(a)  Fleet management section would organizct fish collection, fuel
distribution, unloading of fresh fish, loading of frozen fish,
vessel scheduling, maintenance, repair, and annual surveys.
(b)  Plant section would operate the refrigeration complex.  It will be
responsible for receiving, grading, and weighing fish; for
freezing, storing and transporting fish to the jetty for loading it
into reefers; and for maintenance of the refrigeration and other
support facilities.
(c)  Administration section would be responsible for all personnel and
welfare aspects, including staff recruitment, grounds maintenance,
canteen, staff housing, guest house, general stores, and telex and
radio operations.
(d)  Accounting section would be responsible for all accounting aspects
of the various operations, timekeeping and wages of staff, payments
to fishermen, and maintaining stock records.



- 33 -
The existing commercial section of FPID, or its successor in Male, would be
responsible for developing markets, reviewing fish pricing, including
negotiations with importers, and setting marketing policies in coordination
with STO's managing director and MOFA.
5.5       Maintenance and operation of navigation lights would be the
responsibility of MTS, which is already in charge of maintaining existing
navigational aids nationwide.
Ministry of Fisheries and Agriculture
5.6       The project components to be implemented by MOFA comprise:
(i) tuna tagging and length-frequency studies; (ii) statistics strengthening;
(iii) assistance to EPCS; and (iv) improving vessel design.
(a)  The tuna tagging program would be executed by FRPI, which currently
executes a similar program, using rented fishing vessels. Data
would be analyzed by FRPI, with some assistance from the T do-
Pacific Tuna Program based in Colombo. Tagging operatior. for
skipjack tuna and sampling of length frequencies for yellowfin tuna
would take place in several areas in Maldives. FRPI has an
experienced staff but lacks specific biological experience. The
project will provide the services of a stock assessment specialist
conversant with tuna tagging and sampling, while two FRPI
biologists would be trained with funds from the IDA Education
Project.
(b) The statistics and economic studies component would be executed by
EPCS, which incorporates the former statistics, computing, and data
analysis and library units of MOFA. The project's statistical
consultant will assist EPCS in setting up a more reliable fish-
catch sampling system. The consultant will, with a UN volunteer to
be obtained through UNDP, train local enumerators, set up a
permanent sample collection system based on selected islands
throughout Maldives, and improve processing of catch data. EPCS
would also start collection of catch and earnings data from a
sample of fishing vessels and would start analyzing the financial
data of fish processing operations in Maldives. These data would
provide a basis for the main EPCS economic studies:
(i) development of a transparent pricing formula for fresh tuna,
and (ii) analysis of the sector contributions to the economy, and
of the economic, price, and fiscal incentives to fishermen and
processors to increase fish production and exports. These studies
will provide the basis for the framework to strengthen development
of the sector and, inter alia, facilitate increased private sector
participation in the sector. An economist, a data processing
specialist, and a fisheries statistician, currently being trained
abroad, will shortly return to join EPCS. Under the project, EPCS
would receive technical assistance from a macroeconomist and a
resource/microeconomist to initiate the studies and set up a system
to analyze tuna prices. In view of the importance of the economic
analysis to be carried out by EPCS, assurances were obtained that:
(i) MOFA would establish EPCS and appoint an experienced economist



- 34 -
to head EPCS by June 30, 1992; (ii) GOM would establish by June 30,
1993, a Presidential Committee which shall periodically, but not
less than every six months, review the proposals and analysis
submitted to it by EPCS, with a view to deciding tuna prices for
the next period; (iii) EPCS would develop, not later than June 30,
1993, a transparent pricing formula for fresh tuna, and carry out
an analysis of the economic, price and fiscal incentives to
increase fish production and exports as well as the contribution of
the fisheries sector to the economy; and (iv) EPCS would,
thereafter, carry out and furnish such analysis to the Presidential
CommitLee at least every six months.
(c) The vessel design component would be executed by FRPI in
coordination with STO's boatyard in Alifushi. This is headed by an
experienced naval architect who was also involved in the successful
design of the second-generation dhoni under the First Fisheries
Project. The project would provide a naval architect consultant to
assess the design parameters of a multi-purpose fishing vessel that
could operate fishing trips of several days. Once these parameters
have been approved by GOM, the first prototype vessel would be
built at the Alifushi boatyard. Following completion, the boat
would be leased out, possibly on the basis of a minimum income
guarantee and share of the catch, to an experienced fisherman for
test fishing. After a year of test fishing, the results would be
reviewed, with the design adjusted accordingly, and a second
prototype would be constructed, which would be leased out for an
initial two years, after which it could be sold or further leased.
Ministry of Trade and Industry
5.7       MTI will be responsible for implementing the TA to encourage
increased private sector participation in the fisheries sector. It will be
responsible for consultant recruitment in this endeavor.
Ministry of Planninx and Environment
5.8       ERU of MPE will be responsible for the environmental aspects of the
project, both at the construction and operational stages. It will have
primary responsibility for the environmental baseline survey to be carried out
by the technical studies/detailed design consultants to be appointed by FPID,
and the design and monitoring of key environmental protection measures. ERU
will recruit an environmental specialist to assist with the latter task
(para. 3.22). It will coordinate with FPID (PIU during construction and the
Kooddoo site management during operational stage) and the Ministry of Public
Works and Labor (MPW) in its monitoring activities.
B. Proiect Coordination
5.9       Similar to the arrangements under the First and Second Fisheries
Projects, the PCC of the Second Fisheries Project will be maintained to
monitor project progress and review and find solutions for implementation
bottlenecks. PIU, which would be responsible for planning and day-to-day
project implementation and would serve as the secretariat to the PCC. The PCC



- 35 -
would comprise senior officials from STO/FPID, MOFA, MTI, MPE, the Ministry of
Atolls Administration, MPW, MTS, the Ministry of Finance, Maldives Monetary
Authority, and others as deemed necessary by GOM. An assurance was obtained
from GOM that it would maintain the PCC for the proposed project, with a
chairperson, membership, powers, functions and responsibilities satisfactory
to IDA.
C. Human Resources and Manpower Development
5.10      Availability of experienced management and technical staff is
essential to the success of the project. An assurance was obtained that the
fisheries sector activities of STO/FPID would at all times be under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent
staff in adequate numbers. It is expected that the precent experienced
management and staff responsible for STO/FPID's fisheries activities and the
IDA Second Fisheries Project's PIU will substantially remain with the
restructured FPID. FPID has three junior accountants undergoing training in
Australia, financed under the Second Fisheries Project. There are plans for a
mechanical and a refrigeration engineer to be trained under an Australian
Government program. FPID has also been allocated about 156 months of
training/scholarships under the IDA Education and Training Project (Credit
1981-MAL) as follows:
Award/          No. of              Course
Field of Study                       Level           People              Length
(months)
Food Tech./Quality Control         Degree                1                 36
Refrigeration Engin.               Degree                1                 48
Accountancy                         Diploma              1                 24
Captains/Masters                   Cert                  1                 24
Marine Engineering                 Cert/Dip              1                 24
5.11      While the above training will complement the existing management
and technical expertise in STO/FPID, new investments under the project and in
the Laamu atoll necessitate a detailed manpower development plan (MDP) to
ensure timely availability of qualified personnel. The MDP for the fisheries
sector is under preparation for GOM by consultants. Taking the sector MDP
into consideration, the FPID restructuring consultancy would prepare a
detailed MDP for FPID, to cover its entire operation. This plan would
involve: (i) training of the above-mentioned critical technical personnel
prior to project start-up, under IDA's ongoing Education and Training Project;
(ii) in-country training of vessel captains; and (iii) continued judicious use
of expatriate technical and management expertise, which still ensures a highly
positive net foreign exchange earnings position for the project. An assurance
was obtained from GOM that the detailed staffing plan for the operation of the
Kooddoo fish freezing complex, acceptable to IDA, would be provided by GOM to
IDA at least 12 months before the commencement of operations.



- 36 -
D. Pro ect Implementation Plans and Status
5.12      The project will be implemented over a six-year period, in
accordance with the implementation schedule detailed in Chart 5.
5.13      Subsequent to the initial preparation of the project by FAO/CP, GOM
sought FAO Technical Cooperation Project (FAO-TCP) assistance to carry out
preliminary investigations, designs, and project infrastructure costing based
on detailed bills of quantities. The FAO-TCP assi8tance carried out outline
engineering investigations and topographic and hydrographic surveys in
addition to a comprehensive survey of fishermen and fishing activities. The
IDA preappraisal mission reviewed the FAO-TCP outputs, modified some aspects,
and updated the costs. Preliminary designs were reviewed again at appraisal.
Therefore, both the design and cost estimate for the project have been
reviewed in detail and updated over several stages. Draft tender packages for
technical site studies and detailed design of the port and refrigeration
complex consultancy for the FPID restructuring and draft TORs for the naval
architect vessel design consultant have also been reviewed. The selection of
consultants for the technical studies and detailed designs and for the FPID
restructuring is underway, financed by the IDA-approved PPF, and is scheduled
to be completed by February 1992, These activities are expected to be
completed by October 1992.
E. Monitoring and Evaluation
5.14      PIU would have overall responsibility for monitoring, evaluation
and reporting, which will focus on project inputs and outputs and on policy
and institutional changes related to STO/FPID and the fishing sector. PIU
will be assisted by the engineering consultants in the monitoring of
procurement and construction and in the reporting of boat construction
activities, and by MOFA in the research activities. Inuts monitored will
include: procurement, staffing, and training. Outputs monitored will
include: quantity of fish by species caught and bought; quantities of fish
processed and marketed abroad by FPID; financial results of the project and
STO/FPID; progress made in the assessment of fish resources, environmental
monitoring and other TA, and beneficiary fishing family incomes.
5e15      Eventually, to evaluate the impact of the project on fishing family
incomes, EPCS will undertake a baseline socio-economic survey one year before
the start of operations of the refrigeration complex.
5.16      Supervision,  Under separate agreements with the cofinanciers, IDA
will supervise implementation of all components of the project. There would
be two supervision missions per year. The supervision specialists required at
various stages of project implementation would be: a refrigeration
specialist, a fisheries specialist, a management consultant, an institutional
specialist, a financial analyst, a naval architect, and a civil engineer.
5.17      Policy and institutional changes to be monitored will include:
further progress made in FPID's institutional adjustment and its operating
autonomy and operating efficiency, creation of a fiscal, legal, and
institutional framework to facilitate increased private sector participation,
and progrese in the setting up of a regular system for review of fish prices.



- 37 -
R.vorting Requirements
5.18      PIU will be responsible for submitting to IDA:  short quarterly
progress reports focused on key indicators; and annual progress reports on the
project, not later than two months after the end of each reporting period. An
interim review of project activities, especially those related to FPID
restructuring, will be conducted jointly by GOM, IDA, and other cofinanciers
by March 31, 1993. An assurance was obtained to this effect.
F. Accounts and Audits
5.19      All organizations involved in project implementation wuald be
subject to GOM's expenditure control procedures, which are considered
satisfactory. Project accounts would be maintained separately and in readily
identifiable form by FPID, MOFA, MTI, and MPE. Project accounts would be
consolidated by PIU to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices,
the operations, resources, and expenditures related to the project.
Furthermore, for as long as STO remains in control of FPID, it would submit to
IDA yearly audited reports of its consolidated financial statements.
Assurances were obtained from GOM on the above accounting procedures, and
that: (a) unaudited financial statements of STO, FPID, and the project would
be submitted to IDA not later than three months after the end of each fiscal
year; (b) a firm of independent auditors, satisfactory to IDA, would be
appointed to undertake annual audits of the accounts mentioned in (a) above
and of SOEs; (c) certified copies of the audited accounts of FPID, STO, the
project, and the Special Account for each fiscal year and of the auditor's
report including a separate audit opinion on SOE's would be furnished to IDA
not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year; and (d) the
auditor's report would be of such scope and in such detail as IDA shall
reasonably request.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES
A. Production
6.1       Fish purchased by STO in Gaafu Alifu/Gaafu Dhaalu in 1990 amounted
to 11,400 tons or about half the country-wide collection of fresh tuna
(Annex 4.1). STO uses two of the largest and oldest mother vessels to freeze
fish in the atoll. Loss of these ships would mean a reduction in fish
collection capacity of 4,000 tons in the atoll. Fishermen would partly
compensate for reduced STO collection by processing more tuna into Maldive
Fish and dried fish, but overall landings are expected to fall from about
13,000 tons in 1990 (Annex 4.1) to about 4,000 tons if the old vessels are not
replaced. The replacement of the freezing vessels with the project-provided
shore-based facility will ensure the maintenance of current landings and
ultimately raise them slightly. Once the freezing plant and collection system
become fully operational, it is estimated that total tuna landings and exports
from the project area would rise by 3,200 tons, and 2,600 tons, respectively,
to about 169300 tons and 14,000 tons, respectively.



- 38 -
6.2       The new refrigeration plant would not be able to offer unrestricted
collection throughout the year and may have to turn away some fish during the
peak fishing periods, although at a much lower rate than at present. This
excess fish, along with tuna rejected due to poor quality, would be
traditionally processed. However, the extent to which fishermen use tuna for
Maldive Fish production would also depend on the future level of Maldive Fish
prices and demand in Sri Lanka. It is assumed that production of Maldive Fish
would not change from the current production of 300 tons, equivalent to 1,500
tons of fresh fish (para. 7.6). This is based on assumptions of (a) increased
fishing days, reflecting the improved availability of collector vessels;
(b) improvement in the catches per fishing day, due to reliability and
increased capacity of the collection system, which will allow fishermen to
fish longer; and (c) an increase in the number of fishing vessels in the
project area, as part of an FPID production enhancement plan. An assurance
was obtained that GOM will allocate a minimum of 15 newly constructed second-
generation dhonis from the STO boatyard to Gaafu Alifu and Gaafu Dhaalu by
December 31, 1994.
B. Markets
6.3       During the last two decades, tuna has develoned into one of the
most important commercially traded fish species. World catches of the five
most important species of tuna increased from 1.8 million tons in 1980 to
around 2.8 million t ns in 1990. This means that world tuna production has
increased by about 56 percent since 1980. Each year just over one million
tons of fresh and frozen tuna are traded internationally; Thailand and Japan
together account for 50 percent of this trade. Trade in frozen skipjack is
largely dominated by Thai imports, which went up from 49,000 tons in 1984 to
325,000 in 1989. Demand in the major consuming countries, that is, the United
States, Japan, France, Italy, and Spain, showed strong growth throughout the
1980e. At present, frozen tuna from Maldives accounts for only a small
proportion (2.5 percent) of the world's fresh, chilled, and frozen tuna
market. Most frozen tuna are sold to Thailand for canning, and Maldivian tuna
is well considered for this market due to its relatively large size and good
quality.
C. Proiected Market Demand
6.4       Future Demand for Canned Tuna.  The worldwide tuna canning industry
is going through a period of structural change as a result of economic
factors, which increasingly force high labor-cost countries such as Japan and
the United States to disengage from tuna canning in favor of low labor-cost
countries such as Thailand and Indonesia. The adjustment has created strong
impulses for competition in what used to be a mature industry. The situation
is further complicated by recent changes in consumer at:itudes toward the
environmental effects of certain industrial types of tuna fishing (purse-
seining in the eastern Pacific, gillnetting in the Pacific) that kill
dolphins.  Thus, the canning industry tries to avoid using tuna caught from
schools that mix with dolphins and to avoid tuna caught by methods that also
kill dolphins. This increasingly forces canners around the world to limit
their raw material suppliers to those using "dolphin safe" measures, such as
the pole-and-line fishing practiced in Maldives.



- 39 -
6.5       Structural changes in the canning industry are taking place in a
period of historically high growth of canned tuna consumption in the major
markets (the European Community, the United States). Other factors include
development of new products based on cooked tuna, a strong reduction in tuna-
canning activity in the United States and Japan, and a rapid expansion of
canning capacity in Thailand, Indonesia, Philippines, Mauritius, Seychelles,
and other Asian nations, from which exports increased from about 30,000 tons
in 1980 to over 300,000 tons in 1989. Changes are also taking place in
ownership patterns, with major United States canneries and distribution
systems taken over by Asian companies. Exports of canned tuna from Asian
canneries to the United States have expanded from fewer than 20,000 tons in
1980 to about 120,000 tons in 1989, and from Asian and African countries to
the EEC from 120,000 tons in 1980 to over 300,000 tons in 1989.
6.6       Future Demand for Frozen Fish.  The ultimate outcome of these
structural changes and the strong competition between the established
producers in the United States, Japan, and the European Community and vhe
newly-established canneries in Asia will depend on whether authorities in the
major markets protect their local industries. Without effective protection,
it appears likely that the Asian cannery companies will eventually become the
major suppliers in all the major canned tuna markets. Protectionist
intervention is being contemplated in the major markets but should not
materialize, since it would contravene existing GATT rules. With or without
protection, world market canned tuna prices are likely to remain under
pressure; and prices of the cheaper varieties of canned tuna are unlikely to
increase substantially in real terms. With major Asian and European tuna
canners being highly dependent upon imported tuna, demand for frozen tuna will
continue to increase.
6.7       Future Demand for Traditionally Processed Products.  Maldive Fish
and dried salted fish of good quality are in strong demand in Sri Lanka,
reflecting local shortages, and shortages of salted fish from other
traditional suppliers (India and Pakistan). Imports of dried fish in Sri
Lanka from all sources increased from around 3,400 tons in 1977 to around
34,000 tons in 1988. Total imports from Maldives are officially estimated at
about 3,850 tons (17,000 tons fresh fish equivalent) but may be higher in
reality, and are likely to increase further as a result of the recent
liberalization of Maldive Fish trade.
D. Prices
6.8       Prices for frozen tuna exported from Maldives are usually
negotiated between STO and interested buyers. Prices can fluctuate
substantially, depending on international market conditions. Recent yearly
average prices have been changing by about 20 percent. During 1990, STO
received a weighted average price of US$815/ton (FOB Maldives); the price wes
US$867 in 1989.
6.9       Two factors will substantially influence the price of frozen tuna.
With demand likely to remain strong, the supply of frozen tuna will be
determined by:



- 40 -
(a)  Resource restrictions.  Some skipjack and most yellowfin resources
in the world appear close to being fully exploited, and it seems
unlikely that the production growth demonstrated during the 1980s
can continue indefinitely; and
(b) Reduced fishing effort. Current anvironmental concerns about
dolphins may substantially change the nature of tuna fishing,
notably in the Pacific Ocean. Fishing with older methods is likely
to decline, while new investment in alternative methods may be
restricted because of the relatively low prices for frozen tuna at
present.
6.10      With resources increasingly limited and fishing effort restricted,
the prices of frozen tuna may increase in the long term; in the short term,
prices may fluctuate substantially on account of adjustments in catching and
processing capacity in various parts of the world. Nevertheless, Maldives
appears particularly well placed for competing in the international tuna
market, due to its dolphin-friendly tuna production; its very low production
costs compared to industrial fishing methods, its close proximity to Thailand,
the largest tuna importer in the world; and its ability to expand tuna
production further.
6.11      With regard to prices at which STO/FPID would purchase tuna from
fishermen, assurances were obtained on the establishment of the EPCS within
MOFA, appointment of an experienced economist to head it, review of the prices
by EPCS at least every six months, and creation of a Presidential Committee
which would review analysis undertaken by EPCS to decide on tuna prices (para.
5.6(b)].
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A.   Project Beneficiaries and Benefits
Beneficiaries
7.1       The project would benefit about 2,000 tuna fishing households in
the project area by increasing significantly the income-generating
opportunities from fishing in the project area. Fishermen would be able to
sell tuna to STO/FPID more regularly and in larger amounts. With the project,
returns to labor per day from fishing are expected to more than double, as
compared to the "without-project" case. The project would serve not only
those fishermen operating in the immediate vicinity of the freezing complex
but also those in more distant islands of the atoll. They would gain access
to fish collection facilities where none exists at present. The project would
provide direct employment to 137 people working at the plant and 102 people on
the vessels.
7.2       The increase in income would improve the relatively poor living
conditions in the project area, where income per person aged 12 or older is
estimated to be about half the level in Male. Lack of income-generating and
education opportunities in the atolls, including the project area, contribute
to the large-scale migration from the atolls to Male. According to the 1985



- 41 -
census, about 45 percent of the population in Male comes from the atolls, and
about 13 percent of this portion originated in the Gaafu Alifu/Gaafu Dhaalu
atoll.
7.3       Higher efficiency in collection and freezing of tuna, as well as
higher output, would substantially improve STO/FPID's profitability. This in
turn would benefit GOM, since STO as a whole is a significant contributor to
GOM revenues, providing about 12 percent of total revenues through profits and
customs duties. GOM would also obtain substantial financial benefit, as it
will borrow at concessional terms and onlend to STO/FPID at a commercial rate
of interest (see para. 7.9).
Benefits
7.4       Quantifiable Benefits.  The project would maintain current catches
and exports of tuna from the project area. Ultimately at full development,
the total catch of tuna in the project area would be 16,300 tons per year,
which is about 26 percent higher than the 1990 level and amounts to about
23 percent of the total fish catch in Maldives in 1990 (FFE). Total exports
of frozen tuna from the project area are expected to increase by 2,600 tons to
14,000 tons per year, which amounts to about 25 percent of total tuna exports
in 1990 (FFE). Without the project or any new investment in collection and
freezing facilities, ultimately no tuna would be exported from the project
area, since the aging mother vessels operating in the area would be scrapped.
The project would also raise tuna collection and exports outside of the
project area by about 2,000 tons a year for about four years after completion
of the complex. This is because the new shore-based freezing complex would
allow STO to relocate one relatively new mother vessel currently operating in
the project area to other parts of the country where tuna collection needs
improvement.
7.5       Noncuantifiable Benefits.  The project's nonquantifiable benefits
may be equally important. Efforts to develop a sound institutional and
regulatory framework to guide future fishery development would strongly assist
sector development, including needed private sector participation. Assietance
to EPCS would help in devising a transparent pricing system, which, together
with an appropriate fiscal regime, would more equitably deal with the sector's
rent allocation and incentive system. Efforts to enhance the efficiency of
STO/FPID's operations would increase GOM revenues and improve the
marketability of Maldive tuna in international markets. The design of
experimental dhonis suitable for multi-day trips would broaden the scope of
fishing operations in the country. Supporting the tuna tagging, length-
frequency and statistics studies will enhance knowledge on fishery resources
in Maldives. Finally, the infrastructure to be constructed under the project
may attract private investment in activities outside of fisheries, such as
textiles-related manufacturing or transit storage of imported goods. The
extent to which this could happen will depend largaly on GOM's policy in
encouraging such non-fishery activities in the area.



- 42 -
B. Financial and Economic Analysis
7.6       For the financial and economic analysis, it is assumed that the
three mother vessels currently operating in the project area would be
scrapped, two immediately after the completion of construction of the Kooddoo
complex and the other one four years later. The economic life of the project
is assumed to be 20 years. The production of Maldive Fish in the project area
is assumed to be unchanged with the project, while it would increase without
the project as tuna collection for freezing declines (Table 7.1 below). Local
consumption of tuna is assumed to remain constant.
Table 7.1: PRODUCTION OF TUNA IN GAAFU ALIFU/GAAFU DHAALU ATOLL
Without               With
Present               Project               Project
--------- ('000 tons) ---------________
Sales to STO/FPID
for export               11.4            2.5/a          O.O/b        14.0
Traditional processing      1.5            2.3la          3.0/b          1.5
/a During project years 4-7, after the two mother vessels operating in the
project area are scrapped.
lb Beginning project year 8, when no tuna would be collected for freezing, as
the last mother vessel is scrapped and no new investment is made.
Financial Analysis
7.7       Income of Fishermen.  The project's estimated impact on the income
of the crew of fishing vessels is based on the performance of an average
vessel in the project area. Without the project no tuna would be collected by
STO/FPID after 1998, when the last mother vessel would be scrapped; with the
project, an average of 89 tons of fresh tuna per boat would be sold annually
to STO/FPID. At full development of the project, returns to labor per day
would be about Rf 56, compared to about Rf 54 in the present case and Rf 26
without the project (Annex 7.1). With the project, due to higher returns to
labor per day, fishermen are expected to fish more often (148 days per year as
opposed to 40 days per year without the project). Therefore, the annual tuna
incomes of the fishing households will increase by 32 percent with the
project, whereas it will decline by 83 percent in the "without project"
scenario.
7.8       STO/FPID OQerations.  For the financial analysis of STO/FPID
operations, only those costs that would be borne by STO/FPID have been
included. Financial prices have been applied, including a fuel price of
Rf 4.05 per liter, which is the price at which fuel was sold by STO to
fishermen at the time of appraisal, in effect since February 1991. STO's



- 43 -
purchasing prices for tuna are Rf 2.20 per kg for tuna over 2 kg and Rf 1.70
per kg for tuna under 2 k6, in effect since October 1990. GOM would onlend
the costs of the complex to STO/FPID at 13.0 percent interest with a repayment
period of 20 years, including 5 years of grace (para. 4.8). It is assumed
that interest during construction would be capitalized, and that 50 percent of
the new profit would be contributed to GOM. With the above assumptions, the
complex's net profit after interest payment would turn positive in 1996 and
steadily increase thereafter (see Annex 7.4). The complex will generate ample
resources to repay debt obligations and finance the replacement of plant and
equipment as necessary (Annexes 7.5 and 7.6). The financial rate of return
for the complex is estimated at 27 percent (Annex 7.7).
7.9       Impact on GOM.  GOM's contribution would amount to about US$3.1
million spread over five years: US$1.7 million in 1992, US$1.3 million in
1993 and US$0.1 million in 1994-1996 (para. 4.6). Due to the above GOM
expenditures, net cash flow from the project to GOM during construction of the
complex would be negative (Annex 7.8). The net cash flow to GOM would turn
positive, to US$2.3 million (current price), in 1995, the year when the
complex starts to operate, under the assumptions described in the above
paragraph, since STO/FPID would start to make interest payments to GOM. The
allocation of STO's net operating profit in the past was based on a general
agreement between GOM and STO, which reflected the need of GOM for funds in
that particular year. It has been assumed, based on historic precedents, that
half of the net annual operating profit of the project would be contributed to
GOM: the contribution is projected to start in 1996 when the net profit of
the project turns positive.
Economic Analysis
7.10      For economic analysis, it is assumed that for most items finfncial
prices reflect their opportunity cost to the economy. This is because most
goods and services will be imported directly by STO/FPID free of duties and
taxes, and because the Rufia is freely traded. Separate economic prices were
calculated for fuel, which is sold by STO at controlled prices, and unskilled
labor, where rigidities in wages may not reflect unemployment and under-
employment in the project area. The economic price of marine diesel oil was
derived from FOB Singapore prices of crude oil, projected by IDA for the
project implementation period at Rf 2.8 per liter on a CIF Male basis (Annex
8.1). A shadow wage rate was used for unskilled labor such as vessel crew, at
80 percent of the financial wage rates, in consideration of general
unemployment and underemployment in the project area. However, no shadow wage
rates were applied to other, more skilled types of labor, due to the acute
scarcity of such labor in Maldives. The price for Maldive Fish is estimated
at Rf 20,600 per ton (oa a product basis), using recent export prices to Sri
Lanka.
7.11      In the "without-project" case, fish exported from the project area
after the demise of the last mother vessel would comprise only Maldive Fish,
totaling Rf 12 million (1991 prices) per year, while Rf 129 million (199.
prices) would be exported annually in the "with-project" case, about
95 percent frozen tuna. The project is expected to generate net annual
foreign exchange earnings of about Rf 70 million (1991 prices) equivalent at



- 44 -
full development. The economic rate of return (ERR) is estimated at 24
percent (Annex 8.6).
Sensitivity and Risk Analysis
7.12      The sensitivity of the ERR to changes in assumptions and other
parameters is generally limited. At a discount rate of 12.0 percent, the
calculated switching values, shown in Table 7.2, indicate that the project
could sustain a substantial increase in cost and a decline in throughput and
export prices, as well as a delay in start up. With no shadow wages used for
unskilled labor, the ERR would remain unchanged.
Table 7.2:  SWITCHING VALUES
Switching value
Variable tested                                (percentage change)
Increase in Investment Cost of the Complex                     +129
Decline in Throughpvt for the Complex                           -28
Decline in Export Price of Frozen Tuna                          -32
Lag in Start Up of the complex (in years)                         2
7.13      Project risks appear modest.  Fish resources are abundant, although
seasonal shortages could occur due to changes in oceanic temperature
distribution and weather patterns. Export markets are well established, and
demand for frozen tuna is expected to grow. Maldivian tuna has a favorable
reputation in the world market, due to its relatively large size and good
quality, and would continue in good repute especially because it is "dolphin
friendly". Although involvement of several cofinanciers in project financing
could lead to delays and coordination difficulties, experience under the first
two projects has demonstrated that such problems can be minimized by proper
planning and advanced consultation during preparation, as was done for this
project. The operation of a new fish processing complex will present a
challenge and will require strong management. Incentives to fishermen to
supply adequate throughput could also affect the performance of the
freezing/cold storage complex; technical assistance and production enhancement
strategies would address these risks (para. 6.2). Finally, bureaucratic and
political constraints may hamper implementation of a more transparent fish
pricing system and the introduction of the necessary legal, fiscal and
institutional framework to facilitate future involvement of the private sector
in fish processang and marketing activities. Focused technical assistance,
regular supervision, and a continued sector dialogue on future investments
would minimize those risks.



- 45 -
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.1       At negotiations assurances were obtained from GOM that:
(a) GOM will inform IDA, prior to committing to a cannery on Laamu
atoll or a freezing/cold storage facility in the north (Haa
Alifu/Haa Dhaalu), the details of such investments (para. 2.13).
(b) GOM will take all measures to prohibit the digging for turtle eggs
and the taking of live turtles on and around the island of Kooddoo,
by December 31, 1992 (para. 3.26);
(c) GOM will make overall budgetary provisions covering the entire
implementation period including any unforeseen adverse cost
developments (para. 4.6);
(d) GOM will onlend $2.6 million to STO/FPID under a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement; at an interest rate of 13 percent per annum, with a
repayment period of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with GOM
bearing the foreign exchange risk (para. 4.8)!
(e) GOM would allow IDA to comment on the specifications of the
proposed refrigeration/cold storage plant and construction
contracts prior to issuing the bidding documents (para. 4.14);
(f) (i) that MOFA would establish an Economic Planning and Coordination
Section and appoint an experienced economist to head EPCS by
June 30, 1992; (ii) that GOM would establish, by June 30, 1993, a
Presidential Committee which shall periodically, but not less than
every six months, review the proposals and analysis submitted to it
by EPCS, with a view to deciding tuna prices for the next period;
(iii) EPCS would develop, not later than June 30, 1993, a
transparent pricing formula for fresh tuna, and carry out an
analysis of the economic, price and fiscal incentives to increase
fish production and exports as well as contribution of the
fisheries sector to the economy; and (iv) EPCS would, thereafter,
carry out and furnish such analysis to the Presidential Committee
at least every six months (para. 5.6(b)];
(g) maintenance of a Project Coordinating Committee, with composition
and responsibilities satisfactory to IDA (para. 5.9);
(h) the fisheries sector activities of STO/FPID would at all times be
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers (para. 5.10);
(i) a detailed staffing plan for the operation of the Kooddoo fish
freezing complex, acceptable to IDA, would be provided to IDA at
least 12 months before the commencement of operations (para. 5.11);



- 46 -
(j)  an interim review of project activities, especially those related
to FPID restructuring, will be conducted jointly by GOM, IDA and
other cofinanciers by March 31, 1993 (para. 5.18);
(k) (i) unaudited financial statements of STO, FPID, and the project
would be submitted to IDA not later than three months after the end
of each fiscal year; (ii) a firm of independent auditors.
satisfactory to IDA, would be appointed to undertake annual audits
of the accounts mentioned in (i) above, the Special Account, and
SOEs; (iii) certified copies of the audited accounts of FPID, STO,
the project, the Special Account for each fiscal year, and of the
auditor's report, including a separate audit opinion on SOEs would
be furnished to IDA not later than six months after the end of each
fiscal year; and (iv) the auditor's report would be of such scope
and in such detail as IDA shall reasonably request (para. 5.19);
(1) GOM will allocate a minimum of 15 newly constructed second-
generation dhonis from the STO boatyard to Gaafu Alifu and Gaafu
Dhaalu by December 31, 1994 (para. 6.2).
8.2       Effectiveness of the Norwegian, Swedish, NDF, and OPEC Fund
agreements (para. 4.7) and signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOM
and STO/FPID (para. 4.8), are conditions of Credit effectiveness.
8.3       With the above conditions and assurances, the proposed project
would be suitable for an IDA Credit of SDR 7.6 million (US$10.0 million) to
GOM on standard terms, with 40 years' maturity.



17 -
ANNEX 1
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT
Fisheries Sector Proiect Performance Audit Reports
Actual
Project          Approval   Completion         PPAR
Reference   Country           Description          date         date       Report No.
1      Ghana             Fisheries          09/23/69     07/15/75          2794
2      Indonesia         Fisheries          07/07/70      10/15/79         2806
3      Tunisia           Fish I             09/14/71      12/15/79         3753
4      Yemen, People's
Democ. Rep.       Fish I             04/10/73     09/15/79         3755
5      Indonesia          Fisheries Credit 06/04/74       09/30/81         4468
6      Burundi            Fisheries Devt.  04/20/76       06/15/79         5683
7      Tanzania          Fisheries Devt.  07/01/76        12/15/82        5136
8      India             Andhra Pradesh   05/30/78        06/15/86         6843
Fisheries
9      Bangladesh        Oxbow Lakes        03/29/79      06/30/86         7882
Fisheries
10      Maldives          Fisheries          05/15/79      10/15/83        5587
11      Yemen, People's
Democ. Rep.      Fisheries 2       06/12/79      06/30/87         7959
12      Ecuador           Fisheries          09/03/68      10/15/80        3731
13      Panama            Fish I             07/27/71     09/15/76          2578
14      Philippines       Fish I             05/15/73     06/15/79          4222
15      Iran              Fi_ -r'.es         09/10/74     06/30/79         3145
16      Philippines       Fish 2             05/25/76     03/15/80          4222
17      India             Gujarat Fisheries03/31/77       06/15/86          6842
18      Panama            Fisheries 2        04/05/77      06/15/81         4597
19      Tunisia           Fisheries 2        06/28/79      12/31/87         7772
20      Maldives           Fisheries 2       06/09/83      06/30/91
Harvesting the Waters, a Review                                             4984
of Bank Experience with Fisheries
Development (dated 03/13/84)



Naldives
Third Fisheries
Rf
Summry Accoumts by Ye.r
Base Costs                                                  foreign Exchange
......... ................. ... .... .. .. ................--------------------                .......................... .    ...   .....
91/92        92/93        93/94        94/95         95/96        96/97        Total                    Amont
1. INVESTNENT COSTS
................
A. Civil Works                           0.0   41525933.3  76330301.2    771266.7             0.0           0.0  118627501.3           98.2  116439331.3
B.  Refrigeration Plant/Equlp             0.0  31566018.9  13367896.1    4419358.0            0.0           0.0   49353273.0           99.2  48939342.0
C. Vessels                               0.0           0.0  35059100.0    4r*a'. 0           0.0           0.0   35461500.0          100.0  35461500.0
D. Trsnsport Equipment                    0.0   8695193.3   9241786.7            0.0          0.0           0.0   17936980.0          100.3  17936980.0
E. Consultants.and training       18057700.0   12625176.8   10515133.3   7517253.3             0.0          0.0   48715263.4           99.7  48561663.4
F. Nateriats and Equipment               0.0    663664.5       135127.8      4T77F.0          0.0          0.0      846577.3           83.2    op4010.2
. .... ..................... ..... .I.-------------- .. -----.....---...------------..-------......-....-.----------------.-.........-
Total INVESTNENT COSTS            18057700.0  95075986.9  144649345.2  13158063.0             0.0           0.0  270941095.0           98.9  26840'2826.9
II. RECUOREUT COSTS
..................
G.  lncremntal Recur. Costs              0.0    420200.0    576003.6    319150.4    278750.4    278750.4   187.2854.8                  15.6     292501.2
Total BASELINE COSTS              18057700.0  95496186.9  145225348.8  1347M713.4    278750.4    278750.4  272813949.9                 98.4  268335328.2
Physical Contingencies                0.0   4950583.3    6377881.2    205201.6         13937.5      13937.5  11561541.1             98.6   11403186.0
Price Contingencies              334067.4   5709518.4   14736509.2   1898868.6         95241.4    120543.3  22894748.&              95.8  21942227.1
Total PROJECT COSTS               18391767.4  106156288.6  166339739.2  15581283.5    387929.3    413231.2  307270239.4                98.2  301680741.2
Taxes                                 0.0           0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0           0.0            0.0          0.0
Foreign Exchange               18391767.4  104911976.7  162937233.6  15236448.9        99810.8     103503.8  301680741.2           100.0  301680741.2
, ............................................ .. ..... ....--.--......... * -*---*------***---**-----------------------------------------
m m
-0



Naldives
Third Fisheries
Sumry Accounts by Year
Totals Including Contingencies
Rf
--.... ..--....-. .------.-...-....-.-..--..-..--.----- -.--...-.-.---.------..-..----.-.- .
91/92       92/93       93/94       94/95       95/96       96/97        Total
1. IMESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Works                         0.0  47883769.5  88220218.8    91979S.3          0.0         0.0  137023783.6
B. Refrigeration Plant/Equip           0.0  34361243.8  15087081.3   5170037.7          0.0         0.0  54618362.9
C. Vessels                             0.0         0.0  40318893.8    479893.2          0.0         0.0  40798787.0
D. Transport Equipment                 0.0   9385770.4  10344878.2          0.0         0.0         0.0  19730648.6
E. Consultants and Training      18391767.4  13341327.6  11518830.9   8540946.1         0.0         0.0  51792872.0
F. 4terilals and Equipment             0.0    715522.9    154284.6      54273.6         0.0         0.0    924081.2
Totel INWSTNENT COSTS            18391767.4  105687634.3  1656M187.7  15164945.8        0.0         0.0 304888535.2
11. RECURRENT COSTS
....   .... .....
A. Irerewntal Recur. Costs             0.0    468654.3    695551.6    416337.7    387929.3    413231.2   2381704.2
Totl PRIUECT COSTS              18391767.4  106156288.6  166339739.2  15581283.5    387929.3    413231.2 307270239.4
(DM
0.
L X



Naldives
Third Fisheries
Summary Accounts by Year
Totals Including Contingencies
USS
91/92        92/93         93/94        94/95        95/96         96/A7        Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
...................-
A. Civit Works                             0,0    4759818.0    8769405.4       91430.9           0.0          0.0   13620654.4
B. Refrigeration Plant/Equip               0.0    3415630.6    1499709.9    513920.2             0.0          0.0   5429260.7
C. Vessels                                 0.0           0.0    4007842.3      47703.1           0.0          0.0   4055545.4
D. Trwaport Equipment                      0.0     932979.2    1028317.9           0.0           0.0          0.0    1961297.1
E. Consultants and Training          1828207.5    1326175.7    1145013.0      849000.6           0.0          0.0    5148396.8
F. Materials and Equipment                 0.0      71125.5       15336.4       5395.0           0.0          0.0      91857.0
Total ItmESTMENt COSTS               1828207.5   10505729.1   16465625.0    1507449.9            0.0          0.0   30307011.5
II. RECURRENT COSTS
...................
A. Incremental Recur. Costs                0.0      46585.9       69140.3      41385.5       38561.6      41076.7     236749.9
Total PROJECT COSTS                  1828207.5   10552315.0   16534765.3    1548835.3        38561.6      41076.7  30543761.4
0*



Waldives
Third Fisheries
Rf
Project Coponents by Year
Base Costs                                                Total
91/92        92/93        93/94        94/95        95/96        96/97      Rf         USS
Kooddoc Freezing Cosptex
1. Port Works                           0.0   37321130.0   18423884.4          0.0          0.0          0.0  55745014.4    5541253.9
2. FreezIng/Cotd Stor.Plant             0.0   25404897.7   53297151.6    1186535.1          0.0          0.0  79888584.3    7941211.2
3. Office, Housing, Workshop            0.0w   2663317.9   10653271.8          0.0          0.0          0.0   13316589.7    1323716.7
4. Supply of Misc.Equipment             0.0   16397800.0   15523523.1    4004089.6          0.0          0.0  35925412.7   3571114.6
5. Vessels                              0.0          0.0   34656700.0          0.0          0.0          0.0  36656700.0    3445000.0
6. Navigational Aids                    0.0          0.0    1042153.1     104746.7     104746.7      104746.7   1356393.4     134830.4
7. TA/Training for Vessels              0.0    1006000.0    377250.0           0.0          0.0          0.0   1383250.0    137500.0
8. Design/Spv for Port,Plant     14159450.0   4092743.3   3831183.3   2764703.3             0.0          0.0  24828M08.0   2468000.0
Sub-totat                          14159450.0   86885888.9  137805117.4    8040074.7     104146.7     104746.7 247100024.5   24562626.7
B. Technical Assistance
1. Suppor;- to FPID                     0.0    2012000.0    2012000.0   2615600.0           0.0          0.0   6639600.0      660000.0
2. SUPpo... for Restruct.FPID     3898250.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0   3898250.0    387500.u
3. Supor. to NFNA                       0.0   4454759.4   3725227.8   2521785.0             0.0          0.0  10901772.2   1083675.2
4. Su7z rt to Env.Res.Unit              0.0    686038.5    928503.6    299753.6    174003.6    174003.6   2262303.1    224881.0
5. Priv&-e Sec.Encouragement            0.0   1257500.0    754500.0            0.0          0.0          0.0   2012000.0    200090.0
Sub-total                           3898250.0   8610297.9   7420231.5   5437138.6    174003.6    174003.6  25713925.3   2556056.2
Total BASELiME COSTS               18B57700.0  95496186.9  145225348.8  13477213.4    278750.4    278750.4  272813949.9  27118682.9
Physicat Contingencies                 0.0   4950583.3   6377881.2    205201.6         13937.5      13937.5  11561541.1    1149258.6
Price Contingencies               334067.4   5709518.4   14736509.2   1898868.6        95241.4    120543.3  22894748.4   2275819.9
Total PROJECT COSTS                18391767.4  106156288.6  166339739.2  15581283.5    387929.3    413231.2  307270239.4  30543761.4
Taxes                                 I).0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0
Foreign Exchange                18391767.4  104911976.7  162937233.6  15236448.9       99810.8    103503.8  301680741.2  29988145.3
(D M
1-.
0~



Natdives
Third Fisheries
Projects Cowponents by Year
Totals Including Contingencies
Rf
-        91/92         92/93        93/94        94/95        95/96        96/97        Total
A. Kooddo  Freezing Coplex
1. Port Works                           0.0  43212761.4  21892236.6            0.0          0.0          0.0  65104998.0
2. Freezing/Cold Stor.Plant             0.0  27691306.5  60822982.2   1405601.9              0.0         0.0  89919890.6
3. Office, Housing, Workshop            0.0   2961510.5  12307017.4             0.0          0.0          0.0  15268527.8
4. Supply of Hisc.Equip.ent             0.0  17765205.4  17431438.4   4684231.1              0.0          0.0  39880874.9
5. VesseLs                              0.0          0.0  39856123.2            0.0          0.0          0.0  39856123.2
6. Navigational Aide                    0.0          0.0    1198503.7    136881.5    145 M  .2    155281.0   1636439.3
7. TA/Training for Vessels              0.0   1062521.6    413188.1            0.0           0.0         0.0    1475709.7
8. Design/Spv for Port*Plant     14421399.8   4322692.1   4196154.6   3117401.3              0.0         0.0  26057647.8
SutbTotal                           14421399.8  97015997.5  158117644.2   9344115.7    1457M7.2    155281.0  279200211.4
B. Technical Assistance
1. Support to FPID                      0.0   2125043.2   2203669.8   2970767.3             0.0          0.0   7299480.3
2. Support for Restruct.FPID      3970367.6          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0   3970367.6
3. Support to NFNA                      0.0   4951525.0   4152103.6   2896189.8              0.0         0.0   11999818.5
4. Support to Env.Res.Un{t              0.0    735570.9    1039945.5    370210.7    242156.1    257950.3   2645833.4
5. Private Sec.Encouragement            0.0   1328152.0    826376.2            0.0          0.0          0.0   2154528.2
Sub-Total                            3970367.6   9140291.1    8222095.1   6237167.8    242156.1    257950.3  28070028.0
Total PROJECTS COSTS                18391767.4  106156288.6  166339739.2  15581283.5    387929.3    413231.2  307270239.4
IX
---
.



Naldives
Third Fisheries
Projects Cponents by Year
Totals Including Contingencies
USS
91192       92/93        93/94       94/95       95/96       96/97        Total
A. Kooddoo Freezing Cooplex
1. Pert Works                         0.0   4295503.1   e1t6166.7          0.0         0.0          0.0   6471669.8
2. FreezirgCold Stor.Plant            0.0   2752615.0   6046022.1    139721.9          0.0          0.0   8938358.9
3. Office, Housing, Workshop          0.0    294384.7   1223361.6          0.0         0.0          0.0   1517746.3
4. Suply of Nisc.Equipment            0.0   1765925.0   1732747.4    465629.3          0.0          0.0   3964301.7
5. Vessels                            0.0         0.0   3961841.3          0.0         0.0          0.0   3961841.3
6. Navigational Aids                  0.0         0.0    119135.6      13606.5      14490.4     15435.5    162667.9
7. TA/Training for Vessels            0.0    105618.4      41072.4         0.0         0.0          0.0    146690.8
8. Oesign/Spv for Port,Plant    1433538.7    429691.1    417112.8    309880.8          0.0          0.0   2590223.4
SdrTotal                           1433538.7   9643737.3  15717459.7    928838.5      14490.4      15435.5  27753500.1
B. Technical Assistance
1. Support to FPID                    0.0    211236.9    219052.7    295304.9          0.0          0.0    725594.5
2. Support for Restruct.FPID     394668.7         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0    394668.7
3. Support to NFNA                    0.0    492199.3    412734.0    287891.6          0.0          0.0   1192824.9
4. Stq)port to Env.Res.Unit           0.0     73118.4    103374.3      36800.3     24071.2      25641.2    263005.3
5. Private Sec.Encouragemnt           0.0    132023.1      82144.7         0.0         0.0          0.0    214167.8
S*-Total                            394668.7    908577.6    817305.7    619996.8      24071.2      6641.2   2790261.2
Total PROJECTS COSTS               1828207.5  10552315.0  16534765.3   1548835.3      38561.6      41076.7  30543761.4
_________________       -----------------------__ _-----------------------------------------------------------~-------~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~       U
=2=  =2=2=3=2=3=2  ==~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~=** =  == ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ M
U,
LA



Maidives
Third Fisheries
SLimanry Account by Project Coaqonent
Rf
Freezing/Co    Office,     Supply of                                             Design/Spv                Stpwort for
Id        Housing,  Nisc.Equipm                 Navigationr  TA/Trmining       for       S4.pOrt to  Restruct.FP
Port Uorks   Stor.Plant    Workshop        ent        Vessels        t Aids    for Vessels   Port.Plent       FPID          ID
1. IUWSTlEIT COSTS
...... ........._._,.
A. Civil Works                      55745014.4   48523744.0   13316589.7            0.0          0.0    1042153.1           0.0          o.e           0.0          0.0
8. ofrIgeratfon Ptant/Equip                 0.0   31364840.3           0.0   17988432.7          0.0           0.0          0.0          0.0           0.0          0.0
C.  ssels                                   0.0          0.0           0.0          0.0   34656700.0           0.0          0,0          0.0           0.0          0.0
D. fruisport Equfpnent                      0.0          0.0           0.0   17936980.0          0.0           0.0          0,0          0.0           0.0          0.0
E. Cisoultanti aid TraIning                 0.0          0.0           0.0          0.0          0.0           0.0    1333250,0   24828080.0   6639600.0    389S850.0
F. Naterfals and Equipent                   0.0          0.0          0.0           0.0          0.0          0.0           0.0          0.U           0.0          0.0
Total INESTIENT COSTS                55745014.4   79888584.3   13316589.7  35925412.7  346567D0.0    1042153.1    1383250.0  24828080.0    6639600.0   3898250.0
It. RECURRENT COSTS
................... ................... 
A. Increental Recur. Costs                  0.0          0.0           0.0          0.0          0.0     314240.2           0.0          0.0           0.0          0.0
Total IASELIUE COSTS                55745014.4  79888584.3   13316589.7  35925412.?  34656700.0    1356393.4    1383250.0  2482M800.0    6639600.0    3891250.0  L
Physicat Contingencies             5157116.2    2919462.4      665829.5    934266.5    1732835.0        67819.7           0.0          0.0           0.0          0.0
Price Contingecies                 4202867.4    7111843.8    1286108.6   3021195.7    3466588.2        212226.3       92459.7    1229567.8     659880.3       72117.6   1
Totat PROECT COSTS                  65104998.0   89919890.6  15268527.8  39880874.9  39856123.2    1636439.3    1475709.7   26057647.8    729948D.3   3970367.6
Taxes0.    0.0                                                0.0          0.0          0.0                 0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0          0.0
Foregin Exctwane                  65104998.0  87486172.7   14477991.1   39880874.9  39856123.2   1311071.7   1475709.7  26057647.8    7299480.3    3970367.6
................... ...................................... ...... ........ ........... ................... .. .. .... ...... .... ...... ...... ...........,,............ ................ ..... .......................................,,. ,
Ii
0. 



NaLdives
Third Fisheries
Summary Account by Project Cosponent
Rf
Physical                Price
Support to    Private                             Contingencies            Contingencies
Support to  Env.Res.Uni  Sec.Encoura                    --------------------------------------------
NFUA          t           gement          Total            X        Amomt          X       Amount
1. INMVSTNENT COSTS
....................
A. Civil Works                              0.0           0.0          0.0  118627501.3           6.6    7853570.6         8.9   10542711.7
Refrigeration PlantlEquip                0.0           0.0          0.0   49353273.0           3.0    1480598.2         7.7    3784491.7
_. Vessels                             804800.0          0.0           0.0   35461500.0           5.0    ¶7m7075.0        10.1    3564212.0
. Transport Equipment                       0.0          0.0           0.0   17936980.0           2.2     394613.6        7.8    1399055.1
E. Consultants nd Training            8822333.4    1131750.0   2012000.0  48715263.4              0.0          0.0         6.3    3077608.6
F. Naterials and Equipment             412038.8     434538.5           0.0     846577.3           1.1       9171.0         8.1      68332.8
Total INVESTMENT COSTS               10039172.2    1566288.5    2012000.0  270941095.0            4.2   11511028.4         8.3   22436411.8
It. RECURRENT COSTS
. ..................
A. Incremental Recur. Costs            862600.0     696014.6           0.0    1872854.8           2.7      50512.7        24.5     458336.6
Total B LSEtLiE COSTS                10901772.2    2262303.1    2012000.0  272813949.9            4.2   11561541.1         8.4   22894748.4
Physical Contingencies                40240.0      43971.8           0.0   11561541.1
Price Contingencies                 1057806.3     339558.6      142528.2   22894748.4           4.1     937935.3
Total PROJECT COSTS                  11999818.5    2645833.4    2154528.2  307270239.4            4.1   12499476.4         7.5   22894748.4
Taxes                                     0.0           0.0          0.0          0.0           0.0          0.0
Foreign Exchange                   10680615.4    1925160.6    2154528.2  301680741.2            4.1   12305473.1
0~



- 5 6 -                                                ANNEX 3.1
KALDIVES - THIRD FIS4ERIES PROJECT    PFINANCIN  PLAN 8Y PROJECT COMPONiNT
Co ponsnt                              Cost         IDA         Norway       S.ed.n        NDf          OPEC         UNDP         COm
Kooddoo Complex - Part Related Contract \
I.Port Works                        6471.7       4141.9                                                                        2329.8
2.Office, Housing, Workshop         1517.7        971.3                                                                         846.4
3.NaviGational Aide (Invest. Cost)   118.1         76.2                                                                          42.9
(sub-total)                          8108.5       S188.4                                                                        2919.1
Kooddoo Complex - Other Contracts
4.Rnfrigeration/Cold Storage Plant  8838.4                     5S38.4      2400.0
S.l4i*cellaneous Equipment          3984.3                                              3964.3
S.New Vese l                        2887.8                                                           2587 .6
7.Rofurbishwant of Vessl-           1058.0                                              1o05.O
8.1ooring Tug                        816.3                                               316.3
9.Na.igational Aide(Recurrant)        43.S                                                                                       4S3.
'0.D;ein/Super.i*ion for Port, Plant 2590.2       2590.2
11.TA/Training for Vessels            146.7        148.7
(Sub-total)                        27763.5       7926.3       6538.4       2400.0       8338.6      2587.6           0.0       2982.8
Support Activities
1.Support to fPID                    725.6        725.6
2.Suoport to PPI Restructuring       394.7         9887                                                            296.0
3.Support to MOfA                   1192.8       1054.4                                                                         138.4
4.Support to ERU                     263.0                                               263.0
S.Pri ate Sector Encouragement       214.2        214.2
(Sub-total)                         2790.3       2082.9          0.0          0.0        263.0          0.0        296.0        138.4
TOTAL                   80343.8     10019.2       6538.4 \b    2400.0       8801.6       2687.6        296.0       3101.0
Not.:\a  IA to finance                 64.001     of the total contract saount.
\b  Norway *i ll actual ly provide USS6.7 xi  ll;on gquivalent: the belance wi ll be uad to cover a part of the guarantee fee for the Norwegian credit.



- 57 -                                          ANNEX  3.2
Maldives
Third Fisheries
Financing PLan by Foreign Exchange / Local / taxes
USS
IDA      Norway      Sweden         NDF      OPEC Fund    UNDP          GOM          Total
......................................... .... ...... ............ ....................... ............ ........................ ..........
Amount      Amount      Amount      Amount      Amount      Amount      Amount      Amount
I   Foreign                   9968987.3   6361444.9   2334993.8   5529951.2   2587559.6   296001.6   2909206.9  299W88145.3
11  Local (Excl. Taxes)         50292.6    176964.7     64955.6     71637.5         0.0         0.0    191765.8    555616.1
III Taxes                           0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
Totat Project                10019279.9  6538409.5   2399949.4   5601588.7   2587559.6   296001.6   3100972.7 30543761.4
.uuaumuusw.. . . . .ruu3.. . .nu.nuuu.. .. .. .. .w.. .. ... .. .. .. .m.. .. .. .. .. ... .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..



_ 59 -                               ANNEX 3.3
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT
Cost Recovery from STO/FPID
Of which to    As Percentage
be Recovered     oi Total       As Percentage
Project Components        Cost       from STO       Components       of Total
Benefitting STO        (US$ '000)   (US$ '000)   Benefitting STO  Project coat
Kooddoo Complex         27,753.5     19,904.4          68.9             65.2
TA to FPID                 725.6          0.0           0.0              0.0
TA for Restructuring
of FPID                  394.7          0.0           0.0              0.0
Total                28.873.8/a   19,904.4          68.9             65.2
/a 94.5Z of total project cost.



- 59 -
ANNEX 3.4
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT
Disbursement Category Limits
(USS)
Z of Expenditure
Category                                Credit Allocation    to be Financed
1.  Civil Works for the                    4,479,900                 64
Port, Office/Housing/
Workshop and
Navigational Aids
2.  Equipment and Materials for MOFA          22,100            IOOZ of foreign
expenditures;
1002 of local ex-
penditures (ex-
factory); 902 of
other local
expenditures
3.  Prototype Fishing Vessels                 80,000            1002 of foreign
expenditures;
100Z of local ex-
penditures (ex-
factory); 902 of
other local
expenditures
4.  Consultant Services                    2,974,900                100
for: Construction
Supervision for the Port,
Freezing/Cold Storage Plant
and Vessels; for FPID,
MOFA and MTI; and Training
of: Vessels' Captains and
Engineers and MOPA Staff;
and for Familiarization
Visits for Vessel Design
5.  Refunding of PPF Advance               1,500,000
6.  Unallocated                              943,100
TOTAL                           10.000,000



- 60 -
ANNEX 3.5
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule by Semester
Proiect
IBRD Fiscal Year               Semester        Cumulative           Cumulative
and Semester                (US$ '000)        (US$ '000)           (Percent)
FY92         First                 0.0                0.0               0.0
Second             825.0              825.0               8.3
FY93         First               675.0            1,500.0              15.0
Second             963.6            2,463.6              24.6
FY94         First             1,406.9            3,870.5              38.7
Second           1,348.8            5,219.3              52.2
FY95         First             1,218.4            6,437.7              64.4
Second           1,218.4            7,656.1              76.6
FY96         First             1,022.5            8,678.6              86.8
Second             705.8            9,384.4              93.8
FY97         First               514.4            9,898.8              99.0
Second             101.2           10,000.0             100.0



- 61 -                             ANNEX 4.1
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT
National Fish Catch and FPID Tuna Collection by Atoll. 1990
(metric tons)
Yellow-    Other   Other   Total   Tuna collected
Region                Skipjack   fin        tuna      fish   catch       by FPID
Republic               59.899    5.279    5.185    6.011   76.373        22.740
Male                    4,084       373       322      174    4,953            0
North Thiladhunmathi   5,385        300       195      119    5,999       2,796
South Thiladhunmathi   1,412        118      240       381    2,150           19
North Miladhunmadulu   1,418        351    1,040    1,166    3,973            76
South Miladhunmadulu      824        62    1,155       121    2,163            0
North Maalhosmadulu    6,175        487      624       251    7,537            0
South Maalhosmadulu    3,124        464      264       349    4,201            0
Faadhippolhu            4,785       366        48        9    5,209          23
Male Atoll              4,622       402       137      117    5,278            0
Ari Atoll                 468       196       777    1,161    2,602            0
Felidhu Atoll             788        11       47       326    1,172            0
Mulaku Atoll            2,733       132        34       50    2,949        1,156
North Nilandhe             53        55        19      216       342           0
South Nilandhe            513       226       75       246    1,059            2
Kolhnmadulu             4,392       465       55       227    5,139          774
Hadhdhunmathi           5,405       783        98       58    6,344       6,428
North Huvadhu           5,443       228        11       14    5,695       6,570
South Huvadhu           7,044       146       31       172    7,394       4,861
Foammulah                 155        80         0       17       252          35
Addu                    1,076        33        15      838    1,962          0.5
Source. MOFA, FPID.
Note: Inconsistencies in the above arise from differences in sources of
information.



- 62 -
ANNEX 4.2
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT
Fish Catch by TYDe of Vessel. 1990
(metric tons)
Yellow-  Dogtooth Little  Frigate  Other   Total
Vessel                 Skipjack    fin      tuna      tuna    tuna      fish   catch
All Vessels             59.899    5.279        281   1.891    3.013   6.011  76.373
Mechanized Masdhoni    59,724    5,225         260   1,238    2,760   5,068  74,275
Sailing Masdhoni            47         5         1      15        21      11       99
Mechanized Vadhu dhoni      37        10         0      17        12      24       99
Sailing Vadhu dhoni         91        40       20      614       216     599   1,580
Row Boat                     0         0         0       6         3      12       21
Others                       0         0         0       1         1     297      299
Source: MOFA.



- 63 -
ANNEX 4.3
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT
Fish Production and Exports. 1990
(Thousand metric tons)
Total Catch                                            76.4
Skipjack                                          59.9
Yellowfin                                          5.3
Other tuna                                         5.2
Reef and bottom fish                               6.0
Export of fresh/frozen fish                            17.1
Export of other fish /a                                41.5
Dry skipjack (Maldive fish)                       12.1
Dry salted skipjack                                6.3
Dry salted reef fish                               2.3
Canned fish                                       20.8
La Fresh fish equivalents.
Source: MOFA.



- 64 -
ANNEX 4.4
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT
Export of Marine Prodtucts, 1990
Private Sector                  Public Sector
Item                 Quantity Lj      Value FOB       Quantity        Value FOB
(Rf)       (metric tons)       (Rf)
Total                                 83,401,870.6                   277.973 984.7
Canned fish                                    0.0       6,930.8     127,038,864.9
Cowrie shells               25.9          53,378.0           0.0                0.0
Dried shark fins            17.8       1,798,870.0           0.0                0.0
Dried skipjack           2,077.6      33,359,774.6         340.0       2,808,939.4
Fish meal                    0.7           2,175.9       1,970.0       7,210,599.7
Frozen skipjack              0.0               0.0      17,055.9     132,446,974.1
Live tropical fish      54,572.0       1,261,415.3           0.0                0.0
Red coral                   16.7          22,854.5           0.0                0.0
Salt dry reef fish         595.4       4,977,185.8         156.0       1,272,695.8
Salt dry skipjack          959.5       8,180,882.8       1,124.7       7,065,282.9
Sea cucumber               745.9      31,584,050.9           0.0                0.0
Shark liver oil             19.0       1,072,753.9           2.7          130,628.0
Frozen clam meat             8.8       1,088,529.0           0.0                0.0
LI All in metric tons except for live tropical fish, which is in numbers.
Source: MOFA.



- 65 -
ANNEX 4.5
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT
Marine Products Exports by the Private and Government Sector
By Country of Destination, 1990
(Rf)
Country of destination       Private                  Government
Sri Lanka                  45,904,930.0               16,112,386.5
United Kingdom                175,099.6               91,163,228.7
Italy                          13,236.4                  401,631.0
Thailand                       37,138.5               90,704,935.3
West Germany                   61,158.5               23,088,570.4
Hong Kong                  12,919,263.7                        0.0
Singapore                  22,737,168.4                2,375,759.3
India                         233,574.4                        0.0
United States                  19,576.4                  552,699.9
Japan                         691,280.3               41,742,038.8
Austria                         1,590e8                  874,818.0
Switzerland                    21,248.3                1,419,165.0
France                         70,166.8                        0.0
Netherlands                   412,805.0                  638,345.1
Taiwan                         21,541.3                        0.0
Denmark                             0.0                2,569,158.1
Canada                              0.0                6,331,250.7
Belgium                        35,463.9                        0.0
Solomon Islands                46,628.4                        0.0
Total                   83,401,870.6              277.973.984.7
Source: MOFA.



- 66 -                             ANNEX 4.6
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT
Official Prices for Fresh Tuna Purchased by STO
Price/kz for Fish (Rf)
Date of Price Revision                             Above 2 kg       Below 2 kg
April 1, 1981                                          1.50            1.10
December 10, 1985                                      1.80            1.30
March 1, 1987                                          1.95            1.55
June 1, 1987                                           1.95            1.40
December 3, 1989                                       2.00            1.50
December 10, 1990                                      2.20            1.70
Source: MOFA, FPID.



- 67 7
ANNEX 4.7
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT
Average Price of Fuel for Fishermen
Relative to Tuna Prices
Price of Fuel for       Average Price          Ratio of Fuel
Fishermen              of Tuna /a          to Tuna Prices
Rf/liter                 Rf/kg
1983             2.89                   1.46                   2.0
1984             2.70                   1.46                   1.8
1985             2.70                   1.46                   1.8
1986             2.66                   1.75                   1.5
1987             2.60                   1.92                   1.4
1988             2.60                   1.875                  1.4
1989             2.60                   1.895                  1.4
1990             2.85                   1.95                   1.5
1991             4.05                   2.15                   1.9
/a  Based on 90Z of tuna over 2 kg and 10S below 2 kg.
Source: STO and FPID.



- 68 -
ANNEX 5.1
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT
Technical Assistance Schedule
Parson Months
A. Detailed Design and Supervision
I.   Support to STO
(a) Detailed Design
Predesign Studies                                           17.5
Port                                                        33.5
Plant                                                       58.0
Vessels                                                      5.0
(Subtotal)                                            (114.0)
(b) Supervision and Construction
Port                                                        22.0
Plant                                                       70*0
Vessels                                                      6.0
(Subtotal)                                              (98.0)
B. Technical Assistance (Institutional SuDDort)
I.   Support for Restructuring of FPID                                   12.0
II.  Support to FPID                                                    53.0
III. Support to the Ministry of Fisheries and Agriculture
(a) Tuna Studies                                                   36.0
(b) Statistics Support                                              5.0
(c) Support for Economic Planning and
Development Section                                         14.0
(d) Fishing Vessel Design                                          12.0
(Subtotal)                                                 (6)
IV.  Support to the Environmental Research Unit                           9.0
V.   Support for Private Sector Encouragement                            16.0
C.  Total                                                               369.0



- 69 -                       ANNEX 5.2
Page 1 of 9
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Detailed Design of Kooddoo Port and Fish Freezing Complex
I. Background
1.        State Trading Organization (STO) currently employs a fleet of mother
vessels and collector vessels in Huvadhu (Gaafu) atoll in the South of
Maldives to collect and freeze tuna for export to East Asia canneries.
Huvadhu atoll consists of about 80 islands, of about 20 are inhabited; it
currently produces about 13,000 tons of tuna, of which about 11,400 tons is
exported. It can only be reached by boat, and has very limited facilities for
transport and lodging.
2.        The current fleet of STO vessels is old and is in nied of immediate
replacement. In addition, the capacity of the STO fleet in the atoll is
limited, constraining tuna production of the local fishing fleet.
3.        The Government of Maldives (GOM) has approached the World Bank and
various cofinanciers to finance a project to replace the current fleet of
mother and collector vessels by shore-based tuna freezing plant, including
port and collector vessels, at the uninhabited Kooddoo island in Huvadhu
Atoll. This island is located adjacent to the capital of North Huvadhu Atoll
(Gaafu Alifu), Villingili, which has a population of about 2,000.
4.        This detailed design study follows recommendations from FAO/CP and
World Bank preparation and appraisal missions which have assessed the scope
and location of the proposed plant and prepared preliminary designs and its
feasibility, which are attached to the paper on project objectives and
description, which is part of this tender package.
II. Oblectives
5.        The purpose of this study is to:
(a) determine the necessary data concerning the physical environment
thrcugh predesign studies;
(b) prepare detailed design of the port facilities, refrigeration plant,
power and water supply and a housing complex;
(c) prepare a baseline environmental survey and design and environmental
monitoring system for the complex; and
(d) prepare draft tender documents for construction of the port and
separate tender documents for a turnkey contract for the



- 70 -                       ANNEX 5.2
Page 2 of 9
refrigeration complex and related infrastructure, and a separate
contract for equipment and assist GOM in evaluating bids.
III. SCOpe of Consultina Services
A. C neral
6.        The consultants shall conduct all engineering surveys and collection
of operational data and other work herein described, as required to attain the
objectives stated above. In the conduct of their work, the consultants shall
collaborate closely with GOM, acting through STO, which has agreed to assign
staff to work with the consultants, and provide data, services and facilities
outlined in part IV herein. The consultants shall be solely responsible,
however, for the interpretation of all data and services received and for the
findings and recommendations contained in their report.
7.        The geographical scope of this osudy shall be limited to Kooddoo
island, and the tuna fishery in Huvadhu Atoll.
B. Predesian Studies
8.        Predesign Studies will include:
(a) Storm surge, wind and wave climate studies;
(b) Geotechnical and hydrological studies;
(c) Coastal processes studies; and
(d) Environmental baseline study and impact assessment.
Storm surze. wind and wage studies
9.        The consultant shall:
*    determine the inshore wave climate at the project site (North of
Kooddoo island), using numerical techniques based on inshore and
deep water wave data as locally and international'ly available.
*    assess tidal variations, at the project site and establish the
design tidal range.
    estimate the maximum and minimum seal level due to tidal and
atmospheric effects for a I in 100-year return period.
*    estimate wave conditions at the deep water reefer berth and in the
harbor basin.
*    astimate down time at the deep water berth for reefer vessels due to
wind and/or wave conditions.
*    determine the design wave height for determining the armor size and
height of the inshore breakwater.



- 71                         ANNEX 5.2
Page 3 of 9
Geotechnical and Hydrolozical Studies
10.       Specify, organize and administer a terrestrial and marine
geotechnical investigation to determine:
*    foundation conditions for buildings, storage tanks and harbor
structures. The mar._ne bore holes shall extend at least 5 meters
below the toe of any piling.
*    the dredging characteristics of materials to be rendered from the
harbor basin, approach channel and reefer berth and the suitability
of the dredged material as fill material.
*    tidal variations, its response to draw down by pumping and its
sustainable yield as a source of fresh non-potable water.
Coastal Processes
11.       The consultant sh all investigate existing coastal processes and
determine the impact of the construction and operation of the port and shore
facilities upon them. Specially the consultant shall:
*    identify the coastal processes presently at work.
*    determine the sources and sinks of sediments affected by littoral
drift and estimate the extent of coastline likely to be influenced
by construction of the project.
o    estimate the long-term availability of material from existing
resources.
*    quantify rates and volumes of sediment transport.
*    measure existing beach profiles over the length of the beach
assessed to be affected by new construction, and establish a data
base.
*    recommend and outline coastal zone management proposed for the
island to minimize the adverse impact of the project and subsequent
shoreline development on the coastal processes regime.
*    establish a program for ongoing beach profile and sediment transport
to be taken over by GOM and provide training to designated GOM
personnel.
Environmental Impact
12.       The consultant shall determine the environmental baseline condition
at the site, shall assess the environmental impact of the construction and
operation of the project and shall identify and cost mitigation measures.



- 72 _                    ANNEX 5.2
Page 4 of 9
Specifically he shall:
*    assess the health of the coral at the project site.
*    prepare an inventory of existing terrestrial and marine flora and
fauna at the site, noting in particular rare and endangered species
and establish a data base.
*    assess the environmental impact of the construction and operation of
the project, in particular:
**   impact of the additional sediment load in the water during
capital dredging work and subsequent maintenance;
**   impact of sewerage discharges;
**   impact of cooling water discharges;
**   impact of groundwater;
**   impact of waste generation from the plant and housing complex;
**   impact of noise and exhaust from the generating plant;
*    recommend design and cost mitigation measures.
*    recommend and establish an ongoing environmental monitoring program
to be taken over by the Ministry of Planning and Environment of GOM
and provide training to designated GOM personnel.
*    recommend equipment to carry out such monitoring program.
*    assess the risks of accidents related to operation of the plant, and
recommend operating measures and equipment to deal with such risks
notably concerning the transfer and storage of fuel, the discharge
of contaminated seawater from collector vessels in the harbor and
accidental discharges of oil and other substances on land.
C. Detailed Design
General
13.       In conceiving detailed design of the port and refrigeration complex,
the consultants should review recommendations, suggestions and issues posed by
FAO/CP and World Bank missions, as detailed in the three working papers
attached to the description of the project. These papers include addenda
reflecting the most up-to-date views and concern. However, the consultants
will be solely responsible for the final detailed design.
14.       In the light of these predesign studies, and the other design
considerations detailed in paras. 17 to 21, the consultants should review the
design of the port, refrigeration complex and ancillary services at Kooddoo
and recommend any necessary modifications.  They shculd assess the operational
impact of any modification quantify their costs implications, and agree the
revised design with GOM prior to finalizing detailed design.



ANNEX 5.2
Page 5 of 9
15.       The consultants should carry out detailed design for the port and
ahore facilities, including:
*    dredging
*    berth structures
*    breakwater and causeway
*    redamation and paving
*    foundations for refrigeration complex
*    freezing facilities
*    cold stores for frozen tuna
*    electricity generation and distribution and workshop
*    desalination plant and water distribution system for different
types of water
*    transportation and handling equipment
*    a building to house the various refrigeration, power and water
facilities
*    water and fuel storage facilities
*    water treatment plant
*    drainage and services
*    sewerage treatment and disposal
*    cooling water disposal
*    refrigerated sea water from collector vessels disposal
*    housing
*    landscaping and planting
*    navigational aids
*    miscellaneous equipment, like scales, jetty cranes, fish boxes,
cleaning and fire fighting equipment, workshop tools, etc.
16.       They should:
*    prepare detailed cost estimates.
*    prepare a detailed construction and procurement program, taking
account of the financing package as detailed in para. 19 and Annex I
to those TOR and the need for separate contracts.
*    provide assistance to GOM in the preparation and issuing of
prequalification invitationb and the evaluation of prequalification
information, if so desired by IDA and/or GOM.
*    prepare detailed tender documents, which reflects the individual
procurement conditions of the financiers of the project, as detailed
in the financing schedule (Annex I).
*    Assist GOM in the distribution of tender documents and in the
evaluation of bids.
D. Design Considerations
17.       In designing the facilities and preparing procurement and
construction schedules, the consultants will take account of the following
considerations.



- 7/4 -                    ANNEX 5.2
Page 6 of 9
18.       Financing.  The facilities to be designed will be financed by a
consortium of financiers from Norway and Sweden (Eksportfinans of Norway,
NORAD, the Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation, and BITS, the Swedilsh
Agency for International Technical and Economic Cooperation), the Nordic
Development Fund (NDF), the OPEC Fund and GOM. In Annex I a detailed list is
attached of the financing package and how each project component is being
financed.
19.       The consultants should henceforth prepare tender documents for:
(a) a turnkey contract to construct the refrigeration complex.
Procurement would be limited to Norwegian and Swedish companies and
the contract would be financed jointly by Exportfinans/NORAD/BITS.
The contract should be limited to the items listed under
"Refrigeration Complex" of Annex I.
(b) a contract to supply various equipment to the contractor mentioned
under (a). The procurement would be limited to suppliers from the
five NORDIC countries (Iceland, Norway, Sweden, Denmark and
Finland), and the contract would be financed by NDF.
Administration of the procurement process would be handled by the
turnkey contractor selected under (A). Tender arrangements should
allow bidders to bid for individual or groups of items as listed
under miscellaneous equipment listed in Aninex I, and should be in
accordance with NDF guidelines.
(c) an International Competitive Bidding contract for port facilities,
housing and navigational aids to be financed by IDA.
20.       All procurement documents should be in accordance with the
guidelines for procurement of the respective financiers. Detailed design of
the ves&el component and the technical assistance components of the project
are not part of this assignment, and will be executed by other consultants.
21.       Construction Implementation.  In view of the complicated financing
and procurement arrangements, the consultants will take particular care to
phase construction implementation in such a way to achieve maximum efficiency
and minimum costs. Specially the consultants should consider:
*    Dredging of a preliminary channel at the project site to facilitate
unloading of the equipment and materials of the civil works and
other contractor;
*    assess the value of completing the deepwater berth prior to shipment
of equipment for construction of the refrigeration complex;
*    the need for temporary housing for contractor staff on site, fuel
supply, availability of water, etc.
*    transport arrangements; and



- 75 -                      ANNEX 5.2
Page 7 of 9
*    the key interface between the civil works and refrigeration turnkey
contracts.
Particular care should be taken to review the rise of the deepwater berth, to
ensure its operational efficiency, and the need for standardization of
equipment and navigational aids.
22.       In preparing detailed designs and modifications, the consultants
will take full account of the environmental guidelines issued by the Ministry
of Planning and Environment as pertaining to the project, specially concerning
the use of rock and aggregates from outside the country to minimize mining of
local coral rock.
E. Time Schedule and Reporting
23.       The consultants shall mobilize their team in Maldives within one
week of the Starting Date of the contract.
The consultants shall prepare and submit the following reports to GOM and IDA
within the time periods and in the quantities indicated.
Copies to           Timing (in months)
GOM      bank        from (Starting Date)
Inception Report              10        10                  1h
Interim Report                10        10                  4½
Draft final tender
documents                   10        10                  8
All reports should be in English.
24.       The Inception Report shall summarize the consultant's initial
findings and comments, a first assessment of available data, on site
conditions, and difficulties encountered or foreseen. In addition it sh all
contain:
(a) details of the methods employed in the predesign surveys and other
studies;
(b) the program of predesign surveys and detailed design; and
(c) an outline of the Interim Report.
25.       The Interim Report shall contain:
o    Details of the predesign study findings, an, their implications for
the design.
*    a detailed list of modifications of the project design as described
in the project description and working papers and their implications
in terms of costs and operations; and



- 76 -                   ANNEX 5.2
Page 8 of 9
*    a list of issues which need to be resolved by GOM, the financiers or
the consultants which require decisions prior to completion of the
tender documents. As soon as possible after issuing of the Interim
Report, but not later than three weeks, a tripartite meeting would
take place between the consultants, the financiers and GOM to
discuss the findings cf the report, and decide on outstanding
issues. The consultanto will within two weeks prepare a report on
the meeting which will be attached to the Interim Report.
IV. Data. Services and Facilities to be Provided
by the Government
Data
26.       GOM has agreed to provide the consultants with access to all
available data relevant to the services. The data shall include, but not be
limited to:
*    Wind and precipitation records from Male Airport;
*    Records of predesign studies for the Felivaru Canning and Freezing
Complex, which is somewhat similar to the proposed plant;
*    A survey of Kooddoo Island;
*    Drawing of project facilities as prepared during preliminary design
of FAO/CP;
=    The findings of the FAO/CP mission as detailed in their Preparation
Reports.
Service
27.       GOM will make arrangements for access by the consultants to key
officials in public and private agencies related to the project. It will
provide the consultants during their stay in Maldives with:
*    Secretarial staff consisting of a bilingual secretary and two
typists full time for the duration of the services in Maldives.
*    Unlimited local telephone services, and telex, fax and mail services
to the country of origin of the consultants.
*    Transportation between Male and Kooddoo island.
*    Housing in Male and on site.
Facilities
28.       GOM will provide the consultants during their stay in Maldives with
the following facilities:



- 77 _                  ANNEX 5.2
Page 9 of 9
*    Suitable air conditioned office space for consultants, counterpart
staff to be assigned by STO and related secretarial staff;
*    office furniture and equipment, including word processing equipment,
computers, reproduction machinery, telephone and fax services, and
office security and cleaning.
*    off ie supplies, as required.



- 78 -                       ANNEX 3.3
Page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Survev and Design of Fish Collector Vessels
I. Backyround
1.        State Trading Organization (STO) currently employs a fleet of mother
vessels and collector vessels in Huvadhu (Gaafu) atoll in the South of
Maldives to collect and freeze tuna for export to East Asia canneries.
Huvadhu atoll consists of about 80 islands, of about 20 are inhabited; it
currently produces about 13,000 tons of tuna, of which about 11,400 tons is
exported. It can only be reached by boat, and has very limited facilities for
transport and lodging.
2.        The current fleet of STO vessels is old and is in need of immediate
replacement. In addition, the capacity of the STO fleet in the atoll is
limited, constraining tuna production of the local fishing fleet.
3.        The Government of Maldives (GOM) has approached the World Bank in
various cofinanciers to finance a project to replace the current fleet of
mother and collecror vessels by shore-based tuna freezing plant, including
port and collector vessels, at the uninhabited Kooddoo island and Huvadhu
Atoll. This island is located adjacent to the capital of North Huvadhu atoll:
Villingili, which has a population of about 2,000.
4.        A preliminary design study, which follows recommendations from
FAO/CP and World Bank preparation and appraisal missions which have assessed
the scope and location of the proposed plant and prepared preliminary designs
and its feasibility is attached to the paper on project objectives and
description, which is part of this tender package.
II. Obiectives
5.        The purpose of this assignment is to:
(a) determine the necessary data concerning the physical environment
which the prorosed vessels have to operate;
(b)  prepare detailed designs for three new fish collection vessels;
(c)  survey four existing fish collection vessels;
(d)  prepare a detailed proposal for complete refurbishment of the
existing vessels;



- 79 _                     ANNEX 5.3
Page 2 of 6
(e) prepare draft tender documents for construction on the new fish
collection vessels, and a separate tender document for a turnkey
contract for the refurbishment of the existing vessels and assist
GOM in evaluating bids; and
(f) supervise construction and refurbishment.
III. Scope of Consultina Serv ices
A. General
6.        The consultants shall conduct all surveys, and collection of
operational data and other work herein described, as required to attain the
objectives stated above. In the conduct of their work, the consultants shall
collaborate closely with GOM acting through STO, which has agreed to assign
staff to work with the consultants, and provide data, services and facilities
outlined in part IV herein. The consultants shall be solely responsible,
however, for the interpretation of all data and servicee received and for the
findings and recomendations contained in their report.
B. DesiQn of New Fish Collection VesselF
7.        The proposed vessels will be built of steel with an overall length
of about 23 m and a beam of 6.5 m. Fish holds will be provided to carry a
minimum of 25 tons of tuna in chilled brine. The vessels will be equipped
with a main engine of approximstely 250 hp, to attain a service speed of 8.5
knots.
The Consultant shall:
*    determine the detailed design pai:ameters for the proposed vessels,
based on the information provided in the attached objectives and
description of the project, and on an assessment of collector
operations in the project area (Huvadhu atoll);
*    prepare a set of bidding documents to conform to IDA's procedures
for Limited International Bidding;
*    the technical section of the tender documents should include a
complete technical specification, and the following drawings;
General Arrangement Plan
Lines Plan
Profile and Decks
Machinery arrangement
*    The foregoing documents should be developed to a sufficient level of
detail to comprise contracL documents following final negotiations
with the selected bidder. Technical specification should articulate
appropriate standards of construction, machinery and equipment to
conform with the requirements of the International Classification
Society and relevant international conventions, such as the Safety



-0-                     ANNEX 5.3
Page 3 of 6
of Life at Sea. Machinery and Equipment Specification should be
generic as opposed to referencing individual suppliers.
*    Prepare a shortlist of about six shipyards who may be particularly
suitable for the proposed construction of these vessels;
*    Assist in the bid evaluation, including an analysis of bidder's
proposed general arrangement and technical specifications where
these differ from tender documents, and prepare a bid evaluation
report and recommendation for award of contract;
*    following contract award, approve builders working drawings,
construction schedules as well as builder's proposals for tests and
trial procedures;
*    witness and approve in conjunction, where practical, with any
similar surveys and approval by the classification society nominated
by the builder, the hull construction including installation of
floors, longitudinales, bulkheads and decks, installation of main
and auxiliary engines and refrigeration equipment, installation of
hydraulic machinery, and installation of electronic and navigation
equipment;
*    witness and approve all test and trials, including tank tests, pipe
systems tests, electrical and communications tests, dock trial
tests, sea trials and loading trials. Special attention should be
paid to fuel and power efficiency, without compromising safety and
operational requirements.
C.  Survey and Design of Refurbishment of Existing Fish Collection Vessels
8.        The existing vessels are built of steel with an overall length of
about 17 m. Fish holds carry about 18 tons of tuna in chilled seawater. The
vessels are equipped with a main engine of approximately 150 hp.
The consultant shall:
*    determine the detailed design parameters for the proposed vessels,
based on the information provided in the attached objectives and
description of the project, and on an assessment of collector
operations in the project area (Huvadhu atoll);
*    survey the four existing collection vessels, in accordance with
accepted standards of the International Classification Society;
*    prepare a set of bidding documents for refurbishment of the vessels,
conform to procedures required by the Nordic Development Fund;
*    the technical section of the tender documents should include a
complete technical specification of the required refurbishment of
each of the vessels, and the following drawings for each vessel;



- 31 -                      ANNEX 5.3
Page 4 of 6
Existing and Proposed General Arrangement Plan
Existing and Proposed Lines Plan
Existing and Proposed Profile and Decks
Existing and Proposed Machinery arrangement
*    The proposed documents should be developed to a sufficient 1-vel of
detail to comprise contract documents following final negotiations
with the selected bidder. Technical specifications should
articulate appropriate standards of construction, machinery and
equipment to conform with the requirements of the International
Classification Society and relevant international Equipment
Specification should be generic as opposed to referencing individual
suppliers.
*    If approved by the Nordic Development Fund, prepare a shortlist of
shipyards who may be particularly suitable for the proposed
refurbishment of these vessels;
*    Assist in the bid evaluation, including an analysis of bidder's
proposed general arrangement and technical specifications where
these differ from tender documents, and prepare a bid evaluation
report and recommendation for award of contract;
*    Following contract award, approve builders working drawings,
construction schedules as well as builder's proposals for tests and
trial procedures;
*    Witness and approve in conjunction, where practical, with any
similar surveys and approval by the classification society nominated
by the builder, the hull construction including installation of
floors, longitudinales, bulkheads and decks, installation of mair
and auxiliary engines and refrigeration equipment, installation of
hydraulic machinery, and installation of electronic and navigation
equipment;
*    Witness and approve all tests and trials, including tax tests, pipe
systems tests, electrical and communications tests, dock trial
tests, sea trials and loading trials. Special attention should be
paid to fuel and power efficiency, without comprising safety and
operational requirements.
D. Time Schedule and ReDorting
9.        The consultant shall mobilize in Maldives within one week of the
Starting Date of the Contract.
The consultant shall prepare and submit the following reports to GOM and IDA
within the time periods and in the quantities indicated.



- 82 -                     ANNEX 5.3
Page 5 of 6
Copies to                 Timing (in months
GOM    Bank               from Starting Date)
Inception Report                   3        3                        1½
Interim Report                     3        3                        3
Draft final tender Documents        3       3                        6
All reports should be in English.
10.       The Inception Report shall summarize the consultant's initial
findings and comments, a first assessment of available data, initial survey
findings, and difficulties encountered or foreseen. In addition it shall
contain:
(a) details of the key design issues following vessel surveys;
(b) the program of predesign surveys and detailed design; and
(c) an outline of the Interim Report.
11.       The Interim Report shall contain:
*    Details of the predesign surveys, and their implications for the
designs;
*    A detailed list of modifications of the existing vessels and
modifications of the preliminary des-ign parameters of the new
vessels as provided in the background papers, and their implications
in terms of costs and operations; and
*    A list of issues which need to be resolved by GOM, the financiers or
the consultant which require decisions prior to completion of the
tender documents.
12.       As soon at possible after issuing of the Interim Report, but not
later than three weeks, a tripartite meeting would take place between the
consultant, the financiers and GOM to discuss the findings of the report, and
decide on outstanding issues. The consultants will within two weeks prepare a
report on the meeting which will be attached to the Interim Report.
E. Data, Services and Facilities to be Provided by GOM
Data
13.       The Government has agreed to provide the consultants with access to
all available data relevant to the services. The data shall include, but not
be limited to:
*    Wind records from Male's Airport;
*    Drawitngs of project facilities of the plant at Kooddoo as prepared
during preliminary design of FAO/CP;



83 -                  ANNEX 5.3
Page 6 of 6
*    The findings of the FAO/CP mission as detailed in their Preparation
Reports.
Services
14.       GOM will make arrangements for access by the consultants to key
officials in public and private agencies related to the project. It will
provide the consultants during their stay in Maldives with:
*    Secretarial staff for the duration of the services in Maldives;
*    Unlimited local telephone services, and telex, fax, and mail
services to the country of origin of the consultants;
*    Transportation between Male and Kooddoo island.
Facilities
15.       GOM will provide the consultants during their stay in Maldives with
the following facilities:
*    Suitable airconditioned office space for the consultant, counterpart
staff to be assigned by STO and related secretarial staff;
-    Office furniture and equipment, including word processing equipment,
computers, reproduction machinery, telephone and fax services, and
office security and cleaning;
*    Office supplies as required.



- 84 -                      ANNEX 5.4
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF HALDIVES
THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FPID Restructuring Nanagement Consultanec
FPID is an operating division of the State Trading Organization
(STO) and is currently composed of the following units:
DMP:      Responsible for collecting/freezing and exporting tuna
MFWEP:    Owner of three mother and nine collector vessels
FTPP:     Felivaru Tuna Processing Plant
GENERAL:  Responsible for purchasing and exporting dried fish.
FPID will also be responsible for executing the Third Fisheries Project
financed by GOM, IDA, and other donors, which will involve, inter alia, the
construction of port and freezing/cold storage facilities at Kooddoo in Gaafu
Alifu which are projected to become operational in 1994.
The management consultants are required to review any previous
studies on STO/FPID's present and future business operations, organizational
structure, manning charts and the financial structure, system,s procedures and
recommendations to restructure FPID into more efficient and profitable
operating units. Eventually it is envisaged GOM may invite private
participation in FPID's commercial activities and the restructuring process
should consider and evaluate the competitive advantage of the alternative
forms. The consulting assignment is estimated to encompass a visit to Male
(Maldives) of four weeks duration at the end of which period the consultants
should prepare an initial report to be submitted to GOM and IDA for comment
(within six weeks) detailing their findings and recommendations. After review
by GOM and IDA a further meeting will be held in Hale to discuss and clarify
any issues and to finalize the report. GOM will then make its final decision
on what form the restructuring of FPID will take and the consultants may be
required to assist on particular aspects of implementation of their
recommendations if GOM so request.
The following Terms of Reference cover the major areas to be
reviewed during the assignment by approximately four consultant specialists.
Consulting Firms invited to participate are at liberty to combine these
assignments and make additional proposals of they have specialist skills which
they consider would enhance the quality of their final report.
1.   Hanagement and Oraanization Sgecialist
*    Examine GOM/STO[PID's overall strategy in the fisheries sector and
visit existing areas of infrastructure--freezing/production
facilities, and review proposed investments; review products sold,
pricing mechanisms, marketing and distribution systems; comment on
any weaknesses noted and make recommendations on future strategy.



- 85 -                    ANNEX 5.4
Page 2 of 4
*    Examine the existing business tunits of FPID and separate those
businesses which entail commercial operations from those which
represent public sector/service activities which could possibly be
retained by GOM and onerated in the public interest on a user pays
(or other alternative) basis. Make recommendations on the
appropriate handling of such public sector type investments.
*    Examlne  for the commercial business operations, the alternative
business entities which would be the most appropriate for them in
the circumstances (e.g., Government Agency, Governiment Corporation,
Limited Liability Company, etc.) within the framework of existing
Maldives laws and legal obligations entered into with external
donors (e.g., Kuwait Fund etc.,  and provide arguments for/against
each alternative. Recommend preferred business entity for each type
of business activity.
*    Draw up present and appropriate future organization charts
(alternative or phased if necessary) which could be adopted by the
various business ontities of FPID. Make recommendations on the most
appropriate organization chart/structure for optimum operating
efficiency for each FPID business entity. Identify vacant posts for
recruitment purposes and recommend appropriate ttaining programs to
strengthen any perceived deficiencies.
*    Define key objectives for each FPID business entity and identify the
most appropriate goals to measure the efficiency of (a) each
entity's business operations and (b) each business entity's
management.
*    Prepare detailed job descriptions indicating where appropriate
educational and experience requirements for tec'inical posts; key
objectives; responsibilities; and means by which performance would
be measured. Recommend authority limits within which key managerial
positions should be permitted to operate.
2.   Financial and Accounting Specialist
*    Examine in detail FPID's present accounting and internal control
system. Recommend system improvements to facilitate the accurate
accounting and reporting of each FPID business entity to ensure each
entity's financial statements fairly reflect the results of its
operations, in accordance with generally accepted accounting
standards.
*    Examine FPID's present computer and financial reporting systems and
procedures to ensure these are sound. Review formats of management
reports and financial operating reports for each business entity and
recommend any changes as appropriate indicating timing (weekly-
quarterly, etc.) and contents (commentary, statistical tables,
variance reporting, etc.). Specify important financial data and
ratios suitable for each entity to be monitored and controlled by
management.



- 36 -                   ANNEX 5.4
Page 3 of 4
*    Examine FPID's budgetary and long range (5 year) financial
forecasting system. Review formats for each business entity linking
these with management and financial reporting system (variance
reporting actual vs. budget etc.). Specify the timing of
preparation and submission of such reports for management approval
and eventual consolidation of FPID's annual business plan and five
year long range plan (forecast balance sheets and profit and loss
accounts).
*    Examine various alternative financial structures (equity versus
debt) for FPID assuming different levels of public and private
ownership including (i) 100 percent ownership by STO; (ii) majority
ownership by STO with various levels of minority private equity
participation; (iii) majority private ownership with various levels
of minority ownership by STO; illustrating the effects of these
alternatives in 5-year forecast financial statements (balance
sheets, profit and loss accounts, cash flow forecasts), discuss the
timing of any recommended exchanges and the effects on GOM revevues,
and the ramifications of each alternative.
*    Prepare an appropriate organization chart for the accounting/
financial section of each business entity indicating vacant
positions to be filled, taking into account internal control and any
internal audit requirements. Recommend training programs to ensure
appropriate levels of qualified accounting staff are developed.
Identify specific positions which would benefit from education
overseas, and identify educational or training institute and
courses.
*    Prepare job descriptions for all key accounting positions indicating
vital internal control functions and reporting responsibilities,
(bank reconciliation, inventory and accounts receivable
reconciliations, preparation of trial balances/financial statements
by 10th of following month, etc.).
*    Develop an appropriate accounting policy and procedures manual
suitable for each business entity.
3.  Legal Specialist
*    Examine all relevant Maldive Laws and GOM legal agreements (loan,
credit or grant) with lending institutions, bank or donor agencies
relating to FPID activities wbich may inhibit or impede FPID's
restructuring.
*    Recommend and draft alternative legislation for GOM consideration,
where present legislation inhibits the restructuring or
privatization process.
*    Check legal aspects of non incorporated entities (non juridical
bodies) such as STO acting as a shareholder and holding shares in
subsidiary companies such as FPID etc.



- 87 -                    ANNEX 5.4
Page 4 of 4
*    Recommend for the various types of business entities being
considered for FPID, suitable wording for the Memorandum and
Articles of Association (or the equivalent thereof) for each
business unit.
*    Recommend any improvements to the Decree on Limited Liability
Companies (Decree No. 1988/123) which would facilitate the
restructuring of FPID.
4.   Manpower Development and Training Specialist
*    For FPID as a whole analyze the organization charts and training
program charts prepared by the Management and Organization
Specialist, and the Financial and Accounting Specialist, and prepare
a skills analysis for all key senior management and technical
positions;
*    Develop succession charts to identify local staff who could be
trained and who should develop skills to replace (a) expatriate
staff when their contracts eventually expire; and (b) those senior
local staff who retire from FPID on reaching retirement age;
*    Develop or identify appropriate training programs for senior local
staff development, separating training provided by contractors or
suppliers under the Third Fisheries Project etc. from other
training;
*    For mid-level management and supervisory positions analyze training
needs and propose suitable long-term training programs (including
safety programs) to develop managerial abilities and particular
technical skills as necessary;
*    For factory and freezing plant operators devise essential basic
training programs including safety awareness programs;
*    Identify the key X.. nagement positions which should be responsible
for maintaining and monitoring FPID's successions charts, essential
skills analysis, and training programs on an ongoing basis. Ensure
they receive necessary familiarization with these responsibilities
as required;
*    Assist FPID management to prepare manning charts showing key
positions to be filled at Kooddoo Plant, at the headquarters and
other locations prior to plant startup. (To be submitted to IDA 12
months prior to plant startup).



- 88 -
ANNEX 6.1
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT
Assumptions for Financial and Economic Analysis
A.   General Assumptions
1.        In order to quantify the benefit of the project to the fishermen and
their families, STO/FPID and the country as a whole, analyses based on a boat
model, cash flow projections and rate of return calculations (both financial
and economic) were carried out. It is assumed that the economic life of the
project is twenty years. It is assumed that the three mother vessels
operating in the project area would in any case be scrapped regardless of
whether or not there is an IDA project, two immediately after the completion
of the complex (at the end of fiscal 1993/94) and the remaining one four years
later. Given the very poor condition of these vessels, this appears to be a
reasonable assumption.
2.        The throughput for the plant (14,000 tons per year) and export price
of tuna (FOB Male, from US$775 per ton in 1991 to US$925 in 2010) were
estimated by Bank staff. Replacement costs of equipment were estimated in
accordance with the table on useful life, depreciation costs and replacement
schedules (Annex 6.2). The throughput for the plant is to be 80 and
90 pcr_snt of the level at full development during the first two years of the
operation of the plan. Two percent of the investment cost would be needed
annually to maintain the port and the buildings, in line with the level of
maintenance cost in similar projects.
B.   Assumptions for Financial Analysis
3.        The financial analysis is intended to demonstrate the financial
viability of the project as an independent unit. The major assumptions on
which the financial analysis was based are as follows:
(a) the cost of port facilities to be constructed under the project are
not included in financial analysis, based on the assumption that
STO/FPID would not be expected to bear such cost, due to the nature
of the port as a public infrastructure and the only modern transport
point in the region;
(b) profits from Maldive Fish exports have not been included in the
financial analysis, since COM is gradually handing this trade over
to the private sector;
(c) financial price of fuel was assumed to remain at Rf 4.05 per liter
(Annex 4.7), which is the price at which fuel was sold by the
Government to fishermen at the time of appraisal, in effect since
February 1991;



- 89 -
ANNEX 6.1
Page 2 of 3
(d)  the operational costs of the refrigeration plant and collector
vessels were calculated by using financial prices (Annexes 6.4 and
6.5);
(e) STO/FPID's purchasing prices for tuna are Rf 2.20 per kg for those
over 2 kg (assumed to be 75 percent of tuna sold to STO/FPID) and
Rf 1.70 per kg for those under 2 kg, which were prevailing during
appraisal (Annex 4.6). They are assumed to increase proportionately
with the export price of tuna;
(f) selling and distribution costs for frozen tuna were assumed to be
1.5 percent of the revenue from exporting frozen tuna, in line with
past trends;
(g) investment or operational costs of navigation lights and beacons
have not been included, as they will be borne by the Ministry of
Transport and Shipping;
(h)  all funds to be onlent by the GOM to STO/FPID at an interest rate of
13.0 percent per annum, and a repayment oeriod of 20 years,
including five years of grace, with GOM bearing the foreign exchange
risk; and
(i) of the five technical assistance components, only the one to be
borne by STO/FPID directly, detailed design and construction
supervision of the plant, has been included in the calculations.
C.   Assumptions for Economic Analysis
4.        The economic analysis for the project is based on incremental costs
and benefits, i.e., with and without project analysis. The incremental costs
and benefits are as shown in Annex 6.14. The assumptions on which the
economic analysis was based are as follows:
(a) costs of the port facilities are included in the calculations;
(b) it was assumed that, for most items, financial prices reflect their
opportunity cost to the economy. This is because most of the goods
and services will be imported directly by STO free of duties and
taxes, and also since the Rufia is a freely traded currency. The
only items for which shadow prices were used are fuel and wages for
unskilled labor. By eliminating transfer costs (e.g., duties) and
financial costs (e.g., costs for opening letters of credit) from
recent CIF prices in Male, the economic price for fuel was
calculated to be Rf 2.8 per liter (Annex 6.10). A shadow wage rate
was used for unskilled labor such as deck-hands (at 80 percent of
the financial wage rates) in consideration of general
underemployment in the project area, but no shadow wage rates were
applied to other, more skilled types of labor, due to the acute
scarcity of skilled and semi-skilled labor in the Maldives;



- 90 -
ANNEX 6.1
Page 3 of 3
(c)  the operational costs of the refrigeration plant and collector
vessels were calculated by using eccnomic prices (Annexes 6.12 and
6.13);
(d) the economic analysis takes into account the costs and benefits of
the newest mother vessel currently operating in the project area,
which would be relocated to another site in Maldives immediately
after completion of the freezing and storage complex. It is assumed
to be ctpable of freezing 2,000 tons of tuna per year, while its
operating cost would be Rf 4.75 million per year (at US$250 per
ton). The relocated mother vessel is assumed to be in operation
until fiscal 1997/98;
(e)  costu for fishing and production of Maldive Fish by the fishermen
were derived from the boat model at economic prices (Annex 6.11);
and
(f) the price for Maldive fish was assumed to be Rf 20,600 per ton (on a
product basis) based on recent export prices to Sri Lanka.
D.   AssumiDtions for a Boat Model
5.        A boat model was prepared, in order to assess the impact of the
project on fishermen operating in the project area and their families (Annex
6.3). The output of fresh tuna as well as the inputs in labor, maintenance
costs, etc. are consistent with the figures used for the calculation of FRR
and ERR. Prices used are those received and paid by fishermen at the time of
appraisal. The model also assumes that boats will be rented from a boat owner
who gets 50 percent of revenue net of operating costs, which is the system of
operations predominant in most parts of the country. As for labor, it is
assumed that 8.6 worker days will be used for fishing per boat trip (one trip
a day), and 6.0 worker days per ton (fresh fish basis) for production of
Maldive Fish.



ANNEX 6.2
- 91 -                                                  Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT
l69JL  LIFE. 0EEIATION COMiT  AM  REPtACEMT SOCI.L    OF PLANT
(Of .000)
Useful Life in Year&
Oe cription                       Coste       2       5        10       20
RERIGERATXON PLANT COMLEX
Freejing and Cold Storaeg Equipment
Equipme   Inside Proceeing Area
ChiIl/Fre-ae Tenke(ox evap)       2666                                 2666
Brine Buffer Tank.                1107                                 1107
Mobile  High Preseure Cleanr       16l                161
Fish  asahing A Anc I Equip        173                173
Brine Carge                         69                         69
Elevated Wenkway BtOn Tanks        196                                  196
Racks for Air Bleat                624                        624
$3-TOTAL                       4996
Refrigeration Plant
Lw/MHigh Stage Scr e  Cocfwr      4672                                 4872
Seawater Cooled Canden-ore        3181                                3811
Intero_d iste Cooler                                                   a18
(le  ore  surge druaeheuape       818
Stainlee  Steel Channelplete                                           1286
Evaporators or coils             1286
Forced-draft Ai rcorlera for                                              0
Chill, Ice and Cold Store        1014
Block Ice Plant (incl 4omre    2076                                   2076
& ecceeaori a)
Control Panel and Automatics       961                                  961
Pipes a Inauletion Pipes etc    1101                                   1101
SUB-TOTAL                     1501
Thcrml Ineuletion of Rtfrigereed Door.
Ineulation Panels                 2549                                2S49
Flood Insulation (ea Chl l)        764                                  84
InauIted Sliding Oor              127                                  IV
Ineuleted Hined Door.               81                                  61
Air-locke  with Strip Curtein      124                                  124
Outer Wall Protection              143                                  143
Ait-rolie  Valvee                   12                                   12
A.TUVAL                        8620



ANNEX 6.2
- 92 -                                                  Page 2 of 4
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
THIRD F'ISHERIES PROJECT
USERL LIFE, DER8CIATtCN COSTS MD  REPLACErNT SaCDULEES OF PiAr (Cont)
(Mf .000)
UnRful iJf. in years
Boas
Damee.ptson                       Coeta       2       5        10       20
REICERATION PLANT (cont)
Ventdiation of Engine Reoom
Refrigeration Engine Raoo          550                                  SSO
Power Plant Room                   41                                   4S6
Air-con, for Control Room          III                111
SU8-TOTAL                      1117
Mi sce I I snos Eu i p_nt
Office Equipment                   501               501
Works hop Tools and Equipsont    1654               1654
CaMPrdamd-air Plant                391                        391
Telephone A Wirelase Systems       150                        1SO
Incineretor                        251                                 251
Th'rA-am ita A Safety Equip        100                        100
SUB-TOTAL                      3047
TRAN6PWTATSON AND OTHER COSTS
Tranaport snd Installation       11266                                11266
Initial Charge of Ansonia          377                                 377
SUe-TOTAL                     11643
Buildings and Amocieted Works
Procesming Area                  28141                               25141
Engine Room                       7066                                70S6
Forklift Leading Area              260                                 260
SU-TOTAL                      32439
Refrigeration Camplex Total        71943         0    2600    13S4    66995



ANNEX 6.2
-   93   -                                          Page  3  of  4
REPUBLIC OF IALDIVES
THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT
ULSER LIFE, DPECIATION COSTS AM REPLACEmmT SOHxB OF PLANT (Cont)
(MR . 000)
Uaefil Lif- in Years
Base
Oacritipt.n                      Coats       2        5       10      20
MISCELWLAO   EWtIfMENT FCR OPERATIONAL SUPPORT
Jetty Equipmefnt
Fied Hlydrlc CranthPlinth         1187                      1187
Ancillary Lifting Equip           121       121
Heavy Duty Sale.                  463                        463
tSW Tank/Subsergible Pump          201               201
HFa1.Ropo,Wirs,Tool- etc            25       26
SU*-TOTAL                     1997
Transportation Equipment
Diesel Forklift Truck              624               624
Oie- I Flift, Rotating Fork        774               774
Elect Fl ift A Charger            392                392
Elect Flift, Rotating Fork         926               25
0/head Cantry Crane (colpi)       150                       1509
Pure.. Bui It Fish Cantre        10559                              10559
Tractors, Trai lre                1157              1157
SUB-TOTAL                    15941
Power Plant and Distribution
Cempi Generator Setm(50OkVa)    2909                        2909
Cepl Caen#ertor Sets(30fkVa)      3S0                        330
Fuol Transfer System               111                                I1I
Eahouat Systaa(inel chimney)      238                                 236
Coolong Water SyJt-                519                                51S
(inmd outdoor *ir-cooler)
0/head Gantry Crone (coepl)       448                        448
Main Panel, Synchronizing          286                       980
Equipmnt A Sub-panela
Internal Cabling A Lighte        2486                                2465
External Dist A Lighte            1157                      1157
Cathotic Protection of Sheet       388                                W3
Pile" (nel rectifier)



_ 94 -                                                 ANNEX 6.2
Page 4 of 4
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT
HISC±AEWB  EWPIPt  FPrR OPERATIONAL SUPOiT (continued)
DO.alinatCion Plant and Water System
DOsalination Units              la08                               1308
OClorination Plant, Sand-        624                                624
filters and Chemical Treat
Dist of Sea,Fru hYell Water    861                                 861
Diesel Pup for Firefigliting     201               201
SUB-TOTAL                    2994
RNrTLAE ND EWuIPNr
Office Furnituro                 119                       119
Houe. £ "7h"-                    S96                       S96
713
Totel Mic.Eq. for Op.Supp.       31191       146    4276    9704    17066
COuLLTOR AN) wORK VOSsELS
Collectors, Tug                346S7                              34657
SUB-TOTAL                      _         0        0       0    34687
OFFICE, WOKSHOP, HOUSINa         13317                              13317
OV2tALL TOTAL              187791
TOTALS FOR REPUAC8OETS    187791        148    6878   11038   133049
DReATION                  9204.28       73    1378  1103.8  6632.48
_eee    meee          _       _       _



ANNEX  7.'
- 95 -
MALDIVES - THIRD FISHERIES PROJECr
BOAT MODEL
ltAT "lm   (FINCL. PRIC5)                         ------   Fuant -i                     -inancial Valu  (Rf'000) -----
Unit   Unit Cost   Preent Without Without  With    Present Without Without  With
(and yr- Project Project Project              Project Project Project
I to S)  (4th to  Cath yr                    (4th to  (Sth yr&
7th yr.) onwards)                   7th yr-) cowards)
Fliehing trips pr year       No. of       -          115.8    51.7    89.7   147.5
Total catch
of which sold to Sr0        tome        2075.0      85.0    17.6      0.0    89.2    184.9    88.5         0.0   185.0
(as fresh fitth)
of which processd and       tons        2000.0      10.8    16.2    21.1       9.8      21.1    32.4    42.3    19.1
sold ma elidive fi4h
of which family con-        toni        -            5.4      5.4     5.4      5.1      -        -        -        -
sumption and distribution
Tot I                       tons                   81.0    89.2    26.5   103.8    156.0    88.9    42.3   204.1
Input Costs
Fuel for boats             littr          4.05    3707.0   178.6  1271.5  8865.8        15.0      7.6      5.1    22.9
Engine repair, mintenance  amount       -          -        -        _        _         18.2      8.2     5.6    20.6
Vesel repsir, _intenance  aount         -          -        -        -        _          7.8      8.9      2.6     9.7
Fuelsood for Moldiv* fish   tons         100.0      10.6    18.2    21.1       9.6       1.1      1.6      2.1     1.0
Totsl                                                                                   s9.9    21.8    15.4    54.2
Rental to boat owner         amount                                                       58.6    24.6    14.    75.4
Returns to fieherwn          a munt                                                       57.5    28.0    12.4    74.5
(par boat)
Labor
:l hing                  morker/de.                996.8   504.9   S41.7  1268.9
Maldive Fish Production   worker/day                88.4    97.2   12ti.8    57.8
Total                    worker/day              1059.6   602.1   488.8  1I28.2
Daily Returan to Labor       Rf/day                                                       54.8    88.2    26.4    56.2
(per woriker)
Annual Tuns Incoms          Rf/year                                                     6290.8  2248.6  1048.1  6288.7
(per worker)
Percens vo  Change in Inca"  t                                                                      -64t       S       2A
(compare" to the present cas)
Fuel cconuaption per trip:      82.0 liters at presnt ond without project
38.4 liters with project
Purchase price of engine     81000.0 Pf
Purchase prle, of vessel     76000.0 ft
____-____-.--_------   ----Present Case---------------------------         -jt-----------------
Island                       iNo.of   Av.Cetch   No. of    Total         No. of  A..Cstoh    No.of    Total
last     per Day    Days       Catch        lats   por Os,   Osy.        Catch
(kg)                (kg)                  (kg)                (kr)
-- -----    ----------    ------               - - ---- ----- ~- ---        --
1. iClaf                                              6         700      100    5e60000          10       735      140   1.029.000
2. WilIl ng Pa-s                                     27         740      130  2,997.000         82        m        18o  4.484.000
8.  Ila1. Ohasdiho. OIsewntdh                        24         880      120   1,958.400         25       710      160  2.640.000
4. Nodey, asaf. "hsdul"d                             i          500       70    385.000          12       828      110    698.000
S. Tiady                                             30         750      168  8,712.800          81       780      165  3.68.250
S. lhdsawli. Nodsydh                                  9         700      150    945.000          10       700      150   1.050.000
T. W dlls. ftsfnf. Plyorl Neatshode. Fares           19         60        so    570.000          22       80       110   1.8 24.600
S. V"eadl    a   edhoo                               14         520       50   3S4.000           15       540      110    691.000
Total Wsighte  A*vrage,                   142      66.2   118.6  11.491.900          157      690.5   147.5  16.327.850
In ton:      11,492                       in tons:     1.82



ANNEX 7.2
- 96 -
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT
Annual Operating Costs of Fleet
(FINACIAL PRICES)
Quentity                        Bee. Cost. (Rf'OOO)
Unit    Yr *     5      6     7-      Cost      YV 4      5       6       7-
I?JTS AND CONSUMA8LES
Hi7 cngmine KalX
Now Collct'  it/   ,0001   207.4  233.3  259.2  259.2       4.05      839.8  944.8  1049.8  1049.8
Old Colleco.a lb,'  0001   245.8  276.5  207.2  307.2    4.08         998.3  1119.7  1244.2  :-44.2
Tug SW0 W 2/         .0001    50.t0 i  3.  62.5  62.5    4.05         202.5  227.8  253.1  253.1
Auxiliary Engine Fu*l
New Collectors Sa/   0001   545.6  388.8  432.0  432.0    4.05       1399.7  1574.6  1749.6  1749.6
Old Collector, S3l/  .0001   422.4  478.2  828.0  528.0    4.05      1710.7  1924.8  2138.4  2138.4
Lubricating Oil 4/
Collector,             Sup     5.6    6.3    7.0    7.0      6.0       33.6   37.8   42.0   42.0
Tug                    Sum     0.8    0.9    1.0    1.0      6.0        4.8     5.4    6.0       6.0
ICe 5/               ,000o      6.7   7.6   8.4    8.4        0.0        0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
Repsi rakeintsnance
Now Collector. 6/      Sum     2.4    2.7    3.0    3.0   877.3       908.4  1018.6  1131.8  1181.8
Old Collector 7/       Sum     3.2   3.6    4.0    4.0   870.6    1188.0  1334.8  1482.5  1482.8
Tug 7/                 Sum     0.    0.9    1.0   1.0   831.5        265.2  298.3  331.5  331.5
----     - -- -  - ----- - -- - -  -- -
StE-TOTAL - VARIABLE COSTS                                        7843.0  8488.9  9428.8  9428.8
SALARIS
Fleet manager          H-Y       1      1      1      1      241      241.4  241.4  241.4  241.4
Captains 6/            N-Y       9      9      9      9       S0      270.0  270.0  270.0  270.0
First Officere 9/      N-Y       8      8      8      8       18      144.0   144.0  144.0  144.0
Englneers              N-Y       9      9      9      9       24      216.0  216.0  216.0  216.0
Tally Clerks           Y-Y      14     14    14    14         18      252.0  252.0  252.0  252.0
Deck Hends 10/          -       S0 so   0     6      S0       15      750.0  750.0  760.0  750.0
Cooke                  M-Y       7      7      7      7       18      126.0  126.0  126.0  126.0
Radio Operators        N-Y       2      2      2      2       24       48.0   48.0   48.0   48.0
mechanics              N-Y       2      2      2      2       24       48.0   48.0   48.0   48.0
Food, Al lo  ate.      it-Y    102    102    102    102        8      816.0  816.0   el6.0   616.0
----- --- -- --- -- -- - -- -- -- -- -
S6-TOTAL - VARIABLE COSTS                                         2911.4  2911.4  2911.4  2911.4
TOTAL OPtATJiO COSTS OF FLEET                               10454.5 11897.8 M.i0.2 12340.2
NOTES: 1\. Beoed oan 150 days per year, 12 houre per day end 48 liters per hour.
lb\. Baeed on 100 days per yeur. 16 hours per day and 48 litero per hour.
2. haead on 25 houra* a  eek for 50 seeks a yeors at 60 litres pae hour.
SC%. based on 300 days per year. 24 houro per day and 20 lit re per hour.
Sba. Beed an 275 deys per year. 24 houre per dey end 20 liters per hour.
4. 500 liters er pef elI, at HRf 12 per  it er.
5. Cost of block ice heo been included in tho operating coete of the plant.
6. 55 of capital cost (I 760.000)
T. Appraisal *timtee.
S. One per collector vessl plus the tug and one relief.
9. Not for tug.
10. Six per collector plus relief and two for tug.



ANNEX 7.3
- 97 -
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT
Annual Operating Costs of Freezing/Cold Storage Plant
(FrNANCL  PrRics)
Quantity      S     o       4e COsta (,O 000)
-__ ___ ___ ___ _ -t _ Unit
Unit   Ye 4     6    -..       Ceet      Ye 4    5        6-
INNUS AND CONSUaA8LES
Power~ plant
Fuel I/           ,0001 1076.2 1o4.6 134.0    4.05    4854.6  4898.9  5448.2
Lubricant.        Se                                      203.3  228.7  254.1
poseabCA,umabla, sue                                       2o03.3  228.7  254.1
Rfrigeeratiot Plant
Lubricants         Sue                                     241.4  271.6  301.8
Sear. A Consu- 2/ sun                                      288.d  319.3  354.7
Sod ium ChIoride    Sue                                    203.3 S 28.7  254.1
Other CEqupi cna
Spres A Coneua Fl Sue                                      224.5  252.6  260.6
Spres A CAnaue 3/ SuN                                      54.8  404.8  485.3
SIA-TOTAL - VARTA&E aCSC S                             6078.5  68W8.3  7598.2
STFF AND LABOIR
Eapatri ate
managing ODrector  N-Y       1      1      t      107      1207.2  1207.2  1207.2
Plant Manager      NY        I      1      1       9e6      6,6a  986.6  965.e
Chief Accountant    -VY      I      1      1       724     724.8  724.3  724.3
Technical & Supvr  -Vy       8      6      6      541     1448.6  1446.6  1448.8
lNtionale
bnogae"At/Sne Ads  M.Y       2      2      2       114     22.0  92.0  226.0
skilled workers     -VY    11    11        11      24      264.0  264.0  264.0
Somi-skilIld Wrkr  *-Y      M6    as       6        20     1100.0  1100.0  1100.0
maIIlled Workere  N-Y      go     0o    so         15     40.0 .0  9       0o 0 o e.0
food. Allra. .0c.4/ *-Y    137       7 ?    197      a     1157.7  117.?  11R7.7
14TAMIX COSI"
Office A Sutdry ESp Sue                                    1000.0  1000.0  1000.0
S61-TOTAL - FPI)  M,Tn                                          6998.6  6996.6
TMtAL - =CsTs OP ON Sam c l                      rV 1074.2 15634.0 168.6
D   1. 4.8 mliIon Koh per ypgr uaing 0.28 l  erah.
2. Including overhmul of th, refrigeration plans.
8. Mainteance of el*ctreal and water suply syste ls ti ni  trgnde, rt "      quiwnt
con hebl-n foal chlorination and chemical treatmt of coodeecre.
4. U*8 70 per manth po, aprloyp.



Nepubl3c of bhUswe.
Third Fimheries Project - rrojected Profit eDZ Loe Acount
Rf oilIion
1992     1993     1994     199s     1996      F997 I?  19       19"9     2000     20o0      2002     2003     2004     2006      2006    200       z0       2000     2010
| , , , | ____ ____~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                 __-------_ - -- ------__------ - _ ---------. -    - -- --- _ _
rTOAL 310E RW  65                              0        0        0        9l      126      149      1N        184      171      187      194      2D1       204      216      224      232      241       250      259
car w sa
letri,eetIom Plant. ae.                      0        0        0       17        19       21       22       2S       24        24       25       26       27        26       29       30       32        35       34
Phec5e   dO Fish                             0        0        0       23        32       s7       39       39       40        42       43       45       47        48       s0       52       S4        S6       SS
DepreciaSion of Phb.   .                     0        0        0        9         9        9        C.       9        9         9        9        9        9         9        9        9        9         I        9
CoDlI_or V_rl aeI.                           0        0        0        12       13       13       is       16        17       17       1i       19        19       20       21       21       22        23       24
TFAL CMff OF SUM                               0        0        0       66        74       82       6s       87   s 9           92       os       99      102       1os      109      116      117       121      12
1     R T                                  0        0        0       25        82       67       74       78       SI        95       96      102      106       111      11s      120       125      129     1i6
M&D 4 cum. aEr                                 0        0        0         1        1        2        S        s         5        a        a        3         S        3        3        4         4        4        4
N    r =INXD   T    sA                         0         o       0   o 4           51       a4       71       73        78       92       95       99      l1s       107      212       116      121      12       131
iWU61WAT334All O        COSTS                  2        a        4        6         a        7        9        9        10       12       12       12        is       1S       14       14        IS       IS       16 s
FM IS NIa        CM                            0        0        0         1        1        1        1        1         1        1        1        2        2         2        2        2        2         2        2
OSE-TOAL                                       2        0        4        7         7        9        0o      11        11       13       13       14        14       15       16       16        17       17       is
NO M A            BMW  wDR      1 PAe r       -2       -        -4        17       44       ss        1       6s        67       79        2       65       89        92       96      1O       104      1oo      113
LS1 D1EU r T       ULWB                        0        0        0       30        30       25       26       24       22        20       18       16        14       12       10        a         6        4        2
M    WtIT (18OM)      ME YNIWRXATIM           -2       -3       -4       -13       14       2f       35       41        45       59       64       69        75       80       8s       92        96      104      Ill
LS   N WM Of PX              (S6U              0        a        0        0         7       14       17       20       23        29       32       35        37       40       43       46        49       52       55
9AWAL                                         -2      -4        -4      -IS         7       14       17       20       2S        29       32       35       37        40       43       46        49       52       55
lI A EKATED  lRTJA1M                  0       -2       -5      -10       -22      -15       -2       le       36       59        88     10       155       .92      232      275      322      371       423
A . M AF SS APR A               nU WATI   -2       -5      -10       -22      -15       -2        16       36       59       as       120      15       192      232      275       322      871      423      47t
-5S -- - -- - - -     - - - - - -     - - - - -- -- - - - - - - - -     -   --                               - - -
4



as
lepuliC af Ihidivet
Third Fishteles Project -     wjted Balaeu  seet
Rf oil ioni
m        192     1904     1995    19O        197     1906    1ie       200     2001              2006     2004    205       2004     2007    200       2M       201
FDM  ASSS                      7       55      172      210      201      102    1I3        181     172      163    14        145      15       144      15       126      117      weS       9
laveeto.Se.JR.celwebles     14       12       10       20       SD       60      62       64       as       Go       70       72       74       76       78       0o      82       64       86
C_mb                        14       13       10       10       11       28       39      45       61       as      111      13       151      164    IM         260      302     347      395
S  bota                     go       25       20       as       61       as      101      109     1        154      1e1      211      225      260      20       340     364      431      461
CL0MW  LUPaIfI
Low Repayabe                 0.       0        0        0        0       i5       15      is       is       i5 s      5       15 i5 i5                   15       1s       15      15       is
GM    Met ofprofit           0        a        0        0        7       14       17      20       23       29       32       35       37       40       43       48       44       52      E6
Le Interet Payble            0        0        0       30       aO       28      26       24       22       20       18       le       14       12       10        a        8       4        2
Sekotl                       0        0        0        O       37       Sr       so      so       s0        4       65       66 s              67       so       09       70   6On          12
ox  CAPITAL  CA-CA)           20       25       20        a       24       31       48       so       67      s0      116      145      159      193      230      2n       314      360      404
NU ASSEYS (F/A*/c)           3a        so      192      216      225      03       2s       231      2ss     253      270      29D      312      337      365      397      431      466      50w
&.ESS:THM   F1     U LOW      7        35    172       210      210      195      1e0      165      150      1       120      105       90       75      S6        45       30       15       0
TOTAL                         26       26       20        8       15       20       48      6s       80      1le      150      Las       m       262      305      352      401      433      50S
CwsU1ibated Capital         30 so              30      30       aD       30      so       30       s0       30       30       30       30       so       30       30       30      30       30
Accum.ProlliAoss            -2       -5      -10      -2M      -15       -2       1s      36       50       as      120      155      192      232      275      322      3       423      476
TOTAL                         20       25       20        a       1i       28      46       66       so      11i    1I0        18        2 m     262      305      352      401      453     5s
_  _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
,  _  _   _   _  _  _   _   _  _  _  _     _   _  _      _  _ _  _        _      _     _    _      _   _   _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(I



gtepubIlc of KaIdic.e
Third Fisheriea Project - Projected Incr wntal Cash Flow to FPIM
Rf million
1992     1993     1994     1995     1996      1997     1998     1"99    2l10      2001      2002     2003     2004     2005      2006     2007     2008     2001      2C10
TAffAL CASH DfLOiS
OD 4IA     N l(ADD SQ                          0        0        0         9        9        9        9        9         9        9        9        9         9        9        9        q         q        9        9
oIf fIT "  (m8m  Ab RPRIATIG4                 -2       -3       -4      -13        14       28       35       41        45       59       64       69        'r       80       86       92        93      104      111
U-TE     L LOAN                                7       48      117        8         0        0        0        0         0        0        0        0         3        0        0        0         0        0        0
IT-TEiIM LO6N                                  0        0        0        10       11       13       L3        14       14       15       15       18        16       17       18       1i        19       20       20
(U-TOTAL)                                    5       45      113       14       34        S0       57.      S3       58       83       a8        94      100       106      113      119      126       133      140
DCfLCSH OUTLOS
M_ntI       * EPAE                            7        48      117        8        0         0        0        4        0         0        0        0       14         0        0        0        0         0        0
LSEN amS a     OtlF fOFT(S                     0        0        0        0         7       1        17       20       23        29       32       a5        37       40       43       4         49       62       5S
Lm-T4 Lem                                      0        0        0        0                 15       15       1          5       15       15       15        15       15       15        is       i5       is       1S
MMR-To" n 6\.                                  0        0        0        11       13       14       16        15       16       17       17       18        18       19       20       20        21       22       23
p-TOUTAL)                                   7        45      117       20       20        44       40       55       54       62        65       68       85        75       78       82       86        90       94
H CASK DIW                                    -2       -S       -4       -5        14        6        9        a        14       21       24       25        15       32       34       37        40       43       47
-  -- -    --- - -- - --     -- - - - - - - - - - -----   --- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -------------- -- -  -- - - -
%e  Awe.d to ceove  funds necesary to  eover operation coets of the fleet and plant, ac s*-I ea  coste of purcehsing fresh tun. for two months.
Tle leterent rate io assumed to be 12 percent per year; the term is one year.
0'



RmmLIC OF WTVES
Tm1RD FSHERIE DEVE UET PRO JECr
Financial Rate of Return
Rf'000
1       2       3        4       5        6        7       a        9      10       11       12      13       14      15       l6       17      18       19      20
Year:  192    1993    1994    1995    199          97    1998    1999    2o0   2001    2002    2003    t4             2005    2006    2007    2008    2009    2010    2011
Expowt Price of Frozan Tuna                7,797   8,C48   8,300   8,551   8,803   8.803   8,803   9,306    9,306    9,93O    9,308   9,30    9,306   9,306   9,306   9,30    9,306   9,306
Amnt of Export ('000 tone)                           11.2    12.6    14.0    14.0    14.0    14.0    14.0    14.0    14.0   Z. 0    14.0    14.0    14.0    14.0    14.0    14.0    14.0
Orta Revenue from aport.                           90,136  104,574  119,714  123,235 123,925  123,235  13O,27   130,277  1u,277  130,277  130,277  130,277  130.277  130.277  130,277  130277  130.277
Coat. ot Fresh T,it Purchasa                       23,990  26,962  29,930  29,904  29,050  29,050  30,710  29,050  29.050  29.050  29,050   29.050  29.050  29,050  29,050  29.050  29.050
Operating Cuat.:
Seflin  and ODitributlon Coat 1/                1,352   1,569   1,796   1,849   14649   189    1,954   1,954   1,954   1,954   1,954   1,954    1,954   1,954   1.93'   1,954   1,94
Operation ot the Plant                          15,074  15,834  16,694  16,594  18,594  16,594  16.594  16,594   16,594   18,694  18.694  16,694   16,594  1,594   16,594  16 394  16.594
Operation of Collector  bln-                    10.455   11,97   12,340   12,340  12.340  12,840  12,340   12,340   12,340   12,AO  12,3sS   12,340   12.340  12,340  12,340  12,340  12.340
Maintenance of the Fort. 1uildins 2/             1.381   1,381    1,381   1,381   1,381   1,381    1.381   1,381    1,381   1, 11      I S381   1,381    1,381    1,381   1.381   1,381   1.361
Total Operating Cost.                              28,262  30,181   32,111  32,164  32,164  t2,164  32,269  32,269  32,269  32,259  32,249  32,269  32.269  32.269  32.269  32,269  32,269
----------------------------------------------------------------        --    -------0
Returns Net of Operating      0        0       0  37,886   47,431   57,673  61,167  62,021  62,021  67,298  68,958  68.968  68,938 68,958 68,938a9 68,98   68,95a  68,e681  68,958
Investmant and Replacement Coat.
Design, Sun. for PNItt  6,580   2,708   2,708   2,464
Freezing/Storage Plant         25,404  58,297   1,187        0        0       0   2.600        0        0        0       0   3,934        0        0        0       0   2.600        0        0
Office, Housing, UorltU         2,68   10,653
Supply ot risc. eqipowtt       16,S98  16,524   4,004       146       0      146   4.278      146       0      148       0   14,125       0      146        0      146   4,275      146       0
oat & Nwgsatilma ;Ida               0  54,167      105       0        0       0        0       0        0        0       0.       0       0        0        0       0        0       0        0
TATraIning for V    -esee       1,006     377      463
Total Inv. A Rep. Costs    6,50  48,179  11,218   8,233       148        0      146   6,875      148       0      146       0   18,069       0      146        0     146   8,875      148        0
NIERSC                   C6.SbO) (48,17EU(117,258)  29,688  47,285  67,673  61,021  55,148  61,875  67,298  68,812  68,958  60,699   68,958  68,812   68,958  86.92   W2.0=3  68,812  68,958
Rate f Retrn an Total Capital Eloyed:                  27 2
1/ Teem at 1.9 of rownmom.
2/ Tzvee at2 of investeet cost.



MUSIS    - Mm PiU iU    im:  GM's DIn M.t CAIM n MMt    t  126 Tt                tS (U6 '000)
C.lemd.r Vor             U        a       04        a       0        6?7      98       04       O0       01       02       Os       04       as       as       02
lememt1s  Csh R tfm
Fort  .s. %                          I8.4    7A.4
tifftis. V*hoa. t_lmlisg              106.0   440.4
Oe igatialn Ald  (Covital Coet)%a               42.0
Useeiaslmel Ald (Racarrest Cos.)                         18.6    14.5    18.0    15.6    15.7    17.7    16.7    19.7           208       22.0    28.3    24.6      2.6
Aml eta.c to  A\h                      72.2    88.8       7.r     0.0      0.0
Seportf lese Lose Fe" li  235.6
(St-Totl GM. lJp.)          235.6  1724.6   MW.0   2n.2    14.8    15.0    15.8    16.7    17.7    16.7                19.7    2D.0    22.0    23.3    24.6   25.
Loa N i. . (by CA4)
MA1 Crdit lid
Principl-                                                                                                           200.0   200.0   200.0   200.0   2D0.0    200.0
Sereice Carge (7, 1)        11.0    11.0    11.0    11.0    11.0         11.0 1    1.0    11.0    11.0    11.0    11.0          0.      10.4      4.7     C.0      6.1
.nIce Cahre. aV, 2)                  28.8    2.6    28.8   25.8    26.6    28.6    5.6             28.6    28.6   25.6    26.0    26.9    25.3    23.8    21.0
Seic,. Charge (VP 3)                 25.2    28.2    25.2    25.2       25.2    25.2    25.2    22.2    28.2    28.2    24.7    28.7    22.3    20D.              18.8
6wvie Char"  (VP 4)                            8.7     5.?       5.7      5.7      8.7      5.7     5.7      8.7      5.7       5.6      8.4     8.0       4.6      4.2
Srortfieee (Norwa) Loan                                523.    823.6   528.6  s82.6   823.6   823.    s23.6   S23.6             2A.6   523.6
Bn  (Seed.) Los %f                                                                288.0    258.0   288.0   255.0   288.0   235.0   255.0   258.0
__F Cr"it ug
Primmpal                                                                                                              93.3  It.7   164.7   16.7   166.7   166.7
Soreice Chorg. (VY 2)                La.1    13.1    12.1    13.1    13.1    13.1    13.               1 13.1    13 1  13.1    12.9    12.3    12.2       9.9      6.8
ibric. Cl mre. Ctr 3)                        23.0    23.0    23.0    23.0    23.0    23.0    23.0    23.0    23.              22.0    21.5    19.7    17.7    18.,
Sw,ic  Chargbe (r 4)                                   5.4       3.4      E.4     3.4      2.4      3.4      3.4       3.4      3.4     3.3       3.0      2.6     2.2
OPEC Ps"d Loss %h
Priocipal                                                                                         216.7   216.7   216.7   216.7   216.7   216.7   216.7    218.7
linerest (7r 3)                              87.5    57.8    57.5    87.5    57.5    87.8    57.5    71.5    68.0    86.8    82.0    43.5    39.0    n2.6
(Sub-T@tal Loie)             11.0    77.4   164.2   641.2   891.2   691.2   946.2   94.2  1182.9  1176.9  1483.7   1s.5  1537.3  1000.2   730.0   71.9.
cToeel Cast  w is)            248.6   1U25   1466.2   712.4        0.7   706.2   962.1   983.0  12e0.6  1195.5  1483.4  186. 4   1659.3  1023.4   754.8   739.8                                       0
_    -_- -   -      - - ---        --- -   --- -    -----      -- ---    -- ---   ----    -- ---    ----    ---    ----    --- - -----    ----       ---
Tlcrmostal Ceeb lot io
V1t 1%    from FID 2,                                             695.8  139.7   169.9   1088.1  2288.3  282.7   8S6. 9   3479.1  367n.9  3976.1  4214.4  4572.6
Cstse.e bte frt,01 I lmport U                             81.2    77.o    84.1    67.6         0.e9    94.2    97.7   101.3   10S I    109.0   113.0   117.2   In2.
i_ Stbrer. (hi FWD)V'
Prlncipal                                                               1559.8   155.5  1528.5  155.8  1828.8  1828.s  1826.5   U28.5  1820.8  1825.8  152.a
steet                                                 26o.6  2960.   296.8  2781.9  2083.2  2354.5  218u.6  197.1   173.4  1.69.7  1291.0  1192.2   99a.6
(sh-Totel Lose)               0.0      0.0      0.0   260.6  2900.6  4509.1  45O. 1   4510.4  4211.7  3913.0  3714.3  3815.6  3316.9  3118.2  2419.8  2720.
_ - - -   ,_ -  - - -    _ - - -    _ - -  - -  - - -    ~~~- - -     -- ---    -- ---    -----   ----    ---- -    ---     -----    -- ---    --
,tal Cod  Wtlo)               0.0      0.0      0.0  50o1.6  3754.2  5965.3  628.6  636s.4  6402.2  8893.4   896.5   7099N.   71.0.6  7207.2  7311.0  7414.6
_~~~~~~~~~~ -                      - - - - -_--   _----      --- -     -----    ----     --- -   - ----    ---- _-_----    ---   ---
Oat C&A  Flom (SNinal Tern)    -148.6  -1602.8  -14U.2  2319.4  3048.5  8279.1  6324.6  584.4  8311.7  8697.0  8813.1   S830.4  6544.8  6183.4   634.4  6878.0
fietlon lide  2,1                 1O.t7   1.078    1.118    1. 1e    1.199    1.244    1.290   1.837    1.357    1.436    1.491    1.846    1.60      1.6631   1. 4     1. 763
_____--  ---  -   -    _-       _--_  --_--_  __----_  ---~~~~~~~~-               --------------- - ----. - -------   _      --- --------- --- - ------ -
ho Cas Ios (Reel Term)           -287.  -1678.2  -1252.7  200.6   242.1  4245.1   4226.8  4087.7  86.2  392.1  3606.3   876.1  8467.8  3716.4  8601.6  3732.4
_ _ _ _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-    - - -  -                                                                  - __-_- - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - .- - - - - -__- _- - - - -       
. Paql. of as cot of sort, office  si -e ids to he ttlsocd by GM ..006
%r Go to ounerst w   U11  of the cost. wed MA %e rest (ll4edifti All c_mttbst).
2,c Rssrdls  tie tee  related too tehpWtfie ices. It Is re.AmW.d here  ocah tie cometies a  scarite Vsw (ht 1S38.8O0 eqemelstS).   ast bhs  fee (0.2  of the lIo
W-t) and go sct of pocket osooe", of 1.6330,000 suival nt. Teefiorro  a    en            s  tim we bs - anthe dretf tao  agr t betOO. EkOWWfi08 WA -  detd October 10. 1992,
_A a ltter from g_eportfse dated 4/2811991. Ah,t 1.8612.0 200        i,0lSi   of the los., hose.,. gill be esed to cer. a part of time ecwrity foe.
%d  NA CredIt sasseed to he lent. to  M t as    istsr.t (Cml 0.786 service chare.),  .., 40 ymars Wth 10 Jer Of GreC. after los  ei.owrar.
%. *eworttls         lose aeostls  to ii6tt7 millios. wit* itereet tinanced btJ a* ORt  r at. Repapay   over 10 Yer*. to start 6 8   nthe sf1, time Ca1 01iU dtion Date (07o01/16I9%)
2f  M3M  1ce  to cr.r 688 of  6t42.4 million (o131U 0  sillice), wIth mm loteres.  drepyal.  or 6 erer. witt. the first asyment a". 2.8 6ears after tme otart-up of tme Plest-
j iW  creit esond to  e lest to Ci *1 term  identical to IP (0.7   serice cherg., see  40 smre. .it 10 reare of arre  costtd freesthe dete of lose sismate              -_
*  OM0 tmmd lose to oo last  WI O a at 2.253 interet. sar 17 J_rs Includins 8 your. ? arac  aft., fisl diebernemset.
; Mi of F   s se"t profit esumd to he  tromet.rred to CON.
Uj  CeO_  daiy es oil st 10 oat Ct? price ( _sssed to tb 138300 pet tea).
t ,t 1i asmmed twae at  woeld onlte  to WiD ieo twAd  swl for te ceolsa (IscI. w,or le. e1i, etC.) and TA fo  deeigs WA coserectio  Supereaon of time plant.
CAi sI_diee le *°M segImed to tb  dm  at, US iatneret. msr 20 #eare ieeledi>s 6  *,r Of 5Sense  lnterest durins  cowetrecte is cpitellazed.
eased im  meata projected by Ui lime Imit Vsle  tod. of ftsfustvris Lepera Ep             to L0 mork,- frem f.. i.e   detriblized coeutries.



- 103 -
ANNEX 8.1
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT
Projected Economic Price of Marine Diesel Oil
(1991 Currency Values)
Unit\a    1992       1993     1994      1995-
Export Price\a                      USS/ton    271.6    245.7    256.5    265.1
(FOB Singapore)
Freight and Insurance               USS/ton      40.7      40.6      40.7      40.7
CIF Price (US)                      US$/ton    312.3    286.3    297.1    305.8
CIF Price (Rf)\b                   Rf/liter       2.6       2.4       2.5       2.6
Handling and Distribution          Rf/liter       0.2       0.2       0.2       0.2
(to retail level)
Economic Retail Price              Rf/liter       2.8       2.6       2.7       2.8
(Financial Retail Price\c)        Rf/liter       4.05      4.05     4.06      4.05
\e Based on p-trolous price projections by the International Economic. Department, the World Bank.
Fuel coefficient of 7011 wa used to convert crude oil price to mrine oil price.
\b  Echango rate: U5uRIf              10.06
\. Price at appraisel, effective February 20, 1991.



- 104 -                                                   ANNEX 8.2
BOAT MODEL (EC0IIC PRICES)                                -      Qu.ntitiem          -c--    -   Eonomic Value (Rf 000)------
Unit   Unit Coat    Present Without  Without  With          Present Without Without  With
(Economic  (and yre  Project  Project Project  (and yre  Project  Project Project
Prices)    I to 8)  (4th to  (8th yr A            I to 3)  (4th to  (8th yr A
7th yrs) onwards)                     7th yr-) onwards)
Fishing trips per yoar         No. of       -           116.8     58.7      39.7    147.5
Total catch
of which sold to ST0          tons        2075.0       66.0     17.6       0.0     89.2      134,9     36.5      0.0    185.0
(as fresh fi;h)
of which procesed and         tons        2000.0       10.6     16.2     21.1       9.6      21.1      32.4     42.3      19.1
mold as Maldive fish
of which family con-          tons        -             6.4      6.4       5.4      5.1       -                 -
suaption and distribution
Total                         tons                     81.0     89.2      26.6    10S 8      166.0     68.9     42.3    204.1
Input Coste
Fuel for boats               liter          2.80    3707.0   1878.6   1271.6   5666.8        10,4       6.3      3.6      16.9
Engine repair, m intensnce  amount        -            -        -         -        -         16,2       8,2      6.6     20.6
Ve ssl repair, maintenance  amount        -            -        -         -        -          7.6       8.9      2.6       9.7
Fuelwood for Maldive fish    tons          100.0       10.6     16.2     21.1       9.6       1.1       1.6      2.1       1.0
TotaI                                                                                        36.2      18.9     13.8      47.1
Rental to boat owner           smount                                                           60.9     26.8     16.3      79.0
Returns to fishersen           amount                                                           69.9     24.2     13.2      78.0
(per boat)
Labor
Fishing                    worker/day         40      996.3    604.9    841.7   1268.9       39.9      20.2     13.7     60.8
Maldive Fish Production   worker/day           40      68.4     97.2    126.8      67.3        2.6      3.9      6.1       2.3
Totel                                                1069.6   602.1    468.6   1326.2        42.4      24.1     18.7      53.0
Daily Returns to Labor         Rf/day                                                           66.6     40.2     28.1      6 .8
(per worker)
Annual Tuna Incoin            Rf/year                                                        664S.6  S38.1   1116 5    8680.6
(per worker)
Percentage Change in Incom       1                                                                        -641     -831       331
(compared to the preent cae)
Fuel consumption per trip:        32.0 liters*  at prsesnt and without project
86.4 liter, with project
Purchase price of engine       81000.0 Rf
Purchase prlce of vessl        76000.0 Rf
Shadow wage rate (in/day)           40 Rf (S01 of financial rate)
--------------------------------------------  -------Present Cas-------------------------  ---------VWith Project--------------------
Island                          No.ot    Aw.Cetch    No. of      Total        No. of   Av.Cwtch    ND.Of      Total
Boats     per Day     Days       Catch         Boat*    per Day    Days       Catch
(kg)                 (kg)                   (kg)                  (kg)
1. Nolamf                                                 8         700       100     560.000          t0        736       140   1.029.000
2. Villing, Mass                                         27         740       1S0   2,997.000          82        776       180   4.484.000
S. Nilandh. Dhaadhoo. Ohvwsndh                           24         680       120   1.956,400          26        710       160   2,840.000
4. Kodey. Csenaf, Khadulud                               11         600        70     866.000          12        625       110     493.000
S. *inadu                                                30         760       166   3,712.,00          81        760       166  S3.6.250
6. Hdaveli. Hodeydh                                       9          700      160     945,000          10        700       160   1.060.000
.  ndellg,  hastafn. Ciyori. Nasthoda, Farse             19         Soo        6O     670,000          22        680       110   1.524,6O0
. Veodhee. ahadhoo                                       14         520        60     364.000          15        540       110     691.000
Toietol ightsd Avergag                       142       668.2    116.8  11.491.900         1S7       690.6    147.6  16.327.e60
in tone:       1,492                         in tons:      is.26



- 105 -
ANNEX 8.3
(ECONOMIC PRIC:S)                            MALDIVES - THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT
ANAJAL OPERATING COSTS OF FLEEr
Quantity                         Base Coats (Rf ,OJA)
Unit
Unit.   Yr 4     5      6     7-      Cost       Yr 4     5       6       7-
INPUTS AND CONSUMABLES
Main Engine Fuel
New Collectore Is/  .0001   207.4  233.3  259.2  259.2       2.8      580.6  653.2  725.8  725.8
Old Collector- lb/   0001   245.8  276.5  307.2  307.2       2.8      688.1  774.1  860.2  860.2
Tug 350 HP 2/        .0001    50.0  56.3  62.5  62.5         2.8      140.0  157.5  175.0  175.0
Auxiliary Engine Fuel
Now Collectors Sa/   .0001   345.6  388.8  432.0  432.0      2.8      967.7  1088.6  1209.6  1209.6
Old Collectors 8b/   0001   422.4  475.2  S28.0  528.0       2.8     1182.7  1330.6  1478.4  1478.4
Lubricating Oil 4/
Collectors             Sue     5.6    6.3    7.0    7.0      6.0       33.6    37.8   42.0   42.0
Tug                    Sum     0.8    0.9    1.0    1.0      6.0        4.8     5.4    8.0      6.0
Ite 6/                 OOOct   6.7    7.6    8.4    8.4       0.0        0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
Repai rs,aintenance
New Collectors 6/      Sum     2.4    2.7    3.0    3.0   377.3       905.4  1018.6  1131.8  1131.8
Old Collector. 7/      Sum     3.2    3.6    4.0   4.0   350.0    1120.0  1260.0  1400.0  1400.0
Tug 7/                 Sum     0.8   0.9    1.0    1.0   313.0        250.4  281.7  313.0  318.0
SUB-TOTAL - VARIABLE COSTS                                        5873.3  6607.6 7341.7  7341.7
SALARIES
Fleet Manager          M-Y       1      1      1      1      228      228.0  228.0  228.0  228.0
Captains 8/            M-Y       9      9      9      9       30      270.0  270.0  270.0  270.0
First Officers 9/      M-Y       8      a      8 8    8       i       144.0  144.0  144.0  144.0
Engineers              M-Y       9      9      9      9       24      216.0  216.0  216.0  216.0
Trlly Clerks           M-Y      14     14     14    14        18      252.0  252.0  252.0  252.0
Dcclk Hands 10/        M-Y      50     50     50     60       12      600.0  600.0   600.0  600.0
Cooke                  M-Y       7      7      7      7       18      126.0  126.0  126.0  126.0
Radio Operators        M-Y       2      2      2      2       24       48.0   48.0   48.0   48.0
Mechanics              M-Y       2      2      2      2       24       48.0   48.0   48.0   48.0
Food, Al lows etc.    M-Y    102    102    102    102          8      816.0  816.0  816.0  816.0
SUB-TOTAL - VARIABLE COSTS                                        2748.0  2748.0  2748.0 2748.0
TOTAL OPERATINO COSTS OF FLEET                               8821.3  93565. 10089.7 10089.7
NOTES: 1la. Based on 160 days per year, 12 hours per day and 48 liters por hour.
lb\. Based on 100 days per year. 16 houro per day and 48 liters per hour.
2. Based on 25 hours a week for 50 weseks a years at 50 litres per hour.
So\. Based on 300 days par year, 24 hours per day and 20 liters per hour.
3b\. Based on 275 days per year, 24 hours per day and 20 liters per hour.
4. 500 liters per vesel, at MRkf 12 per liter.
S. Coat of block ice has been included in the operating costa of the plant.
6. 56 of capitel cost (S 750,000)
7. Appraisal estimate.
8. One per collector veseeI plus the tug and one relif.
9. Not for tug.
10. Six per collector plus relief and too for tug.



- 106 -
ANNEX 8.4
(ECONOMIC PRICES)                 MALDIVES - THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT
ANNUAL OPERATINC COSTS OF THE PLANT
Quantity                   Base Costs (Rf'OOO)
Unit
Unit    Yr 4     5      6-       Cost      Yr 4      5       6-
INPUTS AND CONSIMIABLES
Power Plant
Fuel 1/            0001  1075.2 1209.6 1344.0       2.80     3010.6  3386.9  3763.2
Lubricants          Sum                                       192.0   216.0   240.0
SperesaConsumables  Sum                                       192.0   216.0  240.0
Refrigeration Plant
Lubricants          Sum                                       228.0  266.5   285.0
Sparre. A Consue 2/  Sum                                      268.0   301.5  835.0
Sodium Chloride     Sum                                       192.0   216.0  240.0
Other Equipment
Spares A Consum Fl  Sum                                       212.0   238.5   265.0
Spares A Conaum 3/ Sue                                        844.0   387.0   430.0
SUB-TOTAL - VARIABLE COSTS                                4638.6  5218.4  8798.2
STAFF AND LABOUR
Expatriate
Managing Director   M-Y        1      1      1      1140     1140.0  1140.0  1140.0
Plant Manager       M-Y        1      1       1      912      912.0   912.0   912.0
Chief Accountant   MNY         1      1      1       684      684.0   684.0   684.0
Technical & Supvr  M-Y         6      6      6       228    1l68.0  1368.0  1868.0
Nationals
Manageaent/Snr Adm  M-Y        2      2      2       114      228.0  228.0  228.0
Skilled Workers     M-Y       11     11      11       24      264.0  264.0   264.0
Sesi-skilled Wrkr  N-Y        55     55      5S       20     1100.0  1100.0  1100.0
Unakilled Wrkr 4/   M-Y       60     60     60        12      720.0  720.0  720.0
Food, Allows etc.S/  M-Y      137    137    137         8     1096.0  1096.0  1096.0
MAXNTe4?E COSTS
Office A Sundry Exp  Sum                                      1000.0  1000.0  1000.0
SUB-TOTAL - FIXED COSTS                                   8612.0  8S12.0  8512.0
TOTAL - COSTS OF ON SHORE COMPLEX                   13150.6 13730.4 14810.2
NOTES: 1. 4.8 million Kwh per year using 0.28 1;trea/Kwh.
2. Including ovorhaul of the refrigeration plant.
3. Maintenance of electrical and water supply system, lifting and transport equipment.
consumable  for chlorination and chemical treatment of condeneors.
4. Shadow wage rats (80S of financial rats) used for unskilled labor.
S. US6 70 per month per employee.



1AL08Y  - TM1    FIUMI    PJr
DIUEFM. OPEPATiD0 COTS AND B1B            OPF TlM PROJBT. AT EOSSOC PRICES
Pregot   Without  With  Lncr.-   Without  With  Iner--   Without  With  Inre-   W,t*out  With  Inere-   Without  With  lner.-   Without  With  84cr.-
(and lct   Project Project mntal   Project Project mental   Project Project mental   Project Project mental   Project ProJect _anta t   Project Project eate l
3 years)   (year 4)                  (year 5)                 (yoar 6)                   (year 7)                  (ath.-)                  (lo. -)
Fish Available for             11.400      2,60D  11.200  8.700     2.500  12.600  10.100     2.600  14,000 11,500      2,500  14.000  11,500         0   14000  14000         0   14000  18000
FreezIng (tons)
Fih Available for Idlive       1,500      2,S00   1.500   (800)    2.300   1.650    (800)    2,300   1,500   (800)    2,300   1,500   (800)       3000   1500  -1500        3000   1500  -t5OO
Fisb (tone;freah fls baies)
Muldive Fish Produced             3O         460    300   (160)       460    800   (160)        4t0    XO0   (160)        460    30    (160)        600    300   -300         600    300   -300
(tons: product bheai)
8enefit (FOE price; M '000)
Eport Price of Frozn         7T79       8 8.048   8.048          8.300  80 XO              S.551  6.551              8.803  5.t80t              8903   8.803             9.30'   9.506
Tua per ton
Value of Frozen Tuna        89."0    20.120 90,13t 70.018    20,749 104.874 8S.825    21,378 119,714  98,337    22.006 12J,235 101,229            0 1223,235 123.235       0 I3,277 130.277
Ezport
Volve of Mldive Fish         6.130      9.476  6,130  (3.296)    9,476  6.180  (3,296)    9,476  6,180  (3,296)    9,476  6,180  (5,296)   12,360   6.180  (6.110)   12,360  6.180  (6.180)
Export
Totel Se It)                95,S40    29.69  96,818  66.722    30,225 110,754 80,529    30,854 125.894  95,041    31,482 129,415 97,933    12,_60 129,415 117.0SS    12,360 136,457 124.097
Coat of Collection end Freezing
f'8000)                     44.62D      9,7W0  21.84t  12,146    9.700 23,182  13,482      9.70D 24.518  14.818      9,700 24,518  14,818          0 24.518 24,518          0 24,518 24,518
Coet of Fiehbng adw Ibldlv
Flab Production (MIf000)
Fuel nd Boet Operations      4.856      2,471  6,109  3.6ae       2.471   6,681   4,211    2.471   7,253  4.783      2,471  7,253  4,785       1.605  7.253  5.649       1.605  7.253  5.,49
Fuelaood for Ibldive           1i5        227    157    (70)        227    157    (70)       227    157    (70)        227    157    (70)        296    157   (141)        298    157   (141)
Fih Production
Labour                       6,021      3.422  7,022  3.59s       s,422  7,679   4.267     8,422  8,337   4,915      8,422  8,337   4,915      2,670  8.3s7   3,667      2,870  8.337  5,617
(Su-total)                  11.05        . 8120  13,288  7,163   6.120  14,517  8,397      S. 10  15.747  9,.27      6,120  15.747  9,627      4.572  15.747  11,175     4.572  15.747  11.175
_ _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -    - --  ----- - - - --- - --_-_ -    - -  ------ - ------  - ---- - -- -- -- -- -- -- - --  - - -- - - -- -- -- -- -_- -- -- - --  - -- -- -- -- -- - -- -- --.,- -- -- -
Total Coat                    a5566s      15.820 36,134  19,314    L5,82D  37,699 21.879    15,820 40,265  24,445    15,820 40,265 24,445         4.572  40.2635 35.69      4.572 40.265 3S5693
Increenetal Benfit             40,186                    47.406                    5,6,60                    70,56W                   73,488                    81.62                     80.404
AeetAttons:
onIc PrIce of Ihidive
Fish (produt heals):       20.400 lf  (based on pricea for eaport s5o receIved In 1989)
Colleeting/Presizng Coet:     S.80m  Iooo/t
(preewt nsa.. economic price)
Nber of bonte (preeen
ci bout projec):              141
Nrbr of boats
(aitib project)               117
Thbroghpu durlng  LitIal Years (as pu rntag. of througput at full deIopnt. in year 6)                                                                                                        I
year 4:                      90.4X
Y r ti:   co.as                                                                                                                             X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U



REPUBLIC OF MADIVES
Third Fisheries Project
Eeonecuc Rate of Retuen
?fl'000
Projsct Yoar:    1        2       3        4        5        6       7        8        9       10      11       12       13       14      1S       16       17       18      19       20
IDm  Fiscal TaYr:   92      93      e4       95       98      97       93       99       00      01       02       03       04      05       06       07       08      09       10       11
Tuns Eaport Prico (per ton)                          8.048   8.300   8.651    8.803    8.803   8.803   9.306   9.306   9.306    9.306   9.306   9.306   9.306   9.306    9.306    9.306   9.306
Incr.a.ntal Eaport Value      0        0        0   78.942  92,462 106,869  109,903  110.195  110.195  116.846  116.845  116,845  116.845  116.845  116.845  116.845  116.845  116.845 116.845  116.845
Incrasatal Operating Cost
Collsctimn/Fr.szing                             12.146  13,482  14,818   14,818  24,518  24,518  24,518  24,S18  24.518  24,518  24.518   24,518  24.518  24,518  24.518   24.518  24,518
Relocated Mother V_*ot                           6.030   S.080   5.030   5.030          0       0        0        0        0       0        0        0        0        0       0        0        0
Selling & Distribution                           1,184   1,387    1,600    1.649    1,.SW    1,653    1,753      1,753     1.753    1,753    1.75S     1,753     1,753     1.753     1,753   l,753    1,753
Maintanance of the Port, bilding.                    0   1.381    1,381 - 1,381   1.381    1.381   1.S81   1,381    1,381    1,381    1,381    1,381    1.381    1,381    1.381    1.381    1.381
Operation of Navigational Aide                       0      105      105     105      105      105     105      105      105      105     105      105      105      105      105     105      105    1
(Sub-total)                                     18,360  21,385  22,934   22.983  27,687   27,657  27,757  27,757  27.757   27,757  27,757  27,757  27,757   27,757  27,757  27,757  27,757    F
-    -  ___   ----- ---- __   ---   --_ _ _  -   -- -- -   - - -   - - -   - - -   - - -   - - -   - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --   - - -   - - -   - - -   - - -   - - -   - - -
Incremental Cost of Fishing                          7.168   8,397   9,627   9,627   11,175   11,175   11,175   11.175   11,175   11,175   11.175   11,175   11,175   11,175   11,175   11,175   11.175    1
and Production of Maldive Fish
Investmsnt and Replacsemnt Cost at the Cospes
Design, Supervision   14,159   4,098   3,831   2.745
Port Workl                    37,521   18,424       0
Freezing/Storage Plant        25,404   S5,297    1,187       0        0       0   2,600         0       0        0        0    3,934        0       0        0        0   2.600         0       0
Supply of misc.Eq.            16,538   18,524   4,004      146        0      146   4,27b      146       0      146        0   14,125        0      146       0      146   4.275       146       0
Off ie.. Workshop, Housing     2,6S3  10,653        0
Bats A  Wvigational Aide           0  34,657      104
Support to FPID (PM)           2,012   2,012   2,012
(Sub-total)           14,189  87,891  138,398   10.052      146       0       146   6,875      146       0      146        0   18,059       0       146       0      146   6,875       146       0
PET IETUWS               (14,159) (87.891)(138,098) 43,362   82,534  74,108   77,147   64.488  71,217   77.913  77,767   77,915  59,864   77.91S   77,767  77,91S   77,767  71.038   77,167  71,913
Econwoic Rats of Return:               24 t
Co



- 109 -
ANNEX 9
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Prolect File
A.   General and Sector Documents
1.   Statistical Yearbook of Maldives, 19900
2.   Documents for a Round Table Meeting on Maldives, 1991
- Volume I: Development Constraints, Plans and Strategies
- Volume II: Priority Development Requirements
B.   Documents Related to the Proiect
1.   Maldives Third Fisheries Development Project Preparation Report,
FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program, Rome, January 23, 1990.
2.  Maldives Third Fisheries Development Project Preparation Report,
Volumes 1 and 2, FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program, Rome,
August 20, 1990.



RZPu5LeC or nuaLwzv                                                                   Chart 1
S3ltD V16U3M$ FR.=M
SSASS TgADIM OROAMIS^tIO ($Tt°
CtiGAhISASIOM cuaIT
Board of
Directors
Chief |
Executive
irectOr ()Drector  2
Boat Yard      Admin. Office           Retail Sales
Admin. Vehicles        Warehouees by
and Launches              Product
Asst Director          l)eputy Director        Deputy Director            Manager              nag            Manager          M nar
Imports Dept.          Food Supplies                FPID               Foreign Trade|    Mi                IConstruction   Tradena In!o Li|t
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
Govt. I Vdrious Desks BV ips   various Desks By                     See Separate    Investments    Accounts    Warehoue
De pa    |Type of Client1               CoTemp)|  combdity C Fuel      Chart         Garments/Ins]   (Temp)
MWarehouje 1                            | Warehouses                                                  Chief
By Comodity                                              Accountant
NOThSt
(1) Responsible for supervising Secoild Fisheries Project and Investments, for signing checks, for general administrative matters and for such work as
requested by the Chief Executive.
12) Responsible for Administration (Primarily) and for such work as requested by the Chief Executive.
outrcet STO0 Mission Drawing
January 1991



Chart 2.1
NPUBLIC OF n&alDvS
1IRD vzsmIn       PROJ3C
PISERIES pRPRMINMI CI  OHART             (      PID
KanagLn
Directo
(CEO of SO
DLrector (1)                                                        r~~~irsto
I
Sr. Peronnel  AJsint.                                                    Generale- tAccont.
Offgr er           Officer                                                                    ricl Starff      AcStaff
M&Lnt.~ ~ ~ ~     ~       ~                                           .
_Adam. Of f         Naint. 8ngineer
NOTES:
OpCTerations (Vessels)                           (1)  Responmible for fish purchasing (frese  and
(temporarily) for supervision of FTPP.
(2)  Responmible for purchasing of dried and Haldive
fish, males of frozen, dried, Maldive and canned
fish and fisb meal and (temporarily) for office
administration.
Sq8upply Hanager     |(3)  Responsible for purchasing fish, operations of
four collector vessels, running plant and administration
and accounts.
Supply Staff                              SOURCE:  PIDj Mission Drawing
January 1991



Chart 2.2
RCPUBLIC OP NALDIVES
2HIRD FI833RIS8 PROJECT
FISHERICS PROJECTS INPL E2-TroW n)PAMTHIIT £FP!Db
MAJOR FUNCTIONAL ACTIVITIES
Manacing Director
ADt Dtant Director
Aset. Manager         Manager             Manager, Exports      Project Officer        Manager              Operations Manager       Supply Manager
Procurement          Accounts            and Gen. Admin.            KFWEP          Technical Dept.         Fleet Operationn         Felivaru Proj.
Overseas purchases  rntegrated computer- Frozen tuna            Boat building       Vessel maintenance      Collector vessel cps.   Local purchases
Custom clearance       ized management    Dried fish            Ice plants          TrEining operations   Mothership operations   Supplies to Felivaru
Air, surface cargo  Felivaru accounts    Canned tuna            Fuel stores         Schedule frozen fish   Fish purchasing           Admin. services
Receipts, issuing   DMP accounts          Fish meal                                 Delivers to Felivaru   Local purchases
POe              MFWEP accounts        Market information
Obtain competitive  FPID budgets          Overseas buyers
bids             Payroll               Personnel
Critical level      Cash payments         Admin. services
purcbhae                               Thulusdhoo
System, PO follow                         Haafushl
up                                     Muli
Procedures, pay-
ments
Stock room



Chart 3
REPUBLIC OF KALDIVES
THIRD FISBERISS PROJECT
MINISTRY OF FISHERIES AND AGRICULTURE tMFNAM
ORGANIZATION CHART
|MiniBter1
iFiBerie  & Aric.                               Plnin   n
|dioyBoard                                    Dev. Council
Administration Section                          Economic, planning                              FisherieB research           Agric. research &
& development section                           & projects imple-            projecte implemen
mentation section            tation section
Admin. &   Budget                           c Laws. Rulee   Computing &  statistics &  Fisher es
Clerical   Accounts i    Regulations        data analyses      information      & agric.                     es Research                  Uninhabited islands
Section                   Eorent            center                                  rrI.hr                                               & timber management
tratilon    1     1 j            r l      |    ibgbrar  U ibted Tecber
I    _



l ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-    ---------w----------b---- -l
0                                   9      9~~~1                                                         N
I A Ai          IA s\                                 (Th r                                         fto
"ZAREA~~~~~~~AC
J    \  tIlLl A l  ¢ ¢   I T ^l                                                          @   i  i [.J                                         e
|~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~c f)                 C*ss Just v'Sltt Ar &w,,5l
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~a 0:o                                                                                                                                                       l
R4 fm i                                                              R40 1
__A~ t.p3 JLJSr ~~J&L AT                                          -T                                                          0
T  TE 



'c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -)  -
T _,-              -                                                                                             .- *.f    v-t
r U._                       -a-                                                                                                                          -  -a
I                ,-..   '                                               "                          "' -- ',¢k'C7nrJ '~I 
1----~~~~ .                                          Os.   I   _  _     _                                                     I        'R   .......  
_~~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~~ -l   °1 °Vr. -s 1                                f -S J-A
_nt                                                                                                                        MMFE  rnenS1-         s 
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fAK                                                                       Nf hI y A  I   _ S _ *
n          -/ . +                          -            ~~~~1A                -   
e~~~~       ~          ~        ~~~~~ ii  SI-U AccS/  WOR
__- _, .*_~~~~~7 1. ............. _' 1 / _ __ \ \,-~~~~~~BAN



Ii~~~~~~~~J ~ i
-                                                                                       it,
>:LI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nf  _:A.C                                     -   rS * A   -  -*    AA/.C..  ., 10;. 40 
<=r< * e~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                _ _   _   _  _ _   _   _   _ _   _   _  _ _     . 0
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                                                   'AF  .LF  ATLL KOODO  ISA
e- &,A_  I  II
rM z . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' -                                                                                                             ''l1y-1                  ThE 
.r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. I  _                                                                                    J 
_L .NEs  WORLD
GAA.U ALIF  ATOLL  KOO O S11 1       AND
e,Z-  .. _. t -,#_F- I ] - 1 1. I~~~~~~~~~~~~~TH
_ a . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D ,;~~~~~~~~~~kt,,,,,, ,4 w                                                                          .     S AM,            VFILD;., ,,
_   .-.n                                            _   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ |                   |--COSTUCO



AJt.A tVR EX1TENS3
Alio.                                 r                                                             -                     _                . 
c                                                                                                                           -
rN
tM _                                                                 AR£A                                              Sc r
r~~~~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                      LA,BKA?r                                     srsric^
@F  X    'T                                                                      --- f-4X1)--- D
*00l  F                                                                                  - - -1 -X  - --  ---- C- -  -'-          W
,       S MA               t-                                                                                             Wi KAA  _A  ___ "°                                             ___ __
LEGEND
COA 0  BLOCK~ PLAN                                    BP"OO MO20
A C ASAAM'O                                     CO(K  (SCAKOI  DOtTRS1
c 'a BLAS FREEZER                              OS  "cla        GmBtWs
A   FRCE                                       Al kg LOCKS r     An
ro  KO.CIsSSeS MAN ACCOSS                       ASQr OMOACOB cr WW.C
RzAD OmnRf                         l   l         l                      P  AN C0AALKtD CIVCt                                SADWS  P5   llRSSUD KMAA
ARL FIESOR RACKS FTC.  (AOPSSSAND UR  EAAIWOT(I
5     WAtsAIAINK  KoELESIR                                  R VAR  C   T     C       tR
12~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WUAE SRt  F41                                                                               rs  FUL Bu Ar   FAN I    ArX
CMLCC   mm                                                                                                                                               cm Mc |im SlSH SQEtnNR Sxc    |TDKP  TaF     H;  R£SS   K5£
CL ONETD THl0  IA S                                                                                                                                       FR7 CSX rwA-S norJ                                PAISSU  D\  |      EDBA  RN       L5trRoEE ND
_ __ _PatroCL[Alf   HARD___- ACES                                                   IXHALI OF  VAil CCABSScT2
AO(CE   G    MAS                                                            P CARK CONCEOU C i    E E                                      ACWRS
_5'ti0eb occcN                                                                                                                                                                            | GAAFU ALIFU ATOLL - KOODDOOOaSLPND
TANK      R DESALfliM PLANT9 af Ln 9A11 .    BATTR  lJTARV  C                                           BNTKE
WEL 3m TcRCss-sLOW ftAL  DEREICOMTSE 
IIR__      _ __E_E_                      _ *_._I
---2IT~  ...-ST  XUS   WMMLD E                                                                                                                                   mFm-           mc



£a~~~~~ in4   ~~~~~I  0*4   ff0
wit.   --  /     e        a    0<a
.   t -  -~ a. ---          ,,--D2                                                                                                               J|
4Cot wELLED sTEtL rgEsft sToRAGe TAtfx
noex  °l  2 ~    ~~1 Oc1 1 OC  lo                                     i .CtIt$.fOf
cit.             _        ___ ___               _    _ _         _                                                               et *'.. Itla
.     l                     t               \ - --    -     -    -                   I                                     .I>m$t"1asft
- Io .. F====c===.e    to - | .F:D              .   1  lc
i  AOIWOVER ~AfJAALDIVES i-    Hms P' -                                                                                       .T
GAAFU AUIU ATOLL- KOODDOO ISLAND . ,
WATOt AMD FUE SORAGE          THE           f
CIS, =              wsMI ......... WORLD
_ _ _   X   i                                  5) wU ... r_O - *           .................. a_   l    (CBAN



- 119 -              CHAT 4. 6
I~~~ ~~~~~~~~~ i\I)
:~~~~~~~~~~~~ /~~~~~~~~~'



- 120-                                                                                                                                                                 CHART 5
--- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- ----Page    I    of    3
--
-----------------------------------------------------
-----------------------------------------------------
-i        - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -_ _                                                            - - - - - - - - - -                           -     - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
-_------------------------------------------------------
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -                                                                                             -     - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -                                                                                              -     - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
ii           I                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I 1 i  
- -              -        -        -        -        - -           -        -        -        -        - -           -        -        -        -           -                   -- -     - -   -- - - - - - - - - - - - _ 
--I- I                                                                                                                                --------------------------
-- -- - -- - -- -- - -- - -- -- - -- - -- -                                                                                                                                                                                 -------___
-  I                               ,                 I      I
_E  BEEEE<Ega^                                                                69SE gEESSwEC 
|~~' A Ae§   i.ixilgl                                                                                                                                I; tJ                                                                                                        II  le    
-.,--------------------------------------------------
j  itl.zi[-   Iii                          I                                                                              ---------
- - - -                                   - - - -                - - - -               - - - -                - - - -                 - - -
- -                            -        -        -        -        -        -       -     -        -        -        -         -        -        - -          -        -        -        -        -                  -        -        -        -        -        -



- 121 -                                   CHART 5
I---------------------------------_____-of 3
_- --__-----------------------------------
g  !--------------Jill------------------L
~~~-~I ---------___------- __ ----
-!2----- A- --------- 71         --- ]-
a-------------7---------------1 ------ L
_^]______7----------------1--   T-
---------7-----------------71----- ----
---    ---  --- ---  --  ----- n-- - - -  - -
-I
iI -- -------------------------------------
is l  l}i , li i iil )           l!
I a       Jg t$ralS$lCS*2l



- 122 -                                    CHARA 5
Page 3 of 3
4
S -
J _-------
-    -     -J------ ---------------------------------
-   --------------- - -- - - -- - -- - - -- - -
---------------------      ---- ----      -    5--- - ---- -
-!----------------]----------------l-----------
ftJ-.- __ __       _   
-.r1                  I e  II  1
------ ---  ---  --   3------  ---------------------
--g------7--l---1--l----------------------------
§-X! -t------------------l-'-l----------1--7-------
--------J----  7       - -- 1----7-----]----- ------
--------!-----7-1-'1-1----'--7----
8 -.-1~---------- ] -g----    -'         ----j------
~~~~_aj ---  2 g ]J --
----- t                                       I_
LI-~Jii---            f    J---l-----
i] ._a41 ___-   __-_          _       __----------
E ff g   6  E et E6    8g    if f 
is            -----  - i    -.-  js --X --------- 3i
--------------------------- ~i -----
j-----------h----------------                  -------



71'                                        72                                         73-                                         74
Dhidhdhoo
7                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~NORTH7
THiDL-4LD'UNMAATH|
SOUTH                       Noihivoronioru
TH-ILADHUJNMAT.H
MALDIVES
THIRD FISHERIES                                                                                    Arl-f
PROJ ECT                                                                                      Funrdhoo
6                           PROJECT:                                                                                                    !                         6
FREEZING/COLD f
STORAGE PLANT
Ugoofooru ..\                        Manadhoo
NMORTH 
MAAbLHOS6.11ADULU                             Nn'ifaru
*   ADMINISTRATIVE CENTERS
*    NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                   7'J-. >        _
ADMINISTRATIVE BOUNDARIES
-- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY                                            STH
MAAL HO GA DU,S   U              Eydhafushi
MILES 0             25              S0
Thulusdhoo
KILOMMeOTS 0       25       so        75        00i
MALE
ARI                                                                   4
16.,   o,bop~opo'odh  WhPoddS!koI,d,'CZ loo,oo
,eodo,,oord,xI,o hlhoooIr §of +l TheWod°s ' mpir oMr6c $2¢  o, Thd000,                         Mahibodhoc
0.cosp. coy l drrmofi or fh l.gol ,Iots of Goy tcbr,y0 ooy oodonoo,et 0r orco o.o,.-ov
os~ ~~~h Ig. fnfof
71'                                       72,
Felidhoo
A              Kolamoofushi                             KOODDOO
F  Viligili                      j       wNORTH
NILANDHE                 Magoodhoo                 VULA i:WLO-'.
!Moomendhoo
NORTH                                           r                                                    Muli
HUVADHU                    Nilondhoo
Goafu-Afifu Atoll             Dhaondhoo         |       Kudahuvadhoo,.
Mun.odhoo  K         SOUTH
t Thinadhoo                          Dhewadhoo                         Funodhoo   I
!hinadhoo         Hood~galoh    Hunmouddoo
Moogoderehaor                                                      Kon'dey
|   KorJdedhdhoo            -                            Dh yadhoo
;ModoeI  l-oodedhdhoo                                            Gemenefushi       ,
SOUTH                                                ! KOLHUMADULU
HUVADHU                                               , 1                Veyihoa     o
Goof u-Dhaolu Atoll              Maovoorulu  i                             Vemodo.
81J      Nodolia
Godhdhoo          '                                                     HADH  jH .   's:-
Rwihafondhoo                             Gomu.
fi i L.oobcdhuvao  Voadhoo
|   Fiyaoon          Voadhoo                                     1 i                                     Hithadhoo
Loccod. ,s                 INDIA
(Inct.aJ  . .   
SRI
LANKA                                                       NORTH
HUVADHU
SEE  A   -OP DT -, LS
MALDI\VES
0.                            SOUTH                                                       0.1
HUVADHU
Foammulah
& ritish Indian                                                                                   ,A r1                                                       ED
.N      Ocean Territory (UK)                                                                                   .
rn                                                                                                        tHithodhoo
3.1      Chogos                                 1(
W            Archipelago                                                                                          ,
_D G
'0               DopgoGo o oo,



