Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 18005
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPIJBLIC OF MALDIVES
THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT
(CR 2327-MAL)
June 10, 1998
Rural Development Sector Unit
South Asia Region.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization,



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Currency unit = Maldivian Rufiyaa (Rf3
At Appraisal (July 1991)
Rf 1.00 = US$ 0.99
US$ 1.00 = Rf 10.06
At.Closing (December 1997)
Rf 1.00 = US$ 0.085
US$ 1.00 = Rf 11.77
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES SYSTEM - METRIC SYSTEM
I millimeter (mm)       =        0.038 inches (in)
I meter (m)                      39.37 inches (in)
1 kilometer (km)                 0.62 miles (mi)
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1       -        December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BITS      -   Swedish Agency for Internatiopal Technical and Economic Cooperation
EEZ       -   Exclusive Economic Zone
EPCS      -   Economic Planning and Coordination Section (MOFA)
ERU       -   Environmental Research Unit
FAO       -   Food and Agricultural Organization
FAO/CP   -   FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
FAO/TCP  -   FAO/Technical Cooperation Program
FFE       -   Fresh Fish Equivalent
FPID      -   Fisheries Projects Implementation Department
FTPP      -   Felivaru Tuna Processing Plant
GOM       -   Government of Maldives
KFC       -   Kooddoo Fisheries Complex
MIFCO    -   Maldives Industrial Fisheries Company
MOFA      -   Ministry of Fisheries and Agriculture
MPHRE   -   Ministry of Planning, Human Resources and Environment
MPW       -   Ministry of Public Works and Labor
MvlRS     -   Marine Research Section (MOFA)
M4TI      -   Ministry of Trade and Industry
MTrS      -   Ministry of Transport and Shipping
NDF       -   Nordic Development Fund
NORAD   -   Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation
OPEC      -   Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PCC       -   Project Coordinating Committee
P1U       -   Project Implementation Unit
PPF       -   Project Preparation Facility
SAR       -   Staff Appraisal Report
STO       -   State Trading Organization
i.NDP     -   United Nations Development Organization
2                      ~~~~~Vice President    Mieko Nishimizu
Sector Managers Michael Baxter/Ridwan Ali
Country Director Robert S. Drysdale
Task Manager Robert D. Hunt



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface    .............................................................                                                i
Evaluation Summary .............................................................ii
Part 1: Project Implementation Assessment
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives ............................................................1
B. Achievement of Objectives .............................................................                  1
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project ............................................................3
D. Project Sustainability ............................6
E. Bank Performance .........................6
F. Borrower Performance ..........................7
G. Assessment of Outcome ..........................7
H. Future Operation ..........................7
1. Key Lessons Leaned ..........................8
Part II: Statistical Tables
Table 1: Summary of Assessment ..........................9
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits ..........................                                             10
Table 3: Project Timetable ..........................                                                      10
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .................      .               10
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ................................................... 11
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation ................................................... 11
Table 7: Studies Included in Project ................................................... 11
Table 8A: Project Costs ...................................................                                12
Table 8B: Project Financing ...................................................                            12
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits ...................................................                   13
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants .....             .................................... 14
Table I 1: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements   ..................         ....................... 15
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .........................................                           15
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions2                   ..                        ....................................... 15
Appendices:
A. Mission's Aide-Memoire
B. Borrower's Contribution to the Implementation Completion Report
Attachment 1: Comments from the Concerned Ministries on the ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT
(CR 2327-MAL)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Third Fisheries Project in the Republic of
Maldives for which Credit Number 2327-MAL in the amount of SDR 7.6 million was approved on January 7, 1992 and
made effective on April 20, 1992.
The credit was closed on December 31, 1997, at which time SDR 6.6 million had been disbursed. Final
disbursement will take place by April 30, 1998. Any balance outstanding at that time will be canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Robert Hunt and Geeta Sethi (SASRD), and reviewed by Messrs. Ridwan Ali and
Michael Baxter, SMU Co-managers. Comments received from the Borrower and co-financiers are appended to the
ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's fmal supervision/completion mission. It is based on
material in the project file. The Borrower contributed to the ICR by preparing its own ICR and commenting on the draft
ICR. Copies of the Aide Memoir of final supervision/completion mission and the Borrower's ICR are attached as
Appendices A and B respectively.
i



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OFMALDIVES
THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT
(CR 2327-MAL)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
I .    The Project was funded by IDA in response to a request by GOM for further assistance in the sector. It is the
third in a series of IDA-supported fisheries projects beginning in 1979. The common theme was the modernization of
the artisan fishing fleet and improvement in fish collection, processing and storage. In addition, support was provided
throughout for key institutional developments. Supported by six co-financiers, this project developed a new harbor and
freezer/cold store complex in a remote area, supported research and training in economic and statistics for fisheries, tuna
stock assessment, environmental analysis, and restructuring of the fisheries public sector enterprise.
Project Objectives
2.      These were to:
(a) increase fish production, government revenue, and foreign exchange earnings at a lower processing cost;
(b) increase the income of fishing households to alleviate relative poverty;
(c) reduce migration to the capital, Male', through balanced regional growth; and
(d) create the environment for increased private sector participation in the fisheries sector.
3,.     These remained unchanged throughout project implementation and continue to be appropriate sectoral
development objectives. Major project components were aimed at achieving the project objectives, but without
involving specific covenants.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.      The overall outcome is assessed as satisfactory. Overall, implementation was very good and the specific
objectives set for the project were achieved. Excellent consultant input to the procurement and construction supervision
process ensured virtually trouble free implementation of major infrastructure development on a remote greenfield island
site. Narrowly defined, sustainability of this, the major component, is very likely. Implementation of the technical
assistance component was varied, as is also the likelihood of sustainability. Performance of the borrower and its
agencies was satisfactory; overall, government actions were-generally supportive, demonstrating full commitment to the
project and sector. Bank performance, while generally satisfactory, was less so in identification and preparation, where
the sector strategy adopted was suboptimal. Partial export liberalization in the sector, just prior to appraisal,
insufficiently accounted for in project design, had a negative impact on the main project entity; but it vastly improved
income generation for beneficiaries as well as overall sector efficiency. Positive lessons point to careful selection of
consultants, as well as the prior in-country experience of these. Negative lessons point to the the problems which arise
where the sector strategy is severely flawed, such as difficulty in achieving success in using commercial entities to
implement policy-programs, as well as the ever more pressing need for government to take a longer-term, strategic
approach to sector development policy, leading to a more competitive structure in the sector, and resulting improved
efficiency. Also design of technical assistance should seek better matches between needs and capabilities.
ii



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT
(CR 2327-MAL)
PART I Project Implementation Assessment
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
1.     The project's objectives were to:
(a) increase fish production, govemment revenue, and foreign exchange earnings at a lower processing cost;
through: (i) expanding the capacity of the public sector enterprise directly involved to purchase, collect,
process, and store fresh/frozen tuna for export, and (ii) supporting training and research in fisheries economics
and statistics and tuna stock assessment.
(b)  increase the income of fishing households to alleviate relative poverty; through expanding market access of
artisan fishers;
(c) reduce migration to the capital, Male', through balanced regional growth; indirectly through expanding
economic (investment and employment) opportunities in tuna fishing; and
(d) create the environment for increased private sector participation in the fisheries sector through corporatizing
the tuna fisheries public sector enterprise and studying means of enhancing private sector participation in the
sector.
2.     The objectives are generally relevant to development activities in the sector, particularly the income generating and
poverty alleviating elements. At present, the outer atolls contain about 75% of the population and 80% of the labor force.
Tuna fishing remains the traditional, and often the sole, income-generating activity of inhabitants of the outer atolls. But fish
catching represents only 11% of GDP. With fish catches leveling off, growth prospects here are poor. Fishing is
supplemented by agriculture for home consumption, giving a total of 21% of GDP shared among 80% of the labor force. In
this situation, poverty incidence is high and outmigration pressures great, giving continued relevance to the objectives.
However, direct involvement by government in production of private goods and services as a means to obtain revenue and
foreign exchange may not be an appropriate strategy. Due to reluctance of GOM, alternative strategies to achieving the
objectives, such as addressing the broad-based structural issues, were not pursued during preparation. GOM felt monopoly
state trading was necessary to ensure market access for all fishing atolls and the appraisal mission agreed with this (para 22).
B. Achievement of Objectives
3      Fish production did increase over the life of the project thus far. National fisheries statistics show total fish
landings are now about 105 thousand tons annually; at appraisal these were around 75 thousand tons. In the project area,
total landings were 26.6 thousand tons in 1996, up from about 15 thousand tons annually at appraisal. Over 90% of all
landings are tuna. Yet nationwide, fisheries GDP is stagnant, growing by 5% only in 6 years. It's share of total GDP has
declined from 15% at appraisal to about 10% in 1997.
Government revenue fromfishing must come from MIFCO's (FPID's)' earnings, as there are effectively no resource rents
charged to domestic fisheries. Although MIFCO has made occasional distributions to GOM as a sign of good faith, it
remains unprofitable. Its high level of indebtedness and continued pressure on operating margins has produced a series of
loss-making years, leaving it unlikely that MIFCO can contribute significantly to GOM revenues in the foreseeable future
without substantial financial restructuring. Govermnent receives some revenue from input taxes (on nets, engines, spare
parts, and fuel), and royalties and licenses from deepwater fishing (in the EEZ over 75 miles off-shore). But this is minor
and offset by subsidized credit for dhonis (fishing boats) and implicit (capital) subsidies to MIFCO, which in turn are offset
to the extent that MIFCO is required to implement government's sectoral programs on a no-charge basis.
MIFCO (Maldives Industrial Fisheries Comapany), the legal successor to FPID, was created under the project by
incorporation of FPID.



Foreign exclhange earnings from marine products exports increased in current terms by 76% from the time of appraisal,
1990, through 1997. In real terns, these exports increased by 4% (0.5% p.a.). At appraisal, MIFCO accounted for 77% of
exports: in 1997, due to export liberalization in dried fish, it's share fell to 58%.
Processing costs within MIFCO are seen to be declining. The ratio of the Cost of Good Sold to Total Sales declined from
89% at the time of appraisal to 79% in 1996 and is projected to drop to 75% in 1998. Over the same period, the ratio of Net
Operating Profit to Total Sales increased from -2% at appraisal to 14% in 1996 and is projected to reach 19% in 1998. This
reflects a combination of improved management in MIFCO, assisted by technical assistance under the project, the cost-
reducing impact of the project's Kooddoo freezing and storage plant, and declining energy prices. Despite this, after
accounting for financial charges, MIFCO's high level of indebtedness leaves it unprofitable.
4.     The objective of increasing income of fishing households is focused on the main project area, i.e. the atolls in the
location of the project-constructed harbor and freezing plant (Kooddoo). Although a slight increase in capacity was foreseen
(SAR para 6.1), maintenance of capacity and reduction of MIFCO's processing cost was the main thrust of the project as
designed). Since MIFCO has no export-market power and operates a base-point purchasing price system, income gains of
fishers are limited to increase in purchased volumes.
5.     At appraisal (1990) MIFCO purchased 11.5 thousand tons of tuna in the adjusted project area2; in 19973 purchases
totaled 19.1 thousand tons, an increase of 66%.. The average price paid was Rf 3,397/ton compared to Rf 1,950/ton in 1990,
an increase of 74%. Allowing for inflation, the 1997 price reduces to Rf 1544/ton, a decline of 21%. Over this period,
export unit value of frozen tuna declined by 33% in constant terms. In current terms, total revenue to fishers increased by
133%; while in constant (1990) terms the increase was 6%. The real income increase was due to the 34% increase in catch
offsetting the price decline. This income increase is confirmed in MOFA's 1997 update of a 1993 baseline survey for the
Kooddoo area (Huvadhu Atoll). This shows fishing income (90-98% of total income) for boat owners and crew members to
have increased by an average of 47% on G. Alif atoll (7% in 1993 terms), and 246% on G. Dhaal (153% in 1993 terms), or
106% overall (51 % in 1993 terms)4. This compares to an appraisal estimate of a 32% increase.
6.     An unexpected income-related issue emerging from the Base Line and Update Surveys, is the apparent sizable
worsening of income distribution in the project area. Baseline and Update Survey data from the project area show that non-
fishing households, comprising 50% of all project area households in 1993 and 61% in 1997, saw their incomes decline on
average by 32% in G. Alif and decrease by 78% in G. Dhaal. Not only did the poor in the project area not benefit from the
project, but actually became worse off, though not necessarily due to the project. The phenomenally high multiples of
income of fishing to nonfishing households, and the increase in these from 1993 to 19975, suggests that access to fishing, and
particularly to boat-ownership, is the key to these huge differences in relative incomes. Export liberalization, increasing
competition for supply of raw fish was the key action which permitted this key advantage to become reality. The resultant
increase in the price of tuna, the basic food of islanders, added to the burden of the poor. An increase of over 70% in the
price of the basic food good, combined with an over 70% decline in income is an enormous burden on a 7-8 person
household with an income of $100-150 per annum. Why the incomes of non-fishing families actually declined and, what
the role of the project may be here, are unclear. Possibly providing greater market access has led to a perverse result, as it
permitted a more commercial fishery to develop, leading to crowding out of less efficient artisan fishers. But perceived
change in location of stocks to more distant waters possibly played a significant role.
7.     The direct contribution of the project to the sizable income increases from fishing is small. In the original project
area (Huvadhu Atoll, i.e. G. Alif and G. Dhaal), MIFCO's 1997 total fish collections were 13.8 thousand tons, which is about
85% of the total catch. This is in line with appraisal report estimates.6 But, in terms of sales to the project complex only, the
volume change was from 11.4 thousand tons (Huvadhu Atoll, i.e. G. Alif and G. Dhaal, fresh fish sales to MIFCO at
appraisal) to 11.9 thousand tons or 4%.7 The combination of this and the price change (Rf 1,950 to Rf 3,384 per ton) gives a
gross income increase of 81%, or 6% in constant (1990) terms. Although from the fishers view, it is artificial, this is a
2 The actual collection area, incorporating an additional two atolls, Adhu and Fuah Mula, is larger than foreseen at
appraisal, comprising G. Alif and G. Daal only.
3The first full year of operation.
1993 fishing income and numbers of boats were much smaller on G.Daal; so much of the gain was catching up, as
incomes are now almost equal and boat numbers have increased ninefold..
Doubling from 30/1 to 60/1 on G. Alif and going from 4/1 to 70/1 on G. Daal.
SAR projected sales (SAR Table 7.1) were 14.0 thousand tons.
7The difference is accounted for by transfer sales within MIFCO from the Kooddoo area to Mandhoo and Felivaru.
2



definitive measure of the contribution of the project to the objective of income increases, and, in constant terms, it is
relatively small. Also, the incremental employment contribution is small. Compared with, the appraisal estimate of 137, the
Kooddoo Complex employs an incremental 200 persons from the local area. This is still only 0.9% of the Huvadhu Atoll
population. In subsequent comments from Government, MIFCO notes this low level of employment is as expected, and the
number may well decline with improved operating efficiency.
8.     The difference between the changes in sector-wide fish catches and incomes and those due to the project are due to
changes in trade policy, technology, and internal MIFCO operations. Total catch increased due to raw fish price increases
following elimination of the public sector monopoly on dried tuna exports and the strong export demand from Sri Lanka.
The installation of FADs (fish attracting devices) by MOFA, and development of motorized and larger fishing vessels, and
the general upturn in tuna stocks in the south all contributed to greater supply response. With significant processing and
storage capacity in its cannery at Felivaru, in the north, and it's other freezing and cold store complex at Mandhoo, MIFCO
diverted 14% of its collections in the original project area (20% of collections in the adjusted project area) to its other
processing facilities. Had this all been processed at Kooddoo, the project facility would have shown a 35% volume increase
and increase in fishers total incomes attributable to the project of 140% (41% in constant terms). In subsequent comments
from Government, MIFCO indicates that these transfers were due to inadequate capacity in the Kooddoo collector vessel
fleet, thus requiring diversion of raw fish collection away from Kooddoo. However, this information does not resolve the
matter, as, by definition collected fish are already on a collector vessel and Kooddo was the closes processing point.
9.     Despite the SAR statement' that "the main constraint to fish production and export is inadequate fish collection and
processing capacity" capacity utilization aggregate fish processing and storage was an issue during appraisal and remains so.
A covenant, included in the Credit Agreement, required consultation with IDA on any expansion in capacity at two
locations. The location-specific nature of the covenant was unfortunate as Mandhoo was not included. Subsequently, the
Mandhoo onshore freezing and cold storage facility, grant-financed by JICA, opened in June 1994. But relative profitability
favored dried fish production and MIFCO has been unable to purchase adequate supplies of raw fish in the Mandhoo area.
10.    Based on MIFCO's 1997 operations and on actual investment costs and duration for KFC, several FRRs and ERRs
were re-estimated, reflecting first the SAR assumptions and then actual events. Mother vessel costs which MIFCO includes
in its KFC operation accounts have been excluded from all re-estimates, as KFC does not benefit from these. The first set
gives 21% and 10% rates, compared with SAR estimates of 27% and 24%. Differences in FRRs arise from a 1.5 year delay
in start-up9 and a 2% increase in gross revenue'°, as well as major increases in selling and distribution costs, primarily from
higher than projected export expenses. The major decline in the ERR from the FRR is attributable to the cost of the port
investment. The appraisal FRR estimate excludes port investment costs. But KFC is the sole beneficiary of these; which,
when included reduces the FRR to 17%. If, as assumed in the SAR, total MIFCO fish collections in the KFC collection area
were processed in KFC, the FRR and ERR increase to 24% and 19% respectively. The 3 and 9 percentage points difference
in this FRR and ERR over appraisal estimates are measures of the costs of redirecting fish collections from KFC to the
cannery at Felivaru and the cold storage at Mandhoo.
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
External Factors
11.    The overall economic climate remained stable and no major exogenous shocks occurred during implementation.
The tuna export market remained relatively stable. No major swings in tuna stocks were encountered, and the trend of
catches continued upwards. This trend is now seen as leveled off. Stock assessment under the project shows the Maldivian
fishery has suffered declining catch rates and sizes. The causes are unknown but hypothesized as due either to excess local
fishing effort, oceanographic influences, or to purse sein catches, in the westem part of the Indian Ocean, of maturing young
tuna which migrated from Maldivian waters, prior to their return to Maldives to spawn. To compensate, fishing has become
progressively more capital intensive as boats grow larger and fish further away from land. Continuation of this growth in
boat size seems inevitable. Already a few larger boats have come into operation in the project area, and still larger models
are under design and construction by the private sector. Local professionals feel that the present fishing fleet of 1400
8 SAR, para 1.23.
Due to unfamiliarity with confinanciers procurement and disbursement arrangements.
'° At full development, due to a 24% increase in price and 18% decrease in volume).
3



authorized boats could be reduced to 300 to 400 and still catch the same quantity of fish. Based on indications from the
project area surveys, the income distribution implications of this are likely to be highly skewed unless displaced labor can be
speedily reallocated to viable alternative activities. This trend may already be underway, as much of the motorized fleet is
said to be increasingly involved in transport and tourism, although the employment and income effects of this are unknown.
Government Actions
12.    Major government actions impacting on the project were in trade policy, price policy and storage capacity
investment. Trade policy changed in 1990, just prior to appraisal, liberalizing access to the dried (Maldives) fish export
market. This allowed the private sector to compete directly with the public sector, MIFCO, in export of dried fish, but
allowed the public sector to retain its monopoly on export of canned and frozen fish. An earlier attempt by Government to
maintain a private sector presence in frozen and canned fish exports had failed. Because of this, at appraisal, Government
was firm in its policy of maintaining a high degree of direct public sector presence in commercial activities in the sector.
Apparently social and economic considerations were behind this. Social aspects related to supporting fisheries activities in
marginal fishing grounds, while diversification of export outlets was the economic consideration. But the earlier failure was
due to exogenous shock"1, and so not relevant to the domestic market issue. The full impact of the very recent liberalization
of dried fish exports was not foreseen at appraisal. This, combined with a buoyant export demand from Sri Lanka, had a
major impact on the sector. Constrained by government's fish price stabilization policy price policy, MIFCO was unable to
compete for raw fish at many locations. Finally, GOM changed price policy, replacing its ceiling price policy for MIFCO
purchases with a floor price. This allowed MIFCO to increase its raw fish prices significantly to compete with the private
sector. Despite this, MIFCO lost almost its entire dried fish export business to the private sector. MIFCO claims this is due
to private sector avoidance of Sri Lankan import tariffs. The impact of increased fish pricing is reflected in MIFCO's
operating performance and in the increased incomes of fishers. A buoyant export market in recent years has meant that the
floor price policy is as yet untested. A downtum in export prices will require negotiations between MIFCO and Treasury as
to how any loss induced by a floor price policy is to be financed.
13.    Government appears primarily responsible for the decision to invest in capacity at Mandhoo for cold storage
(para 9). This is a locality traditionally strong in production of dried (Maldives) fish based on ready availability of firewood,
making fish purchases by MIFCO prohibitive. MIFCO currently diverts fish from the KFC collection area to Mandhoo and
the cannery at Felivaru to sustain operations in these, despite available capacity and higher unit profitability at KFC. The
Mandhoo investment also may impact MIFCO's balance sheet. Grant financed, government proposes passing 50% of the
cost on to MIFCO as a loan at 10%. Although resisting this financial arrangement, MIFCO, sanctioned by government,
subsequently undertook a Kuwait Fund financed investment for an expansion of cold storage at Mandhoo. This opened in
September 1996, at an estimated cost per ton of storage of about twice that of Kooddoo, which has had a significant negative
impact on KFC. KFC's capacity utilization"2 in 1997 was reduced from a potential of 67%, in the absence of transfers of
purchases from the KFC area, to an actual level of 54%. As well as reducing returns to the KFC investment, this high-cost
excess capacity has put tremendous pressure on MIFCO's operating and overall financial performance.
14.    Assisted by technical assistance provided under the project, the Fisheries Projects Implementation Department
(FPID)'3, the fisheries arm of the State Trading Organization (STO), was restructured and incorporated as the Maldives
Industrial Fisheries Company (MIFCO). Although MIFCO remains a public sector company, this was a major institutional
development. MIFCO inherited many doubtful debts from its parent, STO, causing financial stress from its inception.
Discussion is now underway between MIFCO and the Ministry of Finance and Treasury on financial restructuring of
MIFCO.
15.    Other institutional development efforts were initiated in MOFA, MPHRE, and MTI. Training and tuna stock
assessment was highly successful in MOFA's Marine Research Section. Strengthening of policy analysis and advice ability
in MOFA's Economic Policy and Coordination Section suffered from staffing problems. In focusing on MIFCO's capacity
utilization concerns instead of fishers' needs, MOFA's Fisheries Research and Projects Implementation Section, and thus the
Project, was unable to contribute to design of a next-generation vessel. This has now been achieved outside the project by
efforts of individual private sector fishers. Although, since these vessels have emerged first in the project area, the project
" Sri Lanka, by far the major export market, for balance of payments reasons, totally embargoed dried fish imports.
12 Based on MIFCO's current (1997) stock turnover per year of 15 and maximum storage capacity of 1900 tons, maximum
capacity is 28,500 tons per year. Higher turnover could increase this.
3Also the primary implementation agency for the Ist and 2nd Fisheries Projects.
4



may have provided some stimulus. The Environmental Research Unit in MPHRE was strengthened via on-the-job training.
MTI chose not to undertake a planned study on enhanced private activity in fisheries, thus negating the sole project effort to
initiate assessment and discussion of the sectoral issues. Consultants' performance was generally good, following their termns
of reference and completing all tasks. Individual results varied, and marginal improvements were always possible. MRI
results appear best due to the full-time and lengthy nature of the consultant's assignment and the support of a committed
team. Very acceptable results were obtained in ERU, which ensured minimal environmental impact in the construction of
KFC. In EPCS the task as designed was too ambitious and above the ability of staff to take on board. The fishing vessel
design task suffered from misdirected focus from the outset, addressing the needs of the public sector enterprise rather than
the individual fishers needs, as intended in project design.
Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
16.    Since MIFCO had responsibility for the vast majority of expenditures, the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) was
located in MIFCO. In hindsight this decision was questioned, both in the Borrower's contribution to the ICR, and by
MIFCO management. It was felt that commitment to project implementation may have been greater and the line of
responsibility clearer, particularly in relation to components assigned to three government ministries. But this is not at all
clear-cut. In a project containing both public and private components, and with diverse ownership of these, a PIU is far more
a facilitator and reporter, than an implementor, making the title something of a misnomer. MIFCO certainly fulfilled its
responsibility very effectively. It facilitated all ministry implementation requests and actions promptly; so any shortcomings
here should not be attributed to it. Realizing that responsibility for implementation lies first and foremost with the actual
implementing agencies, and having no authority over these, MIFCO was in no position to persuade other agencies to
implement as planned, but only to facilitate them as needed. This should have been sufficient to the needs of the Ministries,
and any shortfalls in their performances cannot be attributed to location of the PIU.
17.    Had the PIU been located in a line ministry, e.g. MOFA, it not clear that it would have had any more influence than
MIFCO with other ministries, while the sectoral remoteness of a central ministry could have left the project homeless. Since
the main (KFC) component was a commercial investment, MIFCO, as a directly interested commercial entity, was in a far
better position to implement this. In fact, if the commercial aspects were subject to civil service bureaucratic requirements,
implementation may have taken much longer. In this situation, shortcomings of implementation, which were few and minor,
would go firstly to the interest and commitment of the concerned ministry and thereafter to the general oversight
responsibility of the External Resources Department of the Ministry of Finance and Treasury. However, had the majority of
the project been concerned with production of "public" goods and services, a public sector agency location would be a more
suitable location for the PIU.
18.    A broader-based PIU may have improved on the use of funds. Cancellations due to project savings were substantial
(SDR I mil.). This was foreseen by several supervision missions, who suggested that expansion of needed technical training
under the project should be considered"4. Instead, the PIU applied to use the funds for construction of a dry-docking facility
in the project area as a means to reduce MIFCO's fleet repair and maintenance costs. Being an inappropriate direction for
expansion by the public sector, and not part of project design, the request was not agreed to. A broader-based PIU might
have better foreseen the priority needs of the sector. This shortcoming, arising from the joining of public and private
interests in one agency, is an inevitable trade-off in the institutional element of project design. In the context of this project,
the trade-off appears to have been quite positive.
Costs and Financing
19.    Project civil works were implemented with only minor local-cost overruns. Savings on foreign costs are attributed
to the excellent performance of MIFCO and the consultant supervising engineers. The delay in start-up arose mainly because
of unfarniliarity with Scandinavian co-financing (for the freezing and cold storage components). This was the first time these
sources were used and the relatively large volume and diversity of sources required time to become familiar with the
utilization requirements (up-front fees, legal documentation, and guarantees) as well as procurement and disbursement
requirement of each. Some of the delay is also due to several minor technical problems with refrigeration panels and timely
delivery of materials, all of which were resolved satisfactorily. Overall, performance of MIFCO, its consultants and
contractors was highly satisfactory in meeting the challenge of establishing a modem plant of sizable dimensions on a
remote, greenfield island site.
'4 GOM's contribution to the icr also makes this point.
5



D. Project Sustainabilihy
20.    KFC is assessed as highly sustainable. Financial and Economic indicators (FRR, ERR, and NPV) are all very
satisfactory. The location is near to excellent fishing grounds and here MIFCO has a high level of supplier loyalty and
satisfaction. The complex itself is well staffed and managed. Borrower commitment to the fisheries sector is quite clear.
The policy environment continues to improve, albeit slowly. Local acceptance and participation is very high and incentives
and MIFCO's business strategy ensures that this will very likely remain so. The initial environmental impact was inevitably
negative in the greenfield situation. But this was only during implementation and of a minor nature. At the local level, the
environment has now largely recovered. The social impact is also mixed. As seen from the Baseline and Update Household
surveys, not all households in the project area have had access to the benefits. Replicability is a more complex matter,
depending on factors affecting financial and economic viability. Immediately the project is not replicable due to the cold-
store overcapacity problem. In the longer run, conversion of floating cold-storage capacity must continue. The high cost
operation at Mandhoo will hinder the export competitiveness of the economy in a major sector. Financial restructuring will
transfer this burden to the larger economy. But, based on international experience, this will not impact on the basic issue of
the adequacy of incentives for efficiency in Maldives tuna storage and export. Addressing the underlying structural issues in
the sector so as to improve competitiveness and thus incentives for efficiency, appears a necessary precursor to ensuring
viability of any replication of KFC.
21.     Sustainability of the technical assistance components is mixed. Overall, the scarcity of technical skills leaves the
staffing situation fragile and in constant need of attention by government. Sustainability is a direct function of this attention.
FPID/MIFCO restructuring made a lasting contribution to corporate development in MIFCO'5. As the sector becomes more
competitive, this will enhance the component's already high sustainability Consultant development of MRS was highly
successful. The EPCS development program was overly ambitious and the unit too under-manned to permit sustainability.
The economic studies were set at too sophisticated a level to be maintained or even utilized by local staff.. Staff trained
abroad and recently returned can be expected to revitalize EPCS, but at a far lower level than appears intended at appraisal.
Due to the approach taken, the vessel design component was never likely to be sustainable"6. As this became clear,
government reduced import tariffs on boat engines and timbers to promote private sector boat-building efforts. The concerns
of seaworthiness and the qualifications of the operating crews on the newer vessels are still to be addressed by government.
The on-the-job training provided to ERU, despite some shortcomings, was extremely useful in promoting a capacity for
design and implementation of impact assessments. But lack of attention to staff development has resulted in loss of three of
the four staff who worked with the consultant team, making sustainability uncertain.
E. Bank Performance
22.    Identification, preparation (by FAO/CP) and appraisal were satisfactory, but only in a narrow technical sense. The
GOM sector strategy of a floor price and export liberalization was supported, as was further expansion of the public sector
monopoly in delivery of economically private activities. This is where needed strategic thinking appears to have been short-
circuited. Here the Bank should have sought a solution which would have met GOM's objective of ensuring market access
to all domestic fishers however remote, while moving on substantively improving the competitive structure of the frozen fish
sector. Instead, the SAR (para 1.25) argued that, without a public sector monopoly or an adequate regulatory framework,
either a private sector monopoly or a excess capacity from over-investment by a competitive private sector were foreseen.
Instead, the nature of the earlier failure in private sector involvement (para 12) should have been made clear to Government
and an emergency financial assistance scheme developed to handle any reoccurrence. Implementation of this, together with
a narrowly targeted atoll market-access subsidy scheme and technical assistance in regulation and licensing, would have
eliminated the need for continued direct commercial activity by Government. While the excess-capacity issued was
addressed, this was far too narrow to prevail (paras 9 and 13) The regulatory aspects were not taken up, either under the
project or subsequently. In the event, both an exploitative monopoly and over-capacity did occur, but in the public sector.
Only export liberalization rescued the private sector income objective (para 12), but at the expense of the government income
objective. Export liberalization also revealed the existence of a highly competitive private sector.
15 In the Second Fisheries Project, the consultants responsible for advising on FPID/MIFCO restructuring, recommended a
capital structure with a 1:1 debt-equity ratio which was achieved. But the volume of debt at nonrenogiatiable fixed (high)
rates (1 3%) and very low liquidity from the outset has been a heavy burden for MIFCO.
16 A positive lesson emerged, but this was not cost-effective. Much more could have been achieved.
6



23.    Some increase in frozen tuna export capacity was justified. But contrary to the claim in the SAR (para 1.23), this
was not the critical constraint. Without capacity increase, given export liberalization, the sector would not have collapsed.
The public sector's investment and operating strategies now impact negatively on sustainability of the major component.
Assessment of the reasons for lack of success of Government's earlier efforts to develop a competitive structure in the frozen
fish industry based on private sector involvement could have suggested alternative development models which might have
corrected for past errors and avoided the current public sector monopoly with its attendant financial burden on government.
Also, stakeholder analysis may have pointed to initiation of means to incorporate fishing households into the project, so as to
simultaneously address the social (poverty alleviation) and competitive structure issues. This presumes a formal role for
fishing-householders, something not evident in government's current thinking. With export markets buoyant, there is less
incentive for this in the short run. This is unlikely to always be the case. Finally, the concerns of increasing poverty in the
project area still remain to be addressed. However, because sectoral restructuring requires total commitment by Government,
a project strategy focused on sectoral restructuring as a means to achieving the same objectives could well have achieved far
less than was the case here if the needed commitment is not present.
23.    Supervision, focusing on physical implementation, was satisfactory. Repeatedly GOM's attention was brought to
the issues of staffing and training. By the time the issue of aggregate cold-store capacity utilization arose, construction of the
Kooddoo complex was well advanced and it was felt that the majority of the problem would be incurred at Mandhoo, not
Kooddoo. The satisfactory financial and economic performance of the KFC investment attests to the correctness of this.
F. Borrower Performance
24.    Overall performance of government and it's agencies was satisfactory. This being the third project in the series, the
preparation and appraisal process were all familiar. A PPF loan fmanced preparation by FAO-CP, which was fully
satisfactory. Stakeholder consultation, largely informal, was supplemented by MOFA expertise and the experience of two
earlier projects. Information on direct beneficiaries, fishing households, was assembled under the project. Without
modification in the project objective from fisheries development to include an explicit focus on poverty alleviation, this
information would not have modified design. All stakeholders were fully committed to implementing the project. Policy
change, in export liberalization and additional investment in cold storage capacity, despite the negative impact on the
project's perforrnance is seen as successful means to increase competition in fish collection and so returns to fishers. The
downside to GOM of termination of MIFCO export monopoly is reflected in the increased urgency for capital restructuring
in MIFCO. Despite some inconsistency in approach to sectoral policy and efficiency, on balance government's performance
here was satisfactory.
25.    Covenant compliance was highly satisfactory. Delays in financial reporting were acceptable in view of the major
upgrading of MIFCO's management information system over the implementation period. All were eventually fulfilled very
satisfactorily. At no time did this delay impact negatively on project performance. With trouble-free implementation, no
interest was shown in a mid-term review by co-financiers or government. MIFCO's fnances and staffing of project assisted
agencies were the only persistent concerns. Bank staff continually drew government's attention to these.
G. Assessment of Outcome
26.    The project's outcome is assessed as satisfactory to highly satisfactory. The objectives specified for it, with the
exception of increased Government revenue, have been achieved. The NPV remains positive. The development results
assure a sustainable livelihood for fishing households in the project area, a continued stream of export earnings, a more
diversified export earnings base, all at a reduced cost. Although direct results of institutional development efforts vary,
overall, the project has demonstrated the importance of developing such institutional capacity and provided the foundations
for substantive advances here.
H. Future Operation
27.    The major component of the project, KFC, will be operated as a commercial entity in accordance with annual and
long-term business plans established by MIFCO. Under the project, the capacity to develop such plans was provided to
7



MIFCO. which now produces them. Performance will be monitorable from independent annual audits of MIFCO's financial
results. Operation of the institutional components will be in accordance with priorities and annual work-plans of their
respective ministries. Performance will be directly monitorable by comparing output with plans. At present, due to other
priorities of government, particularly housing, no follow-on activities by IDA in this sector are foreseen. Should
government revisit this, discussions should include possible future work in the area of coastal fisheries development and
poverty alleviation in the outer atolls and coastal environmental management. In view of the rapidly changing structure of
the fishing fleet, the issue of resource rents should also be reassessed in the overall context of marine resource management.
I. Key Lessons Learned
28.    The principal positive lesson is that careful selection of consultants is key to high quality services and trouble-free
implementation. Examining the outcome of consultant services for institutional development suggests that prior experience
in the Maldives was also critical to successful consultant services. Also, source of financing was very significant here. Bank
and UNDP financed technical assistance ensured transparent procurement under competitive conditions. Lessons on the
negative side move away from the narrower confines of the major component to the larger arena of sectoral issues. The main
lesson is that it is virtually impossible to use a commercial entity to implement policy-based programs without impacting
negatively on the performance of both. The fmancial restructuring needs of MIFCO have largely been induced by its public
sector status, suggesting that the study of increased private sector participation may represent a missed opportunity to
consider a more sustainable approach. The study might have been more usefully located in a central ministry, or a line
ministry more directly concerned with sector performance. At the outset, a broader-based, strategic approach by
Government and the Bank to policy planning in the sector, incorporating considerations of efficiency, competitiveness and
the appropriate roles of the public and private sectors, could have delivered a more forward-looking project and a bridge to a
more dynamically competitive sector. Finally, in designing institutional development components, care should be taken to
avoid mismatches between objectives and capabilities.
8



PART I I: Project Implementation Assessment
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantial         Partial          Negligible       Not Applicable
Macroeconomic Policies              O                                                       E 0
Sector Policies                                        0                 E D 
Financial Objectives                Dl                 El                El                 El
Institutional Development           [1                 0                 E                  El
Physical Objectives                 0                  El                El                 El
Poverty Reduction                    l                 0                 El                 El
Gender Concerns                     El                 E                 E                  0D
Other Social Objectives              l                 E                 El                 E
Environmental Objectives            0EEl                                                    El
Public Sector Management            El                                                      El
Private Sector Development          E                  El                0                  El
Other (specify)                      l                 E                 E                  E
B. Project Sustainability                                        Unlikely                    Uncertain
0                   E~~~~~~~l El
Highly
C. Bank Performance                 Satisfactorv                Satisfactory                 Deficient
Identification                      El                         0                            0
Preparation Assistance               l                         0                            0
Appraisal                           0                          E                            El
Supervision                         0                          E                            El
Highly
D. Borrower Performance              Satisfactory               Satisfactory                  Deficient
Preparation                         0                          0                            El
Implementation                      0                          El                           El
Covenant Compliance                 0                          E                            E
Operation (if applicable)           El                         E                            E
Highly                                                  Highly
E.  Assessment of Outcome           Satisfactory       Satisfactory     Unsatisfactory     Unsatisfactory
El                                   El                Ela
9



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title                Purpose                 Year of Aproval       |           Status
Preceding Operations
Fisheries Project (CR0907)   To increase fisheries        1979                        Completed
production through provision
of credit for motorization of
pole and line sailing vessels;
provide technical assistance
Second   Fisheries   Project  To expand the fisheries sector   1983                   Completed
(CR1320)                     infrastructure, facilitate a
more effective fish pricing
system to enhance fish
production, develop new
markets for frozen fish
exports.
Following Operations
Fourth Fisheries Project    Fisheries Management &       Not yet agreed with GOM      Discussion proposed
Employment Devt &
Coastal Environment
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle      |             Date Planned             |      Date Actual/Latest Estimate
Preparation                                           1988                                May 1990
Appraisal                                        November 1989                          April/May 1991
Negotiations                                       April 1990                           November 1991
Letter of Development Policy                           NA                                    NA
Board Presentation                               September 1990                          January 1992
Signing                                                NA                                 April 1992
Effectiveness                                          NA                                 July 1992
Midterm Review                                         NA                                    NA
Project Completion                                  June 1997                             June 1997
Loan/Credit Closing                              December 1997                          December 1997
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
| FY92       | FY93        r FY94        | FY95          FY96        |FY97
-Appraisal Estimate           825.0         2,463.6      5,219.3      7,656.1         9,384.4       10,000
Actual                       0.0           1,462.7       5,310.9       7,793.7       8,952.3      9,483.3
Actual as % of Estimate      0%            62%           103%          103%          96%           95%
Date of Final Disbursement   February 12,
1997__          _ _  _ ___                  _ _ _  _   __ _ _ _  _  __  __10
10



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
I.  Key implementation indicators
in SAR//Presidents Report                      Estimated                              Actual
1 .Kooddoo Port and Freezing/Cold
Storage Complex
(i) Port Works                            290 meters of birthing                300 meters of birthing
(ii) Freezing/Cold Storage Plant         100 tons/day & 1500 tons             120 tons/day & 1900 tons
(iii) Vessels                          3 new, 4 refurbished & 1 tug                4 new & 1 tug
(iv) Navigational Aids                   32 lights and 30 beacons              32 lights and 30 beacons
2. Technical Assistance
(i) Restructuring FPID               Incorporate and install a new MIS  Incorporated as MIFCO with a new MIS
(ii) Boat Design                           New Fishing Vessel                   Completed - no output
(iii) Improve MOFA Economics Unit   Studies & Sectoral Analysis Capacity  Completed - marginally successful
(iv) Fisheries Statistics- MOFA      New collection and collation system        Completed - successful
(v) Fish Stock Assessment - MOFA              Tagging Study                  Completed - fully successful
(vi) Environmental Research Unit     Construction Monitoring &Training     - Completed - largely successful
(vii) Overseas Training                   5 persons/156 months                  8 persons/190 months
(vi) Private sector participation            Consultant Study                      Not undertaken
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Key operating indicators in
SAR/Presidents Report                           Estimated                             Actual
None included                                      n/a                                  n/a
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study               at appraisal/redefined            Status                 Impact of study
1.   Impact of Government       Assembly of available data    Completed               Very low for two reasons:
Determined Tuna Prices on   on all sectors of the                                i) study and model
the Sector                 industry, development of                              technically too complex to
models for Felivaru                                  be of practical use either to
cannery, fish collection,                             MOFA or MIFCO.
KFC, and tuna pole and line                          ii) change to floor price
| ________________________________    fleet                                       system   reduced  interest.
2.   Prepare a formula to        A formula to mimic free    Subsumed into Study 1                ditto
detemnine tuna prices      market situation
3.   Econometric Model           To provide a basis for price   Subsumed into Study 1            ditto
policy recommendation
4.   Fiscal Alternatives         To define long-term        Completed                  A useful sectoral overview,
economic solutions                                   but needs revisions.
5.   Assess Long-term Tuna       Provide price projection   Dropped by GOM                       N/A
Prices in World Markets    system for planning
6.   Assessment of Resource      Explore various taxation   Subsumed into Study 4           as for # 4 above
Rent and its Distribution  regimes for fisheries sector
7.   Determine Comparative       Identify relative          Dropped by GOM                       N/A
Advantage of Tuna, Pelagic   competitiveness of the
and Reef Fish Production   Maldivian fisheries Sector
8.   Design and Process Socio-    Establish status of the   Completed                 Together with 1997 update,
Economic Baseline Survey    project area prior to project                        this provides major insight
implementation                                       to change in the project area.
9.   Fisheries Statistical System    To update accuracy of catch   Completed          Improved accuracy and
data                                                 timeliness of basic data.
10.   Training Program for EPCS  To develop a long-term staff  Completed              Little impact thus far, due to
staff                      development program.                                  inadequate follow-up.
11



Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$ million)            Actual/latest estimate (US$ million)
Local       Foreign costs                    Local          Foreign
Item             costs                          Total          costs          costs          Total
I.Kooddoo Complex                                                                                              I
1. Port Works       0              5.5            5.5             3.7            2.0            5.6
2. Freezing/Cold   .2               7.7            7.9            0.6            6.0            6.6
Storage Plants                                                                                                 l
3. Office, Housing,   .07           1.3            1.4            0.7            6.2            6.9
Workshop
4. Miscellaneous    0               3.5            3.5            -              4.1            4.1
Equipment
5. Vessels          0               3.4            3.4            -              4.9            4.9
6. Navigational Aids  .02          .1             .12             -              0.3            0.3
7. TA/Training for   0              .13            .13            -              -              Included in
Vessels                                                        .                                vessel cost.
8.KFC design &      0              2.4            2.4             -              2.1            2.1
supervision                                                                                                   l
11. Tech. Assistance.                                                __=
1. Support for FPID   0            .66             .66            -              0.1            0.1
2. Support for      0               .38            .38            -              0.4            0.4
Restructuring FPID
3. Support for     .11             .97             1.0            -              0.8            0.8
MFNA
4. Environmental    .05            .17             .22            -              0.3            0.3
Research Unit
5. Private Sector   0               .2            .2              -              -              -
Encouragement
III. Physical       .01             1.1            1.1            N/A            N/A            N/A
Contingencies                                                                                                 l
IV. Price           .08            2.1             2.2            N/A            N/A            N/A
Contingencies                                                                                                 l
. TOTAL             .5             30.0            30.5           5.0            27.2           32.2
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisa estimate (US$ mlion)            Actual/latest estimate (US$ million)
Local      Foreign costs                  Local        Foreign
Source               costs                       Total          costs         costs         Total
Government                0.2            2.9           3.1           -             3.4           3.4
MIFCO                     -             -             -              1.6           -             1.6
IDA                       0.1            10.0          10.1          -             9.5           9.5
Norway                    0.2            6.4           6.6           -             3.1           3.1
Sweden                    0.1            2.3           2.4           -             6.7           6.7
Nordic Devt. Fund         0.1            5.5           5.6           -             5.4           6.4
OPEC Fund                                2.6           2.6           -             2.6           2.6
UNDP                                     0.3           0.3           -             0.3           0.3
TOTAL                     0.7            30.0          30.7          1.6           31.0          32.6
12



Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Assumptions                                Costs                                  Benefits
(a) Kooddoo Port and Freezing/Cold
Storage Complex
Main assumptions are:                   The major costs included in the analysis    The only quantifiable benefit accruing to
(i). Twenty-year economic life; (ii) all  are:                                 the investment in Kooddoo is the
three mother vessels scrapped; (iii) the  (i) operations costs including the cost of    increased export value of processed tuna.
throughput for the plant until year 2000  collection and freezing, selling and
have been used from the plants released    distribution;
data and export prices have been held   (ii) investment and maintenance of port
constant after year 1997; (iv) replacement  facilities;
costs of equipment estimated with table    (iii) administrative costs for MIFCO.
of useful life, depreciation costs and
replacement schedule (extrapolating
MIFCO actual depreciation); (v) the
operational costs of plant and collector
vessels estimated by MIFCO through
year 2000 and then held constant (vi) the
economic price for fuel was estimated at
Rf 2.80 per litre by eliminating transfer
costs, (e.g duties) the financial costs (e.g
the costs of opening letters of credit)
from recent CIF prices in Male.
13



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original       Revised
Agree-                 Covenant   Present   Fulfillment        Fulfill-
ment      Section       type       Status        Date        ment Date              Description of Covenant                              Comments
DCA    4.01(b) (ii)  I            CD        Annually by     no revision    Submission of audited project accounts.       Regularly delayed as MIFCO and its auditors
6/30                                                                        strove for imptoved reporting..
DCA    4.01(b)       1            CD        Annually by     no revision    Submission of unaudited projects and other  Regularly delayed as MIFCO and its auditors
(iii)                   _________  6/30                          accounts.                                      strove for improved reporting
DCA    4.02          11           C         duration of     no revision    Inform IDA prior to investment in cannery on  No investment plans to date.
credit                       Laamu Atoll, or freezer/cold store in north
DCA      Sched  4,  5             C         duration of     no revision    Maintain a Project Coordinating Committee until  Project  Coordination  Committee  operates
Item I                             credit                        project completion                            informally through MIFCO
DCA      Sched.  4   11           C         6/30/93         no revision    Establish  Presidential Committee to  review   Towards end of implementation GOM changed
Item 2                             through                       submitted proposals and analysis at least every 6  to a floor-price policy set at a less intrusive
Project                      months in deciding on next period tuna prices  level and so eliminating the need for the
Completion                                                                  Commission.
DCA      Sched. 4,  11            CP        06/30/92 &      no revision    Establish Economic Planning and Coordination  Covenant complied with in early years of
Item 4                             6/30/93 &                     Section (EPCS) in MOFA by 06/30/92. Develop  project.  Pricing committee now reduced to
every 6                      pricing formula for fresh tuna and analyse  enforcing floor price only. Market price above
months                       sectoral production and export incentives by  floor price for past three years making regular
thereafter                   06/30/93                                       intervention by Price Comtnittee unnecessary.
Carry out and furnish such analysis to the
Presidential Committee every 6 months.
DCA    Sched.  4  5               C         one year prior  no revision    Provide IDA  with detailed staffing plans for  Final staffing roster now completed and in
Item 5                             to start-up                   Kooddoo fish freezing complex                 place.
DCA      Sched.  4  5             C         duration of     no revision    Fisheries sector activities of STO/FPID (now   Quality of management and staff generally
Item 6                             credit                        MIFCO)   under   qualified,   experienced  acceptable. Financial management continues to
management and competent staff.               be weak. Auditor improving reporting..
DCA    Sched.  4   11             C          12/31/94       no revision    Allocate at least 15 new dhonies to Gaafu Alifu  Dhonis already provided in 1993
Item 7                                                           and Gaafu Dhaalu Atolls
DCA      Sched.  4  5             CP        03/31/93        no revision    Interim Review with Project co-financiers    No implementation problems and no interest
Item 8                                                                                                         for MTR among cofinanciers.
DCA      Sched.  4  6             C          12/31/92       no revision    Measure for protection of live turtles and turtle  Decree  enacted,  no  incidents  reported.
item 9                                                           eggs around Kooddoo Island.                   Presence of MIFCO staff and Security Forces
base on Kooddoo has led to expanded turtle
reproduction activity on Kooddoo.____J
Covenant Types:                                                                                                                     Present status:
I= Accounts/audits                                               8 =  Indigenous people                                            C = covenant complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue generation from beneficiaries  9 =  Monitoring, review, and reporting                            CD = complied with after delay
3   Flow and utilization of project funds                       10 =  Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9        CP = complied with partially
4    Counterpart funding                                        11 =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation  NC = not complied with
5   Management aspects of the project or executing agency       12 =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/ regulatory/institutional action
6 = Environmental covenants                                     13 =  Other
7 = Involuntary resettlement



Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title                      Describe and comment on lack of compliance
No deviation from applicable Operational Manual
Statements observed.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                     Revised                       Actual
Stage of
project cycle             Weeks          US$           Weeks          US$          Weeks           US$
Preparation to appraisal        na             na           i}a             na            67.70         212.10
Appraisal                       na             na            na             na            28.10         95.20
Negotiations through            na             na            na             na            19.60         70.00
Board approval
Supervision                     na             na            na             na            66.5          243.4
Completion                      na             na            na             na            24.00         43.4
TOTAL                           na             na            na             na            205.9         664.10
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Specialized   Implement-   Develop-
Month/      Number        Days in    staff skills    ation        ment        Types of
Stage of project cycle     year       of persons     field     represented     status      objectives    problems
Through appraisal           March 88        3            10       ECN, FRS,
_ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ ECN
Appraisal through           April 91        4            19          FNA,
Board approval                                                       ECN,           -            -
ECN, FRS
Supervision                  June 92        3             8       ECN, FRS,         1            1           LC
ENC
Aug. 92         2            6        PE,ECN           1            1            LC
Feb. 93         1            4          ECN            1            1           LC
May 93          1            5          FRS            2            1           LC
April 94        2            12       ECN, FRS          1            1           LC
Aug. 95         1            4          ECN           HS           HS            LC
June 96         1            3          FRS           HS           HS           LC
June 97         1            7          ECN            S            S            LC
Completion                  Dec. 97          1           10          ECN            S            S           LC
Total                                       20           88            -            -            -             -
Key:
EGR     : Power Engineer                    LC        Compliance with Legal Covenants
FNA      Financial Analyst                  FP        Financial Performance
ECN      Economist                          PR        Procurement Progress
OPN      Operations Assistant               PM       : Project Management Performance
15



Appendix A
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT - (IDA Credit 2327-MAL)
IDA Final Supervision and Implementation Completion Review Mission, Nov. 20-30,1997
AIDE MEMOIRE
Introduction
I .    Mr. Robert Hunt from the International Development Association (IDA) visited the Maldives, from
November 20 to 30, 1997, to carry out the Implementation Completion Review (ICR) of the Third Fisheries Project,
supported in part by IDA Credit 2327-MAL. Mr. Hunt thanks the Government of the Maldives (GOM), its
agencies, the Maldives Industrial Fisheries Company (MIFCO), and the UNDP office in Male', for the assistance
and input provided to his mission.
2.     The mission met with officials of the Ministry of Finance and Treasury (MOFT), the Ministry of Fisheries
and Agriculture (MOFA), the Maldives Monetary Authority (MMA), the Ministry of Trade and Industry (MTI), the
Ministry of Planning, Human Resources and Environment (MPHRE), UNDP, the Maldives Fisheries Company
(MIFCO), MIFCO's Auditors (Coopers and Lybrand, Male'), the Maldives Traders' Association (MTA) the Bank
of Maldives and the Chamber of Commerce. Since a recent supervision mission visited the Kooddoo Fisheries
Complex, financed under the project, and met with local atoll officials, fishers and other locals, this mission
confined its activities to Male'.
3 .    The main thrust of the mission was to gather information and data for the ICR for the project. GOM's own
ICR was also discussed, including comments provided earlier. Earlier IDA staff assisted GOM in developing the
terms of reference for this task and providing a list of suitable consultants.
Project Components and Summary of Implementation Status
4.     Development of a fisheries complex, comprising a harbor with a tugboat and a cold store and four collector
vessels, at Kooddoo, was the central project component. A supporting program of technical assistance in
corporatizing and management of MIFCO, environmental monitoring at Kooddoo and a series of technical
assistance inputs and training to MOFA, and MTI rounded this out. Except for one consultant study, to be carried
out by MITI, all project components have been completed. The Closing Date for disbursement of funds from the
Credit is December 31 of this year. An undisbursed amount of about US$ 1.3 million equivalent will be canceled
from the loan amount. This arose through exchange rate movements, savings on civil works and noncompleted
technical assistance (the consultant study and some training). Overall the project's impact appears highly positive.
It expanded market access for artisinal fisher people, permitting increased income eaming opportunities. It also
supported development of important technical capacities in MOFA and MPHRE.
Kooddoo Complex (including Collector Vessels and Tugboat)
5.     Handed over to MIFCO on Feb. 28, 1996, only two months later than planned, this complex is now fully
operational. As detailed in successive supervision mission Aide Memories, implementation was virtually trouble
free. This appears the result of good technical input from consultants and contractors and an excellent working
relationship between MIFCO and consultant/contractor personnel - a lesson for all projects.
MIFCO Technical Assistance
6.     This accomplished restructuring and corporatizing of FPID into MIFCO' and installing management
systems and human resource development capacity. The restructuring issue, reflected in MIFCO's continued frail
financial performance, lingers on MIFCO seeks a corporate structure best suited to the multiple objectives of GOM,
its sole shareholder. The aggregate lesson here is that lack of harmony in objectives will impact negatively on
institutional performance.
Environmental Monitoring at Kooddoo
7.     A baseline survey and interim assessment, including on-the-job training of MPHRE staff, were carried out
by Carl Bro Consultants and the Environmental Research Unit of MPHRE. The interim assessment showed only



Appendix A
Page 2 of 4
minor impact and with some early recovery. Loss of the survey vessel caused a lengthy time lapse between on-site
inspections. Two months ago Kooddoo was revisited. A written report of this visit is not yet available. The
original survey marker pegs were lost; while the initial record of their placing is inadequate. Loss of qualified staff
in ERU and inappropriate, consultant-supplied, equipment also hindered the Kooddoo visit. Coming at an early
stage in ERU's formation the initial Kooddoo assessment appears to have been a major challenge. Staff were
relatively untrained and inexperienced, which the consultant input failed to allow for. This is a lesson for future
design of such assistance. Also, the loss of key staff in this area indicates that a complete cadre of skills in this area
may be too costly for MPHRE to maintain; instead an alternative, more cost-effective, means of accessing such
capacity should be sought.
MOFA - Economic Planning and Coordination Section (EPCS)
8.     The consultant implemented program of sector studies and upgrading of sectoral data collection has been
completed for some time. Training abroad under the project is alnost completed; two of five people have returned.
Many staff trained on-the-job by the consultants have left EPCS for alternative employment, often in other
government agencies providing external training opportunities. MOFA now no longer has the capacity to maintain
the econometric and policy-oriented studies nor to utilize them for policy analysis and program development.
Concern for this was regularly expressed by supervision missions over the course of implementation. Continued
agreement on the need for such a capacity suggests that the lesson here is for MOFA/EPCS to sharpen its labor
market competitiveness, or seek another means of obtaining these services.
MOFA - Tuna Stock Assessment Technical Assistance
9.     Output exceeded expectations; a sizeable data base was developed and some 34 reports and publications
are based on preliminary analysis of this. These have provided substantive insight to the structure and movements
of tuna stocks. Although unplanned, overseas training of three MOFA/MRS staff was financed from the Credit in
addition to two others being financed under an IDA Education Credit. In contrast to the MPHRE/ERU and
MOFA/EPCS components, here development of an initial core of competent staff arose from project related
activities. The long-term, on-site form of expatriate consultant input may have been of some positive significance
on capacity development here.
MOFA Vessel Design Technical Assistance
10.    Intended to benefit artisinal fishers, this focused soley on attempting to resolve MIFCO's throughput
concerns. A MOFA/MIFCO investigation of a capital-intensive pole-and-line system in use in the South Pacific
showed this to be nonviable in the Maldives and enabled avoidance of a poor investment in this. Thereafter,
MOFA/MIFCO interest in the component evaporated. Recently, without project or MOFA assistance, the private
sector provided an answer, and in a local context, by further expanding the size of the traditional local fishing
vessel. About 10 are now in operation in the Kooddoo collection area and look like making a substantive
contribution to landings in the area. More are reported under construction. Due to lack of interest by MOFA,
technical and economic evaluation of these will be in of the ocean and the market place, and the entire risk will fall
on the individual boatowners/small investors. The lesson here is that, at the outset of such research, the relevant
beneficiary of such technical assistance should be clearly identified, involved in all the activities, and remain the
primary focus of the effort.
MTI - Consultant Study on "Enhancement of Private Sector Participation in Fisheries"
II.    This study was designed to assist GOM in thinking about future sectoral efficiency improvements. MITI
and Bank staff combined to produce a draft terms of reference; expressions of interest in implementation were
advertised for. These were not followed up and the study was never undertaken. Despite enquiries by several
supervision missions, the reason was never made known. The primary lesson suggested here is the need to achieve
clear and firm agreement between the borrower and the Bank as to the likely future direction of sectoral
development, thus providing a common basis for commitment to such studies.



Appendix A
Page 3 of 4
Future Operational Needs of the Project
12.    Probably the greatest concern for the project's future is the weak financial structure and stagnant
operational performance of MIFCO. Until resolution of basic policy directions concerning how best to address
poverty alleviation and economic growth in outer atolls, there is likely to be little the Bank can provide in the way
of meaningful additional operational assistance to the project. MIFCO's financial weaknesses combined with its
dominant position leaves sectoral growth and development heavily dependent on government for direction, stimulus
and financing. Although the reliance of a large segment of the population on fish catch and sales for a major
portion of its income requires continued government attention, the large volume of public finance tied up in
essentially non-performing assets leads to questioning the appropriateness of the capital intensive strategy towards
sector development. Direct publicinvolvement, via capital intensive investment under a public sector enterprise,
greatly weakens both the budget constraint and incentives for the industry to operate efficiently. At the same time,
it squeezes out the private sector, constraining economic deepening and efficiency improving competition. The
situation requires careful review and analysis of alternative policies aimed at improving sectoral efficiency. The
continued low per capita GDP share in the sector emphasizes this need. Pending this and the resultant policy
decisions, little short run improvement is to be expected.



Appendix A
Page 4 of 4
ATTACHMENT
THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT - (IDA Credit 232 7-MAL)
IDA Final Supervision and Implementation Completion Review Mission, Nov 20-30, 1997
PERSONS MET BY MISSION
UNDP
- Mr. Narindar Kakar, Resident Representative.
- Mr. Ali Hasheem, Consultant
MALDIVES INDUSTRIAL FISHERIES COMPANY (MIFCO)
- Mr. Ibrahim Shakeeb, Managing Director.
- Mr. Adnan Ali, Deputy Director, Operations.
- Mr. Ibrahim Atif, Deputy Director, Sales.
- Mr. Mohamed Haneef, Deputy Director, Accounts.
- Mr. S. Krisnarajah, Accountant, Accounts Departmnent.
- Mr. Ali Khaled, Senior Sales Officer.
MINISTRY OF FISHERIES AND AGRICULTURE (MOFA)
- H.E. Mr. Hassan Sobir, Minister.
- Mr. Jadullah Jameel, Director General.
- Mr. Ahmed Hafiz, Deputy Director, Marine Research Section.
- Mr. Mohammed Rashid, Director, Projects and Extension.
- Mr. Hassan Rasheed, Assistant Director, Economic Policy and Coordination Section
- Ms. Aminath Latheef, Senior Economics Research Officer, Economic Policy and Coordination Section
- Dr. Charles Anderson, Fisheries Stocks Consultant.
MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND TREASURY (MOFT)
- H.E. Mr. Adam Maniku, Deputy Minister.
- Ms. Aminatu Ali Manik, Assistant Undersecretary.
- Ms. Fathmitath Nuzuha, Desk Officer (World Bank).
- Mr. Ibrahim Ferushan, Desk Officer (ADB/Protocol).
- Mr. Gary Davis, Consultant Accountant.
MINISTRY OF PLANNING, HUMAN RESOURCES AND ENVIRONMENT (MPHRE)
- Mr. Amjad Abdullah, Coastal Engineer.
- Mr. ------ Shaheer, ------
MINISTRY OF TRADE AND INDUSTRY (MTI)
- Mr. Ahmed Naseem Director General of Investments.
MALDIVES TRADERS' ASSOCIATION (MTA)
- Mr. Adil Saleem, Vice President, Information and Statistics.
MIFCO AUDITORS
- Ms. Samanmali Dharmasena, Resident Manager, Coopers Lybrand, Male'.
BANK OF MALDIVES
- Mr. B. Ratnam, General Manager.
- Mr. Mohamed Ahmed, Assistant General Manager.
MALDIVES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE
- Mr. Ahmed Nasheed, Vice President.
- Mr. Abdul Azeez, Secreterary General.
- Mr. Ibrahim Shareef, Treasurer.



APPENDIX B
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT
(CR 2327-MAL)
Borrower contribution to the Implementation Completion Report
1     Objectives and design
The objectives of the Third Fisheries Project, as formulated in the Staff Appraisal Report
of 1991, were;
a) increase fish production, government revenue, and foreign exchange earnings at a
lower processing cost;
b) increase the income of fishing households to alleviate relative poverty;
c) reduce migration to the capital, Male, through balanced regional growth; and
d) create the environment for increased private sector participation in the fisheries
sector.
Considering the knowledge of the fishery resources, the performance of the industry and
the prevailing issues at the time, the objectives were very relevant to the needs of the
sector and the country. This is evident from a separate, independent study of the
fisheries sector undertaken by the Government of Maldives (GOM) around the time of
the appraisal of the project. Major conclusions of this study were as follows:
The annual catch was not anywhere near the maximum level of sustainable yield and
the catch could be further increased by expanding the operational area of the fishing
boats. The productivity of the boats could also be raised if the freezing capacity was
increased, supply of fuel improved and if the fish price structure was changed. Maldives
had well established market outlets, with good prospects for the future, for frozen tuna in
Thailand and Japan and for canned tuna in Europe. There was a need to restructure
and improve performance of the agency responsible for the Government's fisheries
facilities and for most of the purchase and export of fish in the country. The Ministry of
Fisheries and Agriculture (MOFA) needed to be strengthened to enable it to prepare and
implement fisheres management plans.
These facts and concems were reflected in the objectives and strategies in the Third
National Development Plan (1991-93). The first two objectives of this plan dealt with
increased production and export of fish and raised income and living standards of the
fishing population. The associated strategies included priority to fisheries management,
improvement of fisheries infrastructure and encouragement of private sector
investments in development of fisheries infrastructure and marketing.
Quantitatively, it was assumed that the catch in the project area, Huvadhu Atoll, and the
export of tuna would increase by 25 %, over the 1990 level, to 16,300 t and 14,000 t
respectively. Secondly, the average income of 2,000 fishermen would increase by 32 %
to Rf 8,300 per year. Thirdly, the project's contribution to the Government's revenue-
would tum positive from the first year of operation amounting to about Rf 30 million in
loan service charges levied on Maldives Industrial Fisheries Company Limited (MIFCO).
The objective concerning reduced migration from the atoll was quantified by an estimate
l



of 240 persons to be employed by the Kooddoo Fisheries Complex (KFC), ashore and
at sea.
At the time of appraisal, with the information then available, it appears that the degree of
ambition, with regard to increased production, export and fishermen earnings, was
reasonable. In retrospect it is clear that the predictions regarding the earnings of fishers
were too modest. It also appears that the fisher population was over-estimated by
nearly 100 %. Some of the development that has taken place between 1991 and 1997
with regard to fishing would have been difficult to foresee in 1991. However, the
predictions could possibly have been better had there been a thorough survey of the
fishing and fishers in the project area prior to the appraisal of the project. There is no
mention in the Staff Appraisal Report of detailed information on the target beneficiaries.
The number of persons to be employed by KFC could, of course, be predicted by high
degree of certainty but to translate this into an objective of reduced migration seems to
be over-ambitious.
The main components of the project, required to meet the first three objectives, were; a)
a fishing port, b) wharf equipment, c) freezing and cold storage facilities. d) support
infrastructure, e) collector vessels f) mooring tug and navigation lights, g) technical
assistance in design, construction supervision and support to MIFCO. An important
feature of the project was the change in technology from freezing onboard mother
vessels to freezing ashore in order to reduce the cost of processing. All the components
were appropriate and only minor modifications were required during the course of the
implementation.
The fourth objective was envisaged to be met by technical assistance (16pm) in the
preparation of a framework to facilitate and encourage private sector participation in the
collection, processing and exporting of fish.  Successful implementation of the
component might have been a useful contribution but the achievement of the objective
would depend on other actions and fundamental policy decisions by the Government.
The other technical assistance components of the project related to tuna research,
economic fisheries planning, vessel design, environmental monitoring and restructuring
of MIFCO. They were all relevant to the needs of the country and would contribute to
the achievement of the stated objectives at varying degrees. They could also be seen
as components of an implied objective of institutional strengthening of the organisations
concemed, i.e. the Marine Research Section (MRS) and the Economic Planning and
Coordinating Section (EPCS) of MOFA, the Environmental Research Unit (ERU) of the
Ministry of Planning, Human Resources and Environment (MPHRE) and MIFCO. The
technical assistance components were well defined but the training inputs required to
achieve the intended effects were insufficient.  The shortage of trained staff in
government institutions is not a new problem in Maldives and the needs could have
been better foreseen and acted upon during the design of the project.
The environmental aspects of the project were well taken care of in the project design.
Practically all possible measures to minimise adverse effects were included in the
construction designs and specifications of facilities. An environmental problem which is
difficult to predict and to control is that of sand transport, causing erosion in some areas
and filling in others. This is also a problem in Kooddoo but the seriousness of it will only
2



become known through further monitorng. An industrial establishment like the Kooddoo
complex will always have some negative effects on the environment despite various
preventive and remedial measures. However, the impact is localised to the island
concerned and there are many islands to choose from. There might be islands, or
clusters of islands, that should be preserved for different environmental reasons related
to wildlife, fauna, coral ecology, etc. This should be considered in connection with the
selection of locations for future projects. In choosing Kooddoo, the selection criteria
were mainly of technical nature. One environmental concern was the importance of the
island as a nesting area for turtles. It was concluded that Kooddoo is not an important
area and, furthermore, new regulations prohibiting the collection of turtle eggs on the
island were introduced during the course of the project.
Regarding the role of women, it was concluded that the project was not likely to have
much effect. The opportunities for production of Maldive Fish would not be affected but
the higher famiiy income derived from fishing could pessibly open up for other activities
leading to improved quality of life. The assumption of limited effect was probably correct.
The project risks were rightly considered modest because of the abundant fish
resources, the well established export markets for frozen tuna and the positive
experience of earlier fisheries projects in Maldives.
2     Implementation
The implementation of the Third Fisheries Project has, by and large, been a very
positive experience for all concerned.  The entire project, barring two technical
assistance components, were delivered without any major problems. Practically all
services delivered by contractors and consultants were satisfactory.  There was,
however, an initial delay of about one year in the start of the construction of KFC. This is
mainly attributed to the complications in coordinating project inputs from different funding
agencies having different guidelines, procedures and regulations for procurement.
The Kooddoo complex, including collector vessels, tug boat and navigation lights, were
completed as envisaged with a few improvements.  The freezing capacity was
enhanced to 120 tlday (from 100 t/day), the cold storage capacity to 1,900 t (1,500 t)
and the number of new collector vessels was increased from three to four.  All
equipment and facilities have functioned as anticipated.  The only problem  of
significance that has been encountered is strong wave action in the harbour basin
during particular seasonal weather conditions. Entering the harbour and berthing of
collector vessels under these conditions is a hazardous operation with high risk of
damaging the vessels.
Most of the technical assistance services were delivered as anticipated. It was only in
connection with the environmental component that it was felt that the consultants did not
possess sufficient knowledge about the coral reef environment and that some
equipment selected by them was unnecessarily expensive and difficult to service in.
Maldives. In the context of the whole project, however, these were minor issues.
3



The technical assistance component conceming the design of new fishing vessels was
not implemented. Staff of MIFCO and MOFA visited Fiji and Solomon Islands where
large pole-and-line vessels are used. The study tour resulted in uncertainties regarding
suitable type of vessel to be introduced and in doubts about the economic feasibility and
crew acceptability. The design of a new vessel was therefore cancelled and attempts
are being made to obtain vessels for trials under Japanese grant aid.
The component concerning private sector participation was cancelled since the
Government was achieving the corresponding objective by other means.
3     Effect of external factors
The increase in total catch of Skipjack in Maldives increased by only 6,600 t (11 %) from
1990 to 1996 against the increase of over 12 % 'per year in the period 1983-90.
Although scientists still believe that there is no danger of over-fishing the maximum yield
within the area of operation of the dhonis might have been reached. The catches of
Yellowfin have on the other hand more than doubled from 5,300 t to 12,400 t. The
combined catch of Skipjack and Yellowfin has therefore increased by about 20 %.
In the same period (1990-96), the utilisation of Skipjack for production of Maldive Fish
increased by 65 % which is equivalent to about 8,000 t of fresh fish. The main reason
for this was the liberalisation of the export of traditional tuna products from 1990. The
stagnating catches and the increased demand from the Maldive Fish trade reduced
MIFCO's ability to compete with their fixed purchase prices set by the Government.
MIFCO's total purchases was therefore reduced by one third (11,000 t) from 1990 to
1992. The share of MIFCO's purchases in Huvadhu Atoll was reduced from 87 % in
1990 to 52 % in 1994. It was only in 1995, after a significant increase in catches and
after MIFCO was allowed to set its own prices, that the down-going trend was reversed.
In order to compete with dried fish processors MIFCO had to raise the purchase price
considerably. During 1997, the average price has been 3.3 Rflkg against a projected
price of 2.6 Rf/kg. This difference is 27 % which, in the context of the project, is
equivalent to a cost increase of about Rf 10 million per year during the current year.
The fishermen, on the other hand, have benefited from the higher purchase prices.
They have also benefited from a lower than anticipated price of fuel, 3.3 Rfilit against
4.05 Rf/lit.
Very recently, concurrently with the establishment of KFC a few new large dhonis have
been introduced by private fishermen in the area. These boats can operate over a
larger area and carry more fishermen than the common dhoni. Their resource base is
therefore larger, the catch rate higher and they produce more fish. They have already
demonstrated this at Kooddoo and the importance of them will increase as the fleet of
this type of boat expands. There are about ten large dhonis in operation at present
(August 1997) in the project area and many others are under construction and being
planned. As a consequence of this, the fish receiving arrangements in the port will have
to be modified and expanded since the larger boats occupy significantly more space
than the common dhonis.
4



4     Achievements
The Kooddoo Fisheries Complex started to function in February 1996 and produced
about 6,300 t that year with four new and two old collector vessels in operation. Through
MIFCO's mother vessels another 3,900 t were produced. Some of this fish (about 200 t)
was collected from the Addu Atoll and some of it (about 800 t) was collected in the
Huvadhu Atoll was delivered to Maandhoo. MIFCO's purchases in the project area were
therefore 10,800 t. The total production in the atoll was 16,000 t according to MOFA
statistics.
During the first seven months of 1997, KFC has produced 9,760 t with four new and
three old collector vessels and three mother ships in operation. About 1,700 t of this is
coming from the Addu Atoll so the purchases in Huvadhu Atoll amount to about 8,050 t.
The catches during the second half of the year are normally about 70 % of those during
the first half. This wouid indicate a year-end result of about 11,500-12,000 t against the
second year target of 12,600 t in the appraisal report. If the deliveries from Addu Atoll
are added the ultimate target of 14,000 t will probably be reached.
Judging by the above data and assuming that the fish used for home consumption,
dried fish and for Maldive Fish production is the same as in 1996, i.e. 5,000 t, the
production target of 16,300 t will be reached in 1997. The reason for not reaching the
export target with fish from Huvadhu Atoll is thus that more fish than anticipated is used
for the traditional products.
The production of fish varies considerably during the year. In 1996, the highest monthly
delivery to KFC was 1,500 t (in May) while the lowest was only 70 t (in October). Since
MIFCO needs all the fish itcan purchase and has a socio-political obligation to purchase
all fish that has been caught, great flexibility is required in the use of its facilities. Durng
peak periods the collector vessel capacity and the freezing capacity at KFC are not
sufficient and mother vessels have had to be used. The capacity of the mother vessels,
however, is also limited and the old collector vessels have been used to deliver ice and
water to the former. The ice has been used for buffer storage of fish when the freezing
capacity of the mother vessel has not been sufficient. Therefore, and for reasons of
repair and maintenance, the performance of the old collector vessels has been poor.
During the first seven months of 1997, the old vessels (of 19 GRT) have delivered 170 t
on an average while the new ones (of 25 GRT) have delivered 900 t each. In sum, the
collection system has not functioned as envisaged in the design of the project, the old
collector vessels being the bottleneck. The operational costs of the fleet of vessels,
including the mother ships, has been much higher than predicted at the design stage.
The project design provided for expatrate personnel to help to manage the Kooddoo
complex.  In total, there were provisions for ten persons.  MIFCO has, however,
managed to operate the complex with national personnel and only two foreign technical
staff (from the Philippines). This has resulted in considerable lower operational costs for
the shore plant than planned.
The objective of increased Government revenue has not yet been achieved. The total
yearly operational costs of the complex have been higher than anticipated and the
revenue somewhat lower. The total difference is in the order of Rf 15 million. This has
5



resulted in an accumulated deficit from the first year of operation and it will take a long
time to recover, if ever possible with the present level of loan service charges.
It might also be worth noting that the "at lower cost" condition in the first objective
referred to the change of freezing onboard mother vessels to freezing in the shore-
based plant. This change has not yet been completed as is evident from the discussion
above.
The income of fishermen has increased dramatically, partly because of the project and
partly for other reasons. Already in 1993, during the "Kooddoo coldstore baseline
survey", it was found that the fishing household income was in the order of Rf 1 5,000 per
year against the prediction of Rf 8,300 at full operation of the project. Since no baseline
survey was undertaken during the preparatory phase it is difficult to explain the increase.
The yearly inflation during 1990-93 was 15-20 %. The income has continued to increase
and may well have doubled-since 1993 according to fishermen and authorities in the
project area. During the first seven months of 1997, the average daily landing was a
little over one tonne per dhoni which is nearly twice the amount predicted at the time of
appraisal. Other reasons for increased earnings are the higher fish prices and the fact
that all fish can now be sold. Earlier, during peak periods, fish remained unsold and was
wasted. Details about the earnings will be better known after completing the impact
survey scheduled to be undertaken later in 1997.
The new dhonis, recently introduced, have engines of 100-140 hp, a deckhouse and
carry a crew of about 15 persons. Some of them have modern electronic instruments
such as Geographical Position Systems (GPS). They have a wider operational range,
migrate periodically depending on the availability of fish and operate 250, or more, days
per year. Their yearly catches are in the order of 400-500 t judging by the results
available to date. The idea of such larger boats might not be new but it is without any
doubt the Kooddoo project that has encouraged and accelerated the development by
providing a guaranteed market for their catches.
It appears that there has been a significant socio-economic development in the project
area since the KFC came into operation. It is mostly felt in the islands near Kooddoo
and others that have benefited from a combination of higher fishing incomes and
employment opportunities at KFC and its vessels. The number of KFC employees from
the project area is 200. To what extent this has reduced migration to the capital is yet to
be determined. The impact survey will attempt to assess this as well as the socio-
economic development in general.
The objective of creating an environment for increased private sector participation in the
fisheries sector has not been achieved by the project. The planned project input to this
effect was not implemented.   However, the Government has, through  other
mechanisms, made significant progress towards this goal. A new Companies Act has
been introduced recently and new legislation for mortgage and contracts have been
prepared. An Inland Revenue Department has been established in the Ministry of
Finance and Treasury and legislation for Business Tax and Property Rental Tax has-
been prepared. The project has contributed in a small way through the restructuring of
MIFCO into a limited company and through the abolishment of the fixed prices for the
purchase of tuna. It might also be worth mentioning that the private sector share of
6



export value of fishery products increased from 23 % in 1990 to 43 % in 1996 although
this is not related to the project.
The major achievements of the technical assistance components other than those for
design and construction supervision are; better knowledge about the tuna resources as
a result of the tagging experiments and the length-frequency studies; better organised
data base for future resource assessment; an improved fisheries statistics system;
initiation of environmental monitoring programmes by ERU; and a streamlining of the
organisation and functioning of MIFCO.
5     Sustainability
The overriding factor that will determine the long term viability of KFC is the availability of
fish. In the review of tuna resources, undertaken undbr the tuna research component of
the project, it was concluded that the Skipjack stock of the Indian Ocean appears to be
in a good condition. However, there have been declines in the catch rates and in sizes
of fish caught which should be matters of concern. The cause of these changes is not
known but may be related to local over-fishing, oceanographic fluctuations or the purse
seine fishery in the Western Indian Ocean. In the case of Yellowfin, both catch and
fishing effort might be above maximum sustainable levels. Catch rates along the
western coast of Maldives have declined recently. The above mentioned purse seine
fishery appears to be an obvious reason but other explanations cannot be discounted.
The catches from Huvadhu Atoll were around 16,000 t in 1996 and seem to be of the
same order in 1997. The highest landings during the past seven years amounted to
17,500 t in 1991 and the lowest was 10,000 t in 1992. The long-term effect of the
introduction of larger and more efficient boats is not yet known but may help to reach
and exceed the production target of 16,300 t. There will, however, be fluctuations in the
future also and the target may not be reached every year.
The KFC production target of 14,000 t per year will not be reached unless the
performance of the three old collector vessels is improved and will not be maintained
unless some of them are replaced by more efficient vessels. At a reasonable level of
efficiency, the collector vessel fleet could accommodate all the fish supply in the atoll
except during occasional, extreme, peak periods. This would, of course, require that
they were not used as supply vessels for the mother ships as at present. In the long
term, they need to be gradually replaced to avoid too frequent operational disruptions
due to breakdowns and maintenance.  The reaching and maintaining the target
assumes that there won't be any drastic changes in the sharing of the catches between
KFC, the Maldive Fish processors and fishing households.
Regarding the shore plant and associated infrastructure, no problems are foreseen and
it is expected that the operational targets can be met without any major additional costs
over and above those for maintenance, replacement and minor alterations.
Even if the production target is reached this year or in 1998, the complex will not show
any profit for many years to come because of the accumulated losses during the initial
years and reduced margins in the future because of the higher than anticipated cost of
7



fish purchases. The Government revenue from MIFCO in the form of loan service
charges and share of profit will be much lower than planned for in the project design.
The high level of fishermen's income reached during the initial years of operation of the
project are likely to be maintained or further increased as long as all the fish caught can
be sold to MIFCO and Maldive Fish processors. Dramatic changes in fish prices are not
foreseen but the increased catch rates of larger dhonis will result in higher average
incomes. Fish preserved in ice onboard will carry a premium price which will further
raise the income of this practise if it materialises. One of the more advanced fishermen
in Villingili is planning a new dhoni of 85 feet in length and 32 feet wide with insulated fish
hold for carrying ice.
The sustainability of the institutional strengthening is more in doubt than that of the KFC.
The improvement of the statistical system in MOFA should have long-lasting effects but
all the new possibilities that are offered by the systeri have not yet been utilised. The
assistance in economic planning did not lead to any sustained benefit, mainly due to the
lack of trained manpower in the Ministry and inadequate training inputs under the
project. Much of the tuna research undertaken under that component needs to be
continuously updated as the fishery develops and expands. The foundation for such
work has been laid but the resources of skilled manpower in MRS are scarce and it
might not be possible to implement the necessary monitoring and analysis programme
without further support of training and technical assistance. Similarly, the foundation for
environmental monitoring has been laid in ERU but frequent changes of staff, with the
absence of a continuous focal point, is of concern.
The restructuring of MIFCO and streamlining of its functioning has had sustained effects
but more needs to be done regarding restructuring, fiscal arrangement. management
and accounts to make MIFCO a viable enterprise.
6     Performance of the Government of Maldives
All institutions and their staff involved in the project have been fully committed to it.
Within the limits of their capacity and ability, they have sincerely and effectively executed
the work assigned to them. These are major reasons for the smooth implementation of
the project. MIFCO, being the main national partner in the project, has carried most of
the responsibilities and the work burdens of the project implementation through its
Project implementation Unit (PIU). It has fulfilled its role very satisfactorily and is
operating the Kooddoo complex successfully with less than planned input of expatriate
personnel and therefore at lower cost. In retrospect, however, and in view of the
changed status of MIFCO as a limited company, it would have been more appropriate to
locate the PIU in a ministry, e.g. MOFA, since several other ministries were involved in
the implementation. MIFCO has experienced some difficulties in exercising its authority
vis-a-vis the ministries concemed and has incurred undue costs of coordination,
management and administration.
In accordance with the loan agreement, the Government established a Project
Coordinating Committee which met regularly and oversaw the implementation.
8



However, the actual role of the committee was very limited since no major problems or
issues were encountered during the implementation.
The Government of Maldives is in compliance with all loan agreements and convenants,
including those related to audit and accounts.
7     Performance of The World Bank
The performance of the World Bank has been very satisfactory. Its staff has been very
helpful and their positive affitude has been appreciated by the national project staff and
other officials. The only apparent shortcoming in the entire project process is the lack of
detailed information on the project area and its population in the Staff Appraisal Report.
8     Further monitoring and future operation
A baseline survey of the project area was, as already mentioned above, undertaken in
1993 before the start of the construction at Kooddoo. That survey will be repeated
before the end of 1997 in order to quantify changes that have taken place during and
after the establishment of KFC. It appears that the impact has been substantial and if
this is confirmed by the planned survey no further monitoring of these aspects would be
required.
The development that is taking place in the field of boat design and construction and in
fishing operations need further monitoring. It is of importance for the operation of
Kooddoo and similar complexes but more so for the country as a whole in the context of
fisheries management. The monitoring needs to be of both quantitative and qualitative
nature. The number of new boats entering the fishery and the number of old ones going
out and the rate at which all this is happening is of interest as are the changes in catch
rates, areas and patterns of operation, equipment used onboard, preservation of bait
and fish, etc. These are all important factors in the future management of the fisheries.
If it is proven that the new boats have a catching capacity of 400 t per year, only 250 of
such boats would be required to catch the entire present fish production in Maldives
while the present fleet consists of about 1,400 units. This is of course the extreme end
of a possible scenario that won't materialise over night and perhaps not at all. But, the
direction of the development is clear and it is important that the Government carefully
monitors it in order to facilitate and regulate it and to be prepared for the consequences
of it.
It appears from the discussion in Section 4 above that KFC is well on its way to meet the
target of 14,000 t of frozen fish per year. If the production of the mother vessels
operating in the project area is added, the target is probably being met in 1997.
However, the freezing onboard mother ships is more expensive than freezing ashore
and they were originally not part of the project for this reason. Furthermore, they require
assistance from collector vessels rendering the latter less useful to the shore plant. A
careful review of the operational aspects of the complex needs to be undertaken as
soon as the 1997 data are available early next year. There are already now clear
indications that the following matters need attention:
9



* At least two of three operational mother vessels need to be phased out and the old
collector vessels should instead be used for their intended purpose and not as supply
vessels to mother ships. The cost of operation of the fleet is at present much higher
than what was planned for.
 The repair and maintenance of collector vessels is an expensive affair in lost time and
cost of steaming since they have to be taken to Felivaru (mostly) or Male for dry-
docking. The revival of facilities in Addu Atoll together with private parties need to be
looked into further.
* The old collector vessels are often out of commission due to repairs and
maintenance problems related to their age. They are also slow to unload since it has
to be done manually fish by fish. They need to be replaced by more mcdern
collectors with maximum -capacity within the size limitations of vessels imposed by
berthing and dry-docking facilities.
* The fish receiving stations in the port at Kooddoo need to be modified because the
introduction of larger dhonis.
* The ice producing and storage capacity of 30 tVday and 60 t respectively will not be
sufficient if fishing boats start to carry ice for preservation of the fish.  Close
consultations with fishermen and early planning of alternative solutions are desirable
to meet the demands from this new development.
In addition to the steps already taken to improve the performance of MIFCO, further
actions are required to make MIFCO a viable business enterprise. Some portions of the
company, such as the Alifushi boatyard is in the process of being commercialised. In
other areas, a restructuring of operational units and cooperation with the private sector
might be desirable to introduce elements of competitiveness in operation and flexibility
in, for instance, pricing of fish in different areas and under different circumstances. To
enable such cooperation a financial restructuring of MIFCO is required. As far as
Kooddoo is concerned, a revaluation of the cost of the productive components would be
appropriate since the actual costs are in excess of what they would have been if the
project had been a private sector investment. A reduction of the interest rate charged to
MIFCO might also be justified in view of the social and regional development benefits of
the project. The goal of such restructuring should be a break-even operation by MIFCO
under forecasts on reasonable levels of fish supply, prices of fish and efficiency of
operation.
9     Lessons learned
The first main lesson learned is that the fishery resources might be more limited than
believed hitherto. Since there is, at present, an over-capacity of fish processing facilities
the supply of fish and the utilisation of facilities must be very carefully monitored for a
period of time before planning any further investments.
10



Secondly, the fishing has reached a level of sustained development judging by the
appearance of the new larger fishing boats. There is no need for the Govemment to
further actively stimulate this type of development.  Efforts should be devoted to
facilitating it by improving infrastructure and support services, e.g. harbours, fuel supply
and credit, and to regulating the fisheries. Changes are taking place at a rapid pace and
MOFA needs to stay in close consultation with the fishermen to enable timely and
appropriate Government interventions.
Thirdly, the lack of trained staff is still a serious bottleneck in fisheries research,
economic fisheries planning and management of fisheries. Further long-term technical
assistance and major training inputs are required.
Fourthly, careful selection of consultants is the key to high quality services and problem-
free implementation.
Fifthly, more thoughts need to be given to the on-lending terms to national institutions
and companies with regard to the valuation of the capital costs and interest rates and to
their role in project implementation.
Sixth, steps in the right direction have been taken towards better performance of MIFCO
but more induction of business culture, strategy and practises is required.
11



THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT (CR 2327-MAL)
Borrower contribution to the Implementation Completion Report
PERSONS MET
Ministry of Finance and Treasury
Adam Maniku               Deputy Minister
Abdul Rasheed            Deputy Minister (Inland Revenue)
Ibrahim Mohamed          Deputy Director, (Public Enterprise Monitoring Unit)
Ministry of Fisheries and Agriculture
Jadhulla Jameel          Director General
Ahmed Hafiz               Deputy Director
Mohamed Rasheed          Deputy Director
Aminath Lateefa          Senior Economic Research Officer
Hassan Rasheed           Assistant Director
Charles Anderson         Consultant (Fishery Biologist)
Maldives Industrial Fisheries Company Ltd
Ibrahim Shakeeb          Managing Director
Adnan Ali                 Deputy Director (Operations)
Mohamed Didi             Operations Manager, Kooddoo
Ahmed Mushthaq           Accountant, Kooddoo
Mohamed Solah            Engineering Manager, Kooddoo
Mohamed Zahir            Captain, M/V Kalaminja 401
Huvuadu Atoll
Hussein Moosa            Atoll Chief, North Huvadhu
Hassan Moosa             Atoll Chief, South Huvadhu
Mohamed Zaeem            Dhoni owner, Villingiii
Fishermen
Ministry of Planning, Human Resources and Environment
Mohamed Khaleel          Deputy Director, Environmental Affairs
Amjad Abdulla             Coastal Engineer
Mohamed Zuhair           Assistant Environmental Analyst
Ministry of Trade, Industries and Labour
Ahmed Naseem              Director General of Investments
Ministry of Transport and Communications
Mohamed Thawfeequ        Director, Maritime Affairs



THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT (CR 2327-MAL)
Borrower contribution to the Implementation Completion Report
DOCUMENTS CONSULTED
Anderson R C (1996) Third Fisheries Project; Tuna Research Component, Final
Summary Report.   Marine Research Section, Ministry of Fisheries and
Agriculture, Male.
Cad Bro Intemational a/s (1995) Third Fisheries Project; Environmental Component,
Final Report, Volume 1.  Ministry of Plapning, Human Resources and
Environment, Male.
Cook J, Hashim A (1995) Third Fisheries Project; Fisheries Economics and Statistics
Programme, Overview of Reports. EPCS Economic Paper No 10, Ministry of
Fisheries and Agriculture, Male.
Hashim A, Latheefa A, Parry G (1994) Third Fisheres Project; Fisheries Economics and
Statistics Programme, Kooddoo Coldstore Baseline Survey. EPCS Economic
Paper No 5, Ministry of Fisheries and Agriculture, Male.
KMPG New Zealand (1995) Maldives Industrial Fisheries Co (Mifco). Discussion Draft 5
for Ministry of Finance and Treasury.
Landell Mills Ltd (1993) Third Fisheries Project: FiPD Restructuring Management
Consultancy, Final Report.
World Bank (1991) Third Fisheries Project; Staff Appraisal Report. World Bank,
Washigton DC.
Piriz Laura (1996) Evaluation of the NDF- financed Components in the Third Fisheries
Project in the Republic of Maldives. Report for the Nordic Development Fund,
SWEDMAR, Goteborg.



Attachment I
Page 1 of 2
MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND TRCASURY
VALE
REPUlBC OF MALOUS
:~~:7_
FACSIMILE TRA:NSMSSION
To:    The World Bank                          Datez    17- May 1998
Wasinton DC                            Rat£     13-Nl/98/ LT
AUtn.   Mr. Robert D. Hnt                      Page:    1 of 1
From-  Mr. Adam Maniku                         Fax. No.  (202) 477-6391
Should here be any missng/ llegible page(s) pleae infbrm za immediately. (960-324432)
dmessage;-
Dear Mr. Hunt,
RE: " F[SEISES PROJECT CR 2327-MALD - COMMENTS ON THE BANK ICR
With referene to the captioned project please find below the comments from the
concerned Mfnistries/ Ofces on the Bank Ipementation Completion Report.
MINISTRY OF FISFERIES AND AGRICTJ1TURE
* The Economic Planning and Co-ordination Section (EPCSO of MOFA received only one
one-year trainmg course and they never had the capacty to carry out studies related to
po3icy and econometrics in the section..
MINISTRY OF PLANNING, HUMAN RESOURCES AND EVIRONMENT
* No comments
MALDIVES INDUSTRIAL FISHERES COMPANY (MIFCO)
* See attachment
Wi%best regards,
dShibah
Director General



Attachment I
Page 2 of 2
Comets to World B~ank ICR Report on ,37dishris prje
1. B- Achievement of ObjectLves
Item-3 para 2- Goveranzent revenue from fishing.
A- Refer resource rent - There is a royalty and a license chaTged equally from foreign rieeiised
'v.essels and Maldivian Fishermen fishing beyond 75 miles ( EZ). Tpto 75 mils fishing is
allowed only for Maldivians and no charges what so ever imposed,
B- Profit from Mi£co- when Mifco was formed, lots of debts ex FPID/STO was eansfered to
M=O. All long tarm loan given to MIFCO by the Govement, ramely 2d Fisheries Project,
Maaidhoo project A7(Grant aid from Japatl) and Project B and 3`8 Fisheries Poect were
nsfezredwithve_yhighim urestrae( 10% to 13%). STOhasneverpaidthe interetof2 
Pisheries project This was getting accu2multed and finally transferred to MFCO.
.-Ever.since Mifco wasiormed with these burdens, we have been ntgoiatrgwith GOvt. to Teduce
Tte interest rates and, does something with the accumulated interest so that Balance sheet would
0look much better. .Within 4 years of Mifcco's Opexa±ions, we have paid off all inberited loans from
.FPID/STO and now wvz are left with accumulated interekt and reducing of interest rate without
46hichNifco vwll iiotfbeable to breath noz6flly.
- Believe it or not, all these projects have got social obligations to fulfill. herefore, .we strongly
believe that intercstrate. should be reduccto 6% and accumulatd interest has to be:meschedulcd
Iln.order Mifco to start mking profit and contribute to Govt. revenue.
C- Mifco does not get any subsidy from the Government
Item 6/7Increasiz. g income of fishing households.
A-  The difference of the income between non-fishimg households and fishing households is the
significant increase of earning to the fishing households. This is more apparent in Addu Atoll.
- Some of the youngsters working in resort islandi in Male' AtoUl have gone back to their Atoll and
Joined the fishing. Others are investing in building new bigger Dhonis.
EB- Re employment- it is not expected at any time the employmerit in Huvadu Atoll to be more than
1I'' because of the kooq4doo projec Mifco in recent years has cut down its opeational ost by
reduaciig the staff and iincrasing the productivity (Ref item 3 Processing cost).
Item8                      -
* 14% of fish caught &the proqject area was-diverted w the other projects, simsply because KFC
could not handle the entire area with only 4 collector vessels and 2 old, coLeor vessels. We have
:-to add 4 monther vessels as Addu picked up fishing: Addu was no: originally included in the project
: but Addu became very important fishing,ground and being closest to IPC, the mana,gement of
Addu wus entrsed  KFC.



