Page  1
                                                    C0NFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2327-MAL
                     (Third Fisheries Project)
                              between
                       REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       Dated April 20 , 1992
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2327-MAL
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated April 20, 1992, between REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      (B)   (1) the Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation
(NORAD) and Eksportfinans will enter into an agreement whereby NORAD
will undertake to make grant funds available to assist in financing
part of the Project, and (2) the Borrower intends to contract from
Eksportfinans a mixed credit (the Eksportfinans Mixed Credit) in an
amount equivalent to $6,700,000 to assist in financing part of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an Agreement (the
Eksportfinans Mixed Credit Agreement) to be entered into between the
Borrower and Eksportfinans;
      (C)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Swedish Agency
for International Technical and Economic Cooperation (BITS) a credit
(the BITS Credit) in an amount equivalent to $2,400,000 to assist in
financing part of the Project; the terms and conditions of the BITS
Page  2
Credit will be set forth in an Agreement between the Borrower and
Nordbanken, as the appointed Swedish bank;
      (D)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Nordic
Development Fund (NDF) a credit (the NDF Credit) in an amount
equivalent to $5,600,000 to assist in financing part of the Project
on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the NDF
Credit Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and NDF;
      (E)    the OPEC Fund for International Development (OPEC Fund)
has agreed to make a loan (the OPEC Fund Loan) to the Borrower in an
aggregate principal amount equivalent to $2,600,000 to assist in
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
Agreement between the Borrower and the OPEC Fund (the OPEC Fund Loan
Agreement);
      (F)    the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) has
agreed to make a grant (the UNDP Grant) to the Borrower in an
aggregate principal amount equivalent to $300,000 to assist in
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
Agreement between the Borrower and UNDP (the UNDP Grant Agreement);
      (G)    the Borrower, OPEC Fund and the Association intend to
enter into an agreement making arrangements for the Association to
process applications for withdrawal of the proceeds of the financing
to be provided severally by OPEC Fund and the Association and
regulating certain other matters of common interest in connection
with such financing; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "EPCS" means the Economic Planning and Coordination
Section within MOFA;
      (b)   "ERU" means the Environment Research Unit within MPE;
      (c)   "FPID" means the Fisheries Projects Implementation
Department of STO;
      (d)   "MOFA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Fisheries and
Agriculture;
      (e)   "MPE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Planning and
Environment;
      (f)   "MTI" means the Borrower's Ministry of Trade and
Industry;
      (g)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to a letter agreement dated June 3, 1991 between the
Borrower and the Association;
      (h)   "SLA" means the Subsidiary Loan Agreement referred to in
Page  3
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement;
      (i)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
      (j)   "STO" means the Borrower's State Trading Organization
established under Law No. 3/68J dated November 11, 1968.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to seven million six hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 7,600,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in United States Dollars a special deposit account
in Maldives Monetary Authority on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
Page  4
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semi-annually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each February 15 and August 15
commencing February 15, 2002 and ending August 15, 2031. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on August 15,
2011 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due considera-
tion by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, environmental, financial and fisheries practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
      (c)   The Borrower shall relend an amount of $2,600,000
equivalent out of the proceeds of the Credit to STO/FPID under a
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and STO/FPID under terms and conditions which shall be satisfactory
to the Association, including, repayment in 15 years after 5 years
of grace with interest of 13% per annum and the foreign exchange
risk to be borne by the Borrower.
      (d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
Page  5
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)    furnish to the Association, as soon as avail-
                   able, but in any case not later than six months
                   after the end of each such year, a certified
                   copy of the report of such audit by said audi-
                   tors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                   Association shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)    furnish to the Association such other informa-
                   tion concerning said records, accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Association shall from time
                   to time reasonably request, including without
                   limitation on the foregoing, unaudited accounts
                   not later than three months after the end of
                   each such year.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accor-
                   dance with paragraph (a) of this Section, re-
                   cords and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Asso-
                   ciation has received the audit report for the
                   fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from
                   the Credit Account or payment out of the Special
                   Account was made, all records (contracts, or-
                   ders, invoices, bills, receipts and other docu-
                   ments) evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)    enable the Association's representatives to
                   examine such records; and
           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are in-
                   cluded in the annual audit referred to in para-
                   graph (b) of this Section and that the report of
                   such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                   auditors as to whether the statements of expen-
                   diture submitted during such fiscal year, to-
                   gether with the procedures and internal controls
                   involved in their preparation, can be relied
Page  6
                   upon to support the related withdrawals.
      Section 4.02. Prior to committing to a cannery on Laamu atoll
or a freezing/cold storage facility in the north (Haa Alifu/Haa
Dhaalu), the Borrower shall inform the Association of the details of
such investments.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   Law No. 3/68J dated November 11, 1968 of the Borrower
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so
as to affect materially and adversely the Project;
      (b)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of STO or for the suspension of its operations;
      (c)   (i)    Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                   (A)   The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                         proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
                         Borrower for the financing of the Project
                         shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                         terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
                         to the terms thereof, or
                   (B)   any such loan shall have become due and
                         payable prior to the agreed maturity
                         thereof.
            (ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                   apply if the Borrower establishes to the satis-
                   faction of the Association that: (A) such sus-
                   pension, cancellation, termination or prematur-
                   ing is not caused by the failure of the Borrower
                   to perform any of its obligations under such
                   agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Pro-
                   ject are available to the Borrower from other
                   sources on terms and conditions consistent with
                   the obligations of the Borrower under this
                   Agreement.
       Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   any event specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
      (b)   any event specified in paragraph (c) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (c) (ii) of that Section.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Eksportfinans Mixed Credit, BITS Credit, NDF Credit Agreement and
OPEC Fund Loan Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those
related to the effectiveness of this Agreement; and
      (b)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and STO/FPID.
Page  7
      Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and
STO/FPID and is legally binding upon the Borrower and STO/FPID in
accordance with its terms.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
      Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
4.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which this Agreement shall terminate or on the date twenty years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
                       ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of State for Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            Male
            Maldives
                                           Telex:
                                             66032
                                             FINANCE
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                   REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
                   By /s/ Fathulla Jameel
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  8
                   By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                             East Asia and Pacific
                           SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil works               3,380,000        64%
(2)  Equipment and                20,000        100% of foreign
     materials                                  expenditures,
                                                100% of local ex-
                                                penditures (ex-
                                                factory cost), and
                                                90% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally
(3)  Vessels                      70,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local ex-
                                                penditures (ex-
                                                factory cost), and
                                                90% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally
(4)  Consultants'              2,250,000        100%
     services and
     training
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(5)  Refunding of              1,140,000        Amounts due
     Project                                    pursuant to
     Preparation                                Section 2.02 (c)
     Advance                                    of this Agreement
(6)  Unallocated                 740,000
                               _________
                               7,600,000
         TOTAL                 =========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
Page  9
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                           SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to increase fish production,
increase the Borrower's revenues and foreign exchange earnings,
increase the income of fishing households, reduce migration to the
capital, and create an environment for increased private sector
participation in the fisheries sector.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Construction of a port at Kooddoo in Gaafu Alifu for
fishing dhonis and collector vessels, including a deep-water berth
for direct loading of frozen fish onto reefer vessels.
Part B:     Construction of a fish freezing/cold storage complex at
Kooddoo in Gaafu Alifu, including a 100 ton/day brine freezing and
chilling plant, a cold storage facility with a capacity of 1,500
tons, a 30 ton/day ice plant with 60 ton storage capacity, related
support facilities such as power and water desalination plants,
workshops, stores, offices and staff housing, and acquisition of
related equipment such as fish containers, forklifts, cranes and
miscellaneous other equipment.
Part C:     Strengthening the atoll-wide fish collection system by
providing, inter alia, three new and four retrofitted existing
collector vessels equipped with refrigerated sea water systems, and
providing navigational lights and one mooring tug.
Part D:     Strengthening the Borrower's implementation capacities
by providing technical assistance:
1.    for the Project Implementation Unit in FPID to undertake
technical studies and prepare detailed design of project facilities,
procurement, and supervision of the construction work; and provision
of training to staff;
2.    to strengthen FPID's financial controls, and to review FPID's
present and planned business operations, organization structure and
links to STO, manning charts, financial structure and systems,
procedures and reporting formats, and legal structure;
3.    to MTI, for preparation of an action plan for detailed design
and implementation of a framework to facilitate and encourage
private sector participation in the collection, processing, and
exporting of fish;
4.    to MOFA for strengthening fisheries research and collection of
fisheries statistics, further improve the design of fishing vessels,
and strengthening EPCS's ability to advise the Borrower on fish
pricing and related policies by, inter alia, developing a transpar-
ent pricing formula for fresh tuna; and provision of training to
staff; and
5.    to MPE, for strengthening its ERU by carrying out an environ-
mental baseline survey and impact assessment and providing a
specialist to assist ERU in designing and monitoring key environ-
mental parameters and in training ERU staff in the collection and
management of environmental data.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997.
Page  10
                           SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, works shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    Bidders for works shall be prequalified as provided in
paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
3.    To the extent practicable, contracts for works shall be
grouped into a single bid package.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
      In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Materials and equipment, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $24,000, shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.    Contracts for construction of two prototype fishing vessels
shall be awarded to Alifushi boatyard or to another qualified local
builder, after direct negotiations with the builder, in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of prequalification:
      With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in
Part A hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of more than $40,000, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Page  11
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
3.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfac-
tory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consul-
tants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
1.    The Borrower shall maintain, until completion of the Project,
a Project Coordinating Committee with a chairperson, membership,
powers and functions satisfactory to the Association.
2.    The Borrower shall, by June 30, 1993, establish a Presidential
Committee which shall periodically, but not less than every six
months, review the proposals and analysis submitted to it by EPCS,
with a view to deciding tuna prices for the next period.
3.    The Borrower shall ensure that the Association shall be given
an opportunity to comment on the specifications and contract terms
and conditions of the refrigeration plant prior to issuing bidding
documents.
4.    The Borrower shall establish, within MOFA, an Economic
Planning and Coordination Section (EPCS) and shall, by June 30,
1992, have appointed an experienced economist to head EPCS. With the
assistance of a macroeconomist and a resource/microeconomist, EPCS
shall, not later than June 30, 1993, develop a transparent pricing
formula for fresh tuna, and carry out an analysis of the economic,
price, and fiscal incentives to fishermen and processors to increase
fish production and exports as well as the contributions of the
fisheries sector to the Borrower's economy. EPCS shall, thereafter,
carry out and furnish such analysis to the Presidential Committee
mentioned above at least every six months.
5.    The Borrower shall furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the
Association, at least 12 months before the commencement of opera-
tions of the Kooddoo fish freezing complex, detailed staffing plans
for the complex, which plans shall be acceptable to the Association.
6.    The Borrower shall ensure that the fisheries sector activities
of STO/FPID shall at all times be under the supervision of qualified
and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
7.    By December 31, 1994, the Borrower shall have allocated at
least 15 of the newly constructed dhonis in the atolls of Gaafu
Alifu and Gaafu Dhaalu.
8.    The Borrower shall carry out, or cause to be carried out, by
March 31, 1993, a detailed interim review of the Project and related
activities in consultation with the Association and others providing
financing for the Project.
9.    The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1992, take all measures
required to prohibit the digging for turtle eggs and the taking of
live turtles on and around the island of Kooddoo.
Page  12
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association re-
                   quests for deposits into the Special Account at
                   such intervals as the Association shall specify.
           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   the documents and other evidence required pursu-
                   ant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                   payment or payments in respect of which reple-
                   nishment is requested. On the basis of each such
                   request, the Association shall, on behalf of the
                   Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
                   deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                   the Borrower shall have requested and as shall
                   have been shown by said documents and other
                   evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                   Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
Page  13
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Cate-
gories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify
by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
