Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19271-TR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$252.53 MILLION
TO THE
TURKIYE IHRACAT KREDI BANKASI A.S.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR AN
EXPORT FINANCE INTERMEDIATION LOAN
JUNE 9, 1999
Private and Financial Sector Development
ECCO6
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 12, 1999)
Currency Unit = Turkish Lira
Turkish Lira I = US$0.00000254
US$1 = 393,027 Turkish Lira
FISCAL YEAR
.January-Decemnber
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ALM   Asset and Liability Management
BIS  Bank for International Settlements
CAS  Country Assistance Strategy
CEO   Chief Executive Officer
CBT   Central Bank of Turkey
CIRR Commercial Interest Reference Rate
CIS  Commonwealth of Independent States
DC   Direct Contracting
ECA   Export Credit Agency or
Europe & Central Asia (Region)
EDP  Electronic Data Processing
EFIL Export Finance Intermediation Loan
EU   European Union
FMS  Financial Management System
FX   Foreign Exchange
GOT Government of Turkey
IAS International Accounting Standards
ICB   International Competitive Bidding
ICR   Implementation Completion Report
IDP  Institutional Development Program
IFI  International Financial Institution
IMF  International Monetary Fund
IPO   Initial Public Offering
IT  Information Technology
ISP International Shopping Procedures
LACI Loan Administration Change Initiative
NCB  National Competitive Bidding
NS  National Shopping
OECD Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development
OM   Operations Manual
PFI  Participating Financial Intermediary
PIU  Project Implementation Unit
PMR   Project Management Report
QCBS Quality and Cost-Based Selection
SCL   Single Currency Loan
SMP  Staff Monitored Program
SOF  Statement of Expenditure
SYB   Sinai Yatirim Bankasi
TSKB Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi
Turk Eximbank  Turkiye Ihracat Bankasi (the Borrower)
TL  Turkish Lira
Y2K   Year 2000
Vice President:  Johannes Linn
Country Director:  Ajay Chhibber
Sector Director:  Lajos Bokros
Sector Leader:  lIham Zurayk
Program Team Leader:  Lalit Raina



PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
Republic of Turkey
Export Finance Intermediation Loan
CONTENTS
A. Background ........................................................2
B. Project Development Objective .......................................................                                              4
1. Project Development Objective ........................................................4
C. Strategic Context .......................................................4
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project .......................................................4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ......................................................S                      5
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ................................5
D. Project Description  Summary .......................................................6
1. Project components .......................................................6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ......................................6
3. Benefits and target population ............7..........................................7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements .......................................................                   7
E. Project Rationale .......................................................7
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ..............................................7
2. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design .............................................7
3. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ....................................................8
4. Value added of World Bank support in this project ......................................................8
F. Summary Project Analyses .......................................................9
1 . Economic .......................................................9
2. Financial .......................................................9
3. Fiscal .......................................................9
4. Technical .......................................................9
5. Institutional ......................................................9
6. Social ............................  10
7. Environment ............................                                                                               10
8. Participatory approach ............................                                                                    10
G. Sustainability and Risks .............................11
1. Sustainability .............................11
2. Critical risks ............................                                                                            11
3. Possible controversial aspects ............................                                                           12



H. Main Loan Conditions ..............................                           12
1. Effectiveness conditions ....12..........................1
2. General Covenants ..............................                       12
I. Readiness for Implementation .............................. 13
J. Compliance with World Bank Policies ..............................            13
Annexes
Annex 1.  Project Design Summary .14
Annex 2.  Project Description .16
Appendix 2.1 Terms and Conditions for Turk Eximbank (Between the World
Bank and Turk Eximbank) .19
Appendix 2.2 Terms and Conditions of Subsidiary Loans (Between Turk
Eximbank and PFs) .20
Appendix 2.3 Terms and Conditions for Sub-Borrowers, Sub-projects and Sub-
Loans (Between PFIs and Sub-borrowers) .21
Annex 3.  Estimated Project Costs .23
Annex 4.      Project Implementation Arrangements .24
Annex 5.      Institutional Development Program for Turk Eximbank:
Terms of Reference .29
Appendix 5.1 Profile of the borrower: Turk Eximbank .38
Annex 6.      Likely Profile of Participating Banks, Pre-qualification and Final Eligibility
Criteria .48
Annex 7       Exports Growth, Export Loans, and General FX Loans Availability Analysis 53
Annex 8.      Procurement, Disbursement, and Financial Management Arrangements   56
Table 8.1. Summary of Procurement Arrangements .59
Table 8.2. Procurement Review .60
Table 8.3. Procurement Plan.                                       61
Table 8.4. Allocation of Loan Proceeds .62
Annex 9.      Project Processing Budget and Schedule .65
Annex 10.  Documents in the Project File .66
Annex 1 1.  Statement of Loans and Credits .67
Annex 12.    Country at a Glance .......................................................----.-------. 71
Map



REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
EXPORT FINANCE INTERMEDIATION LOAN
Project Appraisal Document
Private and Financial Sector Development
ECCO6
Europe and Central Asia Region
Date: May 13, 1999                                          Team Leader: Lalit Raina
Country Director: Ajay Chhibber                             Sector Director: Lajos Bokros
Project ID: 65188         Sector: Financial                 Program Objective Category: Financial Sector Development
Lending Instrument: Financial Intermediary Loan             Program of Targeted Intervention:    [ 1 Yes  [ X] No
Project Financing Data                    [X] Loan           [  Credit        [] Guarantee         [  Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$ thousand): 252,530
Proposed terms:                              [    Multicurrency         [X] Single currency, specify $US
Grace period (years): 3              [    Standard Variable     [   Fixed              [XI   LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 7
Commitment fee: 0.75 percent
Front-end fee: I percent
Financing plan (US$ thousand):
Source                                   Local                Foreign              Total
IBRD                                                             100,000                152,530            252,530
Turk Eximbank*                                                       500                     0                 500
Sub-borrowers*                                                      TBD                   TBD                 TBD
Total       100,000               152,530             253,030
* While it is expected that both participating banks and sub-borrowers themselves will contribute to the financing of individual sub-projects, the
precise amount of such financing to be provided cannot be determined ex ante, as the loan design does not envisage the use of predetermined
cofinancing requirements. Instead, participating bank maximum exposure to individual sub-borrower limits, debt equity and debt service coverage
ratio requirements and maximum sub-loan size for sub-borrowers will drive the amount of cofinancing to be provided.
Borrower: Turk Eximbank
Guarantor: Republic of Turkey
Responsible agency(ies): Turk Eximbank
Estimated disbursements (World Bank                               2000         2001      2002
FY/US$M):
Annual                  77,525.3   100,004.7    75,000
Cumulative                  75,525.3      177,530   252,530
Project implementation period: September 1, 1999 - August 31, 2002.
Expected effectiveness date: September 1, 1999. Expected closing date: February 28, 2003



-2 -
A. Background
Introduction: Longstanding inflation accompanied by chronic macroeconomic distortions has plagued
Turkey for many years. In order to achieve a significant and lasting decline in inflation during 1998, the
Turkish Government put together a stabilization and reform package described in the authorities'
Memorandum of Economic Policies of June 26, 1998. The implementation of this stabilization effort has
been monitored by the IMF staff under an ] 8-month Staff Monitored Program (SMP). The main features
of the program included: (i) a significant improvement in the primary budget balance to narrow the large
public sector deficit; (ii) adjustment of public sector wages and agricultural support policies in line with
targeted inflation; (iii) strengthening of public finances through structural reform; (iv) stepped up
privatization; (v) limits on the expansion of the central bank's net domestic assets; and (vi) measures to
strengthen the banking sector.
Developments during the year: The SMP succeeded in reducing inflation (wholesale price inflation
came down to 50 percent from 92 percent at the beginning of the year) in line with the authorities' targets,
and some of the quantitative targets for the fiscal and monetary policy were achieved in 1998. While the
primary fiscal surplus reached the program target of 4.1 percent of GDP in 1998 and enabled a
stabilization of the consolidated budget deficit at about 7.2 percent of GDP, the broader public sector
deficit widened because of the higher Treasury receivables owed to the State banks, and other public
entities' losses. The central bank, in spite of significant capital outflows during the year, held the growth
of its net domestic assets within the program ceiling of TL 700 trillion, thereby stabilizing reserves. At
the same time, it tried to maintain competitiveness through its exchange rate policy. The balance of
payments position improved in 1998, with reserves rising to US$20 billion, as the extemal current
account position moved from a deficit of 1.4 percent of GNP in 1997 to a surplus of 0.4 percent.
In addition, during the first half of 1998, some of the agreed structural reforms were implemented; e.g.,
international pricing for petroleum products was adopted, agricultural support prices were raised broadly
in line with targeted inflation, tax reform legislation was adopted to widen the tax base and reduce tax
collection lags, the privatization program gained momentum; and a phased reduction in the banks' net
open foreign exchange position from 50 percent to 30 percent of capital by the end of January 1999 was
initiated. However, during the latter half of the year, the reform momentum was not sustained due to
political uncertainty and external shocks, and other structural reforms planned under the SMP were not
implemented. These included approval of a regulatory framework for the telecommunications and energy
sectors in order to facilitate privatization, social security reform, significantly increased privatization, and
adoption of a banking sector reform bill to establish an independent regulatory and supervisory body, and
tackle problem bank resolution. A new government formed after the elections held on April 18, 1999 has
now begun to retackle these issues. The draft banking law has been resubmitted to Parliament and is
under discussion. The new government has also committed itself to a strong program of privatization and
social security reform.
Impact of External Shocks: Turkey was adversely affected by the recent turmoil in emerging markets,
particularly in Russia. The contagion effect of the Russian crisis was immediate, and since Turkey has a
very liquid Government securities market, foreign investors liquidated their Turkish T-Bill positions in
order to cover their losses in other markets. As foreign investors pulled out, yields on Treasury bills
started to increase and rose from 77 percent on average in July 1998 to 120 percent in January 1999.
During the last three months, interest rates have fluctuated in the range of 125 to 150 percent. With
expected consumer price inflation at around 66 percent on an annual basis, these nominal rates imply
extremely high real interest rates. The equity market was also affected with the Istanbul Stock Exchange
Index falling by 47.5 percent during the height of the Russian crisis. The central bank intervened heavily
in the foreign exchange market in order to provide stability of currency depreciation. As a result, official
reserves declined from US$26 billion in June to around US$20.4 billion in December of 1998. Foreign
exchange earnings and economic activity have been further dampened by reduced trade, tourism and
construction services. The external shock and associated high real interest rates have slowed GNP growth



- 3 -
to around 0.7 percent in the last quarter of 1998, down from 2.45 percent in the third, 4.4 percent in the
second and 9.2 percent in the first quarter of the year. For 1998 as a whole, real GNP growth was 3.8
percent compared to 8.3 percent a year earlier. Following a limited increase of 0.9 percent in the third
quarter, the quarterly industrial production index declined by 5.2 percent in the last quarter of 1998.
Hence, the annual average increase in the industrial production index decelerated to 1.8 percent in 1998
from 11.5 percent a year earlier. On the other hand, capacity utilization stood at 75.1 percent in the fourth
quarter of 1998, 5.2 percentage points below its level in the same period of last year.
Impact on Exports: Turkish exports have been an important economic success story in the recent years
growing at an average annual rate of over 14 percent, from US$2.9 billion in 1980 to US$26.8 billion in
19981. The share of exports in GNP increased in the same period from 4.2 percent to nearly 13.7 percent.
However, recently exports have been particularly hard hit by the combined impact of: (i) the slowdown
in growth in Turkey's export markets from an average of 8.9 percent in 1997 to 5.3 percent in 1998; (ii)
disruption in the previously rapidly growing Russian and CIS markets; (iii) the sharp increase in domestic
real interest rates which is undermining the competitiveness of Turkish export products in foreign
markets; and (iv) the severe credit and liquidity squeeze in Turkey due to non-availability of reliable short
and medium term finance. Concerning the latter, though most of the export credit stock and flow
information for the post emerging markets crisis period is still coming in, an analysis of the trend in
export loans-to-total asset ratios of the banking system as a whole and of all of the major individual banks
clearly indicates a sharp decline in the volume of loans being provided to exporters, as well as in the
number of banks that are engaging in export lending.  This is partly because of the increased
unavailability of foreign exchange funding of longer maturity, and partly because of increased uncertainty
over the renewability of existing foreign exchange denominated syndicated loans, as well as shortening
maturities of retail foreign currency deposits. Anecdotal evidence (through direct interviews with the
leading banks) suggests that banks not only have reduced their lending volumes in line with this increased
asset/liability mismatch risk, but actually also have recently started to call inexisting foreign currency
loans to exporters before maturity. Reportedly, only two banks today have refrained from such behavior
and/or are still providing new export loans.
Consequently, export growth dropped from 13.3 percent in 1997 to an estimated 2.3 percent in 1998, and
fell even more sharply in the first quarter of 1999, with this small aggregate increase masking actual
declines in a number of important export sub-sectors, including the critical textile and leather industry and
several segments of the agro-processing industry. In order to cope with this external shock, during the
last six months, the Turkish exporting sector has explored opening up of new markets in the Middle East
and North Africa as well as the USA to compensate for the loss of the Russian and CIS markets.
However, the severe credit squeeze and the consequent non-availability of reliable and competitive
funding for working capital or investment purposes has created a real danger of the exporting sector not
being able to position itself to deliver even in Turkey's other major export markets like the EU. (For more
statistics on export growth, export loan availability, see Annex 7).
Future Outlook--Policy and Program Targets for 1999 onwards: The World Bank's response to the
crisis has been to intensify its policy dialogue in the past few months through: sponsorship and
participation in seminars on disinflation and reform of agricultural subsidies; financial sector policy
discussions and technical discussions on public financial management, as well as participation in the
IMF's first review mission for the SMP. The World Bank is providing sizeable financial support to the
Government's basic education reform program, and a major study on living standards and public policy is
under preparation that should guide future initiatives aimed at poverty alleviation and strengthening social
safety nets. The World Bank is also actively engaged with technical staff in the Government on a reform
program. An IMF mission visited Turkey in late January to complete the SMP review and discuss the
' This number does not include the so-called 'suitcase trade'. Including suitcase trade, total exports would be higher by
approximately US$3 to 4 billion.



- 4 -
macroeconomic framework for 1999. The IMF mission commented positively on the progress made in
reducing inflation and in achieving a significant portion of the SMP objectives, and has announced plans
for a full-scale program for Turkey. An IMF team will visit Turkey June 15-28 for Article IV discussions
and initial talks on a program. The proposed EFIL is the latest addition to the World Bank's package of
financial support intended to assist Turkey in softening the impact of the crisis.
B. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective:
The proposed Export Finance Intermediation Loan's (EFIL's) primary objective is to provide short and
medium term working capital and investment finance to private exporting enterprises to assist the Turkish
exporting sector hurt by the recent global financial crisis. The secondary, but in many ways even more
critical, objective for long term sectoral development is that the EFIL structure enables a strategic
dialogue and close interaction with the major banks and the Bankers Association in Turkey, through
setting up of stricter and upgraded prudential eligibility criteria and banking standards for capital
adequacy, foreign exchange exposure, connected and insider lending and risk management systems. The
proposed EFIL will therefore, through a bottom up sectoral consensus building approach, complement the
top down policy dialogue being undertaken in respect of the Government's financial sector reform
program. Finally, the loan will also facilitate further institutional development of Turk Eximbank itself as
an efficient and professionally run export finance institution/export credit agency, through a
comprehensive review of its institutional development priorities and targeted institutional strengthening
efforts to be implemented through a technical assistance component to be included in the loan.
IC. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project:
CAS document number: 16992-TU   Date of latest CAS discussion: September 4, 1997
The CAS, which was written during the summer of 1997, is predicated on the premise that Turkey will be
pursuing a broad based economic reform program comprising both fiscal and financial sector reform
measures intended to address the inability--prevalent even before the recent global financial crisis--of the
financial sector to meet the medium and long- term financing needs of the private sector. This inability, as
indicated in the CAS, stems from a combination of tax and other incentive distortions and the crowding
out of private sector borrowing by public sector borrowing needs. During the last 15 months, despite
major political upheavals and external shocks, the Turkish authorities have indeed actively pursued a
combination of fiscal and financial sector reform measures intended to address these problems, supported
by an IMF Staff Monitored Program (SMP) (see Background Section). Several important tax distortions
directly affecting the financial sector have been removed (e.g., the taxes on deposit and repurchase
transactions have been unified) and a new draft banking law (the World Bank has been working closely
with the Turkish authorities on this law) supporting the creation of a more independent bank regulatory
and supervisory authority has been submitted to the Parliament. Additionally, during the last six months
the maximum open foreign currency position limits for the banking system have been reduced from 50 to
30 percent of bank capital.
However, with the Russia crisis and the sharp net outflow of funds, a major credit squeeze is underway.
This credit squeeze is affecting both on the clemand side (with even the most creditworthy private sector
borrowers increasingly unable to tap international capital markets and reverting back to domestic credit
markets, and the Government simultaneously experiencing similar difficulties in rolling over its existing



- 5 -
foreign currency debt and meeting the increased PSBR resulting from the recent interest rate spike, and
also reverting to increased local borrowing), and the supply side (with the domestic banking system
further reducing both the volume and maturity of its real sector lending in response to the reduced volume
and maturity of its own funding and the higher perceived credit risks associated with current interest rate
levels). Under these circumstances, and taking into account the resulting sharp deterioration in export
performance (see Background Section above), the Turkish authorities have requested the World Bank for
an export credit line that could help meet the increased credit demand on the part of private sector
exporters.
The pre-crisis CAS specifically envisaged that the World Bank Group would be an active player in
helping meet the private sector finance demand gap through: (i) World Bank guarantee operations to
assist Turkey's privately owned development banks to help raise the necessary medium and long term
financing in international capital markets; and (ii) IFC financing, in the order of an estimated US$170
million new own account lending, US$10-15 million new equity and quasi-equity investments, and
US$125-175 million of new syndications annually during the period FY97-99. The global financial crisis
has effectively closed off the guarantee option, as the sharp widening of credit spreads for emerging
markets borrowers has made it impossible for the Turkish development banks to borrow in the
international capital markets even with the prospect of a World Bank guarantee. While IFC has continued
to remain actively engaged, the worsening external environment has precluded IFC new commitments
from fully reaching the target level specified in the CAS (e.g., IFC's new own account financing between
end June 1997 and end December 1998 totaled US$137 million; few new equity investments were made;
but the level of new syndications remained on track). Against this background, the proposed EFIL
responds to the changed circumstances facing Turkey today by providing direct financing in the form of
an export oriented credit line operation. The financing provided by the EFIL will help meet the enhanced
financing needs that have become apparent as a result of the above mentioned events.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Main Sector Issues:
The main issues in the financial sector relate to: (i) the independence of the bank regulatory and
supervisory authority; (ii) problem bank resolution; (iii) the regulatory framework for financial
institutions, especially as it relates to risk management; and (iv) restructuring and privatization of troubled
state owned banks (e.g., Ziraat, Halk, Emlak). These issues have been discussed by the World Bank and
the Turkish authorities on a number of occasions during the last two years and most recently in November
last year, and the Government has already taken a number of steps to address the identified weaknesses,
including the submission of new banking legislation to Parliament that would create a more independent
bank regulatory agency and further strengthen the bank regulatory framework. This top down policy
reform is to be complemented through a bottom up sectoral consensus building approach through the
proposed investment loan EFIL. The EFIL structure, through using Turk Eximbank as the Borrower and
Implementing Agency rather than the Government, and through setting up of stricter and upgraded
prudential eligibility criteria and banking standards for capital adequacy, foreign exchange exposure,
connected and insider lending and risk management systems enables a strategic dialogue and close
interaction with the major banks and the Bankers' Association in Turkey at a professional rather than
political level.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
For this project, a design has been chosen that will minimize the direct involvement of the Govemment,
by electing Turk Eximbank to be both the Borrower and Implementing Agency. Turk Eximbank is
Turkey's official export finance/export credit guarantee agency and in that capacity today already
performs the function of supporting export development through the provision of a range of financial
2 Estimated at 8.7 percent of GDP in 1998 compared to 7.6 percent in 1997.



-6 -
products and services tailored to the needs of Turkish exporters. Turk Eximbank has an established
wholesale lending operation in place, through which it lends funds to 58 private banks, complete with an
internal bank analysis and risk monitoring assessment capacity. This project will draw upon that capacity
to onlend the credit line through Turk Eximbank to privately owned banks, which in turn will onlend the
funds to private exporters. At the same time, the planned review of Turk Eximbank's own institutional
development priorities and the targeted institutional strengthening efforts that will follow from this
review, as well as the use of a set of more demanding bank eligibility criteria to be applied under the
proposed EFIL will further enhance Turk Eximbank's own capability to manage the credit risks it incurs
by taking on exposure to individual banks. Similarly, the banks that will be selected for participation in
the EFIL are likely to benefit from the enhanced initial and ongoing scrutiny by Turk Eximbank for such
aspects of their operations as their internal risk management system capacity, their true capital adequacy
ratios, foreign exchange exposure, connected and insider lending practices, Y2K readiness, etc. Thus, the
EFIL, by working with a set of core banks in Turkey, is expected to further enhance the robustness of the
Turkish banking system by bringing an increased focus on the gamut of risks (operational, credit, foreign
exchange, ALM, etc.) banks face in today's increasingly volatile environment.
D. Project Description Summary
1. Project components:
Component            Category         Indicative Costs  Percent   World Bank-    Percent of
(US$M)           of       financing         World
Total       (US$M)          Bank-
financing
Credit Line      Working Capital and     246,000,000
Investment Finance          plus          97.2      246,000,000         97.4
PFIs '/exporters'
contributions*
Technical        Consulting
Assistance for   services/equipment
Turk Eximbank  and training for Turk      4,504,700         1.8       4,004,700          1.6
Eximbank's own
institutional
strengthening
Front End Fee                             2,525,300         1.0       2,525,300           1.0
Total                                    253,030,000*      100.0     252,530,000        100.0
* While it is expected that both participating banks aid sub-borrowers themselves will contribute to the financing of individual
sub-projects, the precise amount of such financing to be provided cannot be determined ex ante, as there are not going to be any
predetermined cofinancing requirements. Instead, participating bank maximum exposure to individual sub-borrower limits and
debt equity and debt service coverage ratio requiremenrts for sub-borrowers will drive the amount of financing to be provided by
these parties.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
As a fundamental part of the mid term review, which will take place at the time commitments under the
credit line component of the project have reached US$100 million, the World Bank will consider progress
made by the Government in its financial sector reform program.
The technical assistance funding will directly aid Turk Eximbank's institutional strengthening efforts.
Furthermore, the conditions attached to the sub-loans and the increased scrutiny to which the participating
banks are to be subjected, should indirectly lead to a strengthening of their internal risk management
systems.



-7 -
3. Benefits and target population:
The credit line would support Turkish exporters that currently suffer from a chronic shortage of medium
term funds to finance production and export activity. By injecting additional funds into the Turkish
banking system, exporters would be able to increase their activity and profitability and explore new
export markets. Thus the program will support employment in Turkey.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Turk Eximbank will be the Borrower and Implementing Agency for the loan, and has appointed its
existing Deputy General Manager, Lending Operations, as Program Manager. The Program Manager will
be responsible for all day to day interaction with the World Bank, the Government of Turkey and the
participating banks regarding matters associated with the EFIL. In addition, Turk Eximbank will create a
small PIU (Project Implementation Unit) within its credit department. The PIU will report to the Program
Manager and will be staffed with six officers, one of which will head the unit (for more detail see Annex
4). The PIU will set up and maintain the financial management and reporting system for the project and
will additionally be responsible for day to day coordination and project implementation including: (i)
selecting the participating banks using the eligibility criteria outlined above, and monitoring the banks'
ongoing compliance with these criteria; (ii) managing all the disbursement and procurement aspects of the
project; (iii) ensuring compliance by the participating banks and sub-borrowers with World Bank
procurement and environment standards; (iv) arranging a review of Turk Eximbank's own institutional
development priorities and the subsequent implementation of targeted institutional development efforts in
areas identified by the review; and (v) monitoring of progress and impact performance indicators for the
EFIL, both in terms of disbursements as well as incremental export growth and enhanced institutional
capacity of Turk Eximbank itself.
E. Project Rationale (See Annex 7 on Exports Growth, Export Loans, and General FX Loans
Availability Analysis)
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Prior World Bank credit lines for Turkey (e.g., the Industrial Export Development Project, the Agro-
Industry Project, the Second Small and Medium Enterprise Project, the Third Agriculture Credit and the
Private Investment Credit Project) have used the Undersecretariat of the Treasury as the Borrower and
Implementing Agency.  With the exception of the Industrial Export Development Project, these
operations did not have an explicit export focus. Also, at the time these prior operations were designed,
Turk Eximbank--established in 1987 and fully operational only in 1988--as an institution was either non-
existent or still in its infancy, and therefore was not considered a viable alternative Borrower and
Implementing Agency. Lessons learned from World Bank credit line operations elsewhere indicate,
however, that it is far from ideal to have a Government entity act in an APEX capacity, as such entities
generally do not have the skills, in-house system capacity and-most importantly-financial incentives to
proactively pursue successful project implementation. Turk Eximbank, as an established export finance
institution with a functioning wholesale lending function is ideally placed to be the Borrower and
Implementing Agency for the proposed operation.
There are currently no ongoing related operations in Turkey. As indicated above all the prior credit lines
in recent years were completed successfully. The proposed EFIL, through its bottom-up institutional
focus, will complement and enrich the Government's policy dialogue on financial sector reform.
2. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Lessons Learned from Recent Credit Line Operations: The main lessons learned during the last few
years from World Bank credit line operations in the ECA Region and elsewhere indicate that the design
should be kept as flexible as possible, with a minimum number of, or no restrictions in terms of minimum
sub-loan size, maturity, currency denomination, sub-borrower cofinancing requirements, sectoral lending



- 8 -
focus, etc., but using sensible financial indicators for the selection of both the participating banks and the
sub-borrowers/sub-projects in line with established market practices (e.g., for participating banks,
BIS/IAS based capital adequacy and other prudential ratios, for sub-borrowers/sub-projects established
financial indicators such as debt equity and debt service coverage ratios). Restrictive procurement
requirements unsuitable for private sector borrowers and the World Bank's currency pool loan features
also have proven to be a hindrance to expeditious project implementation, and where more flexible
arrangements have been used, including the use of established commercial practice and Single Currency
Loans (SCLs), these factors have ceased to be a bottleneck. As referenced above, another important
lesson learned has been that the most successful formula for high quality and expeditious project
implementation is to combine the Borrower and Implementing Agency functions in one and the same
entity if possible.
Lessons Learned from Previous Credit Line Operations in Turkey: The Implementation Completion
Reports (ICRs) for the previous World Bank credit line operations in Turkey indicate that some of these
operations had to be restructured in mid-stream because the initial project design turned out to be too
inflexible (e.g., too many requirements in terms of minimum sub-loan maturity, sub-borrower cofinancing
requirements, local currency onlending req[uirements, etc.). The ICRs indicate that, after restructuring,
project implementation generally proceeded well.
Lessons Learned from Export Oriented Credit Lines: Finally, for export credit line projects, earlier
World Bank credit line operations in India, Mexico and Colombia have demonstrated the appropriateness
of an export-import bank or a foreign trade bank as the focus for the on-lending of World Bank funds
(e.g., export-import bank in India, Bancomext in Mexico, Bancoldex in Colombia). These banks are
dedicated institutions for developing foreign trade, and do not carry out normal commercial retail
operations. Usually they target export financing, and in some cases, they work as wholesale banks and
develop lending programs for the first tier banks, in addition to their own direct lending to exporters.
The proposed project design incorporates all of these lessons learned by using Turk Eximbank as the
Borrower and Implementing Agency for the loan, by the use of a set of market based eligibility criteria
for participating banks, sub-borrowers and sub-projects, and by the use of SCL terms and procurement
arrangements suitable to private sector borrowers.
3. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Turk Eximbank has already indicated its commitment by appointing its Deputy General Manager,
Lending Operations, as Project Manager for the proposed EFIL and additionally appointing all of the PIU
staff. In addition, Turk Eximbank has already undertaken extensive export research to document the
existence of an export finance demand gap, and has pre-screened the eligible participating banks. Turk
Eximbank is keen to become involved in this project as it will -- through the credit line component--
strengthen its wholesale lending function and -- through the technical assistance component--its own
institutional capacity, and because the proposed EFIL is highly complementary to its existing inventory of
export finance support products.
The Government has indicated, during discussions and through its policy dialogue, its support for reform
of the financial sector. As a fundamental part of the project's mid-term review the World Bank and the
Government will discuss progress made on the Government's financial sector reform program. Full
disbursement of funds under this project will be subject to satisfactory progress on these sectoral reforms.
4. Value added of World Bank support in tkis project:
The proposed project will help fill the export finance demand gap that has opened up in Turkey as a result
of the recent global financial crisis, and help stem the resulting alarming decline in export growth Turkey
is currently experiencing. Additionally and even more critically, by allowing the World Bank to become



- 9 -
engaged in the financial sector at the individual bank level, the policy dialogue on the financial sector
reform agenda will be enriched with knowledge of actual banking practices and bottlenecks on the
ground. By introducing a focus on risk management system capacity in the project's design and by
providing targeted institutional strengthening assistance to Turk Eximbank, the World Bank's
involvement will also contribute to a further strengthening of the banking system's ability to manage the
increased risks the system is exposed to today as a result of increased financial market volatility, both at
the level of Turk Eximbank as a wholesale lender and at the level of the individual participating banks.
F. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic: N/A
2. Financial:
FRR=1 5 percent for investment sub-projects
The project will provide, predominantly, incremental working capital to a large volume of companies in
the export sector. It is not feasible to determine, on an ex-ante basis, the financial or economic rate of
return on these working capital sub-loans. Instead, the participating banks will be expected to submit
borrowers to rigorous credit analysis and all borrowers will be required to be in compliance with
predetermined debt/equity and debt service ratios.
3. Fiscal impact:
The project will have a positive fiscal impact. By targeting exporting companies the loan will, in addition
to increasing the taxable profits of the participating banks and companies, assist in the generation of
foreign currency earnings. The participating banks carry the full credit risk on the loans to their
customers. Turk Eximbank, a wholly State owned entity, carries the credit risk on the loans to the
participating banks, however, given the long standing relationship between Turk Eximbank and these
banks and the improvements in risk monitoring expected to result from the technical assistance
component, default risk is not considered significant.
4. Technical:
Issues related to the final selection and ongoing monitoring of participating banks, e.g. through analyses
of International Accounting Standards (lAS) audit reports, foreign exchange exposure, connected and
insider lending levels, assessment of individual bank risk management capacity and determination of Y2K
compliance, will require special attention on the part of Turk Eximbank as well as the project Team, to
minimize Turk Eximbank's credit risk on the participating banks and to ensure that only the strongest
banks are selected and retained as participants in the project. The proposed technical assistance for Turk
Eximbank is intended to help strengthen Turk Eximbank's capacity to undertake this task.
5. Institutional:
Turk Eximbank has not worked with the World Bank before, and although Turk Eximbank is by now an
established financial institution with adequate institutional capacity, Turk Eximbank, in managing the
implementation of this project, will have to come up a not insignificant learning curve, especially as
concerns its oversight function in establishing initial and ongoing participating bank eligibility, using
criteria that are more stringent than the criteria Turk Eximbank itself hitherto has applied to its own
wholesale lending. The proposed institutional strengthening efforts for Turk Eximbank intend to mitigate
the risk that Turk Eximbank will not be able to properly perform these tasks. Most of the participating
banks are likely to already have some experience with participating in World Bank credit line operations,
and therefore the learning curve at the participating bank level will not be as steep as it will be for Turk
Eximbank.



- 10-
6. Social:
[ I To be defined (indicate how issues will be identified) [X] None
Private sector exporters are one of the key stakeholders in this project. During project pre-appraisal,
contacts were established with the Turkish Exporters Association and its feedback on the project was
taken into account in the design of the project. The project, through its support of the export and
manufacturing sectors is, indirectly, supporting employment in Turkey.
7. Environment: Category [Fl)
Turk Eximbank will be responsible for ensuring that sub-projects financed under the EFIL will undergo
environmental screening to ensure their conformance with Turkish environmental legislation and
regulations and the World Bank's policies and procedures, as set forth in OP/BP 4.01. The credit officers
already appointed by Turk Eximbank to staff the PIU will perform this function. A PIU Operations
Manual detailing, inter alia, the World Bank's requirements in respect of environmental assessment, will
be prepared prior to loan effectiveness.
The PFIs, according to the procedures outlined in the Operations Manual, will undertake the
environmental screening of the sub-loan applications to determine the appropriate environmental risk
category for the sub-borrowers/sub-projects. The sub-borrowers will be responsible for carrying out any
environmental analysis and for confirming that the proposed sub-projects comply with national
environmental guidelines, and for obtaining the necessary clearance from the appropriate licensing
authorities. Requirements in respect of environmental analysis will also be written into the sub-loan
agreements.
8. Participatory approach:
Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups: During project pre-appraisal and subsequent appraisal,
Turkish Treasury officials, Turk Eximbank and several of the prospective participating banks have been
consulted on the proposed project design. The feedback provided by all of these parties, as also reflected
in the ICRs for the previous World Bank credit line operations in Turkey, has been incorporated in the
proposed project's design. As the prospective participating banks will be chosen from the universe of 58
banks currently involved in Turk Eximbank's own wholesale lending operations, an established and
functioning relationship between Turk Eximbank and the participating banks already exists. Turk
Eximbank today routinely undertakes risk assessments for all of the banks it wholesales funds to, and
therefore the banks concerned are already used to working with Turk Eximbank and to providing them
with access to (sometimes confidential) information.
Other key stakeholders: Private sector exporters are the other key stakeholders in this project. During
project pre-appraisal, contacts were established with the Turkish Exporters Association and its feedback
on project design was sought. The Turkish Bankers Association will also play a role in support of the
project's focus on risk management system capacity of the banking system by proactively marketing the
tools required to develop, implement and maintain such systems in individual banks. Preliminary
discussions with the Bankers Association on this issue have already taken place and the Association has
indicated in writing that it is very interested in pursuing this agenda together with the World Bank.
Activities in this area such as seminars and risk management system assessments in individual banks, to
be funded from the Special Financial Operations (SFO) budget for Turkey and Italian CTF grant funding
are currently under preparation and likely to come to fruition at or around the time of EFIL effectiveness.



G. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The sustainability of this operation is ensured by using Turk Eximbank, an established export finance
institution, as the Borrower and Implementing Agency. Turk Eximbank's wholesale lending function,
already well established today, is likely to become more sophisticated as a result of this project and
therefore Turk Eximbank is well placed to successfully channel the project reflows to additional private
sector exporters during as well as beyond the period of project implementation in line with the maturity of
the World Bank's loan (7 years).
Turkey's past export growth record, as well as the World Bank's own past experience with credit line
operations in Turkey, indicate that the private enterprise sector has the technical and managerial ability to
successfully tap export opportunities provided they have access to appropriate financing (e.g., in terms of
pricing and maturity). Thus, expansion of existing and new export operations that will be financed by the
funding to be provided by the proposed EFIL have a very high likelihood of self-sustainability.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating         Risk Minimization Measure
Generic Risks (e.g., macro-       S                   Following the recent
economic risks, political                             elections, the government in
instability)                                          Turkey is expected to be more
stable. There is increased
likelihood of a full-fledged
IMF program shortly after the
April elections, as publicly
announced by the last IMF
SMP monitoring mission;
Turkey's private sector
exporters' track record of
resilience to macro-economic
instability is also a mitigating
factor.
Project Specific Risks (e.g.,     M                   Maximum incentive for Turk
Turk Eximbank not having                              Eximbank to implement the
worked with the World                                 project successfully by
Bank before, risk of                                  combining Borrower and
participating banks                                   Implementing Agency
experiencing financial                                function into one entity;
difficulties, participating                           inclusion of targeted
banks' on-lending of funds                             institutional development
to non-viable export                                  assistance for Turk
operations).                                          Eximbank; focus on risk
management capacity of
banks in the selection and
ongoing qualification of
participating banks.
Overall Risk Rating               M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



- 12 -
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Risk              Type of          Risk          Risk Minimization
Risk           Rating        Measure
Directed lending       0               N               Turk Eximbank has
by Turk                                                confirmed that after
Eximbank to                                            Turkey became a
some specific                                          member of the EU
sectors                                                Customs Union, any
lending policies
directed towards
specific sectors have
been completely
shelved as a necessary
precondition to
membership in the
Union.
Type of Risk - S (Social), E (Ecological), P (Pollution), G (Governance), M (Management capacity), 0 (Other)
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
H. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions:
* The PIU in Turk Eximbank has been created and staffed with trained professionals capable to
satisfactorily implement the project.
* The Operations Manual, including the environment guidelines for the sub-loans, has been adopted.
* At least 2 PFIs have undergone the qualification procedure and have signed subsidiary loan
agreements
* Satisfactory legal opinions on both the Loan and Guarantee Agreements have been received.
2. General covenants:
* Commitments under the credit line, beyond the first US$100 million, will be subject to the World
Bank having confirmed to Turk Eximbank its satisfaction with progress achieved by the Government
in carrying out its financial sector reform policies.
* Turk Eximbank to maintain satisfactory financial management systems, including records and
accounts, and prepare financial statements satisfactory to the World Bank. Annual project accounts
and an IAS audit of Turk Eximbank's financial statements to be provided within six months of each
year-end during the implementation period (audits to be carried out by independent external auditors
in accordance with International Auditing Standards and International Accounting Standards, under
terms of reference satisfactory to the World Bank).
* Turk Eximbank to maintain a PIU with satisfactory staffing and other resources as required for
effective project implementation.
* Turk Eximbank to monitor project performance in accordance with the agreed performance
monitoring indicators.
I. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [X] Not applicable.



- 13 -
The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [X] Not applicable.
[X] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
J. Compliance with World Bank Policies
[X] This project complies with all applicable World Bank policies.
[X ] The project complies with all other applicable World Bank policies.
Program Team Leader: Lalit Raina
Sec r Director: l6s Bokros
Country Director: Ajay Chhi



- 14 -
Annex 1
Export Finance Intermediation Loan
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary      Key Performance Indicators    Monitoring and       Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                  (Goal to World Bank
Mission)
Help meet private sector  Increased aggregate exports   Trade Statistics
financing needs, to enhance                                                Macro-economic and
private sector                                                             political instability does not
competitiveness                                                            worsen significantly
Project Development                                                       (Objective to Goal)
Objective:
To provide short and      Credit line Utilization    Progress reports      Absence of a major
medium term working       Indicator:                 prepared by Turk      financial sector crisis
capital and investment                               Eximbank's PIU
finance to private exporting  Amount of credit line
enterprises, to assist the   actually                Supervision missions
Turkish exporting sector     disbursed/projected credit
hurt by the recent global    line disbursement on a
financial crisis             straight line basis
To provide successful     Sub-loan Performance
financial intermediation  Indicators:
based on sub-borrower
creditworthiness criteria     Amount of non-
performing sub-loans;
Interest and/or principal
defaults/total amount of
sub-loans disbursed
To undertake targeted     Technical Assistance
institutional strengthening    Effectiveness: better risk
of Turk Eximbank          management capacity in Turk
Eximbank, as evidenced inter
alia through more selected
lending to banks



- 15 -
Outputs:                                                                (Outputs to Objective)
Sustained/increased export   Export Multiplier:     Progress reports    Continuation of the
growth                                              prepared by Turk    current floating exchange
Incremental average       Eximbank's PIU      rate regime
aggregate annual exports
generated (measured over 3    Supervision missions
years for all sub-
borrowers)/total credit line
disbursed
Project Components/Sub-  Inputs: (budget for each                       (Components to Outputs)
components:              component)
Timely disbursement
Credit Line              US$246,000,000             Progress reports
prepared by Turk
Turk Eximbank to set up and  Eximbank's PIU
run the PIU, using part of the
onlending margin to finance   Supervision missions
the PIU's operating costs
Technical Assistance     US$4,004,700        .



- 16-
Annex 2
Export Finance Intermediation Loan
Project Description
Project Concept
1.    The Export Finance Intermediation Loan (EFIL) consists of two components: (i) Financing of
Sub-loans under Part A of the project in an aggregate amount of US$246,000,000; and (ii) Provision of
Institutional Development Technical Assistance to Turk Eximbank under Part B of the project in an
aggregate amount of US$4,004,700. Details are given below.
2.    Part A of the Project: Credit Line Component---Sub Loans: Under Part A of the project, the
EFIL will provide short and medium term financing for the procurement of input goods, equipment,
works and services by private exporters.  The inputs could be procured locally or externally on
commercially competitive terms and will, therefore, benefit both direct and indirect exporters.
Commitments under the credit line, beyond the first US$100 million, will be subject to the World Bank
having confirmed to Turk Eximbank its satisfaction with progress achieved by the Government in
carrying out its financial sector reform policies. Progress in carrying out its financial sector reform
policies will be assessed as part of the mid-term review by the World Bank.
3.    Part B of the Project: Technical Assistance Component---Institutional Development of
Turk Eximbank: Under Part B of the project, the EFIL will provide financing for the procurement of
consulting services, IT equipment (hard- and software) and related services, and training for the further
institutional strengthening of Turk Eximbank, in areas identified during Appraisal, and agreed between
the World Bank and Turk Eximbank (Borrower).
4.    Borrower and Implementing Agency: The Borrower and Implementing Agency for the EFIL
will be the state owned Turk Eximbank, with the Government issuing a guarantee to the World Bank. For
the credit line component, Turk Eximbank will act in the capacity of a wholesale institution and will
onlend the loan funds through a pre-selectec[ group of a maximum of five private banks (including one
privately owned development bank) which will be selected pursuant to criteria agreed between the
borrower and the World Bank (see Annex 6). Turk Eximbank will take the credit risk on the banks
selected for participation. The participating banks in turn will make sub-loans to private exporting
enterprises for procurement of raw materials, equipment, works and services in order to expand their
current export volumes, or in exceptional circumstances to enable them to retain and maintain their
current level of exports. The on-lending banks will take the credit risks on the borrowing enterprises.
Turk Eximbank will also manage and implement the technical assistance component, and provide
cofinancing for this component in the form of making available office space, telecommunication
facilities, staff support, etc.
5.    Due Diligence of Turk Eximbank: During pre-appraisal and appraisal, due diligence was
undertaken of Turk Eximbank itself to determine its own financial health and creditworthiness as the
Borrower of the proposed World Bank loan (see Appendix 5. 1, Annex 5). A review of Turk Eximbank's
IAS audit reports for the years 1997-1998 indicates that Turk Eximbank exceeds the minimum BIS risk
weighted capital adequacy ratio of 8 percent. Generally, Turk Eximbank does not apply IAS 29
(accounting for hyperinflation) when producing its annual financial statements. However, as part of the
due diligence process, Turk Eximbank produced IAS 29 compliant financial statements for year-end 1997
and year-end 1998. A review was also undertaken of Turk Eximbank' s own bank lending policies, and it
was determined that while these policies are generally adequate using a fairly elaborate analytical system
developed with the assistance of Citibank, there is room for further improvement (e.g., determining
individual bank lending ceilings not only on the basis of the financial strength and intermediation



- 17-
effectiveness of the banks concerned but also in terms of prudent maximum exposure limits to individual
bank borrowers as a percent of its own capital base. While currently such exposures to individual banks
are within acceptable limits, this outcome is more the result of intuitive risk diversification attempts rather
than of structured risk management system features). Turk Eximbank has agreed to an in-depth review of
all of its policies and procedures, including its direct lending (to corporate borrowers) policies, its
insurance & guarantee policies, its ALM practices and overall risk management system capacity, to
further document the need for change in this and other areas of institutional strengthening. Targeted
efforts to implement institutional change will be financed under the US$4,004,700 technical assistance
component of the EFIL (see Annex 5). Finally, it has been determined that Turk Eximbank is sufficiently
advanced with undertaking all preparatory activities necessary to ensure timely Y2K compliance, and
written documentation to this effect has been submitted to the World Bank.
6.    Loan Terms:  Turk Eximbank, based on its own funding mix and anticipated demand of
exporters, has indicated a preference for a US$ Single Currency Loan (SCL), which it will then on lend to
participating banks for a period of five years, which will include a 3 year grace and 2 year amortization
period during which the participating banks will have to repay loans to Turk Eximbank. In order to offset
its administrative and implementation costs as well as the credit risks involved, Turk Eximbank will
charge an on-lending margin to the participating banks of between 400-500 basis points over its cost of
funds under the World Bank loan. During pre-appraisal, a comprehensive assessment was undertaken of
bank foreign currency loan funding and loan pricing practices, and it was determined that the proposed
on-lending margin is in line with current market practices. However, the proposed margin is significantly
above pre-crisis costs of foreign borrowing of the banking system, and also above current borrowing costs
for shorter term funds. Thus, in case the political and macroeconomic situation stabilizes in the coming
months, the cost of the World Bank funds along with the above on-lending margin might be too high.
Therefore, the on-lending margin will need to be periodically reviewed (e.g., every six months) to reflect
changes in market conditions, and a clause will be included in the subsidiary loan agreements between
Turk Eximbank and the participating banks allowing for adjustment of this margin in line with prevailing
market conditions. The loans made to the participating banks as well as the eligible beneficiary sub-
borrowers will be denominated and repayable in US$. The participating banks are expected to price their
sub-loans on a commercial basis, currently at around six month LIBOR plus 800-1000 basis points. The
foreign currency risk will be borne by the ultimate borrowers (see terms and conditions under Annex 2,
Appendices 2.1-2.3).
7.    Selection of Participating Banks: A short list of nine banks has been compiled from the
universe of 58 banks with which Turk Eximbank currently maintains wholesale lending relationships,
using the following selection criteria: (i) total assets during each of the last two years to exceed a
minimum of US$500 million equivalent on average; and (ii) export loans-to-total asset ratios during each
of the last two years to exceed a minimum of 10 percent on average. These criteria ensure that only banks
with a minimum two year operational history, a viable asset base and an export sector lending focus are
selected for further screening. From this group of nine banks, a smaller group of five banks will be
selected as final participating banks for the EFIL by Turk Eximbank based on the following eligibility
criteria: (i) general compliance with all legal and regulatory requirements; (ii) audited IAS financial
statements, including hyperinflation adjustments; (iii) minimum BIS risk-weighted capital adequacy ratio
of 10 percent; (iv) maximum foreign currency exposure limits; (v) maximum large exposure to single and
connected clients and maximum insider lending limits; (vi) Y2K compliance; and (vii) willingness to
undertake a full scope review of the adequacy of their risk management systems. These criteria are
considerably more rigorous than existing Turkish banking law requirements in order to set a higher
standard for the leading banks participating in the EFIL (see Annex 6--Likely Profile of PFIs, Pre-
Qualification and Final Eligibility Criteria).
8.    Eligible sub-borrowers: All private (private ownership more than 50 percent) exporters with
foreign exchange earnings, irrespective of their sector, will be eligible for participation as sub-borrowers
on a commercial basis. The prospective sub-borrowers will have to prepare and present a business plan



- 18 -
and an export development plan as part of their loan applications, as well as satisfy the procurement and
environmental rules stated as part of the World Bank loan conditions. The creditworthiness of the sub-
borrowers will be assessed by the PFIs, subject to the minimum requirement that the sub-borrowers
maintain a maximum debt equity ratio of 70:30 and minimum debt service coverage ratio of 1.5:1 (after
receipt of the sub-loan). The World Bank, in coordination with Turk Eximbank, will carry out a prior
review of the first two sub-loan applications of each of the participating banks to satisfy itself about the
credit analysis process carried out by these banks (see Annex 2, Appendix 2.3).
9.     Projected Disbursement Profile: Because of the pent-up demand for export finance, the EFIL
is expected to disburse fairly quickly (within three years of loan signing) as compared to other credit lines
in the past in Turkey and in the Region. The proposed project implementation period for the EFIL,
therefore, is three years instead of the customary five years for investment operations. The EFIL is
expected to achieve this significantly higher credit line utilization rate as a result of incorporating the
following features in loan design: (i) loan utilization parameters are flexible:--both short and medium
term working capital loans by themselves or in combination with investment loans will be available; (ii)
the use of Turk Eximbank, rather than the Govemment, as the Borrower and Implementing Agency,
creating positive incentives (onlending margin) for efficient loan utilization; (iii) pre-allocating an amount
of subsidiary loans (and the commitment fee burden) to participating banks upon loan signing, and
therefore creating downstream positive incentives for the participating banks in terms of higher returns by
quicker utilization, and the negative incentive of commitment fee payments in the absence of such
utilization; (iv) the inflexibility of previous credit lines in Turkey has been avoided (e.g., too many
requirements in terms of minimum sub-loan maturity, sub-borrower co-financing requirements, local
currency onlending using artificial interest rate structures, etc.) which performed much better when
restructured to rectify such inflexibility.



- 19 -
Appendix 2.1
Export Finance Intermediation Loan
Terms and Conditions for Turk Eximbank
(Between the World Bank and Turk Eximbank)
For Turk Eximbank, the following terms and conditions shall apply:
*  Initial and ongoing compliance with a minimum BIS risk weighted capital adequacy ratio of
10 percent;
*  For the duration of the project implementation period, beginning with year-end 1999,
submission of an audit report, that is: (i) prepared in accordance with International Auditing
Standards and International Accounting Standards, including IAS 29 (Hyperinflation
Adjustment); and (ii) has an unqualified audit opinion, except as the World Bank shall
otherwise agree;
*  Timely and satisfactory implementation of the institutional development program agreed with
the World Bank, including in particular the development of appropriate risk exposure limits
on individual Turkish banks expressed as a percentage of Turk Eximbank's capital base as
defined under BIS;
* -Turk Eximbank will onlend the funds under the EFIL to PFIs (selected according to the
eligibility criteria agreed with the World Bank) using subsidiary loan agreements. All
subsidiary loan agreements are subject to prior review by the World Bank;
*  For the duration of the project implementation period, creation and maintenance of a Project
Implementation Unit, staffed with qualified personnel, capable to satisfactorily implement all
aspects of the EFIL;
l Turk Eximbank will monitor the performance of the project on a quarterly basis using
performance indicators agreed with the World Bank, and will provide the World Bank with
quarterly progress reports, giving the details of the progress made in project implementation;
*  Timely preparation and submission of EFIL project audit reports in accordance with
International Accounting Standards and agreed Financial Management Arrangements (see
Annex 4 and Annex 8);
*  All commitments under the subsidiary loan agreements beyond an aggregate amount of
US$100 million will be subject to the Bank having confirmed to EXIM satisfactory progress
achieved by the Government in carrying out its financial sector reform policies; and
*  Turk Eximbank will receive the funds from the World Bank on a seven year maturity,
approximately six months LIBOR; Turk Eximbank will pay a front-end fee of 1 percent and a
commitment fee of 0.75 percent on undisbursed balances; the commitment fee will be
payable with effect from 60 days after loan signing.



- 20 -
Appendix 2.2
Export Finance Intermediation Loan
Terms and Conditions of Subsidiary Loans
(Between Turk Eximbank and PFIs)
The following terms and conditions will apply to the subsidiary loan agreements to be entered
into between Turk Eximbank and PFIs:
*  Initial and continued compliance with the eligibility criteria for PEIs (see Annex 6);
*  US$ denomination;
*  Maturity of the subsidiary loan of five years with three years grace;
*  Interest rate of the cost of World Bank funds to Turk Eximbank plus an onlending margin
reflecting (a) Turk Eximbank's administrative costs; and (b) a credit risk margin;
*  Commitment fee equivalent to the commitment fee payable by Turk Eximbank on the World
Bank Loan;
*  The funds available to PFIs will depend upon the availability of funds to Turk Eximbank
from the World Bank, and commitment of loan funds beyond the first US$20 million will be
subject to prior approval by Turk Eximbank;
*  PFIs will be responsible for ensuring that the sub-borrowers comply with the World Bank's
procurement rules for the procurement of goods, works and services under EFIL sub-loans,
and all applicable Turkish environmental legislation/regulation; and
3  PFIs will provide a full set of documentation for all sub-loans to Turk Eximbank on a
periodic basis, in order to enable Turk Eximbank to maintain all project records and make
them available for ex-post review by the World Bank or by external auditors as necessary.



- 21 -
Appendix 2.3
Export Finance Intermediation Loan
Terms and Conditions for Sub-Borrowers, Sub-projects and Sub-loans
(Between PFIs and Sub-borrowers)
The following terms and conditions will apply:
For sub-borrowers:
* Private ownership (defined as more than 50 percent private ownership or private control);
* Exporter, with an approved export development plan;
* Maximum debt/equity ratio of 70:30 (after receipt of the sub-loan).
* Sub-borrower after receipt of the sub-loan should generate enough cash during the pay-back
period to maintain a minimum debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.5: 1;
* Certification from the relevant local or national authorities that the proposed sub-project
meets all environmental laws and standards in force in Turkey, as well as the World Bank
policy on environmental assessment (available in the operational manual for the EFIL to be
prepared by Turk Eximbank's PIU);
For sub-projects.
*  Sub-projects must be targeted towards the generation of exports consistent with the sub-
borrower's Export Development Plan;
*  Sub-projects involving investments should generate a financial rate of return of at least 15
percent (the calculation of economic rates of return will be required only in cases where
major price distortions in inputs or outputs are evident);
*  Goods, works and services on the World Bank's negative list will not be eligible for
financing;
*  Compliance with the World Bank's procurement procedures for the procurement of goods,
works and services to be financed under EFIL sub-loans;
For sub-loans:
*  Sub-loans will be made for the financing of raw materials, spare parts, plant and equipment,
works, services and consulting services both for working capital as well as investment
purposes;
*  Sub-loan applications must include a business plan incorporating an Export Development
Plan;
*  Sub-loans will be evaluated in accordance with the PFI's normal project and credit evaluation
guidelines and in addition will be evaluated using World Bank provided evaluation guidelines
(available in the project file);
* Sub-loans must be denominated in US$; the foreign exchange risk will be borne by the sub-
borrower;
*  Sub-loan pricing and maturity will be determined by the PFI based on the needs of the
particular sub-borrower and sub-project being financed, with the proviso that the interest rate
must at a minimum be equal to the costs of World Bank loan funds to the PFI plus an
appropriate credit risk margin;
*  Sub-loan size to any individual sub-borrower or group of connected sub-borrowers will not
exceed US$10 million;



- 22 -
* For sub-loans larger than US$5 million (free limit loan size of US$5 million) and for the first
two sub-loans for each PFI irrespective of size, prior review by the World Bank will be
required;
* All sub-loans not subject to prior review, can be subject to post review by Turk Eximbank or
the World Bank in order to verify compliance with the subsidiary and sub-loan agreement
terms.



- 23 -
Annex 3
Export Finance Intermediation Loan
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                               Local               Foreign             Total
------------------- us $-
Credit line                                        98,500,000        147,500,000       246,000,000*
Technical assistance                                1,500,000          3,004,700          4,504,700
Consultants                                          500,000          1,900,000          2,400,000
IT Equipment (hard & software, services)          1,000,000            500,000           1,500,000
Training                                                  0            604,700            604,700
Front End Fee                                                        2,525,300           2,525,300
Total                                             100,000,000        153,030,000       253,030,000*
Total Baseline Cost
Physical Contingencies                                   -                  -                 0.0
Price Contingencies                                      -                  -                0.0
Total Project Cost                                100,000,000        153,030,000       253,030,000*
*While it is expected that both participating banks and sub-borrowers themselves will contribute to the financing of
individual sub-projects, the precise amount of such financing to be provided cannot be determined ex ante, as the loan design
does not envisage the use of predetermined cofinancing requirements. Instead, participating bank maximum exposure to
individual sub-borrower limits, debt equity and debt service coverage ratio requirements for sub-borrowers and maximum
sub-loan limits will drive the amount of cofinancing to be provided.



- 24 -
Annex 4
Export Finance Intermediation Loan
Project Implementation Arrangements
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
1.    Turk Eximbank will be the borrower for the EFIL, and the Undersecretariat of Treasury will
provide the guarantee to the World Bank on behalf of the Government of Turkey. Turk Eximbank will
also be the implementing agency for the project, and will set up a Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
within Turk Eximbank headed by a Deputy General Manager of Turk Eximbank. The Turk Eximbank
PIU's responsibilities, functions and staffing details are given below.
Onlending Arrangements
2.    Turk Eximbank, the Borrower, will wholesale the EFIL to a maximum of five private banks (four
commercial banks and one development bank) selected according to a set of pre-qualification and final
eligibility criteria (see Annex 6). The on-lending will be carried out by means of subsidiary loan
agreements entered into with the selected banks (Private Financial Internediaries--PFIs). The PFIs in
turn will make sub-loans to private exporters satisfying a set of eligibility criteria, according to agreed
sub-loan terms and conditions and procurement and environmental guidelines (see Annex 2). Turk
Eximbank will take the credit risk on the PFIs and the PFIs will take the credit risks on the sub-borrowers.
Project Implementation Unit (PII)--Responsibilities, Functions and Staffing
3.    Responsibilities. Project coordination and implementation will be done through a PIU to be
established within Turk Eximbank. The PIU will be responsible for: (i) coordination, communication
and public information of all aspects of the EFIL with the World Bank, the Undersecretariat of Treasury,
PFIs and exporters' organizations; (ii) carrying out the initial selection of the PFIs according to the agreed
final eligibility criteria for participating banks; (iii) monitoring of the performance and the risks
associated with the PFIs and periodic reporting to the World Bank based on the PFIs' audited financial
statements; (iv) negotiating the terms and conditions of subsidiary loan agreements with PFIs and
entering into such agreements with PFIs on behalf of Turk Eximbank; (v) communicating, the sub-loan
terms and conditions including minimum eligibility criteria and procurement and environment guidelines
for EFIL, to the PFIs; (vi) reviewing the sub-loan applications through prior or post review to ensure that
all the sub-loan terms and conditions have been complied with by the PFIs; (vii) submission to the World
Bank of those sub-loan proposals that require prior World Bank approval; (viii) management of the
technical assistance component and the institutional development objectives of the Turk Eximbank under
Part B of the project; and (ix) setting up of a financial management, accounting and reporting system to
handle the information flow between the sub-borrowers, PFIs, Turk Eximbank and the World Bank.
4.    Functions. Based on the above project responsibilities the functions and tasks of the PIU have
been grouped under four specific areas: (i) Performance and Risk Monitoring of PFIs; (ii) Credit
Operations Management; (iii) Accounting and Reporting; and (iv) Institutional Development Technical
Assistance Management. The task details under each functional group is detailed below:
Performance and Risk Monitoring of PFIs:  As part of the Performance and Risk
Monitoring function, PIU will carry out the review of the financial information provided by
the PFIs in order to determine their eligibility for final selection and participation in the EFIL
credit line based on the Eligibility Criteria agreed and coordinated with the World Bank.
After the initial selection of the PFIs, and signing of the subsidiary loan agreements with the



- 25 -
PFIs, their continued compliance with the criteria and overall financial performance will be
monitored by means of quarterly financial information provided by the PFIs to the PIU, and
complemented by full year-end financial statements, audited by independent auditors, in
accordance with IAS including IAS 29. The objective of this monitoring will be to evaluate
the financial and operational performance of the PFIs as part of their credit risk assessment of
the PFIs and their continuing eligibility for participation in the EFIL.
* Credit Operations: The PIU credit operation sections will provide assistance to the PFIs
and sub-borrowers on all aspects of the terms and conditions and eligibility criteria of the
sub-loans under EFIL, and will review all the sub-loan applications on a prior or post review
basis in order to ensure their compliance with respect to the objectives, criteria and covenants
as stated in the subsidiary loan agreements. In doing this, PIU in consultation with the World
Bank, will prepare an EFIL Operations Manual (OM) to explain all the operating
- procedures and guidelines governing the implementation of the EFIL. The OM will include
(i) terms and conditions and eligibility criteria for sub-loans and sub-borrowers; (ii) the
Guidelines, checklists and the formats for the preparation of business plan and export
development plans by the sub-borrowers, and for the evaluation of working capital and
investment sub-loans; (iii) the applicable procurement guidelines and the prior review
thresholds for sub-loans; (iv) the environment guidelines and checklist for sub-loans; and (v)
the operational process for the information, documentation, and payments flows; and (vi) the
accounting, reporting and auditing requirements as applicable at different levels in the
onlending process. The credit operations will also monitor the disbursement progress in the
utilization of the EFIL, monitor the debt servicing performance of the sub-loans jointly with
the PFIs, collect information on the incremental exports generated by the EFIL in line with
the agreed impact performance indicators, and prepare quarterly progress reports on these
areas, for eventual submission to the World Bank.
- Accounting and Reporting: The Accounting and Reporting section will prepare the
Financial Management System (FMS) required for the accounting and reporting of all project
related activities under the EFIL in joint consultation with the World Bank. The Accounting
Officer, under the supervision of the Financial Officer, will be responsible for: (i) the
documentation and recording of the transactions involving disbursements from the special
account; (ii) recording the funds flow to the PFIs; and (iii) all recording and reporting related
to preparation of Project Management Reports (PMRs) according to the formats agreed with
the World Bank. In order to record, monitor and report on the transactions related to the
project activities, specific balance sheet and income statement accounts for these transactions
will be opened within Turk Eximbank's chart of accounts. These accounts and their totals at
any given time will provide the PIU with a clear picture of the status of the funds flow in the
project. Entries in these accounts will be recorded under PIU authorization. The character
and the number of accounts to be opened will be determined according to the types of the
loans, number of the PFIs participating in the project and the status of the special account.
The PIU will monitor these transactions and will prepare monthly account summaries in
parallel with the monthly accounting cycle within Turk Eximbank, and, if requested, send
these monthly reports to the World Bank. Through these accounts PIU will compare the
funds flow information with the PFIs and if needed with the sub-borrowers. Periodic
reconciliation of these accounts between Turk Eximbank, the World Bank, the PFIs will also
be carried out by the PIU's accounting section. The PIU will also ensure that audits of the
financial statements or reports are submitted within the periods specified in the loan
agreement and that these reports include a certification that the PFI is in compliance with the
provisions of the loan.
* Institutional Development Program of Turk Eximbank: Turk Eximbank's institutional
development is an important objective of the loan and an integral part of the project. The



- 26 -
technical assistance component of the loan is intended to upgrade the institutional capacity of
Turk Eximbank and transform it into a more effective and efficient institution. This would be
achieved by strengthening its strategic planning, operational, administrative and technical
capabilities through procurement of consulting services, acquisition of IT equipment hard-
and software) and related serviices required to upgrade Turk Eximbank's IT capability, and
training. This section of the PIU under guidance from senior Turk Eximbank management
and in consultation with the World Bank will: (i) coordinate programs and budgets for
relevant activities; (ii) prepaire terms of reference and tender documentation for the
procurement of consulting services, IT equipment and related services, and training; (iii) in
close cooperation with Turk Eximbank's IT department prepare the technical specifications
for the procurement of IT equipment and related services; (iv) coordinate the procurement
and disbursements related to these programs with other sections of the PIU; and (v) prepare
and submit reports on these activities both to the PIU director and to the World Bank.
2.    Staffing  The PIU staff will be composed of Turk Eximbank staff assigned to this unit. Turk
Eximbank has appointed its Deputy General Manager, lending operations, as the Program Manager. The
Program Manager will be responsible for the overall project management and coordination with the
World Bank, PFIs, the Government, and the exporting sector. In addition, he will be responsible for the
creation, appropriate staffing and functioning of the PIU. The PIU will be managed by a Director, PIU,
(currently the head of the export credits division of Turk Eximbank), who has already been appointed and
has worked closely with the World Bank during EFIL preparation. In this task, the Director, PIU will be
assisted by five specialists, recruited from the risk assessment, export credits, project credits, accounting
and the Treasury funding divisions of Turk Eximbank and will report directly to the Director, PIU.
3.    Turk Eximbank has also appointed its Deputy General Manager, Treasury, Funding Operations,
as the Project Manager (IDP) for coordination and implementation of the Institutional Development
Program of Turk Eximbank in joint consultation with the World Bank. The Financial Officer working
within the PIU and responsible for the Institutional Development Implementation within the PIU will
report to the Project Manager (IDP) for Institutional and Technical guidance and decisions in this area.
The organization structure of the PIU is shown below. The specific functional responsibilities and related
staffing are described in the following paragraphs.



Turk Eximbank PIU Organizational Chart
Deputy General Manager, Turk
Deputy General Manager, Turk Eximbank                                           Eximbank
(Credit Operations)                                          (Treasury-Funding Operations)
Program Manager (EFIL)                                             Project Manager (IDP)
Mr. Osman Asian                                                  Mr. Ertan Tanriyakul
Director, (PIU)        I
Ms. Guilcin C6klu       L__--- -------------- -
I                                                         |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Performance & Risk    Credit Operations     Credit Operations        Accounting              Financial Officer
Monitoring            Specialist        Specialist                 Officer                 (Institutional
Specialist          (Short Term        (Medium/Long           (Accounting and         Development Technical
Loans)          Term Loans)               Reporting)                Assistance)



- 28 -
B.    Project Implementation Plan (schedule)
1999                                        1999-2002
Seq.   Tasks/Activities
Feb.  Mar.   Apr.  May  June   July   Aug.   Sep.    Oct.
1.     Project Identification &
Preparation
2.     Project Appraisal
3.     Loan Negotiation
4.     Board Presentation and
Approval
5.     Selection of
Participating                                                         _               _
Intermediary Banks
(PFls)
6.     Signing of Subsidiary                                                      _           =
Loan Agreements
7.     Effectiveness
8.     Implementation                              ______
9.     Supervision                                                                         l      l
-                                       _ _   _



- 29 -
Annex 5
Export Finance Intermediation Loan
Institutional Development Program for Turk Eximbank
Terms of Reference
A. Introduction
1.    Background. Turkiye lhracat Bankasi A.S. (hereafter referred to as Turk Eximbank) is Turkey's
official export import bank/export credit agency (ECA). Turk Eximbank was created in August 1987 and
its main objectives are to increase the competitiveness of Turkish exporters and contractors working
abroad, as well as to create opportunities for them in newly emerging markets. Turk Eximbank is
supporting foreign trade through various credit, guarantee and insurance programs, both acting as direct
lender and as a wholesaler of funds through Turkey's banking system. In 1998, 15 percent of Turkey's
total exports benefited from Turk Eximbank's financial support. Turk Eximbank's main sources of
funding are its capital base (provided by the Turkish Treasury which is the sole owner of the bank), and
borrowing from Turkish commercial banks, developed economy ECAs and international financial
markets. Turk Eximbank does not take deposits, is not a profit-oriented institution and is exempt from
corporate income tax.
2.    During its establishment phase, Turk Eximbank received technical assistance from  several
sources. This assistance included support from the NCM (the ECA of the Netherlands) for the
establishment of its export credit insurance and guarantee operations, and support from Citibank (USA)
for the creation of its banking risk monitoring function. During the first twelve years of its existence,
Turk Eximbank has developed into a fairly successful export financing institution which has earned
respect both in the Turkish exporting and banking communities, as well as abroad among other ECAs and
international lenders. In order to build upon this initial success, and to further mature into a full fledged
modern ECA however, Turk Eximbank' s current organizational structure, operational policies and
procedures and staffing have to be upgraded to keep pace with the growth and enhanced scope and
complexity of its operations, and to keep them fully in line with international best practice standards.
Structured application of the most recent tools and techniques developed in mature market economies for
the management of its operations and the multitude of risks inherent in these operations is therefore
critical for Turk Eximbank's future development. The present terms of reference spell out the areas in
which further institutional development of Turk Eximbank is required to achieve these benefits. Specific
proposals for the provision of the services would be prepared on the basis of these terms of reference.
3.    The further institutional strengthening of Turk Eximbank is an integral part of a proposed
US$252.53 million Export Finance Intermediation Loan (EFIL) to be provided to Turk Eximbank by the
World Bank. Turk Eximbank will be the Borrower and Implementing Agency for this Loan, the first of
its kind in Turkey that incorporates the concept of wholesaling of World Bank loan funds through a local
financial institution with an existing wholesale lending function. The EFIL contains funding for the
financing of the technical assistance envisaged in this terms of reference.
4.    Role of the Consultant. In order to ensure rapid and efficient upgrading of its institutional
capacity, Turk Eximbank's management envisages that the technical assistance services would be
provided by a reputable foreign consulting firm (hereafter referred to as the Consultant) specialized in
financial institutions development, preferably having prior experience with the provision of technical
assistance to similar institutions providing export credit and export credit insurance & guarantees
operating in mature market economies or comparable emerging market settings.



- 30 -
5.     The Consultant will act in an advisory capacity. Training of counterpart staff will form an
important part of the Consultant's duties. A single Consultant should arrange for all services required by
Turk Eximbank under this program, although sub-contracting arrangements may be entered into for the
provision of certain specialized services, in which case these would need to specified in the proposal and
contract documentation. All proposals will be evaluated on the basis of the criteria defined in the Letter
of Invitation, and a contract will be awarded according to the World Bank's guidelines for the
procurement of consulting services.
B. The Focus Areas for Institutional Development
6.     These terms of reference are based on a review of Turk Eximbank's audited financial statements
for the last five years and extensive discussions with the bank's management. The findings of the review
are reflected in the attached Appendix 5.1, which also contains a more detailed write-up of Turk
Eximbank's current operations. The review has identified a need for further institutional development in
the following areas.
7.     Strategic Planning. Turk Eximbank has clearly articulated high level strategic goals (e.g., to
support exporters, to refrain from competing with Turkey's banking community by gradually shifting its
activities from short term lending to medium and longer term lending and the provision of insurance &
guarantees in line with the banking system's capacity to expand the maturity of its own lending). Turk
Eximbank's management also receives short term strategic guidance for its operations from its
supervisory board (the "Supreme Advisory and Credit Guidance Committee"), which each year identifies
priority lending areas for the bank in line with Turkey's overall export-driven economic development
strategy, and sets overall country exposure limits. During its early years of operations, this high level
short term strategic guidance has been sufficient to allow the bank to function in a satisfactory manner.
However, the lack of a formalized strategic planning capability is increasingly becoming a bottleneck to
Turk Eximbank's ongoing and planned future expansion. Recent events (e.g., the global financial crisis
and the resulting liquidity squeeze in Turkey's domestic credit markets) have also underlined the
importance to Turk Eximbank of a strategic planning capacity that will allow management to respond to
growth opportunities in a structured manner and within clearly defined parameters (e.g., capital adequacy
targets) so as to safeguard the bank's financial health. Therefore, Turk Eximbank needs to develop an in-
house strategic planning capacity, as well as a detailed medium term strategic and financial plan setting
out specific growth objectives and the manner in which these objectives are to be achieved with due
regard to prudential requirements such as capital adequacy, large exposure limits, etc. The formal
strategic and financial plan, once completed, will provide the necessary foundation for other institutional
strengthening activities identified in this terms of reference.
8.     Organization. Turk Eximbank's current organization structure needs to be strengthened and fine
tuned in order to better address several weaknesses, especially in the organization of the credit and
insurance/guarantee functions which are somewhat fragmented to allow for adequate monitoring of
overall credit risk. The enhanced complexity of its operations arising from the shift away from short term
lending and towards medium and longer term lending and insurance & guarantee activity is also likely to
require further fine-tuning of the credit function (e.g., structured on a geographical basis).  The
responsibility for the management of the overall gamut of risks the bank is exposed to (operational risk,
legal and documentation risk, interest rate risk, market risk, foreign exchange risk, maturity mismatch risk
as well as credit risk) has to be clearly assigned within the organization. Furthermore, the human
resource management function needs to be upgraded. Thus, a revised organization structure should be
developed that can accommodate Turk Eximbank's future growth objectives as well as its need for
stronger risk management. The revised structure should incorporate the requirements of the strategic
plan.
9.     Budgeting. Turk Eximbank engages in budgeting based on the guidance it receives from its
supervisory board. However, the budgeting system needs to be further developed to ensure that it can



- 31 -
motivate and control performance throughout the bank. The revised budgeting system should be
formally linked to the strategic planning process to ensure that the annual financial plan for the bank
represents Turk Eximbank's strategic objectives.
10.   Credit, Insurance & Guarantee Operations. Turk Eximbank's credit function is currently divided
into (i) pre- and post-shipment short term, direct and wholesale lending; and (ii) medium term buyers
credit, and insurance & guarantee operations. This hinders an integrated identification and monitoring of
credit risk. In addition, there is a need for clearly defined loan classification and provisioning policies
across product lines rather than the present somewhat ad hoc loan loss provisioning practices. Turk
Eximbank also does not currently have a problem loan management unit. While the bank to date has
incurred very few problem loans due to it being a wholesale bank and an ECA (with a large part of its
lending flowing through the banking system and with the Turkish Treasury absorbing political risk), the
increasingly volatile local and international banking environment mandates a significant strengthening of
the bank's credit risk management. The formalized management and operational structure delineating
credit policies, procedures and systems must be upgraded to achieve this objective. Additionally, there is
a need to broaden Turk Eximbank's product range at the medium/long term end of the maturity spectrum,
both for loan and insurance & guarantee products.
11.    Treasury and Asset/Liability Management (ALM.  Turk Eximbank has a well functioning
treasury and funding department, but to date the level of complexity of its operations has been fairly low,
as the bank has essentially been running a matched book both as far as the currency denomination and
maturity structure of its assets and liabilities are concerned. The bank has also engaged in a limited
number of off balance sheet derivative operations (e.g., currency swaps and forward agreements). In the
absence of strong risk management capacity, these ALM policies have served the bank well. However,
in view of its strategic objective of lengthening the maturity of its lending, especially in an increasingly
credit constrained and at the same time more volatile interest and exchange rate environment, Turk
Eximbank stands to gain significantly from an enhanced capacity to manage a broader range of risks,
including interest rate risk and maturity mismatch risk. The bank also needs to diversify its funding base
to reduce its dependence on local bank financing. Furthermore, in response to the enhanced volatility of
the domestic and international environment, Turk Eximbank's pool of liquid assets has reached a size that
justifies the development of market risk management capacity.
12.   MIS and Management Accounting. While Turk Eximbank currently has the capability to produce
basic management information, there is no formalized MIS and the management accounting system is
characterized by several important omissions (e.g., large exposure monitoring, risk-adjusted return on
capital). The system also does not support real time cash management.
13.   Operations and IT. While most of Turk Eximbank's operations are currently fully automated, the
implementation of institutional strengthening activities envisaged in the credit, Treasury/ALM, and
management accounting/MIS areas are likely to require a further upgrading of its existing IT capacity.
Such upgrading should take place in the context of a structured IT plan that also incorporates the growth
objectives identified in the strategic plan.
14.   Human Resource Management. While Turk Eximbank's staff is dynamic, relatively young and
committed to Turk Eximbank's mission, and while the bank has functioning personnel and training
departments, these departments operate independently from each other and need to integrate their
activities in a structured effort to strengthen its human resource capacity. As Turk Eximbank's operations
have become increasingly complex, and as it is anticipated that Turk Eximbank's rapid growth will
continue for the foreseeable future, there is a need to upgrade the human resource management function
of the bank to avoid skilled personnel shortages becoming an obstacle to the bank's future growth and
expansion.



- 32 -
15.   Internal Audit. Turk Eximbank's existing internal audit department reports directly to the
General Manager of Turk Eximbank, is currently staffed with qualified audit professionals, and is capable
to perform all basic audit tasks. In line with the strategic plan and the implications of that plan, however,
the existing internal audit function needs to be upgraded and, where applicable, appropriate new manuals
or manual sections completed. Turk Eximbank also currently has no EDP audit capacity and such
capacity needs to be developed and implemented along with the upgrading of the IT infrastructure of the
bank. The role and responsibility of intemal audit vis-a-vis management and the shareholders also needs
to be further defined.
C. Scope of Work
16.    Strategic Planning. The Consultant needs to design and help Turk Eximbank implement a
formalized strategic planning process which establishes how the task of planning is organized, conducted
and monitored on an on-going basis. The role of various departments (including, if necessary a specialist
strategic planning unit within the bank) in the planning exercise must be established and the steps in the
process with appropriate deadlines for completion of tasks must be outlined and agreed with the bank's
management. The Consultant should assist Turk Eximbank with the preparation of a medium term
strategic plan that clearly defines Turk Eximbank's mission and objectives, target markets, products and
services, financial goals (including target capital adequacy ratio), resource requirements and action plans
for executing its strategy and achieving its goals and objectives.
17.    This corporate strategy will then be extended into a series of plans, each covering a major
business unit of the bank, defining specific goals, target markets, products and services, resource
requirements, and actions programs as needed to provide practical guidance to each business unit and
tools for monitoring and evaluating performance.
18.    The Consultant is expected to train Turk Eximbank staff in strategic and business planning in the
course of the work, so that the bank has the ability to continue the planning process in the future.
19.    Organization. The Consultant is expected to work with management to formulate changes to
Turk Eximbank's existing organization structure that would allow the bank to more effectively achieve
the objectives outlined in the strategic plan and to strengthen its risk management capacity. The
Consultant should prepare a definition of each organizational unit (including the permanent committees
and branches), its mission, main responsibilities, key functions to carry out each responsibility, and
required staffing levels. The Consultant should also prepare a plan for implementing the proposed
organizational changes indicating implementation actions and responsibilities, schedule and support
requirements.
20.    Budgeting. The Consultant should assist Turk Eximbank in organizing and implementing a
comprehensive and formalized system of budgeting. The system should ensure that individual units
within the bank as well as the two branches budget for all income and expenditure items over which they
have responsibility. The process should also ensure the following:
*  that the annual budgets for the bank and its departments and branches are linked to the
strategic planning process and objectives;
*  that budget targets are agreed to between top management and individual department/branch
managers to ensure challenging but realistic targets and secure good motivation and
performance from managers;
*  that detailed and relevant variance analysis takes place on a regular (preferably monthly)
basis and all significant variances from the bank's targets and objectives are highlighted,
explained and responded to as necessary; and
*  that the management accounts for the bank and its constituent parts are designed to report
actual performance against budgets and strategic targets.



- 33 -
21.   In addition to variance analysis, the Consultant will ensure that Turk Eximbank has a
comprehensive system of measuring performance against targets through the use of a well defined set of
management accounts and reports as well as through a system of individual performance management,
each noted elsewhere in the terms of reference.
22.    The Consultant will train a core staff in the utilization of the new systems and processes
developed.
23.    Credit, Insurance & Guarantee Operations. The Consultant will undertake the following tasks,
and in so doing, will take into account the unique nature of Turk Eximbank's operations as an export
credit agency wholesaling funds through the Turkish banking system and having full recourse to the
Government for political risk:
*  review and document the organization of the credit function (e.g., the existing credit,
insurance & guarantee departments, the Credit Committee) and propose organizational
changes as required to strengthen credit risk management, including specifically a review of
the need for a separate project finance department;
*  review and document Turk Eximbank's existing credit policies and procedures, and formulate
recommendations as required to further strengthen these policies and procedures, with special
emphasis on credit analysis techniques, risk acceptance criteria and credit risk monitoring;
a  develop a structured loan classification and loan loss provisioning policy, covering all of
Turk Eximbank's exposures arising from its direct lending, wholesale lending (through the
banking system), insurance and guarantee operations;
*  assist Turk Eximbank with the creation of a problem loan management unit, define this unit's
objectives, policies and procedures and staffing requirements;
-  define specific steps required to upgrade the status within the organization and the capacity of
the bank monitoring unit, to bring its bank analysis methodology in line with international
standards (BIS/IAS); and
*  assist Turk Eximbank with the development of new credit, insurance & guarantee products at
the medium and long term end of the maturity spectrum, in accordance with the objectives of
the strategic plan; develop and document appropriate risk analysis procedures and risk
acceptance criteria for these new products.
24.    The Consultant will train Turk Eximbank staff in the use of new credit policies and procedures
and credit analysis techniques.
25.    Treasury and Asset/Liability Management. The Consultant will undertake the following tasks:
*  review and document existing ALM processes and organizational responsibilities (e.g., of the
Treasury and Funding Departments, the Asset/Liability Management Committee) and
identify any gaps in the current organization of the Treasury function that preclude an
integrated approach to risk management;
*  review the appropriateness of the existing asset/liability management strategies of Turk
Eximbank in light of the requirements of the bank's existing and planned future operations as
outlined in the new strategic plan and propose remedial measures for any deficiencies
identified in these existing processes;
*  develop and document new  ALM  processes for interest rate risk and market risk
management;
*  train key staff (treasury staff, treasury management and other senior managers who will
participate in, or contribute to, ALM decisions), in utilizing the new/upgraded ALM
processes and risk management systems to meet practical day-to-day needs;



- 34-
* prepare a medium term funding diversification strategy for Turk Eximbank; and
* review the existing Treasury information infrastructure and identify, cost and propose
solutions to meet additional internal and external information requirements (e.g., Reuters
system).
26.   MIS and Management Accounting. On completion of the bank's strategic plan, the Consultant
should prepare a detailed plan of the management information required to execute the strategy including
management reports at each management level that allow Turk Eximbank to strengthen liquidity,
performance and risk management. The new management information system must provide management
with financial information for each of the operational units of the bank as well as for the bank as a whole.
27.   The MIS plan should include all thie key areas of Turk Eximbank's operations and management,
including:
* credit and portfolio status;
* treasury including liquidity, interest rate, maturity mismatch, foreign exchange and market
status and risks, funding and asset & liability management;
* operations, front and back-office, head-office and branches; and
* strategy, budgeting and performance measurement including the design and implementation
of an upgraded management accounting system; the accounting system should include
information on a profit/contribution center and cost-center basis with appropriate transfer
pricing for inter-unit transactions. The management accounts should also be designed to give
revenue, cost and profitability information by product, customer, and business division.
28.   The Consultant will assist Turk Eximbank to integrate the new management information
requirements, including the upgraded management accounts, into the IT strategy of the bank.
29.   The Consultant will train a core staff in the utilization of new systems and processes developed.
30.    Operations and IT. Once a strategy for the future operations of the bank has been developed and
the management information needs of the bank have been defined, the Consultant will review and
evaluate the efficiency and effectiveness of the existing hardware and software architecture and system
engineering in the bank. In so doing, the Consultant will take into account the following:
* The need for congruence between the bank's strategy, business goals and existing technology;
* An analysis of the information and processing effectiveness of the existing systems;
* Based on the business strategy for each unit, an assessment of the information and processing
requirements, and a definition of a set of additional application needs for the bank;
* The cost of additional hardware, software, training and incidental expenses; preparation of
tender documents for the procurement of IT goods and services allowing Turk Eximbank to
effectively and quickly procure the required equipment, software and related services under
the World Bank Loan;
* The need to integrate any new initiatives both internally, with regard to a compatible system
of hardware, software and communications from head office to branches, and externally, with
any payments system and inter-bank arrangements;
* The management, organization, staffing and training requirements needed to implement the
program.
* An implementation schedule together with major milestones.
31.   Human Resource Development. The Consultant is expected to develop a new organizational
structure for the human resource development function that will integrate the existing personnel and



- 35 -
training departments. The Consultant should define a mission statement for the new structure and prepare
a staffing plan, including detailed job descriptions.
32.   Additionally, the Consultant is expected to work with management to upgrade/develop human
resource management systems in the following areas:
* Training-Needs Analysis. Ajob-by-job identification of training needs.
* Training and Development Master Plan. Prioritization and planning of how all training needs
will be met. The training needs analysis and plan should take into account the requirements
under each of the functional areas.
* Performance/Potential Appraisal. Assessment of the performance and potential of all
employees; identification of major development needs.
* Staffing. Effectively matching people to jobs in the revised organization structure.
* Human Resource Planning. Supply/demand analysis, projection of gaps and excesses (3-5
years) by major skill/rank levels and plans to fill the gaps and deal with the excesses.
* Recruiting. Pro-active methods for finding and selecting key talent.
*  Rewards Management.  A compensation system that will attract, retain and motivate
managers, technical personnel and staff.
* Management Development. Methods for developing general and technical managers.
*  Performance Management.  System  for managing individual performance (e.g., goals,
standards, monitoring, evaluation).
33.    These steps will include documentation of each system in the form of an operating manual, as
well as pilot implementation and training of implementation staff.
34.   Internal Audit. The Consultant will undertake the following tasks:
*  review Turk Eximbank's audit organization and methodologies, and identify any existing
gaps in the proper scope and depth of audit coverage mandated by Turk Eximbank's current
operations as well as its planned future operations outlined in the strategic plan;
*  for the additional audit needs identified, develop audit methodologies, define reporting
standards, propose solutions for additional hard and software requirements, and identify and
define additional audit skill requirements;
* assist Turk Eximbank with the development of an EDP audit capacity; and
* train Turk Eximbank staff in the utilization of any new proposed audit methodologies.
D. Time Frame
35.   Turk Eximbank believes the full scope of the work can be completed in two to three years. This
estimate is based on balancing the work load and absorptive capacity of management and staff to deal
with the changes/new systems called for and the need to upgrade its existing institutional capacity to
position the bank for rapid future growth. The Consultant and Turk Eximbank will together work out a
realistic timeframe.
36.   At a minimum it is expected that the Consultant will work with management to produce the
following in the first year of the assignment:
* A strategic plan,
* Individual business plans for individual business units,
* A revised organization structure,
* Implementation of the first four human resource management systems,



- 36 -
*  Upgrading of the credit function covering credit policies and procedures, with particular
emphasis on bank credit risk management;
*  Upgrading of ALM systems for managing interest rate risk, and
*  Identification of requested MIS for generation of the data.
37.   Turk Eximbank will need documentation of the progress of the work. At a minimum, the
Consultant would produce the following:
* within one month of commencing work, a detailed, updated work plan based on initial
findings, for review; and
*  quarterly progress reports documenting findings and progress to date, and proposed next
steps.
Detailed reporting requirements will be agreed with the Consultant during contract negotiations.



- 37 -
Table 1: Estimated Cost of Institutional Development Program for Turk Eximbank
Consulting Services                   (US$)
Strategic Planning                      100,000
Organization                            100,000
Budgeting                               100,000
Credit, Insurance & Guarantee Operations  450,000
Treasury & ALM                          350,000
MIS & Management Accounting             100.000
Operations & IT                         300,000
Human Resource Development              300,000
Internal Audit                          100,000
Sub-total Consulting Services         1,900,000
IT Procurement
Hardware                                500,000
Software                                700,000
Non-consulting Services                 300,000
Sub-total IT Procurement              1,500,000
On-the-job training/courses abroad
Course fees                             300,000
Travel expenses & Accommodation         304,700
Subtotal on-the-job training            604,700
Total                                 4,004,700



- 38 -
Appendix 5.1
Export Finance Intermediation Loan
Profile of the borrower-Turk Eximbank
A. Introduction
1.    Turkiye Ihracat Kredi Bankasi A.S. (hereafter Turk Eximbank) Turkey's official export-import
bank/export credit agency, was established in 1987 as the successor institution to the Turkish State
Investment Bank. Turk Eximbank's objectives are to increase the competitiveness of Turkish exporters
and contractors working abroad as well as to create opportunities for them in newly emerging markets.
Through its export credit, insurance and guarantee programs Turk Eximbank has provided support for 15
percent of Turkey's total exports in 1998. Turk Eximbank is not a profit-oriented institution and is
exempt from corporate income tax. The Turkish Treasury is the sole owner of the bank and has agreed to
a zero dividend policy with all profits allocated to retained earnings.
B. Legal Foundation
2.    Turk Eximbank was established by Law No. 3332 "On the Transformation of the State
Investment Bank into the Export Credit Bank of Turkey Inc." of March 25th, 1987 and Cabinet Decree
No. 87/11914 "Principles Relating to the Reorganization of the State Investment Bank Under the Name of
the Export Credit Bank of Turkey, Inc". The Cabinet Decree specified how the State Investment Bank
was to be transformed into a joint stock company, and also mandated the use of two classes of shares- A
and B - which differ from each other only insofar as the Class A shares (representing 51 percent of the
total number of shares) must remain in the ownership of the Treasury, while the Class B shares
(representing 49 percent) may be transferred by the Treasury to public and private banks, financial
institutions, insurance companies and other entities. The matters which remain out of scope of the
Cabinet Decree are governed by the Turkish Commercial Code. The Articles of Association of the bank,
prepared on the basis of the Cabinet Decree., are registered in the Trade Registry.
C. Corporate Governance and Organization Structure
3.    Supervisory Board  The Treasury's ownership rights in Turk Eximbank are exercised by a
Supervisory Board (the "Supreme Advisory and Credit Guidance Committee") which consists of several
undersecretaries of economy-related ministries headed by Prime Minister or a State Minister appointed by
Prime Minister, the Governor of the Central Bank of Turkey, the Chairman, Vice Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer of Turk Eximbank. The Supervisory Board approves the annual lending, insurance &
guarantee programs and sets limits for the credits to be extended and insurance & guarantee cover to be
issued either on an aggregated basis or by countries, sectors and product groups. The Board of Directors
of the Bank is obliged to observe these limits.
4.    Board of Directors. The Board of Directors is charged with responsibility for all other decisions
concerning Turk Eximbank's operations. The Board consists of seven Directors, one of whom, the Chief
Executive Officer (CEO), is appointed by a joint decree of the State Minister responsible for Turk
Eximbank, the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic, while the remaining six are directly
appointed by the State Minister responsible for Turk Eximbank. This is an interim arrangement, pending
the holding of the first general shareholders meeting which would occur upon transfer of some or all of
the Class B shares by the Treasury, after which four Directors would be elected by the holders of the
Class A shares and the remaining two by the holders of the Class B shares. The Board of Directors elects
a Chairman and Deputy Chairman among its elected members. Turk Eximbank is managed and



- 39 -
represented on a day-to-day basis by the CEO, to whom several of the powers of the Board of Directors
are delegated.
5.    Senior Management and Staff The CEO is assisted by four Deputy General Managers. As of
year-end 1998, Turk Eximbank employed 365 staff (including Directors), 41 of whom have a post-
graduate degree and 163 have a graduate degree. The average length of employee service is around six
years and the average age (excluding Directors) 34 years.



-40 -
Turk Eximbank Organization Chart
Pre-Shipment export credit
Deputy General                 Department
Manager
Board of Directors                                                       Performance-Related Exp.
Secretariat                                                      Credit Department
Secretariat
Specific Loans & Risk
Assessment Department
Board oR                                                                        &    rrectors
Deputy General            __Insurance & Guarantees
_  Manager                     Department
|CEO                 lm
XBuyers Credit -1I Department
CEO's Secretariat
_Deputy General
Manager
A  ountingeDepartmentI
Se     y G     lResearch & Infonmation
l                                              |   | ~~~~~~~~~        ~      ~     ~~~~Departmentl
||Internal Audit                      Depuy   General          lI
LjDepartment            l|Manager                         rl        |System Development & Data      |
I       I                                        <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Processing Department|
| |Public Relations & Training   l
X   Department 
_t_ec tary General      |l



- 41 -
D. Products and Services
6.     Turk Eximbank's products and services include short term  pre-shipment and post-shipment
export credits, medium term buyers' credits, and export insurance and guarantees. Short-term pre-and
post-shipment export credits are extended to Turkish exporters in Turkish Lira or foreign currency, either
directly by Turk Eximbank or indirectly via Turkish commercial banks. Medium and long-term export
credit programs finance the export of capital goods and turnkey projects to be undertaken by Turkish
contractors abroad. Most of these programs involve direct lending, although certain insurance and
guarantee activities fall into this category. Insurance programs provide cover against commercial and
political risks for Turkish exporters selling on credit, investors and overseas contractors. Guarantee
programs provide political and commercial risk coverage to Turkish banks financing export transactions
through the provision of export credit to foreign buyers.
7.     During its first years of existence Turk Eximbank has concentrated on the provision of short-term
export credits. However, in the long-run, the bank intends to place more emphasis on insurance and
guarantee programs, and medium and long-term trade and project finance, while leaving short-term trade
finance to Turkish commercial banks.
8.    In line with the annual programs endorsed by the Supervisory Board, Turk Eximbank's facilities
are structured to reflect strategic priorities for Turkey's export sector. Thus, the country limits for a
selected group of priority countries are generally set at higher levels than for non-priority countries, and
Turk Eximbank has separate facilities for small and medium-sized exporters and for exporters located in
priority development areas. The latter facility, available only in TL, is the only facility carrying a
preferential interest rate (10 percent below comparable TL interest rates on other facilities).
E. Sources of Funding and Asset/Liability Management
9.     Turk Eximbank's main sources of funding are its capital base, provided directly by the Turkish
Treasury which is the 100 percent owner of the bank, local and foreign commercial banks loans, loans
from other export credit agencies (ECAs) and international financial institutions (IFIs), and, since 1997,
borrowing in international capital markets3. Funding composition on a percentage basis was as follows:
3 Turk Eximbank received an initial credit rating from Standard & Poor's and Moody's in 1997 in order to be able to
borrow in international money and capital markets without Government guarantee. The bank's rating has since been
maintained and is the same as Turkey's sovereign rating.



- 42 -
TURK EXIM Bank Balance Sheet - Liability
Composition
1 000 %                                           Ca pita l
90% 
80%  -                                         * Debt securities issued
70%-
60%  - _                                        Due to government
50%  -institutions
40%  -U Other liabilities
20%                                            *Due to international
10%                                 t~~~~~~~~~~ending agencies
0%                                            0 Due to banks & credit
1994   1995   1996   1997   1998         institutions
10.   Turk Eximbank is essentially running a matched book both as concems the maturity and the
currency composition of its assets and liabilities. Short term TL export credits are fumded by the TL
capital base; short term FX export credits are funded by short term FX loans from local and foreign
banks; and medium & long term FX buyers' credits are funded by medium & long term loans from other
ECAs, IFIs and FX denominated bond issues in intemational capital markets. Cross currency FX risk is
hedged through the use of currency swaps and forwards. As a result, Turk Eximbank has very limited FX
exposure (during the past twvo years a net long position that has fluctuated between 65 and 85 million US$
on a total balance sheet size of around US$3 billion) and very small mismatches across the entire maturity
spectrum of its liability base.
F. Asset Composition and Credit Policies
11.    On the asset side4, Turk Eximbank's loan-to-asset ratio during the last five vears has been quite
high (over 90 percent on average), as can be seen from the following chart. Short term export loans are
still the most important asset category.
4 IAS 29 hyperinflation adjusted financial stateiments are only available for year-end 1998 and year-end 1997, and
therefore a 5 year trend analysis based on hyperinflation adjusted statements cannot be done. As fixed assets under
the non-adjusted statements were already revalued in line with inflation, however, the difference betwveen total assets
under the two sets of financial statements is marginal (I percent).



- 43 -
r_    TURK EXIM Bank Balance Sheet -Asset
Composition
100%
90%                         S                         S i1= = i 3 E1 Other assets
80%
70%                          _Fixed assets net of
60%                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~depreciation
50%                                   E~~~~~~~~~~riCash & balances with
the Central Bank
n Medium and long term
30%  -                                                buyers' credits
20%   sShort term export
10%                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~credits
10%
1994   1995   1996   1997   1998
12.    For short term TL export credits, Turk Eximbanik's stated pricig policy is to provide funding to exporters
at 15-20 percent below local money market rates. As its TL denominated capital base is the main source of funding,
Turk Eximbank still earns a significant positive lending spread on this type of lending. For short term FX export
credits, Turk Eximbank's stated pricing policy is to earn a positive spread of approximately 50 basis points over its
average weighted costs of funds, allowing it to fully cover its overhead costs.
13.    For medium and long term FX buyers' credits, Turk Eximbank abides by the OECD Consensus
Arrangements5. In practice, Turk Eximbank's lending rates are generallv well above commercial interest
reference rates (CIRR) minimum rates, incorporating a risk premium for country risk, buyer risk, loan
maturity, quality of collateral, etc. Turk Eximbank's stated pricing policv for medium and long term
buyers' credits is to eam a positive spread of approximately 40 basis points over its average weighted cost
of funds, still enough to cover its overhead costs.
14.    At times of crisis (e.g., the 1994 Turkish banking crisis, the 1998 Russia crisis) lending spreads
can temporarily decline, and for the short and medium term FX lending can temporarilv become negative,
as lending rates are adjusted to increases in funding costs with a time lag in order to allow Turk Eximbank
to cushion the impact of sudden interest rate shocks for exporters. However, on an aggregate basis, Turk
Eximbank's lending spreads always have been and are likely to remain sufficientlv positive to cover its
operating costs due to its zero TL cost capital base (see also section VIII below).
s In the context of the EU Customs Union between Turkey and the EU which was established in early 1996, Turkey
adopted OECD Consensus Arrangement principles and provisions set by Council Decision of the EU on officially
supported export credits. Turk Eximbank's medium term buyers' credit, insurance and guarantee operations are
subject to these provisions. Turk Eximbank is also a full member of the Beme Union and Turkey, represented by
Turk Eximbank, became a member of the OECD Group on Export Credits and Credit Guarantees in April 1998,
with the expectation that Turkev will sign the OECD Consensus Arrangements within tvo years of entry (i.e., by
April 2000 at the latest).



- 44 -
15.    Turk Eximbank's export credit insurance operations are predominantly short term in nature, with
medium and long term cover still negligible in US$ terms (on average only around US$15 million during
the last three years). Short term export credit insurance has gained in importance during the last five
years, in line with Turk Eximbank's strategic objective to use instruments such as these. to support
exporters rather than direct lending whenever possible. Although total export insurance coverage
turnover reached nearly 3 billion US$ in 1998, premium income still constitutes only a small portion of
Turk Eximbank's net income (7.5 percent in 1998).
16.    For both its short and medium/long term export insurance cover, Turk Eximbank's premium rates
are comparable to those of other ECAs, as evidenced by the disclosures in this respect made by all ECAs
to the Berne Union.
G. Capital Adequacy and Asset Quality
17.    The Law No. 3332 establishing Turk Eximbank provides in Article 4 (C) that losses incurred by
the bank in its credit, insurance and guarantee operations as a result of political risk are to be met by the
Treasury. In addition, the Treasury and Turk Eximbank executed a Guideline for Procedures on
November 6, 1997 setting out the procedures by which claims for reimbursement are to be made. Turk
Eximbank must advise the Treasury of the amount of the claim by September of each year. The Treasury
will then apply to include these funds in the Republic of Turkey's consolidated central Government
annual budget for the following year. If approved for inclusion in the budget, payment will be made to
Turk Eximbank, following approval of the budget, at the time budgetary payments are made. To date,
this mechanism has worked in a satisfactory manner in practice6.
18.    While the responsibility for political risk is thus clearly assigned to the Treasury, Turk Eximbank
retains the commercial risk on all of its operations. For its short term direct lending export credit
operations, the commercial risk exposure is nearly fully transferred to the local banking system as Turk
Eximbank routinely obtains local bank guarantees for its exposure to Turkish exporters. Thus, in all of its
short term lending (direct and wholesaling through the banking system), its credit exposure is nearly
exclusively to the Turkish banking system. Turk Eximbank has a bank risk monitoring unit to monitor
this exposure, which was created with the assistance of Citibank US. While this unit is able to monitor
bank risk, there is some room for improving the analytical techniques being used which have not fully
kept up with recent best practice standards (e.g., BIS capital adequacy ratios) and the scale of Turk
Eximbank's lending operations to the Turkish banking system.
19.    For its medium  term  buyers' credit operations, Turk Eximbank always obtains a sovereign
guarantee from the buyers' country. These guarantees generally do not distinguish between commercial
and political risk, and therefore the default risk in practice is born by the Treasury. For its short term
export credit insurance operations which cover mainly commercial risk, approximately 70 percent of the
risk is reinsured with prominent reinsurance companies such as Munich Re and Swiss Re. Medium term
insurance cover is mainly for political risk and thus default risk is again born by the Treasury.
20.    Loan Loss Provisioning Rules: Due to the unique nature of its operations (with the bank's credit
exposure risk being virtually exclusively to the banking system and with the Turkish Treasury taking full
responsibility for political risk), Turk Eximbank is exempted from compliance with the Treasury's loan
6 One exception concerns a claim on the former Soviet Union carried on the bank's balance sheet since 1995. This
claim was rescheduled in the Paris Club and was a performing loan as of the year-end 1998 balance sheet date.
However, as some portion (40 percent) of the loan was funded with Central Bank money and the maturity of this
funding was not rescheduled to match the new repayment schedule of the restructured former Soviet Union debt, the
auditors have qualified the year-end 1998 IAS audit report (i.e., the qualification relates to the undefined nature of
the maturity of Turk Eximbank's liability to the Central Bank rather than the quality of the loan asset; any default
risk on the loan will be absorbed by the Turkish Treasury).



- 45 -
loss classification and provisioning policies. This is also true for other development and investment
banks which do not accept deposits. (Banking Law, Article 94). However, despite this exemption and
the fact that to date the bank has incurred very few asset quality problems, Turk Eximbank actually does
classify and provision for all of its short term loan assets according to the Treasury's rules. While the
Turkish loan classification and provisioning rules are more lax than international standards, the limited
potential for problem loan assets to arise on Turk Eximbank's books mitigate the impact of this
discrepancy. Turk Eximbank's provisioning for medium term buyers' credits takes the form of general
rather than specific provisions. Banking sector risk was not provisioned as of year-end 1998, but Turk
Eximbank has started to build up a 1 percent general provision for its aggregate banking sector exposure
starting in 1999. Specific provisions are only made for short term export credits that do not carry bank
guarantees and under Turkish classification rules fall in either the category 'special follow-up' or 'legal
follow-up' (roughly comparable to substandard and loss classification under international rules). The
percentage of short term export credits provisioned in this way is very low (less than one tenth of one
percent of the total balance outstanding as of year-end 1998).
21.    As a result of the above mentioned unique features of Turk Eximbank's asset base and repeated
injections of new capital by the Turkish Treasury, Turk Eximbank's capital adequacy ratio has
consistently increased during the last from years, from a low of around 2.5 percent in 1994 to 18 percent
as of year-end 1998 on a BIS risk-weighted basis (as confirmed by Turk Eximbank's auditors).
H. Earnings and Liquidity
22.    As indicated earlier, Turk Eximbank's pricing policies have allowed it to maintain and even
improve its net interest income margin on an aggregate basis, as can be seen from the following chart8:
Loans plus accrued interest are transferred to administrative follow-up when principal or interest is past due. Such
loans in administrative follow-up and uncollected within 30 days are transferred to legal follow-up. Loans classified
are placed on non-accrual status and a 100 percent reserve is provided.
8 Under the IAS 29 hyperinflation adjusted financial statements, net income in 1998 and 1997 is significantly lower
than under the non-adjusted statements. Despite these differences, due to other IAS 29-related adjustments,
shareholders' equity under the two sets of statements is either the same (in 1998) or higher (in 1997). As total assets
are virtually the same under both sets of statements (in 1998) or higher under LAS 29 by a comparable amount in
1997, the hyperinflation adjustment has only a marginal impact on capital adequacy.



- 46 -
TURK EXIM Bank - Income and Expense Analysis
500,0 This catasiniaetaTulExmakno-neetprNet Interesti ncome
45,000,000
40,000,000
35,000,000  ~ ~  ~     ~     ~      '    -- ~Net Income
return  25,000,000 assets artnnqtcsulhsmoLoan Loss Provision
20,000,000           r                                       Expens
1994       1995       1996       1997- 1998
23. Thi chrt lsoinicaed hatTur Exmbnk' no-ineret oerting expenseatndgonls
provision e~~~~~~~~~xpensehaebeketichkastebnsbuieshsgonAsarul,heak'
1994       1995       1996       1997         1998
ROA           0.64 percent   0.78 percent   3.03 percent   2.28 percent    5.14 percent
ROE           9.53 percent   9.59 percent  26.32 percent  14.52 percent   27.85 percent
24.    As a result of Turk Eximbank's matched asset/liability profile, the liquidity profile of Turk
Eximbank has remained relatively stable during the last four years:
TURK EXIM Bank - Liquidity Ratios
1.40                                            STlInterbank Claims
1.20                                              as percent of ST
1.00   ~~~~~~~~~~                    l~~nterbank Loans 
0.80                                              Readily MatbI
0.60  ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~Assets as percent of
Total Assets
0.40 
0.20                                           A;Volatile Liabilities as
percent of Total 
0.00                                              Liabilities
1995 1996 1997 1998                          _
~~~ ~ ~~ ~ I



- 47 -
25.    While the short term interbank claims/short term interbank loans ratio has deteriorated somewhat,
it is still comfortably at around 1.00. As Turk Eximbank's short-term pre-shipment credits are mostly
self-liquidating, Turk Eximbank should be in a position to generate enough liquidity from its short term
loan portfolio in case it would face sudden liquidity needs beyond its readily marketable asset portfolio.



- 48 -
Annex 6
Export Finance Intermediation Loan
Likely Profile of Participating Banks, Pre-qualification and Final Eligibility Criteria
Typical Participating Bank Profile
1.    There are 72 banks in the Turkish banking system. These include private commercial banks, state
owned banks, foreign banks, development banks and investment banks. Out of these banks, Turk
Eximbank has active working wholesaling relationships with 58 Turkish banks (these exclude the
investment banks who are not typical corporate lenders, and foreign banks who usually have their own
sources of funds). In order to determine the extent of credit exposure Turk Eximbank should take on any
one of these banks, Turk Eximbank carries out on a quarterly basis a risk assessment of these banks by
monitoring their financial information including capital adequacy, profitability, and liquidity ratios.
However, in the interest of efficient implementation of EFIL, it was agreed that the number of
participating banks should be limited to about five banks out of the total universe of 58 banks. This
would also enable an amount of approximately US$50 million to be intermediated by each bank and
enable the World Bank and Turk Eximbank to create the right incentives in the selected banks to focus
their management time and effort in timely and efficient implementation of the EFIL according to the
project guidelines, and providing much needed medium term finance to exporters.
2.    A secondary objective of EFIL is to complement the financial sector legislative and policy
reforms being proposed and discussed between the World Bank and the Government of Turkey, by
entering into a dialogue with the leading private sector commercial banks and build a consensus with
them in favor of improved banking standards in line with BIS and EU standards and an increased focus on
-risk management.
3.    In order to achieve these objectives, the selected banks would have had to have (i) a proven track
record of lending to exporters, and (ii) the participating banks needed a certain 'critical mass' in terms of
their balance sheets and, though not as critical, their branch network. Finally the technical and prudential
standards applicable to the participating banks had to be set at a level very close to the international
banking prudential standards, thereby setting; an example for the rest of the banking sector, and assisting
in the financial sector reform efforts.
Z4.    The selection of the participating banks has therefore been planned in two stages: (i) pre-
qualification, and (ii) final eligibility and selection. The pre-qualification criteria used are listed below:
*  The banks should be privately owned;
*  Minimum total asset size should be at least $500 million equivalent, and the banks should have
maintained this minimum asset size for each of the last two years (1997 and 1998) on a quarterly
basis on average. This would establish that the pre-qualified bank should have at least a minimum
size of operations on a consistent basis for two years running;
*  The pre-qualified banks (as determined by information compiled by Turk Eximbank over the last two
years) should have a minimum export loans/total assets ratio of 10 percent for each of the last two
years (1997 and 1998) on a quarterly basis on average. This would establish that the pre-qualified
banks had proven export orientation in their lending operations and had maintained this orientation
consistently for the last two years.
5.    The pre-qualification process has led to a preliminary list of 18 banks which include 17 private
commercial banks and one private development bank, as shown in the table below. These banks range
from (i) an asset base of US$7,243 million to US$556 million, and (ii) an export orientation of 41 percent
to 10.1 percent at the lower end. Out of this preliminary list of 18 banks, the top eight banks in asset size



- 49 -
were selected to form a short list, and the only development bank (Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi or
TSKB) in the list of 18 was added to constitute a short list of nine banks (i.e., half of the universe of 18
banks will be pre-qualified). These nine banks will be formally invited to express their interest in
participation in EFIL and will be sent a copy of the final eligibility criteria (paragraphs 7-10) required for
the second stage of selection.
The 18 banks (from the population of 58 banks) satisfying
the pre-qualification criteria ranked by
(i) total assets; and (ii) export sector loans/total assets
Annual average              Annual average
export loans/total loans         total assets           Number
1998         1997           1998          1997            of
%            %         US$ million   US$ million    Branches
Yapi Kredi           17.7          23.4          7,243         5,480            420
Isbank               19.6           16.6         7,204         6,461            834
Garanti              12.9           14.6         7,097          5,013           182
Akbank               12.3           12.8         6,789          5,028           520
Pamukbank            12.9           16.0         4,605         3,540            169
Toprakbank           16.0          21.5          1,986          1,527           145
Kocbank              17.5           16.7         1,908          1,581            60
'Osmanli              13.5          16.7          1,709         1,190            77
Esbank               15.2           18.3         1,614          1,385            94
Finansbank           10.1           14.2         1,544          1,094            46
Iktisat              20.8          28.1          1,253           988             53
Disbank              11.9          27.2          1,211           760             60
TEB                  19.1          25.6            991           930             36
Sumerbank            18.8           17.8           985           990             88
Sekerbank            10.7           15.7           875           599            208
Egebank              25.6          29.6            845           677             76
Kentbank             23.7          28.2            836           514             64
TSKB                 41.0    ~     37.1            556           570              2
6.     Pre-qualified Short Lis1. The nine banks included in the pre-qualified short list are briefly
profiled below:
* Yapi (Yapi ve Kredi Bankasi). Yapi Kredi, was established in 1944 and is a member of the
Cukorova conglomerate; the bank is highly exposed (25 percent of total loans) to other group
companies. Yapi Kredi is one of the largest retail banks in Turkey, having over 420
branches; this network provides the bank a very strong deposit base. At the end of 1998,
Yapi accounted for approximately 8.5 percent of the assets of the whole banking sector;
9 The Undersecretariat of the Treasury (the Guarantor of the EFIL) and Turk Eximbank (the Borrower) have
specifically recommended to the World Bank to consider the inclusion of a second privately owned development
bank, Sinai Yatirim Bankasi (SYB). Although SYB, like TSKB, has special skills in medium and long term
lending and does not fund itself with deposits, it did not pre-qualify according to the asset size and export orientation
criteria. However, since SYB is likely to meet the rigorous final eligibility criteria, the bank should be kept in
reserve and can be approved for participation in the EFIL in case five banks out of the 18 pre-approved were not
found eligible or were not keen to participate.



- 50 -
*  Isbank (Turkiye Is Bankasi A.S.). With 834 branches, Isbank has the largest retail banking
network in Turkey. 28 percent of the bank's shares are held by the CHP political party which
is represented on the Board of Directors. At the end of 1998, Isbank accounted for
approximately 8.3 percent of the assets of the banking sector.
* Garanti (Garanti Bankasi A.S.). Garanti is an innovative bank, having centralized a number
of its core processing functions, established a central telephone call center and launched a
branded credit card. The bank has 182 branches throughout Turkey and accounted for
approximately 8.3 percent of the assets of the banking sector at the end of 1998.
*  Ak (Akbank T.A.S.). Akbank is a subsidiary of the Sabanci industrial/financial group, which
also owns 10 percent of TKSB. The bank has been heavily exposed to group companies;
however as regulatory limits have constrained its group lending activities it has increased its
efforts in the retail banking sector.  The bank has 520 branches and accounted for
approximately 8.5 percent of the assets of the banking sector at the end of 1998.
*  Pamuk (Pamukbank T.A.S.). Pamukbank is also a member of the Cukorova conglomerate
and, like Yapi Kredi, is heavily exposed to group companies. The bank has had weak
earnings over many years suggesting that the balance sheet contains a large portion of assets
that are underperforming but not classified. The bank has 169 branches in most major urban
centers and accounted for approximately 5.7 percent of the assets of the banking sector at the
end of 1998.
-  Toprak (Toprakbank A.S.). The bank, which was founded in 1992, is primarily focused on
serving smaller companies. It has rapidly built a network of 145 branches and accounted for
approximately 2.2 percent of the assets of the banking sector at the end of 1998.
-  Koc (Kocbank A.S.). A member of the Koc Group, the bank is dependent on the group for a
large volume of its business. Kocbank was, in 1997, the most active player in the Turkish
repo market. The bank is continuing to build its branch network to capture a larger share of
loan business.  At the end of 1998, the bank had 60 branches and accounted for
approximately 2.1 percent of the assets of the banking sector.
*  Osmanli (Osmanli Bankasi A.S.).  The bank has 77 branches and accounted for
approximately 2.2 percent of the assets of the banking sector at the end of 1998.
*  TSKB (Turkiye Sinai KalkinmaL Bankasi). This development bank has, since its foundation
in 1950, played an active role in the development of Turkey's manufacturing and financial
sectors. Originally focused on earnings from medium and long term lending activities, the
bank has gradually changed its orientation towards fee based activities; from 1996 to 1998
the bank was the leading underwriter of initial public offerings (IPOs) in Turkey. At the end
of 1997, the bank was 57 percent owned by Isbank, with three other commercial banks
owning a further 32 percent of equity. Over two thirds of TSKB's long term debt is
guaranteed by the GOT or the central bank and the remainder is owed principally to its
shareholders. The bank has only 2 branches and accounted for approximately 0.6 percent of
the assets of the banking sector ait the end of 1998.
Final Eligibility Criteria for Participating Financial Intermediaries (PFIs)
7.    The nine banks in the preliminary short list will have to meet the final eligibility criteria
mentioned below. All the capital based criteria would have to be certified by the auditors as of year end
1998 audit reports. In exceptional cases, some banks may have increased their capital base since January



- 51 -
1999, and depending upon satisfactory evidence of such an increase in paid up capital, the new capital
base can be considered on a case by case basis. It is possible that out of the preliminary short-list, less
than five banks will be able to or willing to meet the final criteria. In such an event, banks from the
remaining group of eight banks from the initial pre-qualified list of 18 will be invited. In the event that
more than five might qualify out of the short list of nine, the banks with the best capital adequacy ratio
will be selected.
8.     General Criteria:
The Participating Financial Intermediary (PFI) shall:
*  remain in general compliance with all legal and regulatory requirements applicable to its
operations, as (re)confirmed by the bank's management to Turk Eximbank in writing on a
quarterly basis;
*  provide evidence, through hardware/software vendor certification or otherwise, that all of its
systems are Y2K compliant or, in case such evidence cannot be provided before the end of
the third quarter of calendar year 1999, that it has adequate contingency plans in place to deal
with any Y2K related system failures, as confirmed by the Central Bank of Turkey and the
bank regulatory authority; and
*  within [three] months of the date of signing of its subsidiary loan agreement with Turk
Eximbank and using its own funds, engage independent external experts to undertake a full
scope review of the adequacy of its risk management systems, covering all relevant
banking risks (e.g., credit risk, legal/documentation risk, settlement risk, liquidity risk,
interest rate risk, market risk, foreign exchange risk, country/transfer risk, operational risk),
under terms of reference acceptable to the World Bank.
9.     Audit Criteria:
The PFI shall, at the time of selection and for the duration of its subsidiary loan agreement with Turk
Eximbank, for each year-end beginning with year-end 1998, present an audit report which:
- covers two full years of operations;
- is prepared by an internationally recognized audit firm in accordance with International
Auditing Standards and International Accounting Standards (IAS), including IAS 29; and
- contains an unqualified audit opinion.
10.   Capital Adequacy:
The PFI shall at the time of selection have, and for the duration of its subsidiary loan agreement with Turk
Eximbank maintain, a minimum BIS risk-weighted capital adequacy ratio (using definitions of capital,
risk weights and weighting methodology as prescribed by the Basle Capital Accord) of 10 percent, as
certified once a year by independent external auditors; and shall report its risk weighted capital adequacy
ratio (as defined under Turkish rules) on a quarterly basis to Turk Eximbank using unaudited interim
financial statements.
11.    Credit Policies:
The PFI shall, at the time of selection and for the duration of its subsidiary loan agreement with Turk
Eximbank, have limited its exposure (both on and off balance sheet, the latter converted to on balance
sheet equivalents using BIS conversion factors) expressed as a percentage of its BIS capital, as certified
once a year by independent external auditors:



- 52 -
*  to a single client to no more than 25 percent;
*  to a single group of connected clients (using EU Directive 92/121 definitions of connected
clientsl) to no more than 60 percent by year-end 1998, 50 percent by year-end 1999, 40
percent by year end 2000, and 25 percent by year-end 2001;
*  to all single clients to which exposure exceeds 10 percent of the BIS capital of the PFI
and groups of connected clients combined to no more than 800 percent;
*  to insiders, defined as members of the PFI's Supervisory Council, Management Board and
employees in a management position or their direct family members, and shareholders
holding more than 10 percent of the share capital of the PFH, to no more than 50 percent by
year-end 1998, 45 percent by year-end 1999, 35 percent by year-end 2000, and 25 percent by
year-end 2001.
12.    FX Exposure:
The PFI shall at the time of selection and for the duration of its subsidiary loan agreement with Turk
Eximbank respectively maintain maximuim foreign currency exposure expressed as percentage of its
capital base (as defined under the Basle Capital Accord) of not more than 30 percent at the time of
selection, 20 percent by end December 1999 and 15 percent by year-end 2000 and thereafter.
10 Group of connected clients shall mean: (i) two or more natural or legal persons who, unless it is shown otherwise,
constitute a single risk because one of them, directly or indirectly, has control over the other or others, or (ii) two or
more natural or legal persons between whom there is no relationship of control as defined in (i) above but who are to
be regarded as constituting a single risk because they are so interconnected that, if one of them were to experience
financial problems, the other or all of the others would be likely to encounter repayment difficulties.



- 53 -
Annex 7
Export Finance Intermediation Loan
Exports Growth, Export Loans, and General FX Loans Availability Analysis
I.     GDP  Growth.   GDP  (in  i
GDP - Local currency 
constant   prices)    has    shown                               L
continuous  growth  since   1994.           14000_                                           10.0%
However the rate of growth, around          840 000                                          10.0%
8 percent from  1995 to 1997, fell to       120,000
6.0%
a little over 3 percent in 1998. With  .    100,000   :                    _                 4.0%
its  traditional  export markets  in   .2  80,000                /&                          2.X0%
turmoil and increased pressure from      =  60,000           .                               0.0%
Far Eastern competitors, there are                              5.2,0%
real concerns that Turkey's economy          40,000    'iH        .5.-,                 e    4.0%
will further suffer in 1999.                 20,000                    ;  ' M'-6.0%
-8.0%
1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998
* _ ..GDP (constant pnces)t GDP growth
2.      Exports as percent of GDP.                           GDP development
GDP  has  grown  from   US$170  1
billion to US$199 billion in the years     250.0                                              16.0%
1995 to 1997 (the collapse in 1994                                                           14.0%
was due to the US$ almost tripling in      2000                 ;                             12.0%
value   against  the   Lira),  and  {   150.0                                        ' %      10.0%
subsequently leveled off.                t100.0 .  i
Exports, as a percentage of total           5o4
GDP had been increasing from  1995                                                            20%
to  1997 but fell back  slightly  in    1                    : _                              2.0%
1998.                                              1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998
|,GDP (USD) +Exports as percentage of GPj



- 54 -
3.      Export  Growth.         Total                  -
exports increased from  a little over                   Turkeys export performance
US$15 billion in 1993 to US$26.8            30                                                 2560%
billion in 1998. However, Turkey is                                        ;7;
exhibiting a worrying slowdown in           25   1                                            200 19
the rate of growth of exports, from I        20                           o
an average of over 17 percent for the         b       ttila
years  1993  to  1997  to  only  23ector. 3
percent in 1998.                         >n  100%
There is a distinct possibility that
export growth could turn negatie             0                         cm                      00/n
for 1999 which would have a knock-               1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998
on effect on the whole economy. it                          - --Export       rwhrt
is  for  this  reason   that  the
Government of Turkey has given such strong backing to this loan
4.      Trend of loan commitments                    New commitmnents to the private sector
directly to the corporate sector.  A
further indication of the availabilit    4______
of funds to the private sector is the   3500 *,53 o                       q
number of new commitments opened    3,000
by the banking and the non-bank    2,500
financial sector. The chart indicateS   2,000
that there has been, during 1998, a   1,500
very   sharp  reduction   in   new
commitments.                              500 
0 
1998-QRT1    1998-QRT2    1998-QRT3    1998-QRTA
5.      Trend of foreign export loan         -Epr iac
availability through the banking
sector. The slowdown in growth of   5%>
funding to the real sector would in  i 0/
itself be a cause for some concern. I 35%" 
However,  more  troubling  for  a 3o
country which looks to foreign sales,  20%
to drive the economy forward would  I20  ,
be a deterioration in the level of ~
funding available to export sector.   5
The chart shows that, within the   0%                     ______ 
1997   1997   1997   1997   1998   1999   1990   1999
asset side of the banking sector's            q Ir   5fr2   q1r3   Sftr4   qt,r   qt, 2    qt1 3    qtr 4
balance sheet, the relative volume of                Eo&1Issfoo os. o. a~totIOsl  E.p.rt IosnA/to5 -00t~
funds available for loan financing is-
declining significantly. Moreover, within that reduced envelope, the funds available to finance export
activities are being further squeezed. It is inconceivable that the export sector can continue to grow whilst
being choked of financing.



- 55 -
6.     Export finance costs.  In                Cost of 6 month USD export credit
addition to the problems caused by  l
the general lack of availability of                      .1i1%  M            7...777
funds to the export sector, the cost of !40   .-Z -'-
borrowing  those  funds that are   2._ _ _ -
available is seriously denting the  OOi
profitability,   and   hence   the   *                 X _
sustainability, of the export sector.
It can be seen from the table that,
since July of 1998 the cost of US$  i
denominated funds has risen by over i                           'i,
9 percent.  Exporters looking to   O nDr    May-to JL                    o
borrow  in Turkish Lira have seen                         I Gost of funds
even more dramatic increases in the
cost of borrowing. Whilst it is acknowledged that the funds available under the proposed loan are not
sufficient to breach the funding deficit facing the export sector, it will send an important signal to the
market and mobilize further private sector flows. An increase in the supply of foreign currency should
ultimately lead to an easing of the borrowing spread.
7.     Capital account flows during                EOt..,OfOrOgO o-yc-h flowsot Wog seto
1998. It was noted above that, in
September a large volume of funds       I                            4'           ~<.~A
were brought onshore only to return  l 777|
offshore in October and November.
Capital account data compiled by the   i
Central Bank of Turkey (CBT)
confirms this assertion.
While for the whole of 1998 there
was a net inflow  to the banking                    5l,lmb= s   toc Iwol
sector from overseas of almost US$
900 million, this represents a reduction of US$1.5 billion compared to 1997. From informal discussions
with the CBT, we understand that preliminary data for the first two months of 1999 show a net outflow of
capital.



- 56 -
Annex 8
Export Finance Intermediation Loan
Procurement, Disbursement and Financial Management Arrangements
Procurement Arrangements
I .    The procurement of goods, works and services would be carried out in accordance with the World
Bank's procurement guidelines applicable to the two components of this loan.  The procurement
arrangements under (i) Part A of the project, sub-loans to private borrowers through private intermediary
banks, in the form of goods and works; and (ii) Part B of the project, institutional development technical
assistance to Turk Eximbank, the Borrower and Implementing Agency, in the form of consulting
contracts, Information Technology (IT) equipment, and overseas training of its staff; are described below.
The project components, their estimated cost and procurement methods are summarized in Table 8.1 of
this Annex. The World Bank's review process is presented in Table 8.2, and the procurement plan for the
institutional development technical assistance to Turk Eximbank is presented in Table 8.3.
2.    In case of procurement under sub-loans, the Participating Financial Intermediaries (PFIs) will be
responsible for ensuring that the procuremnent rules for sub-loans specified below are complied with by
the sub-borrowers. Turk Eximbank will be responsible for reviewing and monitoring the compliance with
the procurement rules by the intermediary banks and their sub-borrowers. The Credit Operations
Specialist within the Turk Eximbank PIIJ will be responsible for all procurement oversight for the
management of the project (see Annex 4). The assigned procurement staff will be trained through World
Bank seminars to be conducted in Turkey in order to be familiar with the World Bank's procurement
rules and practice. Such staff have already been identified at Turk Eximbank and have been nominated to
attend the World Bank's procurement seminar being held in Ankara during the week of April 19, 1999.
The PIU will keep the records and copies, of the documents of the procurements handled through the
intermediary banks, and the World Bank's ex ante and ex post review supervision shall be implemented
through the PIU. In case of procurement of consulting services, IT equipment and training overseas for
Turk Eximbank staff under the institutional development technical assistance, the procurement will be
directly carried out by the Turk Eximbank PIU staff assigned this task responsibility and duly trained as
mentioned above.
Procurement Rules for Sub-loans under Part A of the Project
3.    Private Sector Procurement Practice in Turkey.  In order to establish the appropriate
procurement rules for sub-loans under this project, an informal review of the private sector procurement
practices was undertaken by the World Bank's resident procurement specialist in Ankara. It was
determined that there are well-established commercial practices for the procurement of goods and works
by private sector enterprises, autonomous commercial enterprises and individuals. In case of goods, the
local practice is to prepare the technical specifications and solicit quotations from the local and/or
international market. In case of medium and large works, the technical specifications are usually
prepared by consultant companies and bids are collected from qualified contractors. Minor works are
generally tendered on a lump sum basis by, collecting bids from a number of local contractors. When
equipment and machinery is needed for expansion of existing facilities, the purchasers usually prefer
proprietary goods from a single source for the sake of standardization and minimization of the operation
and maintenance cost. Therefore, the local private sector or commercial practices can be considered to be
consistent with the World Bank's criteria with respect to economy and efficiency. The general rule in the
sector is to procure the least cost goods and services consistent with minimum quality requirements.



- 57 -
4.    Procurement of Goods and Works: Based on the assessment above, procurement of goods and
related services (installation and maintenance) financed under the proposed project will be according to
the World Bank procurement guidelines for financial intermediation projects. For contracts below
US$5.0 million equivalent, established local private sector commercial practices will be followed. Project
sponsors would seek bids from a list of potential suppliers broad enough to ensure competitive prices.
Care has to be taken of other relevant factors such as time of delivery, efficiency and reliability of the
goods and availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and in case of non-consultant
services, of the quality and competence of the parties rendering them. Advertising in the local and
international press will not be required. For contracts above US$3.0 million equivalent but less than
US$5.0 million equivalent, more than one quotation must be obtained.  However, International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) would be required for individual contracts of US$5.0 million equivalent and
above for goods and related services. All procurement of goods and related services under contracts
equal to or above US$5.0 million equivalent will be subject to prior review. Civil works up to a threshold
of US$300,000 equivalent would be procured under the World Bank's standard procurement procedures
for minor works. For civil works estimated to cost US$300,000 equivalent or more but less than US$3.0
million equivalent per contract, National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures satisfactory to the
World Bank would be used, and such contracts shall be subject to prior review by the World Bank.
Procurement Rules for Institutional Development Technical Assistance to Turk Eximbank under Part B of
the Project
5.    Procurement of Consulting Services: All consulting services will be procured using the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" issued in January 1997, and revised in September 1997 and January 1999. Terms of Reference,
letters of invitation, short lists and final award of contract for all consulting services valued at more than
US$50,000 equivalent for firms and more than US$20,000 for individuals, and any single source
consulting contracts will be subject to the World Bank's prior review and approval. Quality and Cost
Based Selection (QCBS) methods will be used for all consulting services.
6     Procurement of IT Equipment and Related Services: All IT equipment and related services
(telecommunication, cabling, etc.) procured under the Institutional Development technical assistance
component of the project shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the World Bank in January 1995 and
revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the Guidelines). Goods and services estimated
to cost less than the equivalent of US$100,000 per contract may be procured under national shopping
procedures, while contracts above US$100,000 equivalent but less than US$400,000 equivalent may be
awarded on the basis of International Shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. Goods and services which must be purchased from the original
supplier to be compatible with existing equipment or are of a proprietary nature, may, with the World
Bank's prior agreement, be procured under Direct Contracting procedures in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. All contracts of US$400,000 equivalent or more will be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix I thereto--International Competitive Bidding (ICB).
7.    Procurement of Overseas Training:  Turk Eximbank will arrange participation for its
professional staff (currently numbering around 60) in overseas courses as well as on-the job training
abroad, with course fees, accommodation and travel expenses to be financed by the World Bank loan.
The procurement will take place in accordance with established commercial practices.
8     Procurement Planning: The proposed procurement plan for Part B of the Project--institutional
development technical assistance to Turk Eximbank--is presented in Table 8.3 to this Annex.
Procurement of all goods and services for Part B of the project shall be undertaken in accordance with this



- 58 -
plan. As the procurement by Turk Eximbank of IT goods and related services, and of overseas training
for its staff should be aligned with Turk Eximbank's overall medium term strategic plan to be prepared
with the assistance of consultants to be hired by Turk Eximbank for this purpose, the actual procurement
activities in these categories may be subject to minor changes during project implementation.



Table 8.1 Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$)
Expenditure Category                                                                 Procurement Method                                 Total Cost
(Bank
Financed)
DC        NS         ISP         ICB   Minor Works        NCB    Commercial         QCBS       N.B.F
Practice
1. Sub-loans
Goods and Services                                        20,000,000                             220,000,000                              240,000,000
Works                                                                    3,000,000    3,000,000                                             6,000,000
Sub-loans Total                                           20,000,000     3,000,000    3.000,000    220,000,000                            246,000,000
(246,000,000)
2. Institutional
Development
Consulting Services                                                                                             1,900,000    500,000        2,400,000
IT Goods                   300.000    100,000    300,000     500,000                                                                         1,200,000    (
IT Related Services                    50,000    250,000                                                                                      300,000
Overseas Training                                                                                    604,700                                  604,700
Institutional Development  300,000    150,000    550,000     500,000                                 604,700    1,900,000    500,000        4,504,700
Total
(4,004,700)
Total                   300,000    150,000    550,000   20,500,000     3,000,000    3,000,000    220,604,700    1,900,000    500,000    250,504,700
(250,004,700)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the World Bank loan.
While it is expected that both PFIs and sub-borrowers will contribute to the financing of individual sub-projects, the precise amount of such financing to be provided cannot be
determined ex ante, as there are no predetermined PFI/sub-borrower cofinancing requirements. Instead, PFI maximum exposure to individual sub-borrower limits, debt equity and
debt service coverage ratio requirements for sub-borrowers, and maximum sub-loan size will drive the amount of financing to be provided by these parties.



Table 8.2: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
(in US$ million)
Expenditure Category
Thresholds                  ICB        ISP         NS         DC  NCB         Minor        Commercial         QCBS        N.B.F
Works       Practice
1. Sub-loans
Goods and Services         >5.0                                                                       <5 o12
Works                                                                   <3.0         <0.3
Prior Review                All                                                       All  First two packages
for each PFI
2. Institutional
Development
Consulting Services                                                                                                  All       N/A
IT Goods                    0.4      <0.4         <0.1        N/A
Overseas Training                                                                                        All
Prior Review                All                               All                     All  First two packages        All
12 For contracts costing the equivalent of US$3.0 million or more, such commercial practices should include obtaining quotations from more than one supplier.



- 61 -
Table 8.3: Procurement Plan
Procurement Plan: Institutional Development - Technical Assistance to Turk Eximbank
1   2        3          4            5      6. Estimated Dates
Description     Type  Number of Estimated   Procurement        Pre-       (BDIRFP)          Bid        Contract   Contract
items/sub-    Cost      method    qualification/SL  1. Preparation   1. Invitation  Signing  Completion
packages    (US$)                   1. Invitation              GPN/SPN/Local
GPN/SPN/Local                  2. Opening
2. Opening                3. Evaluation &
3. Evaluation &             Recommendation
Recommendation                   Award
INSTITUTIONAL        CS        I       *1,900,000   QCBS                         1999           1999         1999    1999-2001
DEVELOPMENT
Sub Total                               1,900,000
IT GOODS &
SERVICES           _
IT Equipment         G         2         500,000    ICB                        1999-2000       2000          2000    2000-2001
Software             G         7         700,000   ISP/DC                      1999-2001     1999-2001    1999-2001  2000-2002
Related services     S         2         300,000    ISP                        1999-2000     1999-2000    1999-2000    2001
Sub Total                              1,500,00t =)
OVERSEAS TRAINING                                                                                             Implementation
Course fees          S        60         300,000     CP      Training Master Plan for 1999-2002           1999-2002  1999-2002
Travel/               S       60         304,700     CP      Training Master Plan for 1999-               1999-2002  1999-2002
Accommodation             l                                  2002
Sub Total                                604,700
TOTAL             l                    4,004,7001           l
* Turk Eximbank will provide staff and facilities to support the institutional development program. It is estimated
that such support has a value of US$0.5 million.
Disbursement Arrangements
9.       The Disbursement Categories and Percentage of Expenditures to be financed, and projected
disbursements are shown in Table 8.4 below. The total loan is expected to be disbursed over three years
from the date of effectiveness, expected to be September 1, 1999. Commitments under the credit line,
beyond the first US$100 million, will be subject to the World Bank having confirmed to Turk Eximbank
its satisfaction with progress achieved by the Government in carrying out its financial sector reform
program.



- 62 -
Table 8.4:: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
(US$)
Expenditure Category       Amount of               Financing Percentage
Loan
Allocated
1. Part A of the Project (Credit
Line)
(a) Sub-Loans--Goods and works     246,000,000 100 percent of foreign expenditures, 100 percent of
local expenditures (ex-factory costs); and 85
percent of local costs for other items procured
locally
2. Part B of the Project
(Institutional Development Program
for Turk Eximbank))
Consultants Services                 1,900,000 100 percent
Information Technology Equipment     1,500,000 100 percent of foreign expenditures, 100 percent of
(Hardware and Software and                    local expenditures (ex-factory costs); and 85
installation)                                 percent of local costs for other items procured
locally
Training                              604,700 100 percent
Total Part B                         4,004,700
Front End Fee                        2,525,300 100 percent
ITOTAL                             252,530,000|
Use of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs)
10.   Under Part A of the project--the credit line--disbursements would be made against Statements of
Expenditures for: (a) goods contracts costing less than US$1,000,000 equivalent each; and (b) works
contracts costing less then US$300,000 each. Detailed documents evidencing these expenditures would
be reviewed and retained by the PFIs and at Turk Eximbank and made available for the required audit as
well as to World Bank supervision missions. Disbursements for the financing of goods and works
contracts exceeding the above limits would be made on the basis of full documentation. Disbursement
and procurement documents using SOE procedures would be retained by the PIU for a period of at least
two years after disbursement and made available to World Bank staff and external auditors.
11.   Under Part B of the project--Institutional Development Program  for Turk Eximbank--
disbursements would be made against Statements of Expenditures for: (a) goods contracts costing less
than US$200,000 equivalent each; (b) consulting services contracts for (i) individuals costing less than
US$20,000 equivalent each; (ii) firms costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each; and (c) for all
training expenditures of Turk Eximbank staff. Detailed documents evidencing these expenditures would
be retained at Turk Eximbank and made available for the required audit as well as to World Bank
supervision missions. Disbursements for the financing of goods and consulting services exceeding the
above limits would be made against normal full documentation. Disbursement and procurement
documents using SOE procedures would be retained by the PIU for a period of at least two years after
disbursement and made available to World Bank staff and external auditors.



- 63 -
Special Accounts
12.   To facilitate timely project implementation, Turk Eximbank would establish, maintain and
operate, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the World Bank, a Special Account in US$ at a bank
acceptable to the World Bank. Turk Eximbank has indicated it will open the Special Account with
Citibank in New York. The Special Account would have an Authorized Allocation of up to US$10
million representing the expected advance payments on contracts during the peak quarter of expenditures
if made exclusively through the Special Account. At the start of the project, the Special Account deposits
would be limited to half of the Authorized Allocation (US$5.0 million), and the remaining portion of the
Authorized Allocation would be disbursed upon Turk Eximbank's request when the aggregate amount of
withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding Special Commitments
entered into by the World Bank shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of US$30 million.
Replenishment applications would be submitted at least every three months, and would include reconciled
bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents. The minimum application size for
payments directly from the Loan Account for issuance of Special Commitments is 20 percent of the
Special Account authorized allocation.
Project Financial Management and Audit
13.   During appraisal, the procurement, disbursement and financial management arrangements fior the
EFIL, including the World Bank's financial management requirements, monitoring and reporting criteria,
including financial reporting formats in conformity with LACI were explained to the Turk Eximbank PIU
staff. The appraisal mission assessed the capabilities with respect to Turk Eximbank's financial
management and reporting systems, including accounting, financial reporting, auditing, internal and other
control procedures for the PIU managing and the World Bank's monitoring of project implementation.
14.   Turk Eximbank's financial statements are prepared in accordance with local financial and
accounting rules and regulations and guidelines of the bank regulatory agency, the Undersecretariat of the
Treasury. Annual operational and investment budgets are prepared by Turk Eximbank management and
approved by Turk Eximbank's Supervisory Council. Turk Eximbank's existing internal audit department
reports directly to the General Manager of Turk Eximbank, is currently staffed with qualified audit
professionals, and is capable to perform all basic audit tasks. In line with the proposed strategic plan
development proposed under the institutional development component of EFIL, and the implications of
that plan the existing internal audit function will be further upgraded and, where applicable, appropriate
new manuals or manual sections completed (see Annex 5). Annual audits of the financial statements of
Turk Eximbank are undertaken on an IAS basis using International Auditing Standards by a reputed
international standard auditing firm. Turk Eximbank's current auditors are Deloitte & Touche's local
office.
15.   Although the technical capabilities exist within Turk Eximbank to maintain and prepare financial
and accounting reports as required by the World Bank, the current accounting and reporting systems are
geared towards producing statements and information as required by Turkish laws and regulations. In this
context, separate project accounting and reporting modules have been designed and implemented to
ensure adherence to accounting and auditing standards and reporting formats acceptable to the World
Bank.  During appraisal, the mission discussed and agreed with Turk Eximbank that financial
management systems including project accounts in conformity with the World Bank's standards for
project accounts and financial records for all project-related expenditures will be established. The
mission also discussed the various applicable Project Management Report Formats with Turk Eximbank
PIU staff. The Project Management Reports to be used include: (i) Summary of Sources and Uses of
Funds; (ii) Uses of Funds by sub-loan maturity, sub-borrower and sub-project activity; (iii) Project
Balance Sheet; (iv) Special Account statement; and (v) Cash Forecast. Turk Eximbank has agreed to



- 64 -
establish a Financial Management System (FMS) during project implementation, and will submit to the
World Bank their initial output reports for the World Bank's review Once the FMS is established in
accordance with the World Bank's standards for project accounts and financial records at Turk Eximbank
and certified as acceptable to the World Bank, the project team will recommend that the LACI
disbursement procedures be adopted under this project.
16.   Audit: In order to ensure that the Special Account, project accounts and institutional accounts
would be audited in accordance with the World Bank Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of
Projects Financed by the World Bank, the appraisal mission discussed and agreed with Turk Eximbank
that the auditors of Turk Eximbank's annual financial statements will also carry out the EFIL project
audits. There are several international audit firms represented in Turkey, who are independent and
competent to carry out the audits of project agencies in accordance with World Bank guidelines, and one
of them would be selected to carry out the audits in accordance with Turkish law. Turk Eximbank would
provide the World Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year with a project audit report of
such scope and detail as the World Bank may reasonably request, including a separate opinion by the
independent auditor on disbursement against certified SOEs and Special Account and a full audit report
on project accounts. The separate opinion should mention whether the SOEs submitted during the fiscal
year, together with the procedures and internal control involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
support the related withdrawal applications. As Turk Eximbank has been engaging the services of
international auditors for several years and undertakes annual contract negotiations, engagement of the
auditor will not be a specific effectiveness condition.
Timetable for establishment of FMS
Action                                                               Date
Accounting and reporting component of
operations manual drafted                                            July 25, 1999
Chart of accounts/reporting structure defined                        August 9, 1999
Draft terms of reference for engagement of
auditor presented to World Bank                                      October 23, 1999



- 65 -
Annex 9
Export Finance Intermediation Loan
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                             Planned                  Actual
(At final PCD stage)
B. Project Schedule                                    Planned                  Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First World Bank mission                                                      12/19/1998
(identification/preparation)
Pre-appraisal                                         02/08/1999              02/08/1999
Appraisal mission departure                           04/12/1999              04/12/1999
Technical Discussions                                 05/10/1999              05/10/1999
Negotiations                                                                  _/ _/19
Board Date                                            07/06/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                         09/01/1999              _/_/19_
Prepared by: Turk Eximbank/World Bank
Preparation assistance: The UnderSecretariat of the Treasury of Turkey, Central Bank of Turkey,
Bankers Association
World Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name  Specialt
Lalit Raina  Team Leader, Senior Financial Sector Specialist
Marie-Renee Bakker  Senior Financial Sector Specialist
Michael Gascoyne  Financial Sector Specialist (FMS)
Gurhan Ozdora  Projects Officer
Barbara Santos  Senior Counsel
Dilek Barlas  Counsel
Rohit R. Mehta  Senior Disbursement Officer
Ibrahim Sirer  Procurement Accredited Staff
Adriana Jordanova Damianova  Environment Specialist
Furuzan Bilir  Operations Officer (environment)



- 66 -
Annex 10
Export Finance Intermediation Loan
Documents in the Project File*
A.    Documents in the Project files include the following:
*  Law on transformation of the State Investment Bank into Turk Eximbank.
  Articles of Association of Turk Eximbank.
*  1998 and 1997 annual reports and audited (Deloitte & Touche) financial statements of Turk
Eximbank.
  Turk Eximbank publication: Profile of products and services.
*  Audited financial statements of potential participating commercial banks:
* Sinai Yatirim Bankasi A.S.: 1997, 1996, 1995 (Price Waterhouse).
* Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi A.S.: 1998, 1997, 1996 (KPMG).
* Yapi ve Kredi Bankasi A.S.: 1997, 1996 (Ernst & Young).
e  Other financial statements:
* Sinai Yatirim Bankasi A.S: 1998 (unaudited).
* Istanbul Stock Exchange Settlement and Custody Bank Inc. (Takas Bank); 1997, 1996 (Grant
Thornton).
* Garanti Bankasi A.S.: 1998, 1997 (unaudited)
a Law on the Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey 1996.
B Banks Act 1997.
Paper published by the University of Ankara: Corporate Sector Behaviour under Uncertainty-The
Case of Turkey in the 1990's.
* Thompson Bank Watch:
* Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi A.S (8/1998).
* Yapi ve Kredi Bankasi A.S (10/98)
* Duff & Phelps: Yapi ve Kredi Bankasi A.S (1/98)
I IBCA: Yapi ve Kredi Bankasi A.S (10/97)
T Turkish Treasury Department: Foreign trade statistics (11/98)
* Turkish Exporters' Association: Foreign trade statistics (1/99)
*Including electronic files.



Annex 11
Export Finance Intermediation Loan
Status of Active Operations in Turkey
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Loan/  Financier  Project Project Name                          Sector Currency Principal   Undisbirsed   Disbursed   Approval      Signed Date  Effective Date Closing Date
Credit                ID                                                                                               Date
21143     EECT   38220 ISTANBUL ENVIRON.                         VX    EUR               0.27            0         0.27                  15-Jul-93     15-Jul-93   31-Dec-96
21146     EECT   38152 PATARA MANAGEMENT                         VX    EUR               0.27            0         0.27                  14-Jul-93     14-Jul-93   30-Sep-97
590     EXIM           FINANCIAL SECTOR                               JPY         40,000.00            0   38,272.14                   5-Sep-88      5-Sep-88   31 -Dec-92
1540     EXIM           ENERGY SECTOR                                  JPY         54,375.00            0   37,725.75                  22-Sep-81    22-Sep-87   31 -Jan-94
ADJUSTMENT
3057A      IBRD    9030 HEALTH f                                 HX    USD               26.7i         3.22       23.55    11-May-89    16-Aug-90    17-Oct-90   31 -Dec-98
3057S      IBRD    9030 BEALTH I                                 HX    USD              29.48           0.1       29.39    11 -May-89    16-Aug-90    17-Oct-90   31 -Dec-98
3151A      IBRD    9061 ANKARA SEWERAGE                          WX    USD               25.13         3.18       21.96    21 -Dec-89    16-Aug-90    23-Jan-91   28-Feb-99
3192A      IBRD    9029 NATIONAL EDUCATION D                     EX    USD               57.28        27.85       29.43    26-Apr-90    18-May-90      31-Jul-90   30-Jun-99
3192S      IBRD    9029 NATIONAL EDUCATION D                     EX    USD              17.88          0.22       17.66    26-Apr-90    18-May-90      31-Jul-90   30-Jun-99
3296A      IBRD    9058 TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPME                     BX    USD                42.3         3.78       38.52    28-Feb-91      5-Apr-91     6-Sep-91   31 -Dec-98
3296S      IBRD    9058 TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPME                     BX    USD              49.37          0.01       49.36    28-Feb-91      5-Apr-91     6-Sep-91   31 -Dec-98
33451      IBRD    9071 TEK RESTRUCT.                            PX     USD                40         24.19        3.81     13-Jun-91    13-Sep-91    27-Apr-92   31 -Dec-9
3345A      IBRD    9071 TEK RESTRUCT.                            PX      USD             69.88        25.68        44.2    13-Jun-91    13-Sep-91    27-Apr-92   31 -Dec-99
3472A      IBRD    9044 AGRIC. RESEARCH                          AX    USD                34.7        14.94       19.76    21-May-92     12-Jun-92    16-Sep-92   31 -Dec-99
3472S      IBRD    9044 AGRIC. RESEARCH                          AX    USD                14.3         0.16       14.14   21-May-92      12-Jun-92    16-Sep-92   31-Dec-99
3477A      IBRD    9097 TA FOR TREASURY DATA                     BX    USD                2.12         1.13        0.98    28-May-92      12-Jun-92    10-Sep-92   30-Jun-99
3511A      IBRD    9099 EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRU                     UX    USD                58.9        27.05       12.35     23-Jul-92     27-Jul-92    18-Sep-92   30-Jun-0(
3541A      IBRD    9064 EMPLOYMENT & TRAININ                     SX      USD             48.82         37.2        11.62    10-Dee-92     I -Feb-93   26-May-93   31 -Dec-00
3541S      IBRD    9064 EMPLOYMENT & TRAININ                     SX     USD              18.18         0.03       18.16    10-Dec-92      I -Feb-93   26-May-93   31 -Dec-00
3565A      IBRD    9065 BURSA WATER & SANITA                     WX    USD               85.61        25.51       40.11    11-Mar-93    25-Mar-93    26-Aug-93   30-Jun-01
3565S      IBRD    9065 BURSA WATER & SANITA                     WX    USD              31.39          0.07       31.31    11 -Mar-93    25-Mar-93    26-Aug-93   30-Jun-01
3566A      IBRD    9065 BtJRSA WATER & SANITA                    WX    USD                7.84          4.9        2.95    11-Mar-93    25-Mar-93    26-Aug-93   30-Jun-01
3567A      IBRD    9023 E. ANATOLIA WATERSHE                     AX    DEM              106.43        83.23        23.2    11-Mar-93    25-Mar-93      26-Jul-93   30-Sep-00
3728A      IBRD    9102 PRIVATIZATION IMPLEM                     BX    USD               82.81        11.86        10.12    3-May-94      5-May-94    28-Feb-95   30-Jun-99
3728S      IBRD    9102 PRIVATIZATION IMPLEM                     BX    USD               17.19         0.39        16.8    3-May-94      5-May-94    28-Feb-95   30-Jun-99
3802A      IBRD    9076 HEALI'H II                               HiX    DEM             231.97       188.43       43.54    22-Sep-94    28-Sep-94      31-Jan-95   31-Dec-0]
38936      IBRD    9093 ANTALYA WATER SUPPLY                     WX    USD                100         78.05       21.95    25-May-95       5-Jul-95    22-Dec-95   30-Jun-03
39420      IBRD   35759 PUBLIC FINAN. MGT.                       BX    USD                 62          58.7         3.3    21-Sep-95    11-Oct-95      1-May-96  31 -Dec-01
4048A      IBRD   38091 ROAD IMPR. & SAFETY                      TX      DEM            255.531      255.53           0    20-Jun-96    24-Jun-96    10-Oct-96   31-Mar-03



40490      IBRD   38091 ROAD IMPR. & SAFETY                        TX      JSD               100         20.7/       79.23     20-Jun-96    24-Jun-96      10-Oct-96   31-Mar-03
40890      IBRD   45073 OIL PIPELINE ENG.                          GX    USD                   5          2.41        2.59     12-Sep-96    29-Sep-96    20-Mar-97   31-Mar-99
42010      IBRD      9095 PRIM IIEALTH CARE SER                    HiX    USD               14.5             0           0    24-Jun-91    22-Sep-97    18-Dec-97   30-Nov-00
42350      IBRD      9072 PRIV. OF IRRIGATION                      AX     USD                 20         18.49         1.51    14-Oct-97    28-Oct-97    24-Apr-98   31-Dec-02
43150      IBRD      8985 CESME W.S. & SEWER.                      WX    USD                13.1            13          0.1    14-Apr-98     8-May-98       7-Sep-98   31-Dec-03
43440      IBRD   48852 NAT'L. TRNSM. GRID                         PX     USD                270        269.75        0.25      11-Jun-98    25-Jun-98    17-Sep-98   31-Dec-03
43550      IBRD    9089 BASIC ED I                                 EX      USD               300           296           4     23-Jun-98    25-Jun-98    12-Aug-98   30-Jun-01
43760      IBRD   48851 COMMODITIES.MKT.DEV.                       AX     USD                  4           3.9          0.1     16-Jul-98     31-Jul-98    26-Feb-99   30-Sep-01
43880      IBRD   58877 EMGY FLOOD RECOVERY                        WX    USD                 369        322.78       46.22     10-Sep-98    11-Sep-98      13-Oct-98   30-Jun-02
P0630      IBRD           *DUMMY FOR * TURKEY                              USD                 1             0            1    27-Apr-83    27-Apr-83    27-Apr-83   31-Dec-85
P3500      IBRD    9073 INDUSTRIAL TECH                            IX      USD               2.5             2          0.5     30-Jul-98    28-Aug-98      8-Sep-98   31 -Oct-99
930      IFAD          ERZURUM RURAL DEVELOPMENT                        XDR               17.2             0       13.08                   3-Aug-82      t-Nov-82   30-Jun-89
1410      IFAD     8951 AGR.EXTN.& APPLD.RESRCH.                 AX      XDR                9.7            0         6.32                  16-May-84    14-Aug-84   30-Jun-94
20465       JPN      9065 BURSA WATER & SANITA                     WX    JPY               202.5             0      202.19                    3-Sep-91      3-Sep-91   31-Dec-92
20475       JPN      9019 BERKE HYDRO PLANT                        PX     JPY              117.4             0       39.79                   11 -Dec-91    I 1-Dec-91   30-Jun-95
20485       JPN      9077 COAL POLLUTION ABATE                     PX      JPY               108          13.8         94.2                 28-May-92   28-May-92   31 -Dec-99
21388       JPN      9093 ANTALYA WATER SUPPLY                     WX    JPY               310.5             0      310.28                   16-Mar-92    16-Mar-92   31 -Dec-96
21986       JPN      9098 ISTANBUL WAT.SUPPLY                      WX    JPY                 250             0         250                   25-Mar-93    25-Mar-93   30-Jun-94
22597       JPN      9102 PRIVATIZATION IMPLEM                     BX     JPY                106             0       98.84                   3-May-94      3-May-94   31 -Dec-95
22598       JPN      9073 INDUSTRIAL TECH                          IX      JPY              32.4          3.32       29.08                    11 -Jul-95    11 -Jul-95   31 -Dec-98
22599       JPN   35769 ZONGULDAK REGIONAL D                       UX      JPY               106             0         106                    3-Apr-94      3-Apr-94   30-Sep-97
23064       JPN      9101 MICROENTERPRISES                         IX     JPY               40.9             0       21.91                   16-Nov-93    16-Nov-93   31 -Dec-96
23065        JPN     9095 PRIM HEALTH CARE SER                     HX    JPY               122.3             0       98.91                   16-Aug-93    16-Aug-93   31-Dec-95
25558       JPN    48851 COMMODITIES.MKT.DEV.                      AX      USD               0.4          0.17         0.23     2-Feb-98      2-Feb-98      2-Feb-98   30-Apr-99
25800       JPN           AGRICULTURAL RESOURCE SURVEY                    JPY                 45             0          45                    17-Jul-91     17-Jul-91   31 -Dec-92
266101      JPN      8985 CESME W.S. & SEWER.                      WX    JPY               607.5         44.59       562.91                   7-Nov-89      7-Nov-89   31 -Dec-98
27110       JPN      9056 AGROINDUSTRY                             AX    JPY               582.5             0      571.92                    26-Jul-90     26-Jul-90   31-Oct-97
27133       JPN      8961 DR.& ON-FARM DEV.                        AX    USD                  0.3         0.17         0.13     3-Oct-97      3-Oct-97      3-Oct-97   30-Jun-99
27134       JPN   43388 S.E.REGION URBAN SAN                       UX    USD                0.39          0.08         0.31    26-Sep-97    26-Sep-97    26-Sep-97   30-Jun-99
27320        JPN    37959 PUB. SECTOR ADJ. LN.                     BX      JPY              60.5             0        49.06                   26-Jul-90     26-Jul-90   30-Jun-9
27690       JPN      9058 TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPME                     BX      JPY              87.7             0         87.7                   26-Jul-90     26-Jul-90   30-Jun-97
27700       JPN      9071 TEK RESTRUCT.                            PX      JPY               290             0        52.55                  28-Aug-92    28-Aug-92   30-Jun-96
29113       JPN      9070 LOW INCOME HOUSING                       UX    JPY                79.5          7.24        72.26                   3-Apr-95      6-Apr-95   30-Jun-99
29114       JPN      9074 TRANSPORT                                TX      JPY               106             0         106                   22-Mar-95    22-Mar-95   31 -Dec-96
29482       JPN    53253 CAPA.BUILD.POV. MON.                      SX      USD                0.5         0.39         0.11      9-Jul-96      9-Jul-96      9-Jul-96   3 1 -Dec-98
29483       JPN   43365 BURSA URBAN TRANSP.                        TX      USD              0.86                       0.86    30-May-96   30-May-96   30-May-96   30-Jun-98
29666       JPN    45362 ANKARA URBAN TRANSPO                      TX      USD               0.69            0         0.69     1 0-Jan-97    1 0-Jan-97    10-Jan-97  31 -Aug-98
29667       JPN   48852 NAT'L. TRNSM. GRID                         PX      USD               0.76         0.11          6      13-May-97    13-May-97    13-May-97    31 -Jul-99



29051    MULT   44175 BIODIVERSITY                               VX    USD               0.35         0.07        0.28    24-Oct-9      24-Oct-97    24-Oct-97   31-Dec-98
2980     SWTZ    8951 AGR.EXTN.& APPLD.RESRCH.                 AX    USD                   6            0        4.58                   4-Dec-92     18-Jan-93   30-Jun-95
3000     SWTZ    9051 STATE AND PROVINCIAL                     TX    USD                  15         0.01       14.99                  26-Jun-92    26-Jun-92   30-Jun-97
21934    WBTF    8871 PHASING OUT OZONE DE                       VX    USD               6.17         0.07         6.1                  24-Jan-94     4-Apr-94  31-Dec-99
21942     WBTF   38404 ODS PHASEOUT II                           VX    USD                 14         8.63         5.37    6-Nov-95      6-Nov-95    11-Dec-95   30-Jun-99
28550    WBTF            IDF-TURKEY PARTICIPATORY ENV.                  USD              0.39         0.03        0.36                   20-Jul-95    20-Jul-95  12-May-98
28632    WBTF    8869 IN SITU GENE CONSERV                       VX    XDR               3.71         0.11         3.6    19-Feb-93    25-Mar-93    25-Mar-93   30-Sep-98






71
Annex 12
Export Finance Intermediation Loan
Country at a Glance
Europe &    Upper-                       __     _
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Cental   middle-
Turkey      Asia  Income        Development dlamondc
1997
Populabon, mid-year (millions)                       63.7       474       574                 Life expectancy
GNPpercapita(At/-smethod. USS)                      3,130      2,310    4,540
GNP (Atlas method, USS bions)                       199.5      1.096    2,808
Average annual growth. 1991-97
Populabon (X)                                         1.8        0.2       1.5
Laborforce (%)                                        2.9        0.5      2.1      GNP                             Gross
per         -t -               primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991.97)                             capita          \ /          enilment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)  ..         ..
Urban populabtion (% of total population)              72        67        74
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       89        89        70
Infant mortality (per 1,.000 live births)              40        23        30
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             10                        |          Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                 92         ..       78
Illiteracy (% of population age 154)                   17         4        12
Gross primary enrollment ( of school-age population)  105       100       111               Turkey
Male                                                107       101        ..              Upper-middle-income group
Female                                              102        99         ..
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986      1996      1997
Economic ratlos'
GDP (USS bi/lions)                          53.4     75.7      181.7    190.7
Gross domestic investnent/GDP               19.5     18.8       24.8     25.1
Exports of goods and services/GDP            4.7     13.3       21.5     24.8                     Trade
Gross domestic savingstGOP                  13.9     16.1       18.8      19.3
Gross national savings/GDP                  17.3     18.8       22.4      23.8
Current account balance/GDP                 -3.8      -1.9      -2.6      -2.4
Interest payments/GDP                        0.3      2.0        1.9       1.5     Domestc                    Investment
Total debt/GDP                              11.2     43.5       45.0      47.8     Savings
Total debt servicelexports                  16.8     34.8       23.3      19.1
Present value of debtVGOP                      ..      ..         ..     43.1
Present value of debtlexports                 ..       ..         ..    146.6
Indebtedness
197646  1987-97     1996       1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 3.2      4.0      6.8        7.7       4.3               Turkey
GNP per capita                      0.6      2.4      5.3        6.9       2.2        -- Upper-middle-income group
Exportsof goods and services         ..      9.4     21.7       19.1       5.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(% of GOP)                                  1976     1986      1996      1997   f Growth rates of output and investment (%)
Agriculture                                 32.9     20.3       17.4      15.1   I  T0
Industry                                    21.7     31.0       27.9      28.2    20
Manufacturing                              14.0     20.6      18.0      18.3
Services                                    45.3     48.8       54.7      56.7     o      92   93
Private consumption                         75.1     76.4       69.8      68.4    40e
General govemment consumption               11.0      7.6       11.6      12.3              -GD           -GOP
Imports of goods and services               10.2     16.1       27.5      30.4
1976-86  1987-97      1996      1997     Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                  0.7      1.2        4.8      -2.2    40
Industry                                     4.0      5.0        6.4       9.2    20
Manufacturing                               4.4      5.8       6.4 *111.2
Services                                     3.7      4.0        7.2       6.9                             9
Private consumption                           ..      4.5        9.3      10.9   -20 s                                7
General govemment consumption                 ..      3.2        5.4       4.1
Gross domestic investment                     ..      4.8        0.2       5.8    40 -
Imports of goods and services                 ..    10.9        19.0      22.4                Exports    -0--Imports
Gross nabonal product                        3.0      4.2        8.9     - 8.6
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estmates.
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (In bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



72
PRICES and GOVERNiMENT FiNANCE
1176l   1986       1996     1997      bhle%
Domestic pcfuse
(% change)                                                                        ISO
Consumer pces                                  ..       .       78.8     85.6      oo0
Impiicit GDP deflator                        14.6    35.4       78.3     81.2
Government finance                                                                 so..
(% of GDP, kciudes current grants)                                                  o
Current revenue                                ..       ..      22.0      23.4             92   93   94   96   96   97
Current budget balance                         ..       ..      -2.5      -0.8             -    GDP deflator    O  CPI
Overalf surplus/defick                         ..       ..      -9.0      4.7
TRADE
(US$ -Mons)                                 1976    1986       1996      1997      Export and Inmort levels (US$ nillloes)
Total exports (fob)                         1,960    7.583    23,546   26,782     80o000
Textiles                                    323    2,094     8,570    9,969      so.ooo
Processed agricultural products           1.072    1,626     3,687     4,365     40.000
Manufactures                                109      241       224      404
Total imports (cif)                         5,129   11,11i5    42,934   48,585    30.000
Food                                        115     452      2,531     2,425     20.00_
Fuel and energy                           1,192    2,338     6,089    6,267      10.01X)
Capital goods                             1,955    3,964    14.969   18,451         0
:-xport price index (1995=100)                43       75        95        90            tit  t2  9k3  t4  !*  re  97
Import price index (1995=100)                  ..      ..       100        91                0 Exports    cimports
Terms oftrade (1995=100)                       ..       ..        94       98E
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(LfS$ mNilions)                             1976    1986       1996      1997      Currentaccount balance to GOP ratIo (%)
Exports of goods and services               2,541   10,580    40,529   47,576      4
Imports of goods and services               5,473   12,176    48,782   56,511
Resource balance                           -2,932   -1,596    -4,253    -8,935     2
Net income                                   -216   -1,793      -960     -558
Net currenttransfers                        1,120    1,924     4,447    4,866      0
Ctirrent account balanoo    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~ ~ 91              93 94   9    6 9
CuJrrentaccount balance                    -2,028   -1,465    -4,766    -4,627    -2
Financing items (net)                       1,831    2,255     9,311    7,971
Changes in net reserves                      197    -790    -4,545    -3,344    -4
M,emo:
Reserves including gold (USS rn//ons)          ..   4,424    25,008    27,168
Conversion rate (DEC, oarUS$)                16.1   6741.5  81,307.4  151,239
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976    1986       1996     1997
(USS millions)                                                                     CoflposMon of total debt, 1997 (USS niilions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        6,001   32,934    81,822   91,205
IBRD                                       391    4,662      4,260    3,587                  A: 3,587 B: 118
IDA                                        163      174       124       118                               c:594
D: 2,940
Total debt service                           590    4,473    11,095    10,716        G: 22,634                     E E 7,138
IBRD                                        43      589      1,154      965
IDA                                          2        5         7         7
Composition of net resource flovws
Offticial grants                             7      151       555       314
Official creditors                         263      628       -841      -64
Private crediors                           262    1,198      6,454    10,840
Foreign direct investment                   10      125       612       554
Portfolio equity                            -23     151       -983     -391                             F: 54,194
World Bank program
Commitments                                237    1.277       255        35      A - IBRO                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                              138      636       489       266      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Pfivate
Principal repayments                        15      239       821       698      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                  123      397       -332     -432
Interest payments                           31      355       340       274
Net transfers                               93       42       -672     -706



MAP SECTION






IBRD 24903R
BULGARIA                                                                                                                                                                GEORGI
TAPAP  SKIRKAKBLACKSEA,.X 
GREECE,L          TEEO         PPBA?P,I 
P.       POCKEt. IAA
4K KTKA P  ~ ~    ~         SPOT ~ANKARA*NPC,                                                                                                                                       K
..  PKK KEPIT                                                                   4>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RPO
RAP                KABPI>~~~~~~~~~~~~IA
EAN                                                                                                   q                                               -MLTAPOS..  AT  E  -APPBK  YIA
V                                        C            B TAKA'                            F                                            ARABA'ANTREP
PN                                 ANT A                                 NB         @5P\TB,
K                                    ~~~~~TURKEY
A SELECTED TOWNS AND VILLAGES
2                                                                                           P  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROVINCE CAPITALS
@)  NATIONAL CAPITAL
MEDJSERRNFAN SE-A                                       .          .MAJOR ROADS
MILES a  50  100                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
PIIN.AA'TTA.T,,NAATBTAPT,APT  AIlInG  50   190   199                                                             -  ~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
NNpANTPN            30'~~au                       .   .                                                                        3W
MARCH 1994



