Report No. PID7536
PID7536
Project Name                     Turkey-Export Finance Intermediation...
Loan (EFIL)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia (ECA)
Sector                           Private and Financial Sector Development
Project ID                       TRPE64807
Borrower                         Export credit Bank of Turkey
("Turk Eximbank" or
"Exim"), guaranteed by the Government
of Turkey (G.O.T)
Implementing Agency              Turk Eximbank
Mudafaa cad. No:20 06100-
Bakanliklar/ANKARA TURKEY
Tel:    0-90-312-417 13 00
Fax:    0-90-312-425 78 96
Environment Category             C
Date This PID Prepared           April 7, 1999
Date Initial PID Prepared        January 14, 1999
Projected Appraisal Date         April 12, 1999
Projected Board Date             June 17, 1999
The proposed loan has two major components
Project Component 1 - US$247 million
Credit line: The EFIL will provide short and medium term financing for the
procurement of input goods, equipment and services by private exporters. The
inputs could be procured locally or externally on commercially competitive
terms and will, therefore, benefit both direct and indirect exporters.
Project Component 2 - US$3 million
Technical assistance: The EFIL will provide financing for the procurement of
consulting services and training, for the further institutional strengthening
of Turk Eximbank.
Country and Sector Background
The Turkish economy, partly because of the macroeconomic
uncertainty exacerbated by the political uncertainty, and partly as a result
of the recent crisis in Russia and the Far East, has suffered a negative
impact on its export effort. The impact has been felt both in the form of
increased competition from the Far East in Turkey's traditional European
markets and significant loss of CIS markets. Coupled with this export market
turmoil, the global financial market turmoil has led to an international
credit squeeze on Turkey, making the mobilization of foreign exchange funds a



difficult proposition for a large number of Turkish exporters. As a result,
export growth in 1998 has virtually evaporated, declining from nearly 16% in
1997 to an almost negligible 2% in 1998. This small aggregate increase hides
sharp declines or negligible growth in many individual export sectors.
Additionally, the future maintenance of the current export levels and any
prospective growth are going to be difficult, if not impossible to achieve in
the absence of reliable availability of funds.
Objectives
The proposed EFIL's primary objective is to provide short and medium
term working capital and investment finance to private exporting enterprises
to assist the Turkish exporting sector hurt by the recent global financial
crisis.
Description
The implementing entity for the EFIL will be the state owned Turk
Eximbank, with the Government issuing a guarantee to the World Bank. Turk
Eximbank will act in the capacity of a wholesale institution and will on-lend
the loan funds through a pre-selected group of a maximum of 4-5 private
commercial banks (including one or two development banks). Exim will take the
credit risk on the banks selected for participation. The participating banks
(PBs) in turn will make sub-loans to private exporting enterprises for
procurement of raw materials, equipment and services in order to expand their
current export volumes, or in exceptional circumstances to enable them to
retain and maintain their current level of exports. The on-lending banks
will take the credit risks on the borrowing enterprises.
Financing
In order to address this perceived economic need, the Government
of Turkey (GOT) has asked the Bank to provide both short and medium term
export finance to the private sector through an Export Finance Intermediation
Loan. It is envisaged that the Bank's activities in this sector of the
economy will act as a catalyst in mobilising further multi-lateral and
private sector foreign exchange funding.
Implementation
In order to implement the EFIL, Exim has appointed a senior
executive at decision making level as the Program Manager responsible for the
implementation of the Bank loan. The Program Manager will be responsible for
all day to day interaction with the Bank, the GOT and the PBs regarding
matters associated with the EFIL. In addition, Exim has created a small
Project Implementation Unit (PIU), drawing staff from its credit and
accounting departments. The PIU will be responsible for day to day
coordination and implementation, including monitoring of the PBs, maintaining
of the project accounts, preparing progress reports, reviewing and verifying
procurement rules and environmental compliance by the PBs and sub-borrowers,
monitoring of progress and impact performance indicators for the EFIL, both
in terms of disbursements as well as export growth.
19. Sustainability
The sustainability of this operation is ensured by using Exim, an established
- 2 -



export finance institution, as the borrower and implementing agency. Exim's
wholesale lending function, already well established today, is likely to
become more sophisticated as a result of this project and therefore Exim is
well placed to successfully channel the project reflows to additional private
sector exporters during as well as beyond the period of project
implementation in line with the maturity of the Bank's loan.
Turkey's past export growth record, as well as the Bank's own past experience
with credit line operations in Turkey, indicate that the private enterprise
sector has the technical and managerial ability to successfully tap export
opportunities provided they have access to appropriate financing (e.g., in
terms of pricing and maturity). Thus, expansion of existing and new export
operations that will be financed by the funding to be provided by the
proposed EFIL have a very high likelihood of self-sustainability.
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The main lessons learned during the last few years from Bank credit line
operations in the ECA Region and elsewhere are that the design should be kept
as flexible as possible, with a minimum number of restrictions in terms of
minimum sub-loan size, maturity, currency denomination, sub-borrower
cofinancing requirements, sectoral lending focus, etc., but using sensible
financial indicators for the selection of both the participating banks and
the sub-borrowers in line with established market practices (e.g., for
participating banks, BIS based capital adequacy and other prudential ratios,
for sub-borrowers established financial indicators such as debt equity and
debt service coverage ratios). Restrictive procurement requirements,
unsuitable for private sector borrowers, have proven to be a hindrance to
expeditious project implementation, and where more flexible arrangements have
been used, including the use of established commercial practice, these
factors have ceased to be a bottleneck. As referenced above, another
important lesson learned has been that the most successful formula for high
quality and expeditious project implementation is to combine the borrower and
implementing agency functions in one and the same entity if possible.
Environmental Aspects
All sub-borrowers would be required to be in compliance with the
environmental protection requirements of the GOT. In appraising subprojects,
the participating banks will be responsible for ensuring that sub-borrowers
are abiding by the rules set by the relevant regulatory agencies regarding
their production operations. During subproject implementation, the PBs will
review compliance with environmental regulations and requirements in the
course of normal subproject supervision.
Project Benefits
The credit line would support Turkish exporters that currently suffer
from a chronic shortage of medium term funds to finance production and export
activity. By injecting additional funds into the Turkish banking system,
exporters would be able to increase their activity and profitability and
explore new export markets. Thus the program will support employment in
Turkey.
Project Risks
-3-



Turk EXIM has not worked with the World Bank before and could have
difficulties implementing the project within Bank guidelines, however our
preliminary work leads us to believe this risk to be negligible.
There is a risk that the participating banks experience financial
difficulties or on-lend funds for inviable export operations. However the
PBs selected to participate in the credit line have long standing
relationships with Turk Eximbank, which monitors their financial performance
on a quarterly basis.
Contact Point:
Lalit Raina, ECSPF
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-2900
Fax No.:         (202) 522-0078
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H St., NW
Washington DC 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
This PID processed the week ending April 9, 1999.
- 4-



