E1876 v2

                                  Environmental Safeguard Guidelines for
                                            Small Civil Works
                                                    for
                                              MONGOLIA
                                  Enhanced Justice Sector Services Project
                                                  ******
A.          Nature of Expected Civil Works

The Mongolia Enhanced Justice Sector Services Project (EJSSP) will be undertaking small scale civil works
and construction activities for two Mongolian Justice Sector Institutions: Component 3A: construction of
Intersoum Court buildings in four soums of four aimags, namely, Bulgan soum of Khovd aimag,
Tosontsengel soum of Zavkhan aimag, Kharkhorin soum of Uvurkhangai aimag and Bor-Undur soum
Khentii and refurbishment of Aimag’s Court Office in Umnugovi aimag; Component 3C: similar small scale
civil works for construction of Court Decision Enforcement Office buildings in two aimag centers, namely,
Ulaangom, Uvs aimag and Bulgan, Bulgan aimag and construction of Court Decision Enforcement Division
building in one aimag, Zamyn-Uud soum of Dornogovi aimag.

The abovementioned buildings are expected to be small one to two-storey buildings with office space to
accommodate approximately 15-20 persons. For both institutions, the land used for these civil works will
be existing public/government land and therefore no private land acquisition or involuntary resettlement is
foreseen.

B.          Purpose of these Guidelines

Given the nature and small scale of the proposed civil works under the project, a formal environmental
assessment report was not considered necessary. However, as in some cases the construction/refurbishment
activities are going to be undertaken in urban areas there are likely to be some concerns relating to
inconveniences or nuisances to surrounding areas during construction will require careful construction
planning and management. Therefore, for the purpose of enhancing environment friendly measures and
mitigating any adverse impacts caused by the construction activities, these Environmental Safeguard
Guidelines for small civil works funded under this project have been prepared and shall be implemented by
the relevant Implementing Institutions (IIs) – the GCC and CDEA and relevant Intersoum and aimag Courts;
relevant Court Decision Enforcement Offices and Division.

The Environmental Safeguard Guidelines for Small Civil Works aim to establish some simple rules,
procedures and institutional arrangements to be utilized under the EJSS project with regard to identification,
monitoring and mitigation of possible adverse environmental impacts with respect to small civil work
activities undertaken in the EJSS project. The responsible IIs are expected to follow these procedures and
keep the records and documentation for later supervision.

The Guidelines are consistent with the requirements of the Bank Environmental Safeguards Operational
Policy (O.P.4.01).

C.          Three-Step Procedures to be Followed

The concerned IIs are expected to carry out the following simple three-step procedures in undertaking any
civil works under the EJSS project. These three steps involve conducting a site environmental safeguard
impacts analysis, performing a checklist of some environment friendly construction design criteria, and
establishing a standardized environmental management plan (EMP). They are described in more detail
below.

Step 1: Preparation of ‘Construction Site Checklist’ to identify Key Environmental Safeguard Issues

As a first step prior to construction/refurbishment, the relevant II must develop and complete a simple
Construction Site Checklist to determine possible environmental impacts/nuisances for every civil work


Small Construction and Civil Work Guidelines- EJSS
                                                                                                             1
E1876 v2

proposal. The Construction Site Checklist aims to identify and prepare for any environmental safeguards
issues incurred by the construction and/or refurbishment. The checklist will screen out and ensure the site for
the civil works has appropriate conditions and characteristics of environmental, architectural, and cultural
value and physical land use. In case any potential adverse environmental impacts are identified then they will
require input into the EMP (step 3 below).

A sample of the Construction Site Checklist is provided below. This should be completed by the designated
Technical Officer in charge of managing civil works in the concerned II.

                               Checklist-1: Sample of Format for Construction Site Checklist
General Information
Name of Project                                         Name of site for office rehabilitation/construction
Name of engineer/ technical officer                     Person(s) who conducted the studies
Date of Site Study Completed                            The date on which the on site studies were
                                                        completed.
 Information Source                                     Name and contact of person(s) interviewed/met
 Proposed Output                                        Office refurbishment or new office construction
                                                                                       Remark/Recommended
Environmental Issues                                     Yes       No    Unknown
                                                                                                Action
 1.            Adequacy of space for
       construction
 2.            Adequacy of access to the
       construction
 3.            Adequacy of space to
       build/expand the building space in the
       future
 4.            Freeness from squatters or titling
       conflict with local residents
 5.            Potential interruption or limitation
       of access to dwelling or business on the
       site
 6.            Potential impact to high
       architectural or cultural value on the site
       or within the immediate vicinity
 7.            Potential deterioration of urban
       quality and/ property value in the
       immediate vicinity. (For urban setting)
 8.            Interruption or limitation of
       access to sidewalks, power and telephone
       lines, water and sewerage, sanitation
       system, and other environmental services.
 9.            Encroachment/reduction of
       gardens or green areas.
 10.           Land used is Public/Government
       Owned*
 11.           Resettlement of families or
       businesses due to land use for
       construction
 12.           Flood on the site in the wet season
       (write down how deep and how long it
       usually floods on the site)




Small Construction and Civil Work Guidelines- EJSS
                                                                                                              2
E1876 v2

Others (describe)
13.         Potential impacts of seismic
    activities.
14.         Potential impacts to protected
    areas on the site or within the immediate
    vicinity (if not in urban setting).

Summary of Overall Assessment: Prepare a short summary of an overall assessment basing on the site
screening results above. What recommendation/suggestion is made on the specific civil works project?

*Note that no buildings or construction can be undertaken on land that is privately owned or on which
there is any form of land dispute. If the Construction Site Checklist reveals this then an alternative site will
have to be considered by the concerned II.

Following the completion of this Construction Site Checklist, and after approval from the Project Director,
the completed Checklists will be attached to the bidding documents. The procurement procedures for
undertaking the civil works have been described separately in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) of the
EJSS project and in the Project Procurement Plan.

Step 2: Preparation of Checklist on Environmentally Friendly Construction Design Criteria to be used

The second step in the environmental safeguards procedures for the civil works would involve completion of
a checklist of some specific design criteria to be adopted in the process of construction and/or refurbishment
by the selected contractors. These design criteria involve certain environmentally friendly/enhancing
elements that would avoid or minimizes incurrence of adverse environmental impacts. These design criteria
include ensuring of appropriate ventilation, lighting and sanitation facilities, as well as recommendations on
use of environmentally friendly materials. It is not expected that all of these design criteria would be adopted
in each case, but the effort should be to adapt as many as possible in the engineering and architectural design
of the proposed civil works.

This checklist should be completed by the proposed contractors to confirm the use of the environmentally
friendly elements and design criteria during construction/refurbishment of the proposed offices. A sample of
the Checklist on Environmentally Friendly Design Criteria is provided below.

            Checklist 2: Sample Format for Checklist on Environmentally Friendly Design Criteria

General Information
Name of Project                                        Name of site for office rehabilitation/construction
Name of engineer/ technical officer                    Person(s) who conducted the studies
Date of Site Study Completed                           The date on which the on site studies were
                                                       completed.
 Information Source                                    Name and contact of person(s) contacted
 Proposed Output                                       Office refurbishment or new office construction
                   Design Criteria                      Yes        No      Unknown             Remark
 1.       Maximizing the blending of architectural
    design to important cultural site next or nearby
    to the site.
 2.       Energy efficiency for heating system and
    insulation of building to limit carbon emission.
 3.       Maximizing natural light in order to
    minimize artificial light needs.
 4.       Maximizing natural ventilation systems,
    minimizing the necessities of air conditioning
 5.       Maximizing rain water storage for the
    irrigation of gardens and green zones in the


Small Construction and Civil Work Guidelines- EJSS
                                                                                                               3
E1876 v2

    office (where applicable)
 6.       Promoting the usage of environment-
    friendly materials (avoid asbestos and other
    hazardous or toxic materials,e.g. lead paint)
 7.       Planting of native species in gardens and
    green areas in the offices (where applicable)
 8.       Stabilization of slopes using vegetative
    measures (where required)
     Others (describe)
 9.        Wastewater(e.g. sewage from latrine and
    grey water) collection, storage and treatment
    facility(if applicable) ;
 10.      Safety requirements (e.g. emergency
    exits)
 11.      Possibilities of renewable energy
    appliance for warm water provision and floor
    heating.

Summary of Overall Assessment: Prepare a short summary of an overall assessment basing on the design
criteria screening results above. What recommendation/suggestion is made to the project?

The above checklist should be provided to the Technical Officer in the relevant II for review and
subsequently to the Project Director.

Step 3: Preparation of a Standardized Environmental Management Plan (EMP)

After completing the construction site and environment-friendly design criteria screening using the above
checklist formats, the last step in the environmental safeguards procedures would be the development of a
simple EMP that should be treated as environmental specifications for construction.

As the small-scale construction activities envisaged might cause impacts and nuisance to nearby
surroundings, they need to be avoided or mitigated through application of good engineering practices and
strict environmental safeguards measures including use of environment-friendly construction materials and
equipments, waste management techniques especially for construction dust and debris, noise control, site
management, safety controls, provision of clean water and sanitation facilities etc.

A sample EMP table covering potential adverse environmental problems and corresponding mitigation
measures is provided below. It is expected that all Contractors working on civil works under Component 3A
and 3C will adhere to this as part of the bidding specifications and the Contractor’s Work Plan. This EMP
should include the environmental safeguards issues that may occur during construction and solutions or what
the contractor must do to solve these problems and should draw on the two checklists developed under Steps
1 and 2.

             Table 1: Sample Format for Environmental Management Plan for Small Civil Works

     Phase                                 Issue                                  Measure
Site Screening             Adequate space and access -          The selection should avoid sensitive
                           possible interruption within its     environment and land issues which may be
                           vicinity; other issues captured in   caused by the construction and/or
                           Construction Site Checklist.         renovation; other measures recommended in
                                                                the Construction Site Checklist should be
                                                                adopted.
Design                     Drawing and planning the             Adversely Environmental Minimization
                           construction of towers by            Measures should be introduced in the
                           adapting to adjoining physical       construction design; other environment

Small Construction and Civil Work Guidelines- EJSS
                                                                                                            4
E1876 v2

                           landscape and minimizing                enhancing design criteria identified in Step-2
                           possible environmental issues;          as feasible to be incorporated
                           other environmentally friendly
                           design features identified in Step-
                           2.
Construction               Dust: Dust, debris, and particulate     The contractor will spray water to reduce the
                           materials from the construction         dust when the weather is dry and periodically
                           will blow to surrounding                clean stagnant debris.
                           structures and/ causing nuisances
                           to surrounding families and
                           businesses, specially to
                           vulnerable people (children,
                           elders).

                           Noise:     Noise      from       the    Contractor will use environment-friendly
                           construction     machinery      and     construction materials and equipments and
                           equipment will disturb to others        limit construction hours to minimize possible
                           specially in areas with hospitals,      disturbance to local livelihood. Contractor
                           homes for the elderly, and              will fence off Construction site to reduce any
                           schools.                                possible annoyance to neighbors.
                           Construction wastes: the adequate       Contractor will reduce waste generation
                           disposal of Waste materials and         whenever feasible. Contractor should
                           hazardous      materials     (fibro-    separate hazardous wastes from other wastes
                           cement, fuel, oil, cement etc).         and handle them according to established
                                                                   environmental guidelines. Contractor should
                                                                   separate recyclable wastes from non-
                                                                   recyclable ones. All wastes should be
                                                                   properly handled. Any illegal waste dumping
                                                                   or burning will be prohibited.
                           Disturbance: Nearby offices and         The contractor will perform construction
                           residents will be disturbed by          activities within appropriate time frame
                           prolonged construction.                 which does not disturb work of officers or
                                                                   living of local residents.
                           Sanitation: Inadequate sanitation       The contractor will provide temporary
                           for     the    workers     at     the   sanitation for the workers.
                           construction site is leading to
                           unclean working environment.
                           Contamination: Contamination of         The contractor will implement necessary
                           water supply or source within the       measures to prevent possible contamination
                           vicinity of the site is caused by       to watery supply or source in the surrounding
                           the construction activities.            area.
                           Pedestrian security and traffic         The contractor will fence of the site for
                           congestion – Construction site          general safety measures; traffic re-routing (if
                           may cause safety concern for            required) should be appropriately managed
                           pedestrians, especially for school      and planned for.
                           children, during construction.
                           Similarly, traffic congestion
                           during construction may be
                           caused due to the increase of
                           heavy traffic (of the construction
                           itself and from traffic detours) in
                           high traffic avenues and exit
                           ramps.




Small Construction and Civil Work Guidelines- EJSS
                                                                                                                     5
E1876 v2

                           Interruption of services - water,       The contractor will implement necessary
                           electricity, telephone, bus routes      measures to prevent any interruption to
                           during construction.                    access to public services.
                           Informing the public about              The contractor will put signboard
                           construction and work schedules,        summarizing the construction activities and
                           interruption of services, or traffic.   schedule for completion of tasks.
Post-                      Site Clearing: Cleaning the site        The contractor will clean the site carefully
Construction               after construction- disposing           and remove all waste materials as spelled out
                           wastes properly so that they are        in the construction bidding.
                           not dangerous to the environment.
Others                      Other identified environmental          The Contractor is responsible for
                           safeguard issues.                       familiarizing themselves with the following
                           -Chance Find Procedures for             “Chance Finds Procedures”, in case
                           Culturally Significant Artifacts.       culturally valuable materials are uncovered
                                                                   during excavation, including:
                                                                   Stop work immediately following the
                                                                   discovery of any materials with possible
                                                                   archeological, historical, paleontological, or
                                                                   other cultural value, announce findings to
                                                                   project manager and notify relevant
                                                                   authorities;
                                                                   -Protect artifacts as well as possible using
                                                                   plastic covers, and implement measures to
                                                                   stabilize the area, if necessary, to properly
                                                                   protect artifacts
                                                                   -Prevent and penalize any unauthorized
                                                                   access to the artifacts
                                                                   Restart construction works only upon the
                                                                   authorization of the relevant authorities

All these measures should be included in bidding document and contractor’s work plan as part of the
specifications for construction that will be followed to address any potential environmental safeguard
concerns.

D.          Institutional Arrangements

As noted above, each concerned II (GCC and CDEA) should appoint a Designated Technical Officer who
will manage the proposed civil works under their respective activities. Separately a designated Safeguards
Officer should be appointed in each II who will be responsible for scrutinizing the environmental safeguards
issues involved in each civil works project. The ultimate responsibility for approvals and ensuring adherence
to these Environmental Safeguards Guidelines lies with the Project Directors in the relevant IIs.

It is responsibility of each relevant II who should make sure that its subprojects (new construction and/ or
refurbishment) obtain all government approvals (e.g. EA approval letters, permits, and licenses). Each
concerned II should identify any conditions associated with these government approvals. It is not
recommended to support a sub-project until it is verified that all government approvals have been obtained.

A summary of the institutional arrangements for following the above procedures is given below:

1. Construction Site Checklist: The designated technical officer(s) in General Council of Courts/Court
Decision Enforcement Agency are responsible for completing and sending results of the environmental
safeguards issues screening done in the Construction Site Checklist with explaining his or her
recommendation to GCC/CDEA Project Directors for review and endorsement. The final review and
clearance should be performed by the Project Directors in consultation with the designated Safeguards
Officer(s)


Small Construction and Civil Work Guidelines- EJSS
                                                                                                                    6
E1876 v2


2. Checklist for Environmentally Friendly Design Criteria: The designated Safeguard Officer(s) from
GCC/CDEA should complete the Environmentally Friendly Design Criteria checklist in collaboration with
the selected contractors for each piece of civil works. These design criteria should be reviewed and cleared
with the GCC/CDEA Project Directors and should form part of the bidding documents and Contractor Work
Plan.

3. EMP Development and Clearance: The designated Safeguards officer(s) and Technical officer(s) are
jointly responsible for ensuring which elements of the sample EMP provided above are to apply in specific
civil works projects. They should analyze and make a summary of the findings from the Construction Site
and Design Criteria checklists above and provide their recommendation on any of a few simple bases:
    • The construction will not have any unacceptable impact on the environment;
    • The construction design should be changed to avoid unacceptable impact on the environment;
    • The construction should not be implemented, because the impact on the environment will be bigger
         than the benefit from the project.

Oversight and final clearance for the EMP will be provided to the GCC/CDEA Project Directors for
Components 3A and 3C respectively. The EMP will then become part of the Contractor Work Plan and shall
be referred to in their contracts for each piece of civil works.


E.          Monitoring, Supervision and Reporting


The selected contractor(s) must submit their completed work plans to the GCC and CDEA prior to initiating
their contract for each piece of civil works. The Contractor’s Work plan should have incorporated the
agreed Environmentally Friendly Design Criteria being used as well as the agreed EMP described
above, clearly listing:
    (a)    environmental problems that may occur during construction;
    (b)    solutions or what the contractor must do to solve these problems

The designated Technical Officer(s) and Safeguards Officer(s) will help the Contractor and GCC/CDEA to
make the Work plans. The Project Director must approve the work plan before signing the contract.

The designated Technical Officer(s) and Safeguards Officer(s) are responsible for supervising the adherence
to the agreed EMP by the selected contractors in each civil works project through periodic audits. The
designated Technical Officer(s) and Safeguards Officer(s) should update/improve the site and construction
design criteria checklists and EMP table above on annual basis (or even semester period) basing on
experience and findings from the project implementation and supervision. Environmental Safeguards
specialist in the Bank will separately review adherence to the Environmental Safeguards guidelines in the
civil works projects during their annual supervision mission. All records of the above Environmental
Safeguards procedures, including the relevant checklists and EMPs, shall be kept by the concerned II for
review during these supervision missions.




Small Construction and Civil Work Guidelines- EJSS
                                                                                                           7
E1876 v2




Small Construction and Civil Work Guidelines- EJSS
                                                     8
