                         INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATA SHEET
                                     RESTRUCTURING STAGE
         Note: This ISDS will be considered effective only upon approval of the project restructuring

                                                                                 Report No.: ISDSR3999

Date ISDS Prepared/Updated:           30-May-2013
I. BASIC INFORMATION
 1. Basic Project Data
 Country:                       Mongolia               Project ID:                  P101446
 Project Name:                  Enhanced Justice Sector Services Project - Mongolia (P101446)
 Task Team Leader:              Heike P. Gramckow
 Estimated Appraisal Date:                             Estimated Board Date: 26-Jun-2008
 Managing Unit:                 LEGJR                  Lending Instrument:          Specific Investment Loan
 Sector(s):                     Law and justice (100%)
 Theme(s):                      Judicial and other dispute resolution mechanisms (40%), Other rule of law
                                (20%), Legal services (20%), Personal and property rights (20%)
 Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) or OP 8.00                     No
 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies)?
                                Project Financing Data (in USD Million)
 Total Project Cost:        5.00                        Total Bank Financing:         5.00
 Total Cofinancing:                                     Financing Gap:                0.00
     Financing Source                                                                                   Amount
     BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                                                                    0.00
     International Development Association (IDA)                                                           3.35
     IDA Grant                                                                                             1.65
     Total                                                                                                 5.00
 Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment
 Is this a Repeater project? No
 Is this a Transferred          No
 project?


 2. Current Project Development Objectives
 To enhance access to justice sector information and legal advice and increase the efficiency and
 transparency of the courts and court enforcement agencies.

 3. Project Description
The revised Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet has been updated to reflect changes in the project's
financing structure that are the only focus of this current restructuring effort and to reflect changes that
should have been reflected in the ISDS during the previous restructuring effort. The current
restructuring only involves reallocation among resource categories, no changes to the project’s
activities. Changes reflected in the prior restructuring that were not reflected in the ISDS but all other
approved and submitted restructuring documents include a) the fact that the only financing sources are
the IDA Credit No. 4493-MN and the IDA Grant No. H-413-MN, and thereby the total project amount is
US$5 million, not US$6 million, b) the fact that the original safeguards designation for construction was
C and was changed to B as a result of the 2012 restructuring. The 2012 restructuring did not bring any
modification to the safeguard on Indigenous People which is triggered by this project.

Component 1: Enhancing Public Legal Education on the Justice Sector - US$0.25 million
(US$0.25m IDA)
The Project will support the development of comprehensive legal education reform program to meet
both national and international standards and the implementation of a national public information
strategy to improve public knowledge and transparency. The proposed Project will also support the
development of a special bilingual legal information program for the Kazakh speaking population of the
Bayan-Ulgii Aimag and will provide support to the special Legal Aid Center for the Mongolian
minorities in that region.

Component 2: Increasing Transparency through Improved Access to Legal Information - US$0.55
million (US$0.55m IDA)
The Project will improve access to legal information by expanding and increasing the effectiveness of
the Mongolian Unified Legal Information System nationwide. The Project will support connecting
Aimag courts and Court Decision Enforcement Agency (CDEA) Offices to the national justice sector
information network, and developing a case management software for the Court Decision Enforcement
Agency.

Component 3: Enhancing Judicial Operations, Enforcement and Monitoring of Court Decisions -
US$3.66 million (US$3.66m IDA)
The Project will strengthen and modernize the justice sector support infrastructure through the
construction and refurbishment of court buildings, the construction of CDEA buildings and support for
the development of training and training facilities for the CDEA in Ulaanbaatar, as well as the
development and implementation of an administrative case management system.

Component 4: Project Management - US$0.28 million (US$0.28m IDA)
The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will be strengthened to enable it to ensure quality
implementation, management, monitoring and evaluation and supervision of all proposed Project
activities under each component.
4. Project location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard analysis
(if known)
The Project will finance minor construction and refurbishment of 5 small court buildings in selected
Aimags. Further, the Project will finance construction and refurbishment of 3 small facilities of the
Court Enforcement Agency. All land is already owned by the Government. The construction of new
facilities will be undertaken on sites not causing resettlement. There will be no land acquisition and
resettlement-related impacts caused by the project. The environmental guidelines applied in the bidding
documents of the Legal and Judicial Reform Project (CR 3595-MOG) were reviewed and adopted for
the proposed Project. In following EAP Safeguards Secretariat guidance, the project will apply best
practices in construction. The client's submission of best practice guidelines in construction have been
reviewed and are found to be adequate.

With respect to Indigenous Peoples, extensive research and consultations has determined that the
Kazakh ethnic minority group residing in Bayan-Ulgii Aimag merit special attention via imparting legal
information in their (Kazakh) language. A Social Assessment (Dec 2007) and Community
Consultations (March 2008) were carried out to provide a baseline towards understanding the centrality
of the Kazakh language in accessing information. Based on the SA and consultation findings,
recommendations to enhance public legal education for this group have been developed. The
consultations also identified a need to provide the Mongolia minorities in this region with separate
assistance.

5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists on the Team
Feng Ji ( EASCS )

6. Safeguard Policies                     Triggered?     Explanation (Optional)
Environmental Assessment OP/BP 4.01       Yes
Natural Habitats OP/BP 4.04               No
Forests OP/BP 4.36                        No
Pest Management OP 4.09                   No
Physical Cultural Resources OP/BP 4.11 No
Indigenous Peoples OP/BP 4.10             Yes
Involuntary Resettlement OP/BP 4.12       No
Safety of Dams OP/BP 4.37                 No
Projects on International Waterways       No
OP/BP 7.50
Projects in Disputed Areas OP/BP 7.60     No

II. Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the Restructured project. Identify
and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts:
None. The second restructuring comprises a minor reallocation of financing proceeds that do
not touch on the project’s activities. Thus, there are no new safeguard issues and impacts to be
addressed.
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in
the project area:


3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize adverse
impacts.
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide an
assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described.


5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.



B. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other
Date of receipt by the Bank                                                  14-Jun-2011
Date of submission to InfoShop                                               22-Jun-2011
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive Summary of the
EA to the Executive Directors
"In country" Disclosure
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources policies, the
respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental
Assessment/Audit/or EMP.
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why:



C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? Yes [      ]   No [ X ]   NA [   ]

The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Yes [ X ]      No [   ]   NA [   ]
Bank's Infoshop?
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place Yes [ X ]    No [   ]   NA [   ]
in a form and language that are understandable and accessible to
project-affected groups and local NGOs?
All Safeguard Policies
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional           Yes [ X ]   No [   ]   NA [   ]
responsibilities been prepared for the implementation of measures
related to safeguard policies?
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the Yes [ X ]   No [   ]   NA [   ]
project cost?
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include     Yes [ X ]   No [   ]   NA [   ]
the monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to
safeguard policies?
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with       Yes [ X ]   No [   ]   NA [   ]
the borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project
legal documents?


III. APPROVALS

Task Team Leader:           Name: Heike P. Gramckow
Approved By:
Regional Safeguards Advisor: Name: Peter Leonard           Date: May 29, 2013
Sector Manager:             Name: Christina Biebesheimer   Date: May 30, 2013
