Document of
The World Bank
Report No: ICR00002885
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
(IDA-44930 IDA-H4130)
ON A
CREDIT IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 2.07 MILLION
(US$ 3.7 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
AND
GRANT IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 1.03 MILLION
(US$ 1.3 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
MONGOLIA
FOR AN
ENHANCED JUSTICE SECTOR SERVICES PROJECT
December 26, 2013
Justice Reform Unit
The Legal Vice-Presidency


﻿CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective September 30, 2013)
Currency Unit = Mongolian Tugriks MNT
1.00 = US$ 0.0006
US$ 1.00 = 1650 MNT
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CDEA         Court Decision Enforcement Agency
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CPS          Country Partnership Strategy
EA           Environment Assessment
EJSSP        Enhanced Justice Sector Services Project
FA           Financing Agreement
GCC          General Council of Courts
GIZ          Deutsche Gesellschaft ffir Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ)
GOM          Government of Mongolia
IDA          International Development Association
IDF          Institutional Development Fund
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IPP          Indigenous Peoples' Plan
ISN          Interim Strategy Note
ISR          Implementation Status Report
IT          Information Technology
LJSP         Legal and Judicial Reform Project
LIL          Learning and Innovation Loan
M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
MES          Ministry of Education and Science
MOF          Ministry of Finance
MOJ          Ministry of Justice
MTR          Mid-Term Review
NLI          National Legal Institute of Mongolia
OP           Operational Policy
PAD          Project Appraisal Document
PCN          Project Concept Note
PDO          Project Development Objective
PHRD         Japan Policy and Human Resources Development
PID          Project Information Document
PIU          Project Implementation Unit
PSC          Project Steering Committee
QER          Quality Enhancement Review
SPA          Special Protected Area


﻿TOR           Terms of Reference
UIN           Unified Information Network
US AID        United States Agency for International Development
Vice President: Axel van Trotsenburg
Country Director: Klaus Rohland
Sector Manager: Christina Biebesheimer
Project Team Leader: Heike P. Gramckow
ICR Team Leader: Heike P. Gramckow


﻿MONGOLIA
Enhanced Justice Sector Service Project
CONTENTS
Data Sheet
A. Basic Information
B. Key Dates
C. Ratings Summary
D. Sector and Theme Codes
E. Bank Staff
F. Results Framework Analysis
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
H. Restructuring
I. Disbursement Graph
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design....................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes  ................  ..... 5
3. Assessment of Outcomes        ........................................... 11
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................... 17
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance   ...............     ......... 18
6. Lessons Learned            ........................................  ...... 20
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ..... 22
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing                     ................................. 23
Annex 2. Outputs by Component          ............................... ..... 26
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis    ................................ 35
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ...... 40
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results................................. 42
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results......................... 43
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ....   ..... 48
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders  .  .......... 49
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents      ..........................  ..... 50
Annex 10. Project Activities per Component (Original and Revised)  . ............ 51
Annex 11. Supporting Documentation                       ................................. 52
MAP........................................................ 89


﻿A. Basic Information
Enhanced Justice
Country:             Mongolia            Project Name:        Sector Services Project
- Mongolia
Project ID:          P101446              L/C/TF Number(s):   IDA-44930,IDA-H4130
ICR Date:            12/27/2013          ICR Type:            Core ICR
Lending Instrument:  SIL                  Borrower:           MONGOLIA
Original Total       XDR 3.10M            Disbursed Amount:   XDR 2.95M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:      XDR 2.95M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Justice and Home Affairs
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
B. Key Dates
Revised / Actual
Process           Date           Process       Original Date       Date(s)
Concept Review:    02/14/2007    Effectiveness:      06/16/2009      06/16/2009
04/25/2012
Appraisal:         04/23/2008    Restructuring(s):                   06/06/2013
06/06/2013
Approval:           06/26/2008   Mid-term Review:    04/09/2012      04/28/2012
Closing:            12/31/2012       06/30/2013
C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:             Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                        Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                    Moderately Satisfactory
[C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
Bank                Ratings             Borrower             Ratings
Moderately
Quality at Entry:     nsatisfactory      Government:          Moderately Satisfactory
J)rImplementing                        Moderately
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactr  gecy/Agencies.  Unssfctory
Overll Bnk  KOvel Boroe
odertey PeformAgnce:            Ustsatr
OvrllBn           oertl Satisfactory OealBro        r    Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                             Performance:
i


﻿C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
Implementation         Indicators     QAG Assessments          Rating
Performance                              (if any)
Potential Problem Project               Quality at Entry
No                                   Nn
at any time (Yes/No):                    (QEA):
Problem Project at any  Yes             Quality of         None
time (Yes/No):                           Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before      Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:  Unsatisfactory
D. Sector and Theme Codes
Original         Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Law and justice                                       100              100
Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Judicial and other dispute resolution mechanisms        40              40
Legal services                                          20              20
Other rule of law                                       20              20
Personal and property rights                            20              20
E. Bank Staff
Positions                 At ICR                      At Approval
Vice President:       Axel van Trotsenburg         James W. Adams
Country Director:     Klaus Rohland                David R. Dollar
Sector Manager:      Christina Biebesheimer        Anthony G. Toft
Project Team Leader:  Heike P. Gramckow            Robert Buergenthal
ICR Team Leader:      Heike P. Gramckow
ICR Primary Author:   Beth Anne Hoffman
F. Results Framework Analysis
Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project's development objective is to enhance the efficiency, transparency and
accountability of justice sector institutions. This objective will be achieved by assisting
the Government of Mongolia to mainstream and scale-up the results achieved, and
lessons learned, through the Mongolia Legal and Judicial Reform Project (LJRP). In
order to achieve the goals of transparency and accountability the following areas will be
supported under the project: (i) Enhancing public legal education on the justice sector (ii)
ii


﻿Increasing transparency through improved access to legal information (iii) Enhancing
judicial operations, enforcement and monitoring of court decisions.
The key outcome indicators which will be used to measure success are: (i) Information
on enforcement of court decisions is available and shared between the Court Enforcement
Agency and the General Council of Courts (ii) Discrepancies between statistical
information provided by Court Enforcement Agency and General Council of Courts is
shared and reduced (iii) Improvement in level of court decisions enforced.
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The objective of the project is to enhance access to justice sector information and legal
advice, and increase the efficiency and transparency of the courts and the court
enforcement agencies.
(a) PDO Indicator(s)
Original Target   Formally     Actual Value
Values (from     Revised       Achieved at
approval        Target      Completion or
documents)       Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 IData and statistics on enforcement of court decisions are shared regularly
Ibetween the CDEA and GCC.
A MoU was signed
on May 29, 2013; a
working group to
t  o     Both agencies establish data
Information on
enforcement of   submit       sharing
court decisions is quarterly data requirements has
Value         No regular sharing of data available and  reports to the been created. Exact
.  .                           Oher.data to be
quantitative or and analytical results  shared between the other.
Qualitative)  between the agencies   Court Enforcement Both agencies exchanged will be
Agency and the   compare      established after the
General Council o quarterly data new law is in effect
and discuss  on November 1,
analysis.    2013.
Both agencies
exchange data
irregularly.
[Date achieved 12/31/2009           12/31/2012      06/30/2013    06/30/2013
The end target is partially met; it will be fully met by the end of the current
Comments      calendar year.
(incl. %      Both agencies exchange data irregularly at the moment. Exact data to be
achievement)  exchanged will be established after the new law is in effect on November 1,
2013.
Indicator 2 :  Local courts submit electronic case data to the GCC.
Value                                Discrepancies   60% of courts 100% of courts
quantitative or No electronic case data  between statistical submit  submit case data by
Qualitative)  system in place.       information     monthly case GCC website.
provided by Court statistics
111


﻿Enforcement      electronically
Agency and       to GCC.
General Council of
Courts is shared
and is reduced.
Date achieved  12/31/2009            12/31/2012      06/30/2013   06/30/2013
Comments      Target fully met.
(incl. %      With the new software and fiber optic linages, real time case management is
achievement)  possible.
Indicator 3   Court decision enforcement processes are unified and monitored for effective
enforcement.
60% of       100% of locations
locations using (in all 21 Aimags)
Improvement in   new system,
alu   e   o  No unified system in  level of court    10% increase are fully conne '
Quanitativer place.                  decisions       in successful areu    t
enforced.        enforcements system
.enforcement data is
over previous shared with HQ.
year.         ____________
[Date achieved 12/31/2009           12/31/2012      06/30/2013    06/30/2013
Comments      Target fully met.
(incl. %      By August 31, 2013 58.9% of the amount to be enforced was collected, in
achievement)  comparison in 2012 the rate was 40.1%, in 2011 44.2%, in 2010 43.0%.
[Access to legal information and advice increased across all UB districts and
Indicator 4: : ias                    _______          ______________
Aimags.
60% of UB
districts and  Legal advice
Aimag centers available via Legal
distribute legal Aid Centers in all
information in 21 Aimags and 12
No values related                      central      Legal Aid Clinics
information                            community    in UB; in 15 out of
Value                                                locations, in  21 Aimags (=70%)
.paralegals are available,
quantitative or                                      60% of Aimag and in 9 UB
Qualitative)                                         centers, soums districts paralegals
minority languages                     and horoos   are providing
paralegals are services; Kazakh
providing    legal glossary and
advice, 10   14 laws in Kazakh
laws available distributed plus
in minority  legal info.
informlanguages. in_2_Aimgs_ad1
Date achieved  12/31/2009                            06/30/2013   06/12/2013
Comments      Target fully met.
Leaflets and posters on different legal issues provided across the country; legal
(incl. %      comics and posters provided to public schools; "Your Legal Guide" distributed to
achievement)  all Aimags.
iv


﻿(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
Original Target                Actual Value
__________  _______Values__  __    (from___ -  omly       Achieved at
Indicator       Baseline Value     Values (from     Revised      cmplet
approval                   Completion or
documents)                   Target Years
Indicator 1:  Improved law school syllabi implemented.
17 new syllabi; 19
law schools which 9 new syllabi,
meet new national 26 course  8 new syllabi and
.certification             handbooks
31 syllabi and 14                                  23 handbooks
Value         handouts developed    standards; 75% of completed; #  completed and
. professors meet of courses that
(quantitative  within the previous WB                            distributed to Law
. new national apply new
or Qualitative) project but not regularly  qul fation  sy  nd    Schools; they are
used.           qualification   syllabi and  .sdi   ll1   a
standards; 70% of handouts   us
students pass in  increased by
new standard    5%.
courses.
Date achieved  12/31/2009           12/31/2009      06/30/2012   06/30/2013
Comments      Target met.
(ic. %        27 courses at 14 law Schools apply material (total of 378 courses).
achievement)  8 syllabi, 23 handbooks completed and used in all 13 law schools; 1 syllabi and 8
handbooks dropped by the client due to changes in the relevant laws.
Indicator 2: Development of standards for Legal Clinics implemented.
Value                                               # of legal   10 Legal Clinics
(quantitative  No standards developed.              Clinics comply comply with legal
or Qualitative)                                         standard standards.
increased to 8.
Date achieved  12/31/2009                           06/30/2013   06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %      Target met.
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Increased access to legal information and legal advice.
# increase of 50,000 leaflets (25
publcatons r oherublications; select issues), 4,000
Spublications or otherinfo
public education material Improvements in  opulation   osters
for each value, N/A % of levels of public  eached by TV the country; legal
population reached by TV knowledge: 50%  spots; #  comics at grade
Value         spots, 0 # of minority  able to       increase of  schools; "Your
(quantitative  population served by  differentiate   inority     Legal Guide"/DVD
or Qualitative) legal aid center (by  institutions and  opulation  around 7 subjects;
gender), 0% of rural  coure functions;  served by legal411 TV spots in 17
population with access to 50% aware of  aid center; 5% Aimags + Capital
paralegals, # of rural  court divisions.  increase of
population actually                   ral         Ctic total ie of98
opulation    Ethnic mioris.
ppuith access to 10,474  akhs
v


﻿paralegals; #
increase of
rural
population
actually served
________________ by paralegal
Date achieved  12/31/2009            12/31/2012      06/30/2013    06/30/2013
357 paralegals in 15 rural Aimags (pop of 1,086,382) provided advice to 130,331
(incl. %      people, i.e. 12% of the rural population.
achievement)  Target met.
Data on TV spots outstanding.
Indicator 4: Connect courts, CDEA, and prosecutors via fiber optic cable.
21 Aimag courts, 4
Inter-Soum courts,
100% of courts,               21 CDEA Aimag
Value         0 courts, CDEAs,       100% of court    'Cs,      offices, 3 CDEA
enforcement      CDA,         Soum offices, 21
(quantitative  prosecutor offices    officecnte     prosecutor   Admnistrie
.rQaiaie)cnetd                  offices connected ofcs        Administrative
or Qualitative) connected.           tnaialfbr       offices
to national fiber             Courts, and 9
optic network.                locations in UB are
connected, i.e. total
of 79 locations.
Date achieved  12/31/2009            12/31/2012      06/30/2013    06/30/2013
Comments
(mm.    t     Target met.
ac.      t   Prosecutors opted out of the project.
achievement)
Indicator 5: Improvement of court enforcement agency facilities.
Value                                enforcement                   Construction of all
(quantitative  0 CDEAs newly built.                  3            3 CDEA offices is
or Qualitative)                      agency offices               completed.
renovated.
Date achieved  12/31/2009            12/31/2012      06/30/2013    06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %      Target met.
achievement)
Indicator 6:  Improvement of court facilities.
Value                                Supreme Court                Construction of 4
(quantitative  0 courts newly built or  facilities               new court buildings
.  reurbihed.and 1 refurbishment
or Qualitative) refurbished.         constructed.                  .I furhd.
is fished.
Date achieved  12/31/2009            12/31/2012      06/30/2013    06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %      Target met.
achievement)
Indicator 7: Development of case management software for administrative courts.
Value                                                TSoftware is
0 administrative courts                             successfully
.    using new software.                                 piloting in 5
or Qualitative)                                                  aplinis
iadministrative
Vi


﻿courts; full launch
on November 1,
2013.
Date achieved  12/31/2009                             06/30/2013   06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %      Target met.
achievement)
Indicator 8: Training of CDEA staff
All CDEA officers
40% increase in               trained on current
Value         0% of CDEA officers    ttlcutaducmn
(quantitative  trained (in new       enforcemet      5% increase.      and       soft
.rQaiaie   rceig)               enforcement                    legislation and soft
or Qualitative) proceedings).        reep. kls nldn
receipts.                     skills, including
ethics.
IDate achieved  12/31/2009            12/31/2012      06/30/2013   06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %      Target met.
achievement)
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
Actual
Date ISR                                                        Ata
No.     Ate                 DO                      IP             Disbursements
(USD millions)
1    01/23/2009        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  0.00
Moderately
2    06/22/2010       Unsatisfactory           MoUnsatcy                   0.50
Unsatisfactory
3    02/6/2Moderately                          Moderately                   0.65
Unsatisfactory         Unsatisfactory
4    1Moderately                               Moderately
Unsatisfactory         Unsatisfactory
5    07/01/2012   Moderately Satisfactory  Moderately Satisfactory          2.55
6    01/02/2013         ModeratelyModerately Satisfactory                   3.41
Unsatisfactory
7    06/25/2013         Moderately             Moderately                   4.10
Unsatisfactory         Unsatisfactory
H. Restructuring (if any)
ISR Ratings at   Amount
Restructuring     Board     Restructuring Disbursed at   Reason for Restructuring &
Date(s)      Approved                  Restructuring      Key Changes Made
PDO Change     DO     IP      in USD
millions
The primary reason for the
04/25/2012        N        MU     MU           2.55   restructuring was to drop, at the
Government's request, the
vii


﻿ISR Ratings at   Amount
Restructuring    Board     Restructuring Disbursed.at   Reason for Restructuring &
Date(s)      Approved                 Restructuring     Key Changes Made
PDO Change    DO      IP      in USD
millions
construction of the Supreme
Court building and co-located
central judicial archives
(representing 43% of total
project costs) as well as the
downscaling of construction of
Court Decision Enforcement
Agency buildings (from 11 to
3). Funds intended for the
Supreme Court building are
reallocated for other priority
civil works at local courts in
Aimag centers and at the Soum
level.
This Level 2 Restructuring
reflected a reallocation request
by GoM to address a funding
shortfall due to exchange rate
06/06/2013        N        MU     MS          4.10   fluctuations, and minor cost
variances in the civil works
categories and to ensure that all
activities can be fully funded at
project closing.
I. Disbursement Profile
Original ---- Formally Revised -- Actual
6-
4
Ln/ 2
-------------------
0 -  1  N 1   i      IN    I      IN   IN     IN    IN     IN    IN     IN    IN
m  9  rj     9      m           rq     9      m     9


﻿1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.1 Context at Appraisal
Country and Sector Background. The dissolution of the Soviet Union in the
1990s ushered in a period of rapid change in Mongolia's justice sector. A new
constitution and a flurry of new laws were subsequently enacted in Mongolia. It is
estimated that over 400 laws and 3000 administrative regulations were passed or issued
during the period 1992 to 2008 as the country moved toward a market economy.' While
still considered one of the poorest countries in East Asia at the time of project design,
Mongolia's economy had been growing rapidly driven by the demand for commodities
and minerals on the international market. The project was billed as a potential means to
curb some of the negative effects of a "natural resource curse" by improving the pool of
highly skilled professionals and enhancing the operations of administrative and justice
sector institutions.
The Government of Mongolia (GOM) had embraced a comprehensive approach
to justice sector reform and modernization by the late 1990s. The GOM received support
for its modernization efforts from a number of donors, including USAID, JICA and GTZ
(GIZ). The World Bank-financed Legal and Judicial Reform Project (LJSP) (Credit
3595-MOG) -- a Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) which was approved in 2001 for
US$5.0 million equivalent - aimed to enhance public trust and confidence in the legal
system as a whole and the judiciary in particular through the design and testing of new
tools and systems that promote better access to legal information, the creation of
specialized courts and an improved legal education and profession.
Rationale for Bank Assistance. The EJSSP was built upon a long standing
discussion between the Government of Mongolia and the Bank on good governance and
the justice sector's importance to the country's economic development. According to the
Project Appraisal Document (PAD), the project was to build on the successes of the
innovative approaches piloted under the LJRP, particularly as they related to transparency,
good governance, the modernization of public legal education and the protection of
citizens' rights and reflected the ongoing need for and government interest in Bank
support in this sector.
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
The project's original development objective, as stated in the original Financing
Agreement (FA), was "to enhance the efficiency, transparency and accountability of the
Recipient's justice sector institutions." In order to achieve this objective three
components were supported under the project: (i) Enhancing public legal education on
the justice sector, (ii) Increasing transparency through improved access to legal
information, and (iii) Enhancing judicial operations, enforcement and monitoring of court
decisions.
The key Project Development Outcome indicators chosen to measure success
were:
1 Enhanced Justice Sector Services Project. Project Appraisal Document, [World Bank Report Number 44056-MOG,]
June 6, 2008, pg. 1.
1


﻿*  information on enforcement of court decisions is available and shared between the
Court Decision Enforcement Agency (CDEA) and the General Council of Courts
(GCC);
*  discrepancies between statistical information provided by CDEA and GCC is
shared and reduced, and;
* improvement in level of court decisions enforced.
In addition, the PAD included fourteen intermediate results indicators (see Annex 10).
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
A Level 1 restructuring was initiated in late 2010 and approved in April 2012. It was
justified by the following events:
* While the project was initially to be co-funded by a PHRD grant, the grant did
not materialize and created a financing gap of $1 million;
* The project incurred a one-year delay in effectiveness;
* The construction site proposed by the GOM for the Supreme Court building
would not meet the World Bank safeguards policy on Natural Habitats (see
section 2.4); and,
* Construction costs skyrocketed during the period of project implementation due
to the boom of the sector in Mongolia.
The PDO was revised to the following: "The objective of the Project is to enhance
access to justice sector information and legal advice, and increase the efficiency and
transparency of the courts and the Court Enforcement Agencies."
The Results Monitoring Framework was also revised to match with the new PDO,
with the following PDO indicators:
* data and statistics on enforcement of court decisions is shared regularly between
the CDEA and the GCC;
* local courts submit electronic cases data regularly to the GCC;
* CDEA processes are unified and monitored for more effective enforcement;
* access to legal information and advice is increased across all UB districts and
Aimags (provinces).
The now 12 revised intermediate results indicators and their achievements are described
in Annex 2.
1.4 Main Beneficiaries
The project's beneficiaries as defined in the original Project Information
Document (PID) were:
*  the Judiciary, the Supreme Court, the GCC, and the Executive Branch, through
MOJ and its specialized agencies were the project's main institutional
beneficiaries;
*  Justice sector officials and law  school professors were also seen as direct
beneficiaries of the project.
*  In addition, Mongolia's citizens in both urban and rural areas also stood to
directly benefit from the project's legal information campaigns.
2


﻿The PAD also highlighted the Kazakh ethnic minority living in the Bayan Ulgii
Aimag as one of the direct beneficiaries. The restructuring did not modify primary target
groups.
1.5 Original Components (as approved)
The original Project components were:
I. Enhancing Public Legal Education in the Justice Sector (US$250,000 Grant, plus
US$250,000 PHRD): The original design of Component 1 included technical assistance
for the development of comprehensive legal education reform program and the
implementation of a national public information strategy, complementing the work of
other donors and NGOs as a means to enhance the transparency and accountability of
justice sector institutions. In addition, this component was to support efforts to reform
national legal education standards, certification programs and licensing practices. Finally,
this component was also to support the development and implementation of a special
bilingual legal information program for the Kazakh speaking population of the Bayan-
Ulgii Aimag.
II. Increasing transparency through Improved Access to Legal Information
(US$1.26 million Grant, plus US$150,000 PHRD): The original objective of this
component was to improve access to legal information by implementing national justice
sector information and networking strategies for both the Supreme Court and MOJ's
CDEA. The proposed project activities included the development of a fiber optic network
to improve connectively between MOJ and the judiciary, in particular the GCC, all
Aimag courts, and all CDEAs offices.
These networking activities drew from the successes of the Unified Information
Network (UIN)-created under the LJRP, that provided justice sector agencies in
Ulaanbaatar for the first time with ready access to important legal information such as
laws, administrative regulations, Supreme Court decisions and constitutional court
decisions. The EJSSP proposed to work to integrate court case management systems
nationwide, linking Mongolia's regional Aimag courts with the Supreme Court and
providing real-time monitoring tools for better court management and transparency. The
objective was to provide more efficient planning and monitoring systems and improve
overall efficiency and transparency of the courts. To ensure effective data sharing a
justice information strategy, data sharing agreements and capacity building to ensure
proper use of the network were planned. Another activity was the creation of a
centralized judicial archive and public information system.
III. Enhancing Judicial Operations, Enforcement and Monitoring of Court
Decisions (US$3.34 million Grant, US$0.45 PHRD, US$1m GOM): This component
had two main activities centered around: (a) strengthening and modernization of the
CDEA; (b) the construction of a new Supreme Court. The planned activities were to
move the CDEA from manual operations to electronic operations, with databases,
systems, and processes to respond and effectively enforce judgments, as well as address
complaints concerning enforcement. The project was to finance site surveys and the
refurbishment or construction of (10) select rural Aimag CDEA offices. Additionally, the
component was to support the creation of a nationwide network to assist the Agency to
3


﻿effectively document, enforce and monitor court decisions. The project was also to
provide adequate and modern tools and equipment for the CDEA network to function
properly. Lastly, the Project was to provide training for CDEA staff on the new systems
and tools, as well as other relevant topics. The main aim of the training was to improve
practices and procedures to be carried out by the CDEA staff, based on a study the
project would conduct to identify improvement methods.
The second subcomponent included the construction of a new Supreme Court
facility, with new court rooms and court space, a functional IT network linked to regional
courts, a public space for viewing of public records. The Supreme Court facility was to
be built to international standards and include the creation of a national court archive.
IV. Project Management (US$150,000 Grant, plus US$100,000 PHRD): Under this
component the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) established under the previous project
would be strengthened to enable it to ensure quality implementation, management,
monitoring and supervision of all proposed Project activities. The PIU was to be housed
in the MOJ. Specialized PIU staff (consultants) were to provide the required expertise,
support, and management of proposed project activities. The PIU was also to manage
monitoring and evaluation activities including the preparation and distribution of both an
interim and full baseline survey. The Project was to also contract a private auditing firm
to undertake the yearly project financial audits. The MOJ, as implementing agencies was
to provide physical and logistical support, a multi-stakeholder Project Steering
Committee was to provide overall guidance, support and coordination for effective
implementation.
1.6 Revised Components
See section 1.7
1.7 Other significant changes
The 2012 Level I restructuring did not modify the four components but implied a
change in the scope and scale of the components as follows:
*  The construction of a new Supreme Court building and judicial archives was
dropped and instead, it was agreed to finance the construction of four courts and
refurbishment of one. The number of CDEA offices to be financed out of the
project was reduced from 10 to three. All of the proposed construction sites were
outside the capital, thereby addressing the GOM's access to justice and service
delivery concerns.
*  The amount allocated for associated goods (i.e. construction) was reduced,
allowing for a reallocation of credit funds towards consulting services and
training which would have been funded under the PHRD Grant.
Funds were re-allocated, and the project closing date was extended by six months,
from December 31, 2012 to June 30, 2013. Since the construction activities changed, the
project safeguard category also changed from C to B. These changes are depicted in
detail in Annex 10.
In June 2013, a minor reallocation of funds was processed. It addressed an
adverse drop in the exchange rate, and slight cost differences in the civil works category.
4


﻿The reallocations were in line with the project's priorities and did not reflect any
substantive changes to the project's scope or activities.
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
Soundness of the Background Analysis. The experience of the prior justice project LJRP,
of an Institutional Development Fund (IDF) Grant for the Administrative Courts, and of
work of other donors such as USAID confirmed the need for this project to invest in
expanding public legal information and improving legal education activities. Those
projects had also demonstrated the potential for using IT solutions as a cost effective way
to bring greater transparency and efficiency to judicial operations. The envisioned
components were relevant to the country context and requested by the GOM and other
stakeholders.
Assessment of Project Design. Building upon prior project experience the Bank
continued support for much needed court infrastructure, networking, as well as public
legal education and law school reform. The addition of first-time support for the court
enforcement agency provided for a more sector wide approach, rare in justice sector
projects. Nevertheless, there were issues with the project design. In particular, questions
were raised by peer reviewers during the QER and decision meeting about: (i) alternative
options to constructing a Supreme Court building and instead delivering justice services
to remote population through mobile courts; (ii) the history of cost overruns and delays in
judicial infrastructure components in other projects; and (iii) the reliance on the PHRD
grant to finance all public legal information activities and training. Implementation
showed that those questions had not been sufficiently addressed in the original design.
The public and legal education components, on the other hand were based on good
concepts developed in the earlier projects, engaging relevant stakeholders with a long
term vision of creating sustainable capacities for reforms.
Government Commitment. The previous project's ICR had noted that future projects
should emphasize greater involvement from GOM. The Mongolian justice sector was
highly committed to the project, its objectives and activities during preparation. The
Supreme Court was committed to developing a new building and archive; the CDEA was
enthusiastic about receiving international assistance for the first time ever. A Project
Steering Committee (PSC) was to be established in order to oversee all project activities
as part of project implementation. The great commitment of the MOJ to maintain the
scope of Component 1 during restructuring and its own contributions as well as the strong
engagement of the law school community is reflected in the responsive design. A
Government change following Board approval of the project in part explains the delay in
effectiveness. GOM commitment, however, remained strong.
Readiness of implementation. In hindsight, the project was not fully ready for
implementation at the time of approval. As a result, critical pieces of project preparation
slipped into implementation and caused delays. In particular, site specific surveys for the
5


﻿construction, technical specifications for the fiber optic network, and preparation for the
CDEA software were not sufficiently advanced at the time of appraisal. The timetable for
implementation was overly optimistic, as the bulk of the activities were to be
implemented in year two. Construction costs were underestimated, though it would have
been hard to project the increase in construction costs that Mongolia experienced since
the late 2000s.
Several conditions of effectiveness and disbursement were put in place, also
suggesting that the project was not fully ready for implementation by the time of project
negotiations. One condition pertained to the approval of the PHRD Grant although
neither the Bank nor the GOM had any leverage on the outcome. This condition and
others were ultimately waived during effectiveness.
Expected construction sites were not analyzed in detail during project preparation,
which meant that a series of operational and environmental issues had to be handled
during project implementation. (See further discussion in Section 2.4).
Assessment of Risks. The PAD identified some generalized risks to the Project
Development Objective. The component risks and their ratings did not take into account
the above mentioned issues raised during the QER meeting.
Again in hindsight, additional risks could have been identified and addressed
better at preparation time:
*  although training and technical assistance were essential to the project achieving
its PDO, these were mostly to be funded from the PHRD grant creating an upfront
risk;
*  the lack of site specific surveys for the proposed construction and procurement
preparation meant that there was a high risk of disbursement delays;
*  the project costs included minimal cost and price contingencies.
2.2 Implementation
Despite many challenges and start-up delays, the GOM delivered a holistic reform
project in de facto 2 V2 years, beginning with the initiation of the restructuring with a
reduced scope of construction. This included delivery of 4 new court buildings and
refurbishment of one, construction of three CDEA buildings, linking all courts and
CDEA offices across the country via fiber optic cable, reform of law school education,
country-wide education programs and increased access to legal information for all and
special target groups and legal assistance for the poor across the country.
There were a number of factors outside the control of Government or the
implementing agencies that influenced project implementation and ultimately project
outcomes:
*  Project ratification by Parliament and thus effectiveness was delayed by one year
due to elections, by which point the material costs for construction had already
risen dramatically.
*  The PHRD Grant, which was expected to fund technical assistance and M&E
activities, was not approved. Without timely technical assistance, the pace of
implementation slowed. This financing shortfall, along with skyrocketing
construction costs limited the project's ability to progress towards achieving its
development objective and led to the restructuring.
6


﻿Otherfactors subject to Government control influenced project implementation:
*  The lack of detailed analysis of expected construction sites during project
preparation meant that a series of operational and environmental issues had to be
handled during project implementation and led to delays. It took until 2011 for the
GOM to meet all the disbursement conditions for the construction of the CDEA
offices. The construction of the new Supreme Court building also proved
problematic as it turned out that the site selected by GOM was in Bogd Khan Uul,
a Special Protected Area (SPA) and a UNESCO biosphere reserve. Construction
would have been in violation of the Bank's Natural Habitat policy (OP 4.04). It
took a year of discussions with GOM for them to agree to drop its request to
finance this building. The GCC asked that in lieu the project finance four court
buildings and refurbish another.
*  The staffing of the PIU was a chronic issue cited for improvement in multiple
project Aide-Memoires throughout most of project implementation. In practical
terms, the PIU was not equipped to implement the complex project as designed.
In the long interim between Board Approval and effectiveness, all but one of the
prior PIU staff left because they were not paid. From this point on in
implementation, key hires for technical positions were delayed, underfilled or
never filled. The PIU was reasonably staffed to implement the public legal
education and information component, but the lack of specialized staff to manage
the day-to-day aspects of the construction and fiber optics created problems that
adversely impacted implementation. A number of recommendations were made to
the GOM to improve the PIU's staffing and performance, but few concrete
actions were taken.
On the Bank's side, the rapid succession of Task Team Leaders in the initial
phase of the project did not facilitate the engagement with GOM nor tight supervision.
By the time the 4th Task Team Leader took over in 2010, the project was rated a project at
risk. Thanks to the high level of familiarity of the TTL with judicial reforms, including in
Mongolia, the Bank team was able to intensify supervision, have a frank dialogue with
the Borrower about the delays and implementation problems, and agree on an action plan
with the GOM to move the project forward while the restructuring was finalized. The
dialogue, past experience, and the Bank's flexibility and responsiveness throughout the
lengthy restructuring mobilized counterpart engagement and ensured that the project
activities were implemented, and the redesigned M&E framework was realistic given the
remaining time for implementation. Strong supervision by the Bank in the last two years
of the project and greater counterpart engagement ensured that the project activities
remained largely on track.
The discussions and decisions made leading up to the restructuring, including
agreement on interim procurement plans helped to speed up project implementation by
2011 before the restructuring was finalized. Once the site issues were worked out with
the GCC and CDEA, and after overcoming many procurement challenges, the key
construction contracts were signed two years behind the original schedule, in late 2011.
By the time of the Mid-Term Review (MTR), most components of the project had
progressed well but it was clear that attention to timely implementation could not falter
again. The Bank team's use of frequent videoconferences in the period leading up to the
restructuring and through the implementation was critical in resolving issues and for
7


﻿keeping tabs on implementation progress. Intensified supervision, specific action plans,
more regular reporting, greater engagement of the steering committee and an enhanced
role for the MOJ in project supervision had a positive effect on project implementation.
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
M&E Design. The original design of the M&E was overly complex and there
was a disconnect between the PDO, interim indicators, and envisioned project activities.
The Financing Agreement required that the baseline survey be completed by Project
Effectiveness; some data were collected but only in relation to the construction of CDEA
buildings and to law school education and many were not relevant to the PDOs or interim
indicators; as a result, this condition was not met.
M&E implementation. The project's M&E was almost consistently rated
moderately unsatisfactory during implementation. The original project design had placed
the funding for the M&E efforts solely within the PHRD Grant. When the grant was not
approved, the GOM and Bank team had to rethink how to use existing sources to produce
a meaningful assessment of project impact. The PIU began collection of M&E data in
earnest only in 2010.
Following restructuring, the M&E framework focused on data to be collected as
part of implementing agency or counterpart activities to ease the burden of data collection
and develop related capacities in country. This approach in the end garnered a good set of
output and even some impact data and created awareness of the importance of gathering
performance data among stakeholders. However, the results of these efforts came late,
not just because implementation was often delayed but due to lack of dedicated PIU staff
to handle and coordinate the needed M&E activities. Data collection and analysis was
mainly progressing during supervision missions and with considerable input and
guidance from the Bank. The lack of specialized staff within the PIU and options to
address this was discussed with the MOJ frequently but continued to be an issue; it was
only in the final four months of the project that an M&E specialist was hired.
M&E utilization. M&E utilization varied for this project but demonstrated that
when data was available, it could be used to demonstrate the effectiveness of the
activities and gain support for future funding. For example, under Component 1, the
project implemented a number of cost-effective and innovative approaches to public legal
education centered around nine societal values. The subject matter for the various
campaign activities, such as TV and radio spots, special events, pamphlets and posters
were developed based on stakeholder feedback, including the National Legal Institute's
(NLI) helpline and often developed in coordination with other relevant ministries (i.e.,
environment, health, education, etc.). Unfortunately, there was no system in place to
measure the impact of these activities - leaving only output data, some of which at least
provide support for overall impact assumptions. These are currently used by the MOJ to
develop subsequent campaigns.
The project's public legal education activities for the Kazakh and Mongolian
minorities in the Western region included data collection requirements related to services
provided and populations served by gender. The data demonstrate a high need for
information and advice being met at low cost. This convinced the MOJ subsequently to
maintain these activities after the project closed.
The greatest use of survey results and service delivery data was made by the law
schools. The satisfaction rates with training events and publications informed further
8


﻿activities and the number of clients served as part of the legal clinic efforts in the ger
districts as well as results from the work with high school students led the participating
law schools to continue these activities after the projects closed.
Due to implementation delays, two major project activities - court construction
and the fiber optic connections - were only completed at project closure and related data
collection naturally lagged behind. This limited the extent to which a greater analysis of
project outcomes could take place. Nevertheless, surveys of staff and user satisfaction
with the new buildings were conducted in 2012 when the first buildings were completed
and again at the end of the project in August 2013. Both survey cycles indicate
improvements in staff and user satisfaction. It will take more time to measure the impact
of increased data exchanges on the performance of agencies (GCC and CDEA) as IT
systems became operational at the very end of the project. Anecdotal evidence so far
indicates important improvements and cost savings but more data would have to be
collected a year from now to demonstrate the impact more rigorously.
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Safeguards. The Bank's Safeguard Policies on Environmental Assessment (OP
4.01) and Indigenous Peoples (OP 4.10) applied to the project.
Environmental Safeguards. OP 4.01 was triggered under the initial design. The
initial screening of the project activities at the Project Concept Note (PCN) stage was
based on design information available at that time. The PCN stated that the project would
focus on the refurbishment or construction of a few CDEA buildings and that "potential
environmental impacts will be highly localized in Aimag locations". Accordingly, the
project was initially classified as a Category "C". The PAD later included support for
construction of a new Supreme Court building and about 10 smaller buildings for the
CDEA and proposed that the EJSSP use the same environmental guidelines as the LJSP,
modifying any bidding documents for works, especially as it related to environmental
mitigation measures on-site as a means to comply with the Bank's safeguards policies. A
basic site selection criterion was established in June 2009. The GOM agreed to donate
unoccupied public lands for construction.
The public land selected by the GOM for the construction of a Supreme Court
Building was located in a UNESCO biosphere reserve; construction on that site would
have been in violation of the Bank's Safeguards Policy on Natural Habitats (OP 4.04).
This activity was dropped with the restructuring April 2012. As of 2010, talks began
with the GOM to instead support the construction of smaller, regional (Aimag) courts.
With the support of a Bank safeguards specialist, an Environmental Safeguard Guideline
for Small Civil Works was developed and adopted in June 2011. By October 2011,
additional siting problems had arisen, as site preparations at one of the new court sites
detected that it was situated in a river basin2 and additional delays were incurred as a
suitable site had to be found. The restructured project complied with the Environmental
Safeguard Guideline, and all Bank policies.
Social Safeguards. The project design gave considerable weight to social
safeguards. Component 1 (Legal Education) included special activities to ensure the
Kazakh minority's full participation in the project. Specific legal outreach activities were
2 Project Aide-Memoire, October 1-11, 2011, pg. 2.
9


﻿designed for Bayan Ulgii Aimag, and a simplified Indigenous Peoples' Plan (IPP) was
developed and put in place.
In applying the Indigenous Peoples' Policy (OP 4.10), the IPP was drafted to
extend basic principles established in the LJRP through awareness campaigns for the
Kazakh language speaking population of Bayan Ulgii Aimag. A social assessment and
local consultations were undertaken, and the project activities were designed with these
results in mind.
Fiduciary: Financial Management. The overall Financial Management risk was
deemed high at project appraisal.    To address this risk the PAD      contained
recommendations for holding the Special Account in a Commercial Bank and for private
auditors to undertake project financial audits. There were no issues related to the project's
financial management during implementation; financial management reports were
provided to the Bank in a timely manner, all audit reports were clean, and any
recommendations made by the Bank to improve the Financial Management systems were
promptly addressed.
Procurement.    Operational aspects of project procurement were almost
consistently rated unsatisfactory in the Bank's Implementation Status Reports (ISRs). By
the time project implementation started most staff from the prior PIU had left, and along
with changes at the MOJ most of the prior capacities to handle Bank procurement were
no longer available. Project procurement plans were often prepared several months late,
requiring several revisions until final approval was possible. Procurement requests and
bidding documents were often sent to the Bank with insufficient information and errors;
regularly requiring additional guidance from the Bank team and several revisions before
the Bank's final no objection could be issued. These procurement delays particularly
plagued the construction activities and the development of the Fiber Optic Network. As a
result, key implementation activities could only be completed late in the project leaving
little room to demonstrate actual impact.
2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
Project design and ongoing communications during implementation aimed at the
sustainability of all activities. Regarding Component 1, the MOJ's mandate includes
public legal education and it has pledged to continue the related activities with its own
budget. The project provided the MOJ with a variety of models (e.g., website, paralegals,
public information campaigns) and activity costs to draw from. Concrete plans have been
made to ensure that the NLI carries out future public legal education efforts, maintaining
the two upgraded websites financed by the project and working directly with legal
officers in all Aimags and within Ulaanbaatar districts to disseminate information. The
MOJ will also continue the legal aid centers for the Kazakh and Mongolian minorities in
Mongolia's western region, though the focus will likely shift to legal aid in criminal cases.
The improvements in the legal education system at the university level are well
institutionalized. Education standards for legal clinics have become law and, as the
project focused on creating standard curricula, the needed human resources to apply and
advance the efforts, and strengthened the professional network to continue reforms, the
payoff should be long term. The model created to modernize law school curriculum and
professors' skills has been cited by the Ministry of Education and Sciences (MES) as a
best practice for higher education, and is likely to be sustained over the long term.
10


﻿Related to Components 2 and 3, all future maintenance and operating expenses
for facilities and IT networking systems improved through the project will be
incorporated in future budget allocations to the MOJ, the judiciary and the CDEA. The
firms that developed the Administrative Court and CDEA case management systems will
remain under contract for technical support and any minor debugging through the end of
June 2014.
No follow-on activities for the justice sector have been prepared by the Bank.
3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Given the importance of justice to good governance, international trade and
economic development in Mongolia, the project received attention from the GOM
throughout implementation. Continued reform and support to the justice sector remain
key priorities for the GOM.
The project also remained highly relevant to the Bank's assistance to Mongolia.
Weak governance, as a risk to sustainable growth and an impediment to the effective
delivery of services by government to businesses and citizens, in particular vulnerable
citizens, has been a core theme of the Bank's engagement in Mongolia since 2005,
starting with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for FY2005-9, then the Interim
Strategy Note (ISN)3 of 2009-2010 and now the Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for
the period FY2013-2017. The CPS notes that the justice sector is facing issues related to
lacking capacities of judges and prosecutors, increasing allegations of corruption, lack of
access to justice in rural areas, and limited public trust in the justice sector. In addition,
lack of access to relevant sector information is at the core of ineffective management and
opacity of justice sector operations. Subsequently, CPS Outcome 3.2 lists the Justice
Sector as one of the key delivery partners in public services.
The investment in the sector's ICT infrastructure and information sharing
capacities furthermore supports other continuing government and Bank priorities for
supporting the creation of e-government solutions and achieving greater transparency.
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Since the project underwent a first order restructuring in 2012, the ICR will assess
the project outcome "before" and "after" restructuring.
Achievement of PDO before restructuring
Rating: Unsatisfactory
As noted above, the project's progress towards meeting the PDO was impacted by
design issues, limited preparedness at appraisal and lack of progress in implementation
until April 2010, when discussions about restructuring began. At that time most project
activities had not started, actual disbursement was at 1.5% (US$78,000) and no
detectable progress towards the original PDO indicators could be established.
Once the restructuring was underway, the Bank and the GOM agreed on interim
work plans, better defined active implementation roles for the PIU, the PSC and
Report Number 48311-MN
11


﻿stakeholders to speed up implementation even before restructuring was completed. As a
result, disbursement increased to 44.2% (US$2,211,000.00) in April 2012 when
restructuring was approved. These positive developments were largely due to increased
construction activities and progress in the legal education component. The original PDOs,
however, depended on progress in ICT capacities which required that construction and
networking activities were completed. Accordingly progress towards the PDO was
limited at the time the restructuring became effective.
Achievement of PDO after restructuring
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The project closed having implemented all of the agreed activities and meeting all
of its PDO indicators. For this reason, the PDO rating after restructuring is moderately
satisfactory. Following restructuring and a period during which progress became more
visible, the rating was increased from Moderately Unsatisfactory to Moderately
Satisfactory. At the time of the last ISR, as final delivery of several components and
collection of final M&E data were pending, it was agreed to rate the project as
moderately unsatisfactory with the understanding that the rating could be adjusted
upwards if all outputs were delivered in time and data demonstrating outcomes were
provided at ICR time.
The PDO (to enhance access to justice sector information and legal advice, and
increase the efficiency and transparency of the courts and the CDEA) was measured by
four indicators:
L Data and statistics on enforcement of court decisions is shared regularly between the
CDEA and the GCC. This target has been partially met. At the start of the project no data
exchanges occurred between the courts and the CDEA which delayed the start of
enforcement processes and also meant that the court did not have sufficient information
to understand if and how their decisions could be enforced. Effective data sharing
required that data definitions and sharing requirements were agreed between the courts
and the CDEA. Electronic data collection and sharing is another element for efficient and
low error data exchanges. While data could have been shared manually, only the courts
had an effective way to gather timely information from all locations via their website. As
a result, the development and implementation of the CDEA software and fiber optic
connectivity had first to be in place before effective data sharing could be achieved. With
delays in those activities, data sharing agreements were also delayed. A data sharing
MoU was signed on May 29, 2013 and a working group to establish data sharing
requirements has been created to develop the needed exchange standards. Exact data to
be exchanged will be established after a new law that requires that all judges monitor
enforcement rates for their cases comes into effect on November 1, 2013. Due to the
delays in automation, this indicator target was only partially met by the end of the
project. By early December 2013 initial data sharing agreements were in place and data
exchanges were piloted between the GCC and CDEA. The combined effect will be
improved capacities to monitor court and CDEA performance, eventually leading to
greater efficiency in agency performance.
IL Local courts submit electronic case data regularly to the GCC. This target has been
met. At the beginning of the project, data from the local courts were sent in hard copy on
a monthly basis to the GCC. The reports were not always received in time and provided
12


﻿the GCC with limited information to monitor the performance of individual courts. When
the project supported improvements to the UIN, local courts across the country were able
to upload case data electronically at least on a monthly basis. The fiber optic connection
and case management software supported by the project now also provide real time case
status information for effective performance monitoring at least for the administrative
courts. The positive first experiences with this software prompted the civil case working
group, which was supported by the GIZ, to halt its efforts and reflect the substantially
greater capacities of the administrative case software in their own design which should
come online in early 2014.
III. CDEA processes are unified and monitored for more effective enforcement. This
target has been met. At the beginning of this project enforcement processes were applied
differently across the country, leading to inefficiencies and impeding enforcement efforts.
Lack of reliable enforcement information made monitoring of activities and timely
identification of problems difficult. The automation now forces the uniform application
of required processes and, combined with the fiber optic connectivity now provides for
effective monitoring of cases. All CDEA offices are submitting weekly or even daily (in
UB) data. Since the system only came online towards the end of the project, impact
information is not yet available. Staff report time savings due to reduced data entry
requirements, electronic access to registry databases and automated notification processes.
Training of CDEA officers supported by the project, investments made by the agency itself and a
greater focus on effective service delivery seem to be reflected in improved enforcement
outcomes. By August 31, 2013 58.9% of the amounts to be enforced was collected, in
comparison in 2012 when the rate was 40.10%, or in 2011 44.2%, or in 2010 43.0%.
IV. Access to legal information and advice is increased across all UB districts and
Aimags (provinces). As outlined in more detail in Annex 2 and 3, the project was
successful in enhancing access to justice sector information and legal advice. Legal
information campaigns were implemented throughout the country using multiple means
and media in accordance with a targeted outreach strategy. Options for sustainable legal
advice were created for poor and vulnerable groups, and addressed a growing need.
Modernization of law school education took place, which will serve the sector well into
the future.
The project collected good output data for all components supporting PDO and
interim PDO indicator achievement, but data to demonstrate that the project had impacts
beyond the PDO indicators, such as actual increase in court and CDEA efficiency require
that the supported reforms are operational for several months, ideally at least a year. To
establish impact, follow-up data collection would be needed beyond the duration of the
project. Given the fact that most of the project activities are institutionalized and that
there is great ownership of the reforms among the project's many stakeholders, it is very
likely that more fundamental impacts will be achieved. Longer term monitoring and
evaluation would be needed to confirm this trend.
3.3 Efficiency
Measuring the efficiency of this project is difficult, not just because there was
little related data collected for the PAD but rather because economic rate of return for this
kind of investments is difficult to calculate - what is the price of justice?
13


﻿A few efficiency estimates exist. First, after restructuring the project conducted a
cost-effectiveness study of different options for connectivity that informed the choice for
the fiber optic connection and the service provider. Other initial efficiency assumptions
and results include the following:
The expectation that the fiscal cost of the investments in ICT would be offset by
improvements in the efficiency of operations in the selected courts and CDEA offices has
been initially proven correct:
*  The administrative court software almost eliminated procedural errors which
in the past had led to approximately 38% of all cases going to appeal. The
CDEA software also reduced errors and streamlined processes translating into
more time for enforcement actions; and availability of all enforcement
information to managers eliminates the need to recall enforcement officers
from enforcement actions in the often distant soums. First data through end-
September 2013 show that CDEA offices registered a 59% enforcement rate
for CY2013, compared to 40% for all of 2012. The agency also recorded a
fourfold increase in the total value of cases enforced compared to the previous
3 years. Additional cost efficiency information for connecting 29 CDEA
facilities and 26 courts in all Aimags and UB, developing and providing the
case management software and some IT equipment, is outlined in more detail
in Annex 3.
*  The total investment for all activities supporting reform  of law  school
education equated to US$38.50 per student enrolled in the 2013/14 school
year - a small amount considering that the same investments already
benefitted earlier semesters and will continue to serve students in the future.
*   Support for legal education and legal aid in the underserved Kazakh region
was provided for US$0.77 per person for all years.
*  US$234,000 was spent (not counting contribution made by the MOJ) for
targeted legal education campaigns that reached all sectors of the population
across the country several times and over three and a half years, equating into
US$0.08 per person for all years.
The investment in the construction activities, on the other hand, may not have
been the best value for money. While the new buildings and refurbishment were much
needed, comparison information from the CDEA and the courts indicates that the
government can build such facilities at lower cost and in a shorter period of time. While
the overall budget situation of the justice sector was weaker at the time the project was
designed, the courts and the CDEA have since funded several buildings out of their own
budget. Additional cost and economic information is provided in Annex 3.
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating - combined relevance, PDO
achievement and efficiency
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The overall outcome rating for this Project is Moderately Satisfactory. The
project completed all its activities within a 2 V2 year period after initial start-up problems,
was and remains relevant for the country, investments are sustainable and had positive
implications beyond the justice sector, most were efficient and the PDOs were largely
14


﻿met. The last ISR suggested this rating if all project deliverables would be completed by
the end of the project - which is what was achieved.
The public legal information and legal advice component did reap the intended
benefits and were and remain relevant for the country. There is a marked improvement in
the quality and content of legal education in Mongolia compared to project inception.
There are clear standards for law schools, and law students now enjoy a modem
curriculum that reflects Mongolia's rapidly changing legal framework and is more in tune
with the needs of practicing lawyers. These investments were relatively low cost and
efficient. The end results of this modernization process will only be seen in a number of
years, when new law graduates begin to exercise their profession. Anecdotal evidence
points to the fact that law school graduates already enjoy increased employability.
Improvements in service delivery by CDEA agents should translate into
performance improvements and initial enforcement data support this assumption. The
adoption of case management programs in both the CDEA and the Administrative Courts
will improve the efficiency of these institutions by streamlining data entry and process
steps and real time performance information. Overall, the combined IT infrastructure
investments not only provide for more effective operations and monitoring for the CDEA
and the courts but also provide the backbone for further IT solutions that can improve
operations, lower cost and provide greater access to justice.
The civil works were much needed and are an important contribution to
developing a better functioning justice system that meets the needs of users across the
country. The high cost and significant delays in delivering the buildings indicate that this
particular investment choice was less efficient.
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
Estimating poverty and gender impacts is difficult within a project such as this
one that generally serves all people as relevant socio-economic data of populations served
by the courts and related outcomes are currently not collected by the agencies involved.
The information available at this time indicates that the project made important
contributions to the legal education and access to legal aid for Kazakh and Mongolian
minorities, the blind, and the poor in selected project areas and that women often
reflected a greater share of this assistance than man. For example, 54% of the individuals
assisted by the two legal aid clinics in Bayan-Ulgii Aimag were women. The percentage
of women served by legal aid clinics in poor ger districts in UB was 69%, while women
represented 68% of the population served in the Narantuul Market clinic.
The increased number of legal clinics at laws schools, including special clinics
serving the ger districts expanded the availability of free legal aid to the poor in
Ulaanbaatar as did the training of paralegals in Aimags (see Annex 11 Table I b-5 for
more detail).
The multimedia campaigns designed under Component 1 targeted specific age
groups for important societal issues. Printed information disseminated across the country
and the websites for legal information further provides free access to legal information
for all.
From a social development perspective, improving, facilitating and expanding
individual and collective access to law and justice supports economic and social
15


﻿development. Public legal education gives the poor and minorities the opportunity to
assert their individual and property rights; improved access to justice via legal advice and
assistance empowers the poor to enforce those rights. Increasing accessibility to courts
lessens and overcomes the economic, psychological, informational and physical barriers
faced by women, indigenous populations, and other individuals who need these services.
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
The project strengthened the operations of its key counterpart institutions leading to
changes that are likely to show long term impacts. Under Component 1, the project's support
to the development and coordination of a network involving all law schools to work
together to improve education standards, teaching capacities and material led to
fundamental improvements in law school education. Linking this network to relevant
MOJ and MES counterparts was important to ensuring that accreditation criteria reflect
the needed changes and that reforms are institutionalized. Engaging with the Mongolian
Association of Law Schools strengthened this professional network and resulted in a
number of long-reaching recommendations that are now taken forward and will further
improve legal education in Mongolia.
The project also supported progress in instilling a service delivery culture within
the CDEA via creation of a training center and development of trainers. These capacities
remain with the agency and will continue to serve it well.
In addition, the user-friendly ICT systems in both the CDEA and the
Administrative Courts lead to greater efficiency capacities in both institutions that remain,
evolve and are already used as models for other courts and justice sector agencies. These
systems also provide for real time monitoring information and create performance data
that can be readily shared with the public for greater transparency.
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
The work to revise the law school curriculum was deemed a best practice for
Higher Education by the MES at project closing. Anecdotal evidence showed that other
education sectors were interested in adopting similar teaching methods.
The posting of Supreme Court decisions on the www.legalinfo.mn website not
only increased transparency but meant that law faculties could utilize these decisions as
part of their new teaching approaches. In addition, there is anecdotal evidence that judges
now pay closer attention to how they draft their opinions.
The project also provided important legal outreach to Mongolia's blind population
through a legal information campaign in partnership with the National Association of the
Blind. Laws had not been published in braille before due to the relatively high costs to
produce. For the first time, blind Mongolians now can directly access these laws which
is particularly important in relation to the Law on Social Welfare and Insurance, and
children's rights. With branches in each Aimag, the National Association of the Blind can
easily disseminate laws and other materials ensuring a nationwide reach that will be
sustained beyond the project.
One unintended, positive outcome of the project was that the civil case
management software for the courts that had been developed with support of the GIZ for
the past 2 years was adjusted when it became clear that the administrative software
supported by the Bank project had greater functionalities and was more user-friendly.
16


﻿3.6 Summary of Findings of Stakeholder Workshops
A Stakeholder Workshop was held on June 12, 2013 in Ulaanbaatar.
Approximately 50 people attended, including a broad group of representatives from the
various agencies and stakeholder groups involved in the project (the MOJ, the GCC, the
CDEA, the administrative courts, the courts, the Kazakh and ethnic minorities, the
National Association of the Blind, and law schools, among others) as well as other donors.
For the most part, the stakeholders felt that the project had accomplished a great
deal in relation to their own individual activities. The stakeholders applauded the
project's flexibility in meeting the evolving policy and needs of the sector. There was
some consensus around the fact that all the project stakeholders could have been more
efficient in implementation activities. It was also noted that in many cases, the project
had begun or piloted activities that will be continued under government programs or
policies.  Similarly law school and MOE representatives mentioned the important
contribution the project made to bringing them together and improving legal education
and that many activities will be continued by the law schools themselves. Representatives
from the Kazakh region stressed the importance of the project for increasing access to
justice for minorities. The courts and the CDEA were particularly grateful for the
installation of the fiber optic network, as it will improve efficiency and ultimately cut
costs for postage, telephone, and travel. Similarly, the physical works for the courts and
CDEA offices were also viewed positively, as the staff of both institutions now enjoys
much improved working conditions. The construction and rehabilitation has allowed
some courts to shed the vestiges of their socialist past, which provoked fear in some and
avoidance in other court users. More details regarding this workshop can be found in
Annex 6.
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low
At the time of project closing, the Government and other stakeholders are
committed to sustaining and advancing the achieved reforms and have adopted a number
of policies that support the activities financed under the project.
Public legal education activities are a MOJ mandate and the models supported by
this project are being advanced for future activities. Legal aid investments are being
sustained either by the MOJ, Aimag-level budgets or law schools.
Changes supported to modernize undergraduate legal education were largely
institutionalized and championed by the Mongolian Association of Law Schools and
endorsed both by the MOJ and the MES. As a result, there is little risk of reversal of
these changes.
There was strong Government commitment to provide budget allocations for
maintenance of buildings and ICT investments. The ICT activities are further supported
by the current e-government strategies and the software solutions have been rolled out
and are being used in the administrative courts and the CDEA offices. They are already
used as models for similar ICT solutions in other courts and justice sector agencies.
17


﻿5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
As described in section 2.1, the original project design had its challenges and
preparation especially for components 2 and 3 was not sufficiently advanced, leaving too
much to be determined during implementation (e.g. sites for construction, software
development preparations). On the positive side, the design of the law school and legal
education component was a good continuation of prior Bank supported activities and
built upon experience of other donors.
(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.
In the first years of implementation, the project failed to get the larger activities
(construction, fiber optic network) underway despite active communications with the PIU.
Efficient engagement with the GOM began in 2010 with difficult discussions regarding
the project's unsatisfactory implementation and the need to revise the proposed
constructions in light of rising costs and the inappropriate location selected for the
construction of the Supreme Court building. These discussions helped refocus the GOM's
priorities and activate the PSC and other stakeholders for technical input on project
activities. Action plans were regularly agreed upon, followed-up and discussed with
intensified supervision.
As for the financial and procurement aspects of the project, local Bank staff in
Ulaanbaatar provided day-to-day support, with additional assistance from the Bank's
office in China, in addition to the DC-based task team. The supervision of the
procurement aspects was particularly challenging as noted in every Aide Memoire
starting from the end of 2010. The inability of the client to expand the PIU capacity
contributed to the late delivery of major project activities and required significant
additional support from the World Bank team.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
Despite project design issues, startup problems and delays, the Bank was able to
overcome these flaws by identifying with the GOM viable project activities that were
linked to the PDO. Furthermore, the Bank worked diligently with the PIU to arrive at
rigorous action plans that would catalyze the implementation activities already
throughout the lengthy restructuring. The Bank team made a case for increased project
supervision budget to keep the revised project activities on track, and augmented
supervision missions by actively supervising the project from Washington through
videoconferencing. The result was a marked increase (almost 80 percent) in disbursement
and completion of all project activities after the project restructuring. The flexibility and
guidance provided by the Bank, especially during the last 2 V2 years assisted the GOM's
efforts to ultimately successfully implementing all project activities.
18


﻿5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The GOM supported this project throughout project design, appraisal and
implementation. At project closure, it remains committed to continuing and advancing
the project activities. Justice sector reform remains a key element of the country's
democratic development. The justice sector has been and continues to be essential to the
country's economic development.
There were occasional gaps in this support due to political changes and limited
human capacities at the MOJ and other counterpart agencies.
In 2010, when the project was delayed and not on track to meet its development
objective as designed, the MOJ restated its strong support for the project and agreed that
a restructuring of the project was necessary. The MOJ continued to support the more
holistic justice reform approach instead of a limited focus on construction. In response,
the GCC proposed a major change in the Bank-financed construction activities; a difficult
and unpopular decision for the SC which delayed the Government's restructuring request
for a number of months.
To the GOM's credit, the number of stakeholders involved in the public legal
education and information component and the law school reforms helped shape the
activities, and ultimately their success. The comprehensive legal education reforms
involved solid consultations, coordination and engagement of all key stakeholders and
their ownership of this process resulted in advances that should be sustained over a
considerable period of time. The MOJ recognized and commended the project for
allowing them to pilot a number of different means and forms of communication to
implement their public information strategy, and more importantly, providing them with
costed models that can be replicated. Similarly, the MOJ's willingness to focus on active
engagement and strengthening of a stakeholder network created ownership in law school
reform within the broad private and public law school community that ultimately lead to
almost a grassroots approach to sustainable reform results and capacities at law schools.
The creation of law schools standards, which were then enacted into law, helped to
further consolidate these gains.
The CDEA which was new to Bank projects was actively engaged after
restructuring and successfully institutionalized uniform processes, training and IT
solutions. The administrative courts have pro-actively advanced their ICT solutions and
continue to influence improvements across all courts.
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
After effectiveness, the implementation arrangements for the project remained
much as they had under the previous project, despite the fact that the EJSSP's project
activities required a different skill set.  This was a factor in the slow project
implementation during the first two years. Despite the MOJ's prior project experience,
the Bank's processes and procurement procedures did not appear to be well known by the
largely new PIU or the relevant MOJ staff, leading to management issues and project
delays.
Throughout project implementation, the PIU was not properly staffed to manage
the dimension or the complexity of the project activities. This impacted particularly the
19


﻿construction and ICT activities. While MOJ and GCC staff were involved to some extent
with these activities, there was no staff architect or engineer working day-to-day to
handle the ambitious construction activities at any point in implementation. This made
handling the shortened construction season (April-October) more delay-prone and
difficult.
The MOJ and law school community did well in implementing legal education
and law school reform activities and the PIU engaged a broad number of stakeholders to
this end, but this too stretched the PIU thin - leaving little room to keep the time
consuming construction and ICT components and M&E activities on track.
By the Mid-Term review, the PSC had begun to meet regularly and provide
technical input on project activities, particularly the construction activities. While the
PIU could draw upon the PSC when technical issues arose, the PSC did not have the
capacities to provide closer supervision to the PIU on a day-to-day basis. The Bank made
consistent recommendations to improve the staffing skill set of the PIU through either
contracting of qualified staff on a longer term (one year) basis, or through the use of short
term consultants. Some short term consultants were brought in, but overall the skills
mismatch continued to hamper project implementation.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The Borrower's performance from project design through implementation was
mixed but in the end successful. While the MOJ was highly committed throughout,
election cycles and changes in administration during project implementation disrupted the
project activities for periods of six months or longer. While this is typical of development
projects, the weak staffing of the PIU meant that these changes caused delays and posed
more fundamental problems for the project.
The PSC started to function as intended beginning in late 2010; the PSC's role
was mainly to provide policy advice and take decisions on larger project issues. It was the
PIU's role to inform the PSC about project activities and implement and execute the PSC
decisions but it remained inadequately staffed to fulfill its many roles and responsibilities.
The GOM could have provided closer supervision of certain aspects of implementation,
especially procurement, providing technical staff of its own when the PIU staffing was
not adequate.
At the same time, the MOJ and other stakeholders increased their efforts when it
was explained that the project was in danger of failing, agreed to action plans, and
contributed funds from their own budget in select areas, leading in the end to full project
implementation and almost complete PDO achievement by the time the project closed.
6. Lessons Learned
One lesson learned here - and often stressed for successful justice reform projects
- is that a more holistic approach tends to be difficult to implement but also more
effective in creating sustainable change across the sector. The EJSSP engaged two
ministries, the courts and court enforcement agency, a broad range of stakeholders from
the public and private law school community as well as national NGOs and national and
local government entities that continue to deliver a range of justice sector services.
Engaging so many stakeholders successfully to the point that each group takes active
20


﻿ownership and carries the needed changes takes time and requires related capacities in the
PIU even when additional consultants are hired to coordinate components.
For example, progress made under the law school component demonstrated that
the combination of training, course material, and policy changes along with supporting a
coordinated approach to changing law school material is a good example for sustainable
capacity building, creating local ownership and implementing reforms that can be
sustained and continued. But it took several years of engagement and effort to get to this
point that often stretched the capacity of the PIU and this is to be expected - and to be
reflected in the project design - in most of the Bank's client countries.
Good and broad stakeholder involvement throughout implementation ensures not
only that the design is a good fit but develops ownership and capacities beyond the
targeted activities. Similarly, steering committees have an important function and are a
good way to support project implementation but this requires that a clear TOR is
developed for the committee, that all members understand their roles and are actively
engaged. The PIU has an important role in supporting the steering committee by
facilitating their understanding and engagement and not just through coordinating regular
meetings and has to have the capacities to provide these.
Another general lesson that has been shown here, and in other justice and public
sector reform projects, is that actual change in agency operations and justice outcomes
are largely dependent on changes in institutional culture, which often take longer than the
typical lending project cycle. In recognition of this the PDO Indicators were adjusted at
restructuring to reflect the implementation challenges and were consciously chosen to
focus on outputs only. The project activities are likely to also produce justice outcomes
but for such to materialize the new systems and approaches will need to operate for a year
at least. Bank project designs rarely allow for such follow-up period to demonstrate
impact.
This project pre and post-restructuring demonstrated the great care that needs to
be taken when crafting a results monitoring framework during appraisal. The M&E
framework needs to clearly reflect the project design, has to be realistic in terms of what
can actually be achieved in a given time period and has to reflect availability of data and
capacities to collect them. Such a framework also has to consider cost and economic
information to allow some efficiency estimates, as difficult as this generally is for justice
reform projects. The Bank provided significant technical assistance to the PIU for
collecting and analyzing data throughout the project. Lacking a devoted government
interlocutor on the project's M&E, Bank missions were often used to focus the sector on
M&E and its usefulness. While this is an essential aspect of Bank supervision, a robust
M&E framework requires a regular focus from the PIU to collect and monitor the
information.
For example, the EJSSP financed a wide range of new models and approaches to
disseminating public legal information. The approaches chosen were cost-effective, based
on needs assessments, well-coordinated and cofounded by the MOJ and other relevant
agencies. The multi-method approach largely ensured these activities reached a broad
spectrum of the population. All of these design elements may provide models for public
education campaigns that are locally driven and implemented. Since the design did not
include a way to capture results and measure impact to demonstrate that this was an
21


﻿effective and cost-effective way to reach different population groups across this vast
country, the actual value of these project activities is difficult to demonstrate conclusively.
Another important lesson learned was that legal covenants are no replacement for
project-relevant preparedness. The inclusion of significant construction activities along
with the peculiarities of the Mongolian construction cycle should have spurred the Bank
team to have completed the site selection, site surveys along with initial procurement
planning at appraisal. Issues in site suitability and compliance with the Bank's safeguards
policies along with cost development trends need to be fully studied during the
preparation and appraisal phases, when the Bank has more budget to hire specialists to
appraise the work and the construction environment including conducting some cost-
benefit analysis to inform design choices. If disbursement conditions are used, they
should be unbundled as much as possible, given these components are prone to delays.
Infrastructure components not only require a lot of time for planning, architectural
services, site reviews and procurement, they also require both specific expertise for
preparation and implementation and a budget to provide this expertise. Given that the
weight of the Bank's staff budget allocations is higher during project preparation, project
teams are well advised to prepare the construction activities as much as possible at the
time of appraisal. Bank project supervision budgets are significantly lower, and the
budget for specialists needed for this type of work during implementation is therefore
smaller requiring reactive use of off-site assistance and local consultants. The Mongolia-
specific short construction period requires particular attention to timing and the vast size
of the country along with the difficult road and climate conditions make supervision
difficult and can impact timeliness and quality of implementation.
A project design heavy with construction requires that a PIU has the expertise and
capacities to manage such activities, if not on staff then at least in form of local expert
consultants that are contracted for the required period. Adequate staffing needs to be
reflected in the design and capacity gaps need to be addressed early on. The Bank
expended significant time and effort over the course of many supervision missions
remedying many issues related the PIU's lack of capacity, which detracted from
discussions of the project's larger objectives.
Additional Mongolia-specific lessons learned, particularly related to construction,
are outlined in the MTR; these were shared by the CMU with other ongoing projects that
had construction components too for cross-learning purpose
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
The Ministry of Justice will send comments regarding the project.
(b) Cofinanciers
Not applicable.
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
See Annex 6 for comments made during the end-of project stakeholder workshop.
22


﻿Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing
(a)Project Costs by Component
A   E          Estimate Revised at  Actual/Latest Estimate  Percentage of
Components              Apprail Es           restructuring      (USD millions)     Restructured
(USD millions)                          Estimate
CoMponent One: Enhancing Public      500,000.00
CompoEucnt on Eha     uic ector (250,000.00 IDA;    500,000.00          490,687.03           98%
Legal Education on the Justice Sector  250,000.00 PHRD)
Component Two: Increasing           1,410,000.00
Transparency Through Improvements  (1,260,000.00 IDA;    550,000.00          510,420.86           93%
to Legal Information                150,000.00 PHRD)
4,790,000.00
Component Three: Enhancing        (,40,000.00
Judicial Operations, Enforcement,   40,000.00           3,660,000.00       3,186,026.94           87%
and Monitoring of Court Decisions   '0,000.00 PH M)
1,000,000.00 GOM)
Component Four: Project               250,000.00
Management                           (150,000.00 IDA;   280,0000.00          366,821.69           135%
100,000.00 PHRD)
Total Baseline Cost   6,950,000.00        4,990,000.004
Physical Contingencies5              383,400.00                                    0.00           0.00
Price ContingencieS6                 176,060.00                                    0.00           0.00
Total Project Costs          0.00        5,000,000.00        4,553,956.52         91.08%7
Front-end fee IBRD8                        0.00                                    0.00           0.00
Total Financing Required    5,000,000.00                                   0.00
(b) Financing
Appraisal Restructuring Actual/Latest
Source of Funds          Type of      Estimate    Estimate    Estimate  Percentage of
Cofinancing    (USD         (USD        (USD     Restructuring
millions)   millions)   millions)
Borrower                        Counterpart         1.00           0        0.67          --
International Development         Credit            3.35        3.35        2.99        89.25
A ssociation  (IDA )                        _99_89_25
IDA Grant                         Grant             1.65        1.65         1.54      97.02
PHRD Grant                      Co-finance          0.95        0.00        0.00          --
4 This amount reflects differences in exchange rate between XDR and USD.
5 The physical contingencies were front-loaded into the original project estimates for Component 3 (Enhancing Judicial
Operations, Enforcement and Monitoring of Court Decisions).
6 In the original project cost estimates, the price contingencies were front-loaded and split mainly between Component
2 and Component 3.
This reduced amount reflects fluctuations in the exchange rate between XDR and USD. Table 1 (b) shows that the
overall disbursement rate of the IDA Credit and Grant were 94.41% and 97.02%, respectively.
8No Front-End Fee was charged on this loan.
23


﻿(c) Project Cost by Component (in USD equivalent)
Appraisal       Restructuring    Actual/Last Estimate
Project Component                      Estimate (USD     Estimate (USD       (USD millions)
millions)         millions)
Component I: Enhancing Public Legal         0.50               0.50               0.49
Education in the Justice Sector
Component II: Increasing
Transparency through Improved                1.4               0.55               0.51
Access to Legal Information
Component III: Enhancing Judicial
Operations, Enforcement and                 4,79               3.66               3.17
Monitoring of Court Decisions
Component IV: Project Management           0.25               0.28               0.38
(d) Actual Costs of Revised Components and Activities
Project Activities                          Accumulated Disbursed
Amount (total)
Component I: Enhancing Public Legal Education on the Justice Sector         490,97.03
Comprehensive Legal education reform in law schools                         252,344.75
National Public Information Strategy                                        238,352.28
Consultancy on Strategy                                                  17,682.32
Development & IP of NIPS                                                 201,622.86
Kazakh Region Strategy                                                   19,047.10
Component II: Increasing Transparency through Improved Access to Legal      510,421.30
Information
National Justice Sector Information Networking Strategy and Systems         510,421.30
Fiber optic connections to Local Court Decision Enforcement Offices, Courts  218,299.15
and Prosecutor's Offices
Supervision cost over Fiber optic connections                             5,624.62
Consultant on Fiber Optics                                                3,600.00
Procurement of Software to CDEA                                          107,872.88
IT Consultant on Software                                                 5,000.44
Procurement of ICT equipment to CDEA and GCC                             170,024.21
Component III: Enhancing Judicial Operations, Enforcement and Monitoring    3,186,026.94
of Court Decisions
Justice Sector Support Infrastructure                                       2,076,090.44
Architectural Services-GCC                                                9,950.07
Construction Works-Courts                                               2,056,445.62
Supervision cost over GCC Constructions /PIU                              9,694.75
Consultant service of Supervision Engineer over Construction              2,475.35
Court Strategic Planning and Administrative Improvement                      163,078.36
Procurement of Software to Administrative Courts                         132,742.25
Workshops with Administrative Courts and CDEA's Software Working Groups  16,353.97
Purchase of equipment and furniture for the MOJ unit: Unified Justice System  13,982.14
Court Enforcement Capacity Enhancement                                      935,858.14
Architectural Services-CDEA                                              57,736.11
Construction Works-CDEA                                                  794,165.33
Supervision cost over CDEA constructions /PIU                             7,116.30
Supervision Cost over Construction /CDEA and GCC Buildings/ -LACUDA       8,131.25
Capacity Building for CDEA Staff                                            0.00
1. Training (Consultant)                                                   0.00
24


﻿2. Training of Trainers                                                  0.00
3. Training of CDE Officers                                           50,562.93
4. Publication of Handouts for CDE Officers                              0.00
5. Publication of Training Handouts for CDE Officers                   1,707.32
6. Purchase of equipment and furniture for the CDEA's Legal Clinic    24,570.15
Component IV: Project Management                                          367821.69
PlU Consultant Services and Training                                     250,281.32
Incremental Operating Cost                                                46,255.85
M&E Consultant /short term-4 months                                       4,000.00
Roundtables: Justice sector reform Mongolia                               5,798.77
Purchase of Equipment and Computers for PlU                               29,483.51
Audits                                                                    16,184.44
Meetings and Workshop of PIU                                              15,211.20
Total Project Expenditures                          4,553,966.96
25


﻿Annex 2. Outputs by Component
When the project was restructured in April 2011, the original components overall
remained. The restructuring reduced the scope of the construction activities to bring them
better in line with cost realities, government strategies and priorities for the development
of the justice sector (see section 1.3 and section 1.6 of the main text).
This annex will discuss the outputs for the project's components and their revised
activities.
Component I: Enhancing Public Legal Education in the Justice Sector
(Appraisal estimate: US$ 0.50 million; estimate revised at restructuring: US$ 0.50
million; actual costs: US$ 0.49 million)
The original activities of both subcomponents were largely maintained, even slightly
expanded during restructuring. The assistance to law schools was expanded to support the
implementation of new national standards for legal clinics and support for the public
legal education campaigns was expanded beyond delivery of information and education
programs to include training of community paralegals to enhance access to legal
assistance to the poor in the ger districts in Ulaanbaatar and in rural areas across
Mongolia, which further stakeholder consultation conducted by the MOJ had identified as
a special need. The assistance to Kazakh minorities in Bayan-Ulgii Aimag was expanded
to include support for legal information and assistance for Mongolian minorities in the
region since stakeholder feedback indicated particular access to justice issues for those
groups, especially for poor women of all minority groups.
a. Continuation of Legal Education Reform (actual costs: US$ 0.25 million)
Updating legal education syllabi and developing handbooks for law professors and
students. As Mongolian law schools move from a lecture-based method of teaching to
more Socratic and practice-based methods, aimed at legal skills instead of memorizing
laws and theory, the creation of new course material that supports modern teaching
methods provided important tools for standardizing legal education, as well as delivering
quality course materials for the many new areas of law that gained importance as the
country continues to develop into a modern market-based society.
The project built upon earlier efforts under the previous project and supported the
development of standards syllabi, teacher and student reading material for 23 required
and elective law school courses. This is the first time such standard teaching and reading
material is available and is now used at all law schools. For the 2013/14 school year, this
translates into a total of 322 standardized courses, attended by a total of 6,505 students at
13 law schools. Combined with the law school teacher capacity building described below,
this greatly contributes to the overall quality of law school education in Mongolia, while
taking into account evolving issues such as business law, international private law and
banking, where a high demand was identified. An average of 1,100 pieces of each
teaching and reading manual were printed and distributed to all law schools for free.
The full list of syllabi and handbooks developed is shown in Annex 11 Table I a-1; the
detailed enrollment numbers are listed in Annex 11 Table I a-2.
26


﻿The course material has been uploaded to the NLI website (www.legainstitute.mn) and
with the beginning of the new school year on September 1, 2013, all handbooks and
syllabi developed can be downloaded for free. The demand for this material was
demonstrated by a significant increase in website visitors. In September 2013 the website
was 'clicked' 1,248,421 times. An increase of 137% compared to September 2012, when
only 527,307 'clicks' were counted. Surveys of the use of the materials show that it is
highly valued by law professors and students. Out of 38 professors interviewed 24
professors rate the handbooks' main contents as excellent, 26 professors rate the
handbooks methodology as excellent, and 29 professors rate the handbooks' design as
excellent. Preliminary survey results for students' satisfaction draw a similar picture: out
of 175 students surveyed 117 rated the handbooks' main content as either excellent or
good, and 123 rated the case studies used as excellent or good.
The satisfaction survey details are listed in Annex 11 Table I a-3.
The syllabi and handbooks were developed after considerable consultations with all core
stakeholders, in specific the Law School Association, representatives and teachers from
the most active public and private law schools, the MOJ and the MOE, and a strong focus
was given to current and future demands and quality. Special attention was paid to
didactic and greater provision of skills instead just of knowledge of the law; modem adult
learning techniques were applied to ensure best teaching and learning results. The multi-
faceted support of the project has been a significant contributor to developing better
quality and more standardized course content, teaching approaches, and opportunities for
practical learning.
The Mongolian MOE considers the approach taken as best practice model and
education/teaching experts have begun to apply a similar approach for enhancing other
education programs. Stakeholders stressed the contribution the project made to develop a
more cohesive approach among law schools to work together on systemic improvements.
Collaboration between law schools and professors started and deepened as result of their
ongoing engagement by the project, creating a more cooperative professional network to
continue reforms on their own. The changes supported by the project are considered by
counterparts as transformational - the coming years will show if this assessment is
justified.
Improving capacities of law professors. To develop the capacities of law professors and
teachers a range of training activities were conducted to assist them in moving from a
lecture-based system of teaching to a more didactic approach, using practical examples
and adult learning techniques. The teacher handbooks are designed to assist professors in
using modem teaching styles. A total of 633 law professors and teachers participated in 8
training courses covering a broad range of topics from research methodology to ethics.
The full list of trainings provided can be found in Annex 11 Table I 1-4; the according
satisfaction survey in Annex 11 Table I a-5.
Supporting legal clinic education at law schools. In a country like Mongolia, where
market demands require that legal education is rapidly evolving to be more skills- and
practice-oriented, legal clinics provide students an opportunity to gain practical
experience that is otherwise still very limited. Under the supervision of experienced law
professors, students provide free legal aid to those who cannot afford a lawyer. Beyond
27


﻿allowing students to learn practical skills, these clinics also serve the dual purpose of
providing cost-effective and potentially sustainable models for free legal assistance to the
poor - an area of high need in Mongolia.
At the start of the project only 2 law schools operated legal clinics. The project supported
the development of standards that require all law schools to provide quality legal clinic
training to law students. Today all 13 law school clinics are following the new standards,
building upon the training and teaching material developed with support of the project,
and actively providing services to the poor. In addition, the project supported the creation
of legal clinic sub-stations in the poor ger districts in Ulaanbaatar. As a result, 1,131
people were served at legal clinics in 2012 and 1,631 until September 2013. Of these 591,
respectively 966 were women. In addition, the two clinics created in the ger strict in 2012
have since served 456 clients (314 women), the legal clinic at the Narantuul market
provided legal advice to 2,266 (1,534 women).
Details about the types of cases in which assistance was provided are listed in Annex 11
Table I a-6; case details for the legal clinic substations in the poor ger districts in
Ulaanbaatar are listed in Annex 11 Table 1 a-7.
Further, 10 law schools received assistance to implement legal rights awareness and
crime prevention programs at high schools. This provides for another opportunity for
students to sharpen their legal communication skill. Law school representatives reported
that students developed further practical skills and these programs reportedly increased
rights and responsibility awareness among high school students. Mongolian law schools
are in the process to develop plans to continue and extend these projects in the future. A
total of 85 law school students (35 male, 50 female) and 1,130 (472 male, 658 female)
high school students participated.
Details for these tailored (high school) projects are listed in Annex 11 Table I a-8.
Creation of Standards for Law Degrees in Mongolia. While a standard law degree exam
is still not in place, the government's own accreditation efforts and support for them have
increase and a range of their measures to ensure more uniform quality requirements are in
place today.
Related discussions began under the previous Ministry of Justice and Home Affairs
(MOJHA), and continued with the current MoJ. The project supported the creation and
activities of a Working Group, comprising members of the MOJ(HA), law schools and
the MOE to advance these efforts. Based on the findings of a study presented in a two
volume "Report on Bringing International Standards to Mongolian Legal Education"
produced under the previous project, and lessons learned during a study tour to Germany,
co-funded by the Hanns-Seidel-Foundation, the Working Group developed a set of
recommendations for law school education standards in line with good international
practice. Additionally, an international conference was held in Ulaanbaatar, bringing
experts from the US, Germany, South Korea, Japan and Taiwan, China to discuss their
experiences and how they can inform the reform process in Mongolia.
Using this combined information, the Working Group submitted its recommendations to
the MOJ in March 2013. The MOJ reviewed the recommendations and started to plan for
implementation of the following:
28


﻿(a) Introduce a 'legal profession qualifying program' similar to the legal profession
education system in Germany, i.e. a law degree plus a two-year-on-the-job-
training period;
(b) Introduce an education system, including related standards, for (future) law
teachers/professors to ensure quality educational services; and
(c) Reform current teaching methods.
The project activities supported the respective counterparts in setting the foundations to
implement these recommendations and to build up a modern and high-standard law
school education in Mongolia.
b. Development and Implementation of a National Public Information Strategy
(actual costs: US$ 0.23 million)
Public Legal Education Campaigns. The public education program implemented from
2010 to 2012 by the MOJ was focused on 9 social topics important to Mongolia. The
campaigns were based on significant stakeholder consultations and well-coordinated with
other relevant government agencies across all Aimags and the Capital City. During 4
waves of public education campaigns people received information through TV spots,
leaflets & pamphlets, workshops and trainings, and special events. Though the previous
and new GOM viewed public education related to understanding of the law and access to
justice as important, all national level public information activities have been on hold
since May 2012, right before the parliamentary elections.
Based on the good experiences and driven by the need for public legal education, the
MOJ is now looking again into options for streamlined national public education
campaigns.
A range of outputs can be listed that indicate a wide reach of the public education
activities supported by the project beyond a series of TV spots (411 in total) and other
public events.  This includes 50,000 leaflets on 25 select legal topics and 4,000
information posters providing legal information on 3 different legal subjects distributed
to the legal departments in the Governor's offices of all Aimags; animated legal booklets
and posters were provided to public schools across the country, along with posters
announcing the legal website, its services and information. As a results, legal information
was distributed directly to the public across the country or has been posted well-visible in
agency offices and waiting halls. Another publication, "Your Legal Guide" developed
around 7 subjects with corresponding DVDs was also submitted to all legal departments
in the Governor's offices in the Aimags. In addition, 7 TV programs were developed
based on the Guide's 7 sub-subjects, distributed to local TV stations across the country
and broadcasted. As more and more people in the countryside have access to electricity,
television is increasingly the source of information in comparison to radio broadcasts,
one reason for the focus on video material and TV programs.
The public education campaigns conducted are listed in more detail Annex 11 Table I b-I.
Details of the public education materials distributed are listed in Annex 11 Table I b-2.
The project supported upgrading of two MOJ sponsored websites that provide access to
all current and enforceable laws, judicial decisions, government decrees and other related
legal documents (www.legalinfo.mn - www.e-hutuch.gov.mn). The National Legal
29


﻿Institute (NLI), currently the caretaker of the legal website, noted anecdotally that the
website is used considerably by Mongolian lawyers - when the website goes down for
maintenance, public complaints calls instantly increase. The upgraded website is also the
second most popular not-for-profit site in Mongolia. The costs for the website's
maintenance and services will now be paid under the state budget. To promote this easy
and free access to laws, regulations, and decisions the project printed over 4,000
informational posters about the websites and distributed them across all Aimag and
District Courts. Anecdotal evidence indicates that the publication of all judicial decisions
resulted in judges more carefully drafting their decisions, as published decisions are
attributed to specific judges; furthermore law schools are beginning to use the actual
cases and decisions as practical teaching tools.
Targeted legal assistance and public education for Kazakh and Mongolian minorities. The
project supported legal education campaigns and a legal aid center for the Kazakh
national minority residing in Bayan-Ulgii Aimag, as well as one for the ethnic Urianhai,
Durvud and Tuva people to meet the needs and demands of all Ethnic groups present.
Until this project provided assistance, no legal information was available in the Kazakh
language, impeding access to justice for this minority. Since the ethnic Mongolians living
in that region face other challenges related to access to justice service, a special center to
assist them was equally essential.
Both centers continue to show positive results and their work will now be supported from
the MOJ's budget. This very important source of legal information and legal aid for these
minority populations was provided at very low cost. Less than US$20,000.00 were spend
over the course of 2 years and 7 months for outfitting and operating these centers and for
providing targeted public education activities. The services included provision of legal
information, legal aid and legal outreach campaigns tailored to the Ethnic needs. A total
of 14 key laws were translated into Kazakh and a range of legal information pamphlets,
and radio announcements along with other information activities have been delivered
providing for the first time comprehensive information to Kazakhs in Mongolia. This
information was also posted on a Kazakh language website. The data collected shows that
both centers supported not only important information campaigns but provided much
needed legal aid to the poor. A total of 15,015 Kazakhs either received legal aid or were
informed through specific campaigns, plus a total of total 828 ethnic Mongolian
minorities received legal aid and a total of 860 ethnic people were addressed via specific
campaigns through the centers, which makes up for nearly 20% of the Aimag's
population (89,191). This service is especially essential for poor women in the region; for
the mainly Muslim Kazakh women this is generally the only legal assistance available to
them. More than half of the legal aid recipients since November 2010 were women. In
total 1,421 Kazakh women 1,399 men received legal aid; 424 Mongolian ethnic minority
women obtained legal aid compared to 404 men.
Further details for the Kazakh Legal Aid Center and the Legal Aid Center for the Ethnic
Minorities can be found in Annex 11 Table I b-3, respectively Table I b-4. Further details
for paralegal activities across the country can be found in Annex 11 Table I b-5.
30


﻿Component II: Increasing Transparency through Improved Access to Le$al
Information
(Appraisal estimate: US$ 1.4 million; estimate revised at restructuring: US$ 0.59
million; actual costs: US$ 0.36 million)
Under the previous Legal and Judicial Reform, a Unified Legal Information system was
created in collaboration with other donors. Under the prior project, 29 ministry and
justice sector agencies in Ulaanbaatar had been connected via fiber optic cable with the
aim to increase their efficiency and transparency once related data tracking and exchange
software were available and by providing them with access to all legal acts, laws,
regulations, and resolutions passed by the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court.
The original design of the project correctly identified the need for connectivity and
integrated system across all courts and related agencies to enable proper data sharing as at
the start of this project only few agencies were able to take full advantage of the Unified
Legal Information system. However, the original project design underestimated the
significant software enhancements that were needed before adequate data sharing could
be implemented to actually address the shortcomings in agency-level data tracking and
exchange software and the lack of linages to agencies outside of the capital. Thus, the
restructured project activities also included the development of case management
software for the administrative court to complement parallel activities for the civil courts
supported by the GIZ.
a. Connecting Aimag Courts and Court Decision Enforcement Agency (CDEA)
Offices to the National Justice Sector Information Network (actual costs:
US$ 0.16 million)
After significant procurement delays, a contract to establish the needed fiber optic
connections across all Aimags was signed with the successful bidder in November 2012.
Implementation activities then faced winter weather conditions and work started again
only in April 2013. Nevertheless, by the project's end, i.e. within 8 months from contract
signing to project closure, a total of 79 locations, including all Aimag and Inter-Soum
courts, Administrative Courts, and CDEA offices were connected via fiber optic cable,
covering all 21 Aimags as well as the Capital City. The connections for all sites were
approved by ICN, the state-owned company and data transfer on a daily basis has started.
The full list of sites connected can be found in Annex 11 Table II a-1.
To make the most of it, the capacities of the fiber optic network have been developed
with future increased data capacities in mind and have been identified by other justice
sector agencies, including the police, as a valuable resource to link their own data
exchange needs.
As the technical infrastructure and equipment is in place, data sharing agreements
between the courts and CDEA - and ideally with the prosecutor offices - have to be in
place to ensure effective use of this newly established connectivity. Now that the data are
available from all enforcement agencies at least on a weekly basis and at least the
administrative courts will have full regular data reporting capacities by November 2013
(see below) a meaningful agreement about data exchanges can be made. A MoU for data
exchanges was signed on May 29, 2013 and a working group has been created to develop
31


﻿the data sharing details, i.e. data definitions, exchange schedules, etc. Several new laws
related to the governance and responsibilities of the GCC and all courts will come into
effect on November 1, 2013, which require more evidence-based management and
greater reporting transparency of the courts. Among others, the judges will also assume
monitoring responsibilities for court decision enforcement outcomes. Data sharing
agreements have been designed to provide judges with the needed information to take on
this new responsibility and are being tested. The availability of data will also mean that
the GCC and CDEA will need to develop their capacities to analyze data and draw
conclusion for policy and management purposes. This is one of several key areas were
technical assistance would be helpful.
b. Developing Case Management Software for the Court Decision Enforcement
Agency (actual costs: US$ 0.21 million)
In order to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the CDEA, case management
software was developed and installed in all offices by project closure. Currently, all 21
CDEA Aimag offices submit data to the CDEA headquarters once a week; in Ulaanbaatar
this is done on a daily basis (see also Annex II Table II a-I).
The 1-year-warranty on the software will provide for ongoing testing and improvements
until mid-2014. This was included in the contract with the software company to allow the
CDEA to proactively identify what works well and what does not, what is needed and
what should be changed over the coming year. This will help to ensure that the software
is exactly tailored to the needs and demands of the CDEA officers.
First feedback responses show the overall high satisfaction of users with the new
software; details for this first survey on user satisfaction can be found in Annex II Table
1I b-I.
The recommendation that the user committee continues to work actively with the
software developers and surveys the experiences across the country to reflect them in
their further updates was discussed with the MoJ and the CDEA leadership. Lead
stakeholders agreed that collecting such information is highly important not only for
internal management, but also for communicating performance improvements and
requesting needed budget support.
Component III: Enhancing Judicial Operations, Enforcement and Monitoring of
Court Decisions (Appraisal estimate: US$ 4.79 million; estimate revised at
restructuring: US$ 3.36 million; actual costs: US$ 3.13 million)
a. Justice Sector Support Infrastructure (actual costs: US$ 2.07 million)
Four new court buildings and one refurbishment, i.e. renovation and addition to an
existing building, were all completed by the end of the project. Court staff report greater
work efficiency due to a more conducive work environment and court users reports
greater satisfaction with the services in the new facilities. In specific, more than half of
people interviewed - both court/CDEA staff and lawyers - responded that they are
'satisfied' or 'very satisfied' with the new buildings as it comes to equipment, furniture,
waiting hall, and the location picked.
32


﻿Details on the location of construction sites are listed in Annex 11 Table III a-1; details
for the user surveys regarding the new buildings are listed in Annex II Table III a-2.
b. Court Strategic Planning and Administrative Improvements (actual costs:
US$ 0.16 million)
To ensure that the courts actually have electronic data basis that can be effectively used
for data sharing via the fiber optic cable network and to provide the means for effective
performance monitoring and planning, the restructuring included the development of
software to support case management in the administrative courts. The software was
successfully piloted in 5 administrative courts, namely Orkhon, Darkhan, Selenge, Gobi-
Sumber and Tuv. The complete roll-out of the software to all administrative courts will
happen by November 1, 2013 when the new law comes into effect.
Members of the administrative court working group and the software users in the pilot
courts continue to provide feedback for further improvement. The software company is
taking those changes into account and keeps adjusting the software to reflect the needed
changes. The feedback from users was overall positive and indicates high user
satisfaction, reduced data error and time savings due to reduced paperwork along with a
high potential for reducing appeals rates. For example, 27 out of 28 survey participants at
the Aimag courts responded that the "Alert Function" of the system helps them to meet
critical deadlines, and 34 out of 36 responded reported back that the software prevents
them from making possible procedural errors.
Details for the user surveys are listed in Annex II Table III b-I for the administrative
courts in the Ulaanbaatar, and in Annex II Table III b-2 for the administrative courts in
the Aimags.
The administrative court software is a significant advancement and not only applies to all
three court instances - first, appellate and Supreme Court level - but has significant court
management reporting and performance management functions. Despite the very short
period of time the software is applied in the (pilot) administrative courts, the positive
experience has already led the civil courts to request upgrading of their current software.
c. Court Enforcement Capacity Enhancement (actual costs: US$ 0.90 million)
The construction of three new CDEA buildings was completed by the end of the project
(see also Annex II Table III a-1). As for the court buildings, staff report greater work
efficiency due to a more conducive work environment and greater court user satisfaction
with the services in the new facilities (see also Annex II Table III a-2). The CDEA office
in Uvs that is now operating for over a year in a new facility was rated the second best
CDEA office in the country and counterparts credit the better work conditions along with
the training that was provided.
In addition, the project supported the development of training and equipped a small,
state-of-the art training facilities for the CDEA in Ulaanbaatar. The CDEA created a
working group supported from its own funds for the development of needed training
material. The Bank supported the delivery of the training by financing the equipment of a
training center, targeted workshops and the publication of the training material.
Comprehensive training for CDEA officers, who have a challenging job, is an issue and
33


﻿the focus of these sessions on practical issues of conflict management and stress
management are particularly important. In addition to facilitating a training forum for all
CDEA officers in the country, the project supported 19 training courses attended by a
total of for 1530 participants (some attended more than one course).
Details for the trainings provided are listed in Annex 11 Table III c-I.
While data for the first 9 months of 2013 indicate increased collection rates in
enforcement actions across the country, expectations for significant improvement of
enforcement rates especially outside of the capital should be limited. A major issue for
enforcement success is the fact that a large number of cases involve individuals with very
limited means and a large portion of the unemployed. The only way to address this in the
future is to review judicial decision practices and options available by law. This could
include the future introduction of payments in installments, restitution in kind,
proportional fine schedules that reflect income levels and similar alternatives that reflect
the low income levels of many of the rural population. The detailed case and enforcement
data that will be available can be a valuable source to assess such enforcement constraints
and inform related policy changes.
Details for the current enforcement rates are listed in Annex 11 Table III c-2.
34


﻿Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
Economic Analysis
Component I-a: Continuation of Legal Education Reform: Approximately
US$252,344 was used to continue efforts to reform law school education that had started
under the prior Bank project. Complaints about the effectiveness of the justice system and
capacities of all legal professionals in Mongolia continued over the years and with
increasing demand for qualified lawyers especially those with a good understanding of
commercial issues, the problems compounded. While international donors have
supported judicial training with significant funds for over a decade with unclear results,
training for private lawyers has been scarce. As a result, demands for investments in
improving law school education to ensure that those entering the market are better
equipped were more than justified. Except early assistance to the creation of a legal clinic
at one law school supported by USAID in 2004 and occasional support to law schools in
form of select study tours for a few law professors and theoretical law books from the
Hans-Seidel Foundation, law school education had not been the focus of international
donors and the government's reform activities remained limited. Under the previous
Bank project an assessment of the status of law school education and recommendations
for changes was developed along with the first standard curricula and course material but
their use was voluntary. During the stakeholder workshop conducted for the ICR
development, law school representatives stated that the support provided by the project
has been transformational. In addition to providing the needed information and
coordination support for a successful policy change to require legal clinic education, the
project supported the development of standard curricula and teaching material for the
majority of required law school courses and the most in demand elective courses In
addition, law professors were trained in modern teaching techniques and in the use of the
standard material (between 50 and 150 training participants per course). The use of the
standard material is now required in every course and in combination with improved
teaching skills and access to practical education options at the legal clinics, law school
education is now completely changed. At the start of this project only 2 law schools
offered legal clinic education, now all 13 law schools offer this form of training. When
the project started curricula and teaching material for 4 courses was available, now 23
curricula and handbooks were printed and distributed, an average of 1,100 copies on each
topic to each law school. Considering that course enrollment across law schools and
topics is from less than 100 to 500, this number is at least sufficient for the next two years
and the material is also online to be downloaded for free. The combination of training,
course material, and policy changes along with supporting a coordinated approach to
changing law school material resulted in a completely different approach to educating
lawyers with a greater emphasis on skills, the application of law and practical experience
rather than memorizing law and theory. Satisfaction surveys of teachers and students
indicate positive results of these combined activities. Considering that in the 2012/2013
school year, 6,505 students were enrolled in the remaining 13 law schools, a number that
has not significantly changed from the 6,630 enrolled in 2008, and that the full set of
training material is only available with the start of the 2013/2014 school year, the
investments made per student enrolled this school year come up to US$38.50 - a small
35


﻿amount considering that the same investments already benefitted earlier semesters and
will continue to serve students in the future. Actual impact, however, cannot be shown
by the end of this project due to lack of relevant baseline data collected and the overall
difficulty to measure a change in skills that young lawyers bring to the profession
(currently the standard qualifying exams for lawyers who work in government agencies
and those allowed to practice in courts do not assess skills and also do not extend to
private legal advisers).
Component 1-b: Development and Implementation of a National Public Information
Strategy: Approximately $US238,352 were used for various public education campaigns
that potentially reached all sectors of the population across the country via printed
material, TV, radio spots, special events, websites, and paralegals. Assuming a
population of about 2.9 million in 2013, this equates to approximately $USO.08 per
person spent over approximately 3.5 years (the public education activities started mainly
in 2010), an investment of about US$0.02 annually per person.9 Considering that access
to information about the laws, individual rights and how to access the justice system are
essential for the daily life of every person, for understanding one's rights to government
services, for businesses to operate and for investors to understand the risks and
safeguards available for investment, this sounds like a set of cost effective intervention -
if these activities indeed resulted in greater public understanding and better access to
justice institutions. Unfortunately, the data collected on the public legal education and
information activities were largely output data and did not include estimates of actual
reach, making it hard to measure the actual impact of the project or their cost
effectiveness (or the cost effectiveness of different media used). More concrete
information about actual reach of public education efforts was collected for the specific
activities in the Kazakh region. A total of 16,703 people were reached by the different
public education and legal aid activities provided for the Kazakh population and the
ethnic minority Mongolian population over the 3.5 years of activities funded (7,729 of
which were women). Total funding provided was US$19,047 translating into US$0.77
per person for all years. No cost distinction can be made by activity type (i.e. public
education or legal aid) and actual results data were not collected (i.e., any satisfaction
data, understanding gained, etc.).
Component II: Increasing Transparency through Improved Access to Legal
Information: The development of case management software and fiber optic networks
within the CDEA and the judiciary was to provide for greater optimization of human
resources, quicker times to disposition, fewer procedural errors, as well as an increased
ability to collect and monitor case data. Total investment in developing a nation-wide
information system for the justice sector, improving data sharing and public information
websites, and IT infrastructure and capacities at all courts, court enforcement agency, the
Ministry of Justice was US$657,145 (this includes the software developed for the
administrative courts under Component 111-b). The total cost for connecting 29 CDEA
facilities in all Aimags and UB, developing and providing the case management software
9 In addition, the MOJ and other relevant ministries provided staff and resources from their own budget. None of these
costs were, however, captured and can therefore not be included in this analysis.
36


﻿and some IT equipment was US$515,178 or US$17,178 per location. Estimating the
return of this investment in form of operational cost saved should be relatively easy for
the CDEA, so far it was reported that the adoption of a fiber optic network had an
immediate effect of reducing overhead costs on postage, telephone calls and travel for
both the courts and the CDEA offices. The videoconferencing capability, not envisioned
under the original design, will further allow justice sector officials to obtain advice and
information quickly, speeding up the decision-making process. It can also be imagined
that there will be quicker times to disposition. Furthermore, the fiber optic system allows
for distance learning activities, which will reduce costs, and increase overall effectiveness.
Assessing the impact of IT investments on improved enforcement outcomes will be more
difficult, if not impossible since investments in facility infrastructure and most
importantly in human capacities would also need to be considered. Considering that the
system only came online at the end of the project, no observations can be made as to its
impact at the current time. At the same time, the training that has been provided as well
as the agencies own investments and efforts to improve services seem to have some
initial positive impact. Overall caseload, enforcement rate data and amounts collected
from 2010 to 2012 indicate a trend of significant fluctuation and generally declining
numbers cases received per year for enforcement across different Aimags (i.e. from 849
to 701 in Darkhan, 680, 907, and 585 in Uvurkhangai) but at the same time enforcement
rates (i.e., percentage of successful enforcements) improved either in cases enforced or
amounts collected or both. The initial data reported by the CDEA for 2013 seem to
indicate even greater improvements. By the end of August, the agency had received over
20,000 cases and enforced almost 50% of these. The total amount to be collected
(MMT694,325,555 or $US 406,161) was almost triple of those in prior years and the
amount already collected (MNT409,159,410 or $US 239,358) almost four times what had
been collected each year since 2010, largely due to significant increases in Ulanbaatar.
Enforcement in the two Aimags where a new building was financed by the project was
also already significantly higher than in prior years in terms of cases received, amounts to
be enforced and at 50% of cases successfully enforced while the total enforcement rate
for 2012 only reached 70%. It remains to be seen if these increases continue in the
coming years and especially if enforcement processes across the country become more
efficient. Enforcement success, especially in rural areas but also in many UB districts will
remain a challenge as unemployment and poverty rates continue to be high.
Component 111-a: Justice Sector Support Infrastructure: Investment in 4 new court
facilities in soums and 1 Aimag court refurbishment amounted to US$2,068,366, with
new construction prices ranging from about US$400,000 to almost $US550,000. As
mentioned before, these amounts were comparable to other similar buildings funded by
the Bank but they are higher than what was quoted by client counterparts for government
funded buildings. The value of such investments in terms of operational benefits or cost-
effectiveness is difficult to establish. There is no doubt that these facilities were needed.
Before, the courts were housed in small, often dilapidated buildings that were not
originally designed as court buildings and were shared with other agencies (the space
available to the courts ranged from 50 to 100 square meters for up to 18 staff members).
All selected courts were experiencing increasing caseloads. Initial surveys conducted
shortly after the buildings were completed and again at the end of the project indicate
37


﻿high staff and user satisfaction. Estimating economic returns of these investments (i.e. in
form of increased court fees collected, value of cases brought to the courts, etc.) is even
more difficult since court performance data would need to be available for a few years
after the courts have been operating in these new environments and comparison to court
operations in locations were the buildings were not replaced may not be conclusive since
other factors, such as difference in overall economic situations, caseloads and staffing can
impact the results. Overall, considering the increasing but still relatively low caseloads at
these courts, a measurable increase in economic returns is not very likely and trying to
estimate the price of greater trust in the courts is not feasible. The question if a court
building is necessary at all at the soum level is also not just a question of what is
economically feasible but if access to justice can be ensured in other ways and has been
debated for years. These soums are each several hundred kilometers away from the
Aimag center and road conditions are difficult year round. The option of holding court
only one or two days per week, as it is practices in rural areas in other countries, still
requires a functioning facility (possibly a smaller one or co-located with other agencies),
would mean that judges - and possibly judges assistants and some court staff - loose at
least a full day, sometimes two travelling to the rural location, and have a decent place to
stay, which is a problem in most soums. The difficult road conditions and harsh climate
also prohibits the use of mobile courts using fully equipped buses. As technology
advances, however, e-filing options, the possibility to conduct most hearings via video
become available. For future considerations of increasing access to the courts at the soum
or even bagh level may be well served considering these options since they seem provide
even greater access to the courts at lower cost.
Component 111-b: Court Strategic Plannins and Administrative Improvements: At
approximately US$190,000 for the development of software, fiber optic connectivity and
select IT equipment the investment made to improve the operations of the administrative
courts appears that it will pay off in the near future. The system covers all 26
administrative courts in the Aimags and UB on all court levels. The system is designed to
reduce the time cases take, automate notifications, and is likely result in a reduction of
appeals cases. Such outcomes not only translate into cost savings for the courts but cost
savings for the parties, one of which is the state in administrative cases. Since the system
has only come online at the end of the project no related impact information can be
expected until at least a year of full operations. The greatest pay off, however, would be
increased trust in the administrative court process which may be reflected in case data
and user satisfaction but is difficult to collect and reflect in economic measures since
money saved by the parties in attorney cost or amounts tied up in court processes for less
time can only be estimated in comparison to other years, if at all, since other reasons may
have contributed to changes the length of proceedings or appeals rates. As mentioned
earlier, the investment in the fiber optic network is also the first step in creating e-court
options that have the potential for providing greater access to justice in rural areas in an
economically feasible manner.
Component 111-c: Court Enforcement Capacity Enhancement: Estimating the cost
benefits of investments in CDEA buildings faces similar issues as the ones outlined for
the court facilities. The total cost for two facilities in Aimag centers and a smaller one in
38


﻿a large soum was US$922,858. Again, the need to replace these buildings was clearly
visible. The building in Uvs Aimag, for example was built in the late 1930, had not seen
significant renovations and had been condemned by the State Property Agency in 2002.
The number of cases that had to be enforced was, however, relatively stable. Different
from court operations, enforcement cannot completely be relegated to e-options. Unless
a bank account can be seized, a certain amount of the salary or other income encumbered,
someone has to physically locate property that can serve as security or ultimately be
seized. There is also the need to securely store items until payments are made or until
they are sold by the state. Serving the large Aimags just from the Aimag center is already
challenging and investing in functioning space, secure storage and ICT there to facilitate
electronic notifications and requests to the extent possible is an essential investment.
Financial Analysis
All civil works contracts were procured locally under National Competitive Bidding
(NCB) due to the relatively limited cost estimates for the small buildings and their
location in distant rural areas that tend to be difficult to cover by local companies. The
number of bidders was acceptable but at the low end and in one instance no qualifying
bidder participated resulting in another round of calls for bids that delayed the
construction by a year due to the short construction season. In at least one instance the
capacity of the local bidder was insufficient to deliver quality works and the company
went bankrupt before the work was completed. In comparison to similar construction in
rural areas supported by the Bank (i.e. kindergartens) the costs where reasonably in the
same range. In comparison to the cost of construction of such facilities by the
government, the costs were high and the time required significantly longer. Government
counterparts consider the buildings of high quality and good design; nevertheless, the
value for money remains questionable. This, plus significant procurement delays, meant
that this particular aspect of the project could not be considered efficient.
All goods were procured locally also under NCB but largely under shopping guidelines, a
reasonable approach considering the mostly smaller quantities of relatively low cost
items. Procurement of the larger amount of IT equipment had been planned to be
conducted under ICB but time constraints prohibited this choice. It does not appear that
this had a negative cost impact.
The majority of consultants were procured locally; limited technical assistance, i.e. for
construction and fiber optic cabling, was provided by Bank staff in addition to ongoing
feedback from the project team. While the original project design had envisioned
significant technical assistance to be provided by international consultants the funding
shortfall led the government to opt for local consultants instead. The overall quality of
technical assistance procured appears adequate but in some areas too limited (or too late),
especially in construction supervision and M&E. Where international consultants may
have made a difference is in TA for the development of procurement documents,
architectural services, and M&E.
39


﻿Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
(a) Task Team members
Responsibility/
Names                           Title                 Unit          specilty
Specialty
Lending/grant Preparation
Carlos Ricardo Escudero     Lead Counsel                       LEGEA       Task Team Leader
Robert Buergenthal          Sr Counsel                         LEGJR       Task Team Leader
Rowena Margaret S. Gorospe  Sr Counsel                         LEGOP      Operational Analyst
Ramesh Sivapathasundram     Lead Information Officer           TWICT    Information Technology
Martin M. Serrano           Sr Counsel                         LEGES        Country Lawyer
Beth Anne Hoffman           Operations Analyst                 LEGEN      Operations Analyst
Nina Bhatt                  Sr Social Development Specialist   MNSSU       Social Safeguards
Bakhtigul Musaiv            Safeguards Consultant              EACMF          Safeguards
Halsey L. Beemer            Consultant                         HDGPE      Education Specialist
Philip Gerald Thacker       Consultant                         ECSP4         Infrastructure
Andres M. McAlister         Consultant                         LEGJR     Records Management
David I                     Sr Financial Management Specialist  LCSFM    Financial Management
Junxue Chu                  Senior Finance Officer             CTRLN     Financial Management
Yi Dong                     Sr Financial Management Specia     EASFM     Financial Management
Daniel R. Gibson            Consultant                         EASDE          Safeguards
Jinan Shi                   Sr Procurement Specialist          EASR1         Procurement
Lhagvasuren Ochir          [Operations Officer                EACMF       Operations Analyst
Supervision/ICR
Robert Buergenthal          Sr Counsel                         LEGJR       Task Team Leader
Beth Anne Hoffman           Operations Analyst                 LEGEN      Operations Analyst
Martin M. Serrano           Sr Counsel                         LEGES        Country Lawyer
Carlos Ricardo Escudero     Lead Counsel                       LEGEA       Task Team Leader
Halsey L. Beemer            Consultant                         HDGPE      Education Specialist
Frances M. Allen            Operations Analyst                 LEGLE      Operations Support
Heike P. Gramckow           Lead Counsel                       LEGJR       Task Team Leader
Sylvester Kofi Awanyo       Lead Procurement Specialist        EASR2         Procurement
Gerelgua Tserendagva        Procurement Specialist             EASR2         Procurement
Dulguun Byambatsoo          Financial Management Consultant    EASFM     Financial Management
Badamchimeg Dondog          Financial Management Analyst       EASFM     Financial Management
Gantuya Paniga              Program Assistant                 EACMF        Project Assistance
Eva Maria Melis             Counsel                            LEGJR      Task Team Member
Feng Ji                     Sr. Environmental Specialist       EASCS         Environment
Zhuo Yu                     Finance Analyst                    CTRLN          Controlling
Xiaoke Zhai                 Sr Transport Specialist            EASCS          Transport
[Minneh M. Kane              Lead Counsel                       LEGES       Country Lawyer
Paul Scott Prettitore       Sr Public Sector Specialist        MNSPS        Justice Reform
Richard George Andrew Nash  Counsel                            LEGJR        Justice Reform
[Ramesh Sivapathasundram     Lead Information Officer          TWICT    InformationTechnology
40


﻿(b) Staff Time and Cost
Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                              USD Thousands (including
F  No.of saff eeks travel and consultant costs)
[Lending                    I
FY07                                  5.1                   48.25
FY08                                 19.7                  198.35
Total:          24.8                  246.6
Supervision/ICR
FY09                                  5.8                   66.91
FY10                                  8.4                   96.66
FY11                                  8.9                   56.75
FY12                                 16.8                   93.07
FY13                                 11.5                  101.64
FY14                                  4.4                   39.87
Total:          55.8                  454.90
41


﻿Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(ifany)
Not applicable.
42


﻿Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
In preparation for the ICR, a Stakeholder Workshop was held on June 12, 2013 in
Ulaanbaatar to ascertain the stakeholders' views on the EJSSP's relevance to Mongolia's
justice sector reform agenda, progress made, challenges faced, outcomes and impact.
Approximately 50 individuals representing all core stakeholders attended the Workshop.
The Workshop was designed to address six main questions for each of the project
components and the project overall, namely: (a) Was the project design relevant to
reform Mongolia's justice system? (b) Did the restructuring in 2012 bring about
necessary changes? (c) How can the project successes be measured? (d) Are there any
examples of efficiency improvements under the project or any examples of greater public
awareness that can be gleaned from the project? (e) Were the project costs incurred
reasonable and sufficient to meet the project's objective ("value for money")?
The stakeholders' comments generally focused on those components they were
involved with more closely. Particularly towards the end of the discussions, when the
audience felt more comfortable, comments were made as to the overall project impact,
challenges and areas that could have been handled more efficiently. In particular this
included:
* Overall great satisfaction with how well the project and individual activities were
linked to overall reform/change strategies, the flexible approach taken, being open
to testing and innovation and bringing stakeholders together;
* The project made important contributions to moving the sector forward;
* Recognition that initial delays impeded stakeholders ability to engage early
enough; earlier mobilization of stakeholders would have resulted in greater
impact;
* Recognition that procurement processes took too long;
* Recognition that Bank processes and their impact on activities were not well
understood; a feeling that Bank processes are too complex and lengthy, especially
related to construction and ICT;
*  Recognition that an understanding of the importance of data collection for
assessing success was lacking;
*  Great disappointment with the low rating of the project, limited understanding
why this is justified since good progress has been made in many areas and good
support for developing the needed data by the end of the ICR grace period.
Public Legal Education and Law School Education: A representative from the MOJ
noted that the Ministry is responsible, by law, to provide legal education to all people.
While this "mandate" has existed since 1993, a lack of funding has made fulfilling this
mandate difficult despite intermittent support from other donors. At the beginning of the
project, the Ministry undertook a media reach survey to analyze the use of information by
media type and demography to better target public education efforts. Subsequently, the
43


﻿Ministry produced and targeted information on the internet for the population in their 20s
(and younger); information in newspapers for the age group 25-35, and information on
TV for those over 35 years old.
The MOJ representative noted that the Bank financed a number of pilot outreach
activities, targeted to different groups in the country. In undertaking these pilots, the
Bank project provided the Ministry with actual cost information. The Ministry has stated
that they will use the lessons learned for the public education activities for the public
education activities, as well as the cost data over the longer terms to continue this
important effort.
A number of speakers highlighted the important contribution the project made
toward creating standards for law schools in Mongolia and improving law school
education overall. When the country began its transition to a market economy in the
1990s, the National University Law School (NUL) was the only law school in existence
and law school education followed the socialist approach, the only approach all
professors were educated in. In the coming decades, privatization triggered an explosion
of new  law  schools being launched.   Without any standards or comprehensive
accreditation and testing programs in place, the new law schools provided legal education
of varying quality - leading to a growing sense that certain standards needed to be
created. The law school representatives noted that the project contributed to the
development of the new standards, as well as modern curricula and syllabi, as well as
accompanying handbooks for both students and teachers, none of which had been
available before. This material also greatly contributes to quality courses and more
uniform content. The material and accompanying training provided law professors with
an understanding of the minimum standards expected of them; in addition, a number of
new, relevant courses have been added to the curricula of many law schools.
As for the legal clinics, it was noted that in the past only two legal clinics existed,
initially created with support of USAID. The stakeholders recognized and appreciated the
Bank's foresight to work with all law schools that wished to establish a legal clinic even
before the law required clinical legal education, thereby preparing them for accreditation.
As part of the legal clinic activities supported by the Bank, one law school created a
substation legal clinic in the ger districts. Given the need for legal assistance in these
poor districts and the perceived overall success, the substation legal clinic will be
continued without further assistance. This substation, as well as the one created in the
Narantuul market area, were seen as particularly helpful for introducing new laws to the
often less educated, poorer populations living there, as well as in providing general legal
advice to the poor. It was widely noted that also the students appreciate the practical
experience the clinics provide them.
Specifically related to the work with the Kazakh and Mongolian minorities, a
representative from the Kazakh minority population noted that for over 20 years, there
was little understanding of Mongolian law by the Kazakh minorities. Many were and are
herders living in rural areas, and did not even have a basic understanding of their rights
and responsibilities. Most of these population groups live 180 km and more away from
44


﻿the Aimag centers; many are reluctant or lack the means to travel to the Aimag centers to
obtain services, and many had not obtained an ID card. This is one important service
facilitated by the legal aid centers supported by the Bank. Under the project, 14 laws
were fully translated and additional legal information was provided in Kazakh.
Furthermore, a handbook on how to use the law (titled "Your Legal Guide") was
translated into Kazakh, and included phone numbers for any follow-up advice. Now, with
the growth of cell phone technology across the country, these populations too got
increasingly more proactive in calling a lawyer when they need legal advice; this is
attributable, in large part, to the existence of the Kazakh legal aid centers. Considerable
outreach took place under the project to improve these minorities' legal knowledge using
a variety of means - print materials, radio, television, etc., as well as personal visits from
the legal aid center to the soums. There are about 10 magazines/newspapers in Kazakh in
circulation in Mongolia, and the legal clinics used them for dissemination of the laws in
Kazakh and other information. There are also three different Kazakh websites in
Mongolia and the translated version of the Mongolian laws are now posted on these
websites.
This component also included considerable outreach activities for Mongolia's
blind population. The National Association of the Blind noted that they had taken a
rights-based approach in the application/use of the project activities. As the project
financed the publication of a number of 7 laws in braille, the project was seen as an
important step towards providing Mongolia's blind population with access to the laws
and international conventions regarding their rights. In the past, laws were not published
in braille due to their relatively prohibitive costs for local organizations to produce. The
braille version of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child was viewed as
particularly important. Many of Mongolia's blind can now demand the rights they are
entitled to, particularly as they relate to the Law on Social Welfare and Insurance. The
Association has branches in each Aimag, making dissemination easy. As a result, the
impact of these particular activities was quite large.
Fiber optic connections: A representative of the MOJ noted that the full
deployment of the fiber optic network will allow for on-line videoconferencing and VolP
(Voice over Internet Protocol) telephone. This will mean that the sector will save
considerable money on phone and postage, and enjoy considerable efficiency gains.
In particular, the MOJ noted that the development of the Uniform Information
Network (UIN) initially only for UB-based agencies, that was supported by the Bank and
other donors during the previous projects and extended to all Aimags under the current
project, provides the basis and needed infrastructure for the current MOJ's plan to create
a sector-wide data exchange network. Similarly, the network, along with software
developed, now forms the backbone of the CDEA's 2012-2016 IT policy. Furthermore,
there has been considerable attention paid to the governance of this network.
CDEA: Prior to the World Bank project, no donor had worked with the Court
Decision Enforcement Agency. According to the law on civil service, all civil servants
are to be given proper (physical) working conditions. A representative from the CDEA's
45


﻿management noted that this was not the case for years since all CDEA offices, especially
in the Aimags, were located in old dilapidated buildings. The government used its own
funds to build new facilities in UB but investments in the Aimags were lacking. The
project has provided improved working conditions (offices) for the CDEA agents.
The CDEA noted that there is low staff retention within the CDEA, which puts
pressure on the agency to provide (basic) training on a continuing basis. There is a
considerable need for a CDEA training program and center to ensure consistency of
processes and decisions, despite high levels of turnover. For instance, the CDEA
representative noted that in the past, the public had complained about the agent's attitude
and professionalism. During the last phase of the project, all CDEA agents were brought
together for a 2-day training event in Ulaanbaatar in April 2013. Covered in the training
was information regarding the relevant laws, as well as specific sessions on ethics, stress
management, and conflict resolution.
Court and CDEA Construction:
A representative from Intersoum Court # 2 spoke about the improved working
conditions of his court. He mentioned that prior to the project, the court was in poor
working condition and had not been physically modified since socialist times. As a result,
there were many people that were afraid to come to the court or use the court. Now that
the court is located in a new and modern facility, the users' attitude has changed.
Furthermore, he noted that the court staff was more motivated to work.
At the end of the Bank workshop, the Bank team asked the stakeholders in
hindsight, what they would have done differently. For the most part, the stakeholders felt
that the project had accomplished a great deal, and were disheartened to hear that the
overall project ratings were low. They applauded the project's flexibility in meeting the
evolving policy and needs of the sector.
While many responded that the project responded well to the needs of a sector
growing and adapting to new circumstances, a few ideas for improvement were provided.
There was some consensus around the fact that all the project stakeholders should have
been more efficient in implementation, to avoid the delays in seeing real results under the
project. The stakeholders also posited that the Bank needed a better understanding of the
problems the sector was facing when beginning to design the project to arrive at more
realistic concepts for project activities. Much of what had been envisioned at the start of
the project is only possible now that a good foundation is laid - now is the time that good
external support can make a real difference.
The CDEA noted that since this was their first time working with a donor, they
did not fully understand how to engage. They stated that they would have begun their
efforts much earlier, realizing the benefits of the project. In particular, they would have
liked to see other models and examples from other countries to better understand how to
reform their own system.
46


﻿The stakeholders representing the Law Schools noted that the project's greatest
contribution has been its intellectual investment. They noted that there had been many
societal changes within Mongolia since the advent of the project. The scope of the
project expanded with time, as professors needed more knowledge to keep up with larger
socio-economic changes taking place in Mongolia.
The GCC noted the problems with the building construction. As per the original
plans, the design was first undertaken, and then the cost estimates were developed. With
the delays in the construction, the raw material costs rose quickly. Similarly, a number of
speakers felt that the budget for the outreach activities to the Kazakh and other ethnic
minorities, as well as the rural populations, was not sufficient.
47


﻿Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
To be delivered by the MOJ
48


﻿Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
Not applicable
49


﻿Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents
Mongolia - Enhanced Justice Sector Services Project: Environmental Report (Vol. 1 of
2) ((Mongolian), January 30, 2004 (Report No. E1876)
Mongolia - Enhanced Justice Sector Services Project: Project Information Document,
February 8, 2007 (Report No. AB28 71)
P. Gerald Thacker, Mongolia Justice Reform Project: Next Phase - Recommendations for
Facilities Component, October 2007
Mongolia - Enhanced Justice Sector Services Project: Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet,
April 16, 2008 (Report No. AC3564)
Mongolia - Enhanced Justice Sector Services Project: Indigenous Peoples Plan: Draft
Ethnic Minority Development Plan, April 22, 2008 (Report No. IPP288)
Mongolia - Enhanced Justice Sector Services Project: Project Appraisal Document, June
6, 2008 (Report No. 44059)
Financing Agreement, C4493-MN and Grant H413-MN Conformed, October 7, 2008
Mongolia - Enhanced Justice Sector Services Project - Mongolia: P101446 -
Implementation Status Results Report: Sequence 03, February 26, 2011.
Mongolia - Enhanced Justice Sector Services Project: Environmental Report (Vol. 2 of
2): Environmental Safeguard Guidelines for Small Civil Works, June 22, 2011 (Report
No. E1876)
Mongolia - Enhanced Justice Sector Services Project - Mongolia: P101446 -
Implementation Status Results Report: Sequence 04, December 19, 2011 (Report No.
ISR4047)
Mongolia - Enhanced Justice Sector Services Project: Restructuring, April 10, 2012
(Report No. 67799)
Mongolia - Enhanced Justice Sector Services Project: Amendment to the Financing
Agreement for Credit 4493-MN and Grant H413-MN, April 30, 2012
Mongolia - Enhanced Justice Sector Services Project: Mid-Term Review, May 2012
Mongolia - Enhanced Justice Sector Services Project - Mongolia: P101446 -
Implementation Status Results Report: Sequence 05, July 1, 2012 (Report No. ISR6993)
Mongolia - Enhanced Justice Sector Services Project - Mongolia: P101446 -
Implementation Status Results Report: Sequence 06, January 2, 2013 (Report No.
ISR8409)
Mongolia - Enhanced Justice Sector Services Project: Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet,
May 3, 2013 (Report No. ISDSR3000)
Mongolia - Enhanced Justice Sector Services Project - Mongolia: P101446 -
Implementation Status Results Report: Sequence 07, June 25, 2013 (Report No.
ISR10657)
50


﻿Annex 10. Project Activities per Component (original and revised)
This annex depicts the changes made to the original project with the April 2012
restructuring. The text depicted in the right column in red italicized text represents
activities added as part of the restructuring. Text depicted in strikethrough and yellow
highlight (shaded) represents activities that were dropped as a result of the restructuring.
PDO (Original):                                  PDO    (Revised):
The Project's Development Objective is to       The Objective of the Project is to Enhance
Enhance the Efficiency, Transparency and          Access to Justice Sector Information and
Accountability of Justice Sector            Legal Advice, and Increase the Efficiency
Institutions.                     and Transparency of the Courts and Court
Enforcement Agencies.
Enhancing Public Legal Education on the Justice Sector
0.25m IDA                                              0.25m IDA
0.25 PHRD
a) Formal Legal Education                       a) Formal Legal Education
b) Public Legal Education                       b) Public Legal Education
c) Bilingual Legal Information Program for the  c) Bilingual Legal Information Program for the
Kazakh (Bayan-Ulgii Aimag)                      Kazakh (Bayan-Ulgii Aimag)
Increasing Transparency through Improved Access to Legal Information
1.26m IDA                                              0.55m IDA
0.15m PHRD
a) Joint National Justice Sector Information     a) Joint National Justice Sector Information
Strategy                                         Strategy
b) Information sharing amongst justice sector    b) Information sharing amongst justice sector
institutions and with the general public        institutions and with the general public
c) IT Networking and Capacity Building for the   c) IT Networking and Capacity Building for the
Judiciary and the MOJHA                          Judiciary and the MOJ1A
d) Automating and linking all regional Aimag     d) Automating and linking all regional Aimag
courts                                           courts
e) Central Judicial Archive and Public Information  e) Cenflal Judieial Arehive and Public Information
System                                           System
Enhancing Judicial Operations, Enforcement and Monitoring of Court Decisions
3.34m IDA                                              3.66m IDA
0.45m PHRD
1.0m GOM
a) Refurbishment or Construction of select rural  a) Refurbishment or Construction of select rural
Aimag CDEA offices (11)                          Aimag CDEA offices (3)
b) Nationwide CDEA IT network                    b) Construction of GCC court buildings (4) and
c) Training for CDEA staff                          extension and refurbishment of GCC court
d) Construction of a new Supreme Court facility     building (1)
c) Fiber Optic Connections to the local court
offices, GCC, CDEA buildings, PGO, and
Prosecutor Offices
d) Supply and Installation of Administrative Case
Management and Monitoring Software
e) Training for CDEA staff
f) CefnSttfin ef a neW SuMremfe Ceut facilitl,


﻿Annex 11: Supporting Documentation
Table I a-1: List of Syllabi and Handbooks Developed
ItrainlPiaeLw  150  160   140   50   110   150   50   50    50    40    50   50    50    10
150   160  140   50   110   150   50    50   50    40    50   50     50    10
BuiesLw150          160   140   50   110   150   50   50    50    40   50    50    50    10
Scooy150            160   140   50   110   150   50   50    50    40   50    50    50    10
Aplcto fLw150       340   310   100  220   310   50   100   100   80   90    100   90    10
LwesEtis150         180   150   50   110   160   40   40    50   40    40    50    40    10
SoilWlaeLw150       180   150   50   110   160   40   40    50    40   40    50    40    10
SeuiyLw150          180   150   50   110   160   40   40    50    40   40    50    40    10
BnigLw150           180   150   50   110   160   40   40    50   40    40    50    40    10
Thoyo vdne150       180   150   50   110   160   40   40    50    40   40    50    40    10
150   180  150   50   110   160   40    40   50    40    40   50     40    10
CmaaieLw150         180   150   50   110   160   40   40    50    40   40    50    40    10
FoescSine150        180   150   50   110   160   40   40    50    40   40    50    40    10
Ciiooy150           180   150   50   110   160   40   40    50    40   40    50    40    10
Noay150             180   150   50   110   160   40   40    50    40   40    50    40    10
Cor eiin150         180   170   50   110   160   0    50    50    40   40    50    40    10
52


﻿10                     10     10     5      11nt Law
3eneral)        150    180    170     50     110    160     0     50     50      40     40     50     40      10
aw              150    180    170     50    110     160     0     50     50      40     40     50     40      10
s              150    180     150    50     110    160    40      40     50     40     40     50      40      10
Ciiesi and Migration  150  180    150     50     110    160    40      40     50     40     40     50      40      10
sh              85     95     87      42     45     83     23     22     25     22      23     23     23      0
Administrative  150    180    150     50     110    160    40     40      50     40     40     50     40      10
Table I a-2: Enrollment numbers in Standardized Courses at Law Schools
NUMBER OF STUDENTS ENROLLED in School Year of 2013-2014
#of    #of
Stude  Profe
nts   ssors/                 3  33
enroll Teach                                3                                                                     E
ed     ers                                                                                            å-"3 y  W. -tn eyi cz
(total) (total)                                                         ä!                    j 3  rE
-t .              lo u j     .  : a                             r .    5 =
o                 > M  .- c   -  r-                        .o         2
00                         uj.~<                 E
0  CL                                                           0
F     C0 0. >
National
University of  774    51                                                                                                      6461
Mongolia
53


﻿Law                           w,                              < a,   a,>
.> .  > c, c, _ .  > _ _ .  0 .  .>;  _4 _  >4
Enforcemen  1503  142                     .o  n    o  n  f,  c       n  n 7l  ri  0000 6779
<> <> <> Lnl  w  Lnl  mf  cu  w  eJ  mf  cu>  w  w2  w>  ai  mf  en  w  Lnl  <* -i
t University                                                 i  i a  e    iu-
>                  >
Otgontenge                    0D  04        CD4 0 0  1-4  0D  1-  'ý-  r,    o 0 0:: 1 38
nn   392   21            m    a m  . m  m   00 m m  m n       * * 0  C Ln3081
University                                                        0  0  m  m 00
Orkhon                                                                    , s u604
Ere me                                            m 16  Ln  Ln  Ln  f l      23
Institute
khZsg00                 t.0  00  (D0  0  00  (D0  kD*  *  .  00  00  00  00  0  0  t.0  0  00  00  *? 0
154 Zasa                   riJ  0  C,4  0  On  -i  0o   0  rIq  C4J  C114  1-4  m~  m  0  a)  r14  1-4   0  8682
University                   (fl                 w  ai  rnf > <>  .  f  f en >  fn  efl  ai efn<l~f
Shihihutug                   (D0    c,  o.  Ln0 of  D  o.  (D  m  en>  N  (D0   000 Ln0   4389 t  (
Un1vers6ty-4                 -1f   0~ cn -         0 -1>  0- -
Biignsitu te                                                         - 11  15       1284
Ulaanbaatar-  31  142>238
Erdem                                              0                        . 0Ln r 0 0 0   * ~ ~ ~ 23
173  152>                                                           -45<
Institute5
Bilig Institute  151  15     00 e  :1m        e     n m en m e  :1 e   t m    L       1284
Ulaabaatr         Ln o  Ln o  -i>    >
Ulaabaatr            00co0 00                                    Ln~'0  ~ '0W 0   .  2381
University                             -41    <2> 0i 00  N  0          00  r-  ><  i '  r,.
T173e       15<                                                                  -  1015
Institute                                                                     -
54


﻿0000000Go     0      D0     00     00     00     0k0(      .    0    0
Sutal Institute  100  7                   r   1                                                                             596
Naioa  529  22                                                                         0)0 00 0  0.  D  U  D
Mongolian                                                             >
National      529     22                                                                                                   2958
University                                                                          W          c         w         w
Trade School                               q 0   rq Ln r    i -4 r J CN      q CIJ        0 0          q IN Ln 4-'
of NUM         98     7                                                                                                     5 7 42
Khovd School  105     9                    j 0    0s  j  q  U                                                   LA722
W ~   ~   .; V4WTrMq*M 00 4DN4-q NO4N         W N      r- 000  ND
t0) V4  L) P) M~ V0) n             r% r   r                 %     a
6505   402                   N  T                        0)                  m                 oN 0          42689
rq0 V40 "4 N4 rq V4 "  00 3                                         L
V4                     rq -4   "4 N- 0q V-0-  "I  4 N  0Rr468
Table I a-3: Satisfaction Survey for Syllabi and Handbooks Developed (Teachers, respectively Students)
# of Survey Participants         Total: 38                       Thereof Female: 27             Thereof Male: 11
# of Law Schools participating   10
Select Topic                     _How often do you use the handbook?
Often                          Usually                        Sometimes
Constitutional Procedure Law                   6                               3
International Private Law                      6                               5
Business Law                                   6                               2
Legal English                                  10               __
55


﻿When do you use the handbook? (multiple choice)
In the classroom                For my assignments                     Other
Constitutional Procedure Law                     8                                7                                 2
International Private Law                        9                                8                                 2
Business Law                                     7                                7                                 1
Legal English                                    8                                9                                 1
How would you rate the following aspects of the handbook?
Main contents                    Methodology                          Design
0000                                                  0                0
5 0                             0 u                              0)               0
=                        --       o       --o              =~      o        r-
LLi-                                                       LL
x
Constitutional Procedure Law         5        4       --     --       5        3       1       --      7        2       --       --
International Private Law            8        3       --     --      10        1       --      --      9        2       --      --
Business Law                         5        3       --     --       4        3       1       --      5        3       --      --
LegalEnglish                         6        4       --     --       7        3       --      --      8        2       --      --
# of Survey Participants        Total: 175                       Thereof Female: 120                Thereof Male: 55
Constitutional Procedure Law   International Private Law (55/40/15)  Business Law (54/34/20)       Legal English (10/8/2)
(56/38/18)
How often do you use the handbook?
Often                            Usually                          Sometimes
Constitutional Procedure Law                   4                                18                                 36
International Private Law                     14                                18                                 26
Business Law                                   3                                13                                 40
Legal English                                  2                                 4                                  4
56


﻿When do you use the handbook? (multiple choice)
In the classroom                For my assignments                      Other
Constitutional Procedure Law                  31                               26                                 18
International Private Law                     37                               24                                 15
Business Law                                  34                               12                                 24
Legal English                                 2                                 5                                 4
How would you rate the following aspects of the handbook?
Main content         Case studies         References          Contents              Design
=    0     -         =      o    -        =     0    -       =    0    -         =     0        0
(U 0         0     ()    0         0    a)   0        0   a)   0    Cu   0    a)    0    L.L  0
U(D       LL   L9    LL                    U L9    LL        U   (D   U-         U )a
xxx                                               x                   x
U    oo               U     oU U U
Constitutional Procedure Law    11   30   12    1    14    24   15   1    10   28  15        --  1                    1    --
International Private Law       23  21    11    1    19    26   10   --   18   26   7   2    --  1                    1    --
Business Law                    7   25    20    2    7     33   10   4    8    28  12   3        --   1    --   --    1    --
LegallEnglish                   --   --   --    --   --    --   --   --   --   --   --  --   3   4    2    --    --   7     2
Table I a-4: Trainings Provided for Law School Professors and Teachers
Trainng o Traners2011                                                              30         10       20
Stud Tou-Gerany2011                                                                19         7        12
Lega EngishTeacing2011                                                            24          2        22
Methodology Training                                                                          2013       100         43       57
Research Methodology                                                                          2013       130         58       72
Application of Law /Constitutional Law, Administration Law, Civil Law, Criminal and Criminal Procedural Law  2013  150  67    83
57


﻿Junior Lawyers Training /Organized with MOJ, NLI/                                           2013        50         26       24
Table I a-5: Satisfaction Survey for Trainings Provided for Law School Professors and Teachers
1                                               I- L-  L.L.M
A1                                       1      2    1              0            0           0
?4.1                                4..         4.1
4.1         4.1         4.1-4-4
Law, Criminal Law,
L 'E                    E                  EEh               E
twj to
Training~~ of Trinr  30  22  19  3            0     2     1     3     1                W9 3    8     4    1
UI( >.          .-M
Stud TorGemn     19
4-                                      4- 4-
00
YogPofor Trainng  1746
AdnsrarMtodowvl  130   113    110    3               108   12    109    11   100    13   101    12    106   13    105   15
AplatingofTawr      150    130    123    3               120    2    124    3     115   15    124   3     125    4    119    11
58


﻿/Constitutional Law,
Administration Law, Civil
Law, Criminal and
Criminal Procedural Law
Junior Lawyers Training     50     50      48     2                 49      1     44     6      42     8     39     11     48     2      38     12
/Organized with MOJ, NLI
Table I a-6: Case Details for Law School Clinics
Total Number of people served by Legal Clinics                Case Type of Legal Aid
Application
List of Law Schools         ofC lial                           2013 (until Sept 30,                   Social iis
Standards                                                 Family   Land   Welfar   Labor   trai    Insur   Other
Legal Clinic                                                  Femalbaata
Male   FenlTotal      Male   Fenl     Total                      e               n     ance
e                     e
Legal Clinic, School of Commerce      V         8     2        9     3        8      9         9      1        2       7       85             4
of NUM
Lea Ciic awSholofV                    33     17      so     25     20      45       21       10      6       18      0       5      35
Otgontenger University
Legal Clinic, Ikh Zasag University   V/       165     200    35      175    325     50       305     221      131     86      25      34      63
Legal Clinic, Ulaanbaatar Erdem28                     5       79     4       75     17         6      298              17      4      293
University
Legal Clinic, Orkhon University      V/        30     21      51     35      32      67       25      18      11       13      9      17      25
Lea  .lnc UlabatrV                            35     14      49     43     18       61      45       8       17      18      12      8       2
UniversityI                                        IIIIIIII
Legal Clinic, Sutai University        /        24     38             39      65               41      25      19       17     19      21      24
Legal Clinic, National Institute of   v        45     18             27      13               23      8       13      26       1      18      14
59


﻿Mongolia
Legal Clinic, National University of       85    115           110    165
Mongolia, Law School
Legal Clinic, Shihikhutug                  35     29     64     80    100    180      53     106     29      34     11     1      10
University
Bilig Institute                            27     46     73     31    57      88      51     27      17      21     9      16     20
Tushee Institute                  V        15     21     36     26    38      64      33      13      9      15     8      9      13
Law Enforcement University        V                                           Doesn't serve the public
Table I a-7: Case Details for the Legal Clinic Substations in the poor ger districts in Ulaanbaatar
"Justice Bridge" Ger District Project
Legal Clinic, National  Sukhbaatar
.   .                 District 13, 15,   1        2       6        6      212      49      163       31      113       18      50
University of Mongolia  1t    oo
18th Horoo
Chingeltel
Legal Clinic, Shibikhutug  Cigle
.eg .iic              District 11, 15,   1        2       28      32      244      93       151      66       109      27       45
18th Horoo
"Born under the Sky, Live under the Law" Narantuul Market Project
Legal Clinic, Ulaanbaatar  Narantuul2
.nier.t                    Market         2       1       5        7      1810      590     1220      --       -         --
Universitymecat
merchants
60


﻿Numbe of eopl whoLegal Aid Received per Case Type
received Legal Aid
Legal Clinic                                                                               Civil     Social
Total    Male    Female    Family     Land      Wlae       Labor     Registra  Insuranc   Contract     al      Other
tion        e
University of Mongolia      68       15029985433
Legal Clinic, Shihikhutug   72       27       45        21         11         6         11         7         3          2         8         3
University
Table I a-8: Tailored Projects "Legal Rights Awareness and Crime Prevention" at High Schools
Unvibert Oct 01, 2012os                                                        Nubro      awSuet         NmefHihSho
Legal Clinic, School of Commerce of theSchool           u    project4262
National University of Mongolia
Legal Clinic, Law School of Otgontenger    School
Unviersity                                             Oct 01, 2012
Legal Clinic, Ikh Zasag University      97 th School    until project     2            1            7            8           48          72
Legal Clinic, Ulaanbaatar Erdem         5 h Scolclosure1348673
Unviersity                               th               closure         1            3
Legal Clinic, Orkhon Unviersity         18th School                       1            2            5            7           64          84
Legal Clinic, Ulaanbaatar University    84 School                         2            1            7            6           79          121
Legal Clinic, Sutai University         33th School                                             Dropped
Oct 01, 2012
Legal Clinic, National Institute of      th S  ot poe                                  3491
Mongolia11 School                             until project     0            3            4            6           49          161
Mongoliaclur
closure
61


﻿Table I b-1: Public Education Campaigns
"Law and Integrity" - October/November 2010
MoJHA
Arkhangai           90,986                                                         +,nor further information
Bayan-Ulgii         89,191                       2
Bayankhongor        80,858                                                         +,nor further information
Bulgan              58,369                                                         +,nor further information
Govi-Altai          56,172                                                         +,nor further information
Govi-Sumber         14,508                                                         +,nor further information
Darkhan-Uul         95,043                                                         +,nor further information
Dornogovi           59,772
Dornod              74,473                                                         +,nor further information
Dundgovi            45,914                                                             2, total of 5,000
participants
Zavkhan             71,877                                                         +,nor further information
Orkhon              88,705
Umnugovi            52,306                                                         +,nor further information
Uvurkhangai         112,120                                                        +,nor further information
Sukhbaatar          54,852                                                         +,nor further information
Selenge             101,752                                   +,nor further information
Tuv                 87,909                       16
Uvs                 74,733                       4                                         11
Khovd               82,204
Khentii             70,143                                           365                   5
Khuvsgul            124,613                                                        +,nor further information
Ulaanbaatar                                      8                   7000
62


﻿"Peaceful Environment" - January/February 2011
MoJHA, N LC and Globe International (NGO)
Arkhangai         90,986
Bayan-Ulgii       89,191                                                        4(100)
Bayankhongor      80,858                    3                                   6(40)
Bulgan            58,369
Govi-Altai        56,172
Govi-Sumber       14,508                    3                2,000                7
Darkhan-Uul       95,043                    18                                    20
Dornogovi         59,772                                                          27
Dornod            74,473
Dundgovi          45,914                    5                                   2(61)
Zavkhan           71,877
Orkhon            88,705
Umnugovi          52,306
Uvurkhangai       112,120                                                         5
Sukhbaatar        54,852                    7                                     5
Selenge           101,752
Tuv               87,909                    12               21,000            1 (2000)
Uvs               74,733
Khovd             82,204
Khentii           70,143                                                          15
Khuvsgul          124,613                                    1,000
Ulaanbaatar
"Environment Protection" - May/June 2012
63


﻿MoJHA
Arkhangai         90,986
Bayan-Ulgii       89,191
Bayankhongor      80,858
Bulgan            58,369
Govi-Altai        56,172
Govi-Sumber       14,508                   2                                  1 (300)            1,647               757
Darkhan-Uul       95,043
Dornogovi         59,772                   30                                29(5,655)           33,024            11,410
Dornod            74,473
Dundgovi          45,914                                                     7(4,800)            19,300
Zavkhan           71,877
Orkhon            88,705
Umnugovi          52,306
Uvurkhangai       112,120                  3                                 12 (7,865)          57,436
Sukhbaatar        54,852
Selenge           101,752
Tuv               87,909
Uvs              74,733
Khovd             82,204
Khentii          70,143                    60                                 1 (200)                               2,250
Khuvsgul          124,613                                                       7                15,762
Ulaanbaatar
"Family & Labor" - April/May 2012
MoJHA
Arkhangai         90,986                   1                                    3
Bayan-Ulgii       89,191                   6                                  1 (345)
Bayankhongor      80,858                   2                                  2 (245)
64


﻿Bulgan            58,369                     14                                   (2,800)
Govi-Altai        56,172
Govi-Sumber       14,508                     1                  300                 6
Darkhan-Uul       95,043
Dornogovi         59,772
Dornod            74,473                     2                3 (600)
Dundgovi          45,914                     2                   3
Zavkhan           71,877
Orkhon            88,705
Umnugovi          52,306                     80                2,000            152 (3,055)
Uvurkhangai       112,120                                                         8 (872)
Sukhbaatar        54,852                    120                                   2 (564)
Selenge            101,752                   6                                   4 (2,020)
Tuv                87,909                    17                 600             63 (25,400)
Uvs               74,733
Khovd             82,204                     5                  500               5 (500)
Khentii           70,143                     9                                    5 (607)
Khuvsgul          124,613                    5                  200
Ulaanbaatar
Table I b-2: Public Education Materials (Distribution)
# of     # of     # of Handout    #oPstr# of                  # of Posters  # of Posters  # of Posters
Soums    Khoroos   "Your Legal                    Animated       "Anti-        "Anti-     "Constitutional
Aimg   opuaton      in     in UIB      Guide"          mnad        Schoolbooks    Tobacco"     Corruption"      Rights"
Aimag    Districts  Distributed  ww.huhm         Distributed   Distributed   Distributed    Distributed
n distributed
Arkhangai           90,986      19                   476            238                          50            50            50
Bayan-Ulgii         89,191      14                   392            196                          50            50            50
Bayankhongor       80,858      20                   504            252                          50            50             50
65


﻿Bulgan             58,369     16                  368           184                        50            50           50
Govi-Altai         56,172     18                  404           202                        50            50            50
Govi-Sumber        14,508      3                  56             28                        50            50            50
Darkhan-Uui        95,043      4                  124            62                        50            50           50
Dornogovi          59,772     14                  284           142                        50            50           50
Dornod             74,473     14                  312           156                        50            50           50
Dundgovi           45,914     15                  328           164                        50            50           50
Zavkhan            71,877     24                  556           278                        50            50            50
Orkhon             88,705      2                  88             44                        50            50            50
Umnugovi           52,306     15                  292           146                        50            50           50
Uvurkhangai       112,120     19                  304           252                        50            50           50
Sukhbaatar         54,852     13                  320           160                        50            50            50
Selenge           101,752     17                  296           148                        50            50            50
Tuv                87,909     27                  496           248                        50            50            50
Uvs                74,733     19                  248           224                        50            50           50
Khovd              82,204     17                  436           218                        50            50           50
Khentii            70,143     20                  436           218                        50            50           50
Khuvsgul          124,613     24                  596           298                        50            50           50
Legal Aid Centers in 6 Soums                                                               300          300           300
Ulaanbaatar
Bayangol District  192,100             46         96             48                        50            50           50
Bayazurkh District  283,300            56         116            58                        50            50           50
Khan-Uul District  119,900             32         68             34                        50            50           50
Chingeltei District  153,100           38         80             40                        50            50           50
Songino-Khairkhan  257,200             64         132            66                        50            50            50
District
Sukhbaatar District  137,800           40         84             42                        50            50            50
Baganuur District  27,000              10         24             12                        50            50           50
Bagakhangai        3,700               4          12             6                         50            50           50
District
Nalaikh District   32,500              14         32             16                        50            50           50
66


﻿14 Law Schools                                         130              28             14
Ministry of Justice                                                                   486            100            100            100
National Legal Institute                                                                             100            100            100
11-11 Information Center                                                                             100            100            100
Secondary Schools of Ulaanbaatar                                                      2,180
Orphanages and Homes for Street and Unsupervised                                       390
Children (39)
Training & Public Awareness Unit of the Municipal Police                               20
Department
Protection of Public Order Unit of the Municipal Police                               320
Department
The Child Protection & Address and Identification Center                               20
(state-run center under the police department)
Child & Family Support Department of Ulaanbaatar                                       20
National Center for Children                                               20
153 Khoroos (administrative units of Ulaanbaatar)                                 1,530
Table I b-3: Kazakh Legal Aid Center (Bayan-Ulgii Aimag)
Legal Aid received by   Participants in Legal   Total Number of PeoplePepeAds/RahdbAg
Term                Gender            Outreach Campaigns        Addressed/Reached
Male       Female       Male        Female                                 18-35          36-55          Above 55
Noeme 210-      109         113         395          132               749                 225            395              129
December 2011
Deeme 211-      713        794         1,925        1,867              5,299               2,048         1,823             1,428
December 2012
January 2013 -
Ju577                            514        4,374        3,502              8,967                734          5,098             3,135
June 2013
67


﻿Table I b-4: Legal Aid Center for Ethnic Minorities (Bayan-Ulgii Aimag)
Ja     ernuar  201 - un
November2010-144                          168              57               193              62                         312
November 2011
December 2011 -85614
Deebr 01-187                        175              88              180              94                         362
December 2012
January 2013 - June       73               81              40               50               64                         154
2013
Tablel                                                       Feal b-:PaatglAciite
November 2010 -                     No aie uen
November 2011
December 2011 -85614
December 2012
January 2013 - June                146                                   117                                        263
20131111
Table I b-5: Paralegal Activities
Numbe
r of                        Number of
trained     Number of         trainings        Number of
Aimags      Population  paraleg      paralegals      provided for      trainings &
als    providing services  the paralegals  outreach activities  21          02       21         oa
trained                       since 2011
in 2011
Bayan-Vt2 89,191              41            4             no data           No data                                         2,365   No data
BaNankhonoor     80,858       51           23             no data           No data                                         4,869   No data
68


﻿36
(The Aimag's
Citizens
Representatives
Bulgan           58,486      52    Hural approved       no data            150           1,791      6,234               8,025   No data
36,902,400 tugrugs
as paralegals' fee
for 2014-2016
years)
Govi-Altai       56,172      60           24               4             No data                      No data                   No data
Govisumber       14,508      9     No activities undertaken.                                                                    no data
Darkhan-Uul      95,043      26    No activities undertaken.                                                                    no data
Dornogovi        59,772      50           23            no data            38                                           4,869   no data
Dornod           74,473      31           18            no data          no data                                       27,613   no data
Dundgovi         45,914      65           5             no data          no data                                         150    no data
792 (27     946(39
.        mio
mio.
Zavkhan          71,877     99            29            no data          no data       Tugrugs for tugrugs   (No        1,738   no data
paralegals'  for      budget)
es          paralegals
fees)
(48 mio
tugrugs
Orkhon           88,705      51           36              13               17                                approved  13,376   30520
for
paralegal
s' fees)
Umnugovi         52,306      53           41            no data          no data                                        9,584   no data
Uvurkhangai     112,120      56           55            no data            502                                         45,978   no data
Sukhbaatar       54,852     40     No activities undertaken.                                                                    no data
Selenge         101,752     32            32          no data       no data                                            7,282    no data
Tuv              88,000     99           318            10            58           8744        27587         1005      37,336   no data
Uvs              74,733      77    No activities undertaken.                                                                    no data
Khovd            82,204      61    No activities undertaken.                                                                    no data
Khentii          70,143      74           19          no data       no data                                             3,848   no data
Khuvsgul        12,4613      76           12          no data       no data                                             634     no data
69


﻿Ulaanbaatar
Bayangol          192100      36            36           no data           1                         150                       150    no data
District
Bayanzurkh       283300       50            50           no data          7                          370                      370     no data
District
Khan-Uul          119900      42            42           no data           1                         120                       120    no data
District
Chingeltei       153100       58            58           no data          25                        480                       480     no data
District
Songino-
Khairkhan        257200       63            63           no data           1                         160                       160    no data
District
baatar       137800       72            72           no data          2                          100                      100     no data
District
Baganuur          27000       22            22           no data           1                         64                        64     no data
District
Bagakhangai       3700        12            12           no data          2                          57                        57     no data
District
Nalaikh
32500       16            16                                                       192                       192     no data
District
Table II a-1: Sites Connected and Data Sharing Activities
Fiber     Data entry
Aimag                   EniyOptics                                    (as applicable: CDEAReak
Entity                           .                                     Reak
(Province)                                                  Connecti  software/Administrative Court
on        Software)
Administrative Court                           Not regularly (Nov 1, 2013)
70


﻿Aimag Court                          /
Bayan-Ulgii           CDEA (Aimag)                         /     At least once a week
Administrative Court                 /      Not regularly (Nov 1, 2013)
Aimag Court                          /
Bayankhongor          CDEA (Aimag)                         /     At least once a week
Administrative Court                 /      Not regularly (Nov 1, 2013)
Aimag Court                          /
Bulgan
Administrative Court                 /      Not regularly (Nov 1, 2013)
Aimag Court                          /
Govi-Altai            CDEA (Aimag)                         /     At least once a week
Administrative Court                 /      Not regularly (Nov 1, 2013)
Aimag Court                          /
Govi-Sumber           CDEA (Aimag)                         /     At least once a week
Administrative Court                 /      Regularly                         Software Pilot Court
Aimag Court                          /
Darkhan-Uul           CDEA (Aimag)                        V/     At least once a week
Administrative Court                 /      Regularly                         Software Pilot Court
Aimag Court                          /
Dornogovi             CDEA (Aimag)                         /     At least once a week
Administrative Court                 /      Not regularly (Nov 1, 2013)
Aimag Court                          /
Dornod                CDEA (Aimag)                         /     At least once a week
Administrative Court                 /      Not regularly (Nov 1, 2013)
Aimag Court                          /
Dundgovi              CDEA (Aimag)                         /     At least once a week
Administrative Court                 /      Not regularly (Nov 1, 2013)
Aimag Court                          /
Zavkhan               Tonsontsengel Inter-Soum Court       /                                        Newly constructed
CDEA (Aimag)                         /     At least once a week
Administrative Court                 /      Not regularly (Nov 1, 2013)
Orkhon                Aimag Court                          /
71


﻿CDEA (Aimag)                          /      At least once a week
Administrative Court                         Regularly                          Software Pilot Court
Aimag Court                           /
Khorkhorin Inter-Soum Court           /                                         Newly constructed
Uvurkhangai            CDEA (Aimag)                          /      At least once a week
Khorkhorin Soum CDEA                  /      At least once a week
Administrative Court                  /      Not regularly (Nov 1, 2013)
Aimag Court                            /                                         Refurbished
Umnugovi               CDEA (Aimag)                          /      At least once a week
Administrative Court                  /      Not regularly (Nov 1, 2013)
Aimag Court                           /
Sukhbaatar             CDEA (Aimag)                          /      At least once a week
Administrative Court                   /     Not regularly (Nov 1, 2013)
Aimag Court                           /
CDEA (Aimag)/                               At least once a week
Mandal Sourm CDEA                     /      At least once a week
Administrative Court                  /      Regularly                          Software Pilot Court
Aimag Court                           /
Tuv                    CDEA (Aimag)                          /      At least once a week
Administrative Court                  /      Regularly                          Software Pilot Court
Aimag Court                           /
Uvs
Administrative Court                  /      Not regularly (Nov 1, 2013)
Aimag Court                           /
Khovd                  Bulgan Inter-Soum Court               /                                         Newly constructed
CDEA (Aimag)                          /      At least once a week
Administrative Court                  /      Not regularly (Nov 1, 2013)
Aimag Court                           /
Khuvsgul               CDEA (Aimag)                          /      At least once a week
Administrative Court                  /      Not regularly (Nov 1, 2013)
Aimag Court                           /
Khentii                Bor-Undur (Darkhan) Inter-Soum Court  /                                         Newly constructed
CDEA (Aimag)                          /      At least once a week
72


﻿Administrative Court                  /      Not regularly (Nov 1, 2013)
Administrative Court of the Capital City                    /      Not regularly (Nov 1, 2013)
Administrative Appellate Court                              /      Not regularly (Nov 1, 2013)
Administrative Cassation Court                              /      Not regularly (Nov 1, 2013)
CDEA of the Capital City                                    /      Daily
Baganuur District of Ulaanbaatar                            /      At least once a week
Debt Extinguishing Office of the Banks and Savings and Credit  /   At least once a week
Cooperatives
CDEA Headquarter                                            /      Daily
Building #2 of the Court Decision Enforcement Agency        /      Daily
GCC                                                         /      Not regularly
Table II b-1: User Satisfaction Survey on Court Enforcement Agency Software (24 respondents)
Did the training achieve its purpose?
15 -
1) No (0)
10 -2) Somewhat (0)
3) Moderately (2)
5 -                                                                                4) Almost (15)
5) Completely (7)
0
1 xyparyAI  2 6ara sapar  3 AyHA 33ar  4 6apar XypC3H 5 6yp3H XypC3H
YHanlfa7
73


﻿Was the training content consistent with the training's purpose?
20
1) No
15                                                                                  2) Somewhat
3) Moderately
10                                                                                  4) Almost (7)
5) Completely (17)
0
1 xyp9aryA  1 2 6ara sapqr  3 AYHA 3ar  4 6apar XypC9H 5 6yp9H XypC9H
HaraYHI
How would you rank the impact of following factors on the training's success?
4.6 -
4.4
1) Training methodology (4)
4.2                                                                 2) Training preparation (4)
4                                                                 3) Trainer's ability (5)
4) Training tools (4)
CypranTblH X9B 3arBap
CypranTblH 6anTr3 ammn
Cyprari 6arwlH yp ,aABap
cypralTbIH 6arai xqpqrc9.n
74


﻿How would you rate the immediate practicality of the knowledge you obtained through
this training?
15 -
1) Poor
10                                                                          2) Somewhat poor
3) Moderate (2)
4) Good (9)
5) Very good (13)
0
1 xypearyI  2 6ara sapgr  3 AYHA 3apgr  4 6apar   5 6yp9H
XypCOH      XypC3H
Possible barriers to implementation
1 respondent: No barriers (5%)
2 respondents: Lack of experience (13%)
6 respondents: Lack of high-speed internet (38%)
7 respondents: Capacity of technical equipment
(44%)
75


﻿P0 ular res onses                                        Indv. Total
What did you enjoy during the
training?
01 02    3 04,5                                                                                        1
13
1
3
2 1%
1     7
1
37%         01                                                                                        2
Tr r  4AauN ,3 0ted system can no parse ows and studioS [C t anIme
itese  odirct inqumres.                                 I
Alucions are now\ easier anl with proper monitoring.1
Itsveygod that we are implementing this new systenm that allows
Inertdsystemn implementation                            1     4
Table III a-1: List of Construction of CDEA offices and Court Buildings
Court Buildings
Bulgan Soumn         546,793   'u     '1   o  0       Nov 30, 2012    Ganzoson Construction LLC  ConConstruction LLC  November 2012
2011      2011
Aug 22,   Nov 30,       ac   ,21        gu    hsi [
Tonsontsengel Soum   517,118                       April30,2012    Asar Urguu LLC           ConConstruction LLC  April 2012
2011      2011
Khorkhorin Soum     452,901    'u     '9   o  0      Oct 30, 2012     Inteko Engineering LLC   ConConstruction LLC  September 2012
2011      2011
Bor-Undur Soum       394,970   'u     '2   o  0       March 5, 2012   Uguuj Khishig LLC        ConConstruction LLC  March 2012
2011      2011
Umnugovi Aimag       156,584   Aug 24,   Nov 30,     Jan 15, 2012     Batjin Construction LLC  ConConstruction LLC  June 2013
76


﻿(Refurbishment)               2011      2011;
extended
to June 28,
2013
CDEA Offices
June 27,  November    Nov 30, 2012;
Bulgan Aimag        391,400          '              extended to June  Machine Mechanism JSC  OSIB-ZT LLC        June 2013
2012      30, 2012    2,21
28, 2013
August    November    Jn30212         Tsagaan Khushuu Trade
Uvs Aimag           386,087                         June 30, 2012                           OSIB-ZT LLC         June 2012
24, 2011  30, 2011                    LLC
Zamyin-Uud Sou      145,371                 30,     Nov 30, 2011    Mongol Deveer LLC       OSIB-ZT LLC         November 2011
16, 2011  2011
77


﻿Table III a-2: Survey on User Satisfaction with Newly Constructed/Refurbished Buildingsio
Court building in Bor-Undur Soum (completed in March 2012) - Staff
Equipment                                                                             15                    19
Furniture    -16
Waiting hail                                                         11   12                                         02013
Administrative address                                                                                      17                02012
17
Location                                                                                   16
0         2         4         6         8         10        12        14        16        18        20
Court building in Bor-Undur Soum (completed in March 2012) --Lawyers
Equipment                                                      10             13
Furniture    -                                                                             16
Waiting hall                                                                   13                                    02013
Administrative address                                                             12                            18    .2     012
Location                                                                         14   15
0         2         4         6         8         10        12        14        16        18        20
10 At each site, a total of 40 people were randomly selected and interviewed, out of which 20 were clients and 20 were lawyers. The numbers comprise the responses 'very satisfied'
and 'satisfied'.
78


﻿Court building in Bulgan Soum, Khovd Province (completed in November 2012) - Staff
Equipment                                                  1 13
Furniture                                                                          9 20
Waiting hall                                                            16          19                        02013
Administrative address                                             12 13                                               02012
20
Location         -2
0                  5                 10                 15                 20                 25
Court building in Bulgan Soum, Khovd Province (completed in November 2012) - Lawyers
Equipment                                                           15
15
Furniture                                                                             20
Waiting hall                                                                    18 19                         M 2013
Administrative address       -                                                                                         M2012
Location                                                                      18 19
0                  5                 10                 15                 20                25
79


﻿Court building in Tonsontsengel Soum, Zavkhan Province (completed in April 2012) - Staff
Equipment                                                                       15
Furniture                                                               13
13
Waiting hall                                                                      15 N16                      02013
Administrative address                                                        12       14                             02012
Location                                                                                      1     19
0        2         4        6         8        10       12       14        16       18       20
Court building in Tonsontsengel Soum, Zavkhan Province (completed in April 2012) - Lawyers
Equipment                                                12                 17
Furniture                                                     14      16
Waiting hall                                                             16     18                           m 2013
Administrative address                                                        15                                      m 2012
Location                                                                             20
0                  5                 10                 15                20                 25
80


﻿Court building in Khorkhorin Soum, Uvurkhangai Province (completed in September 2012) - Staff
Equipment                                                                       18
Furniture                                                                     18
20                     21
Waiting hall                                                                            20
Administrative address                                          W         14
Location                                                           15
0                  5                 10                 15                 20                 25
12
Court building in Khorkhorin Soum, Uvurkhangai Province (completed in September 2012) - Lawyers
Equipment                                             12                           1
Furniture                                                                            20
20
Waiting hall       -                                                            18 19                       m2013
Administrative address                                                                           20
Location                                                                             20
0                  5                 10                 15                 20                25
81


﻿CDEA Office in Uvs Aimag (completed in June 2012) - Staff
Equipment     --
Furniture                                                                     418
Waiting hall                                                          12                           18          02013
Administrative address                                                                                      18          02012
18
Location                                                            1 13
0         2        4         6        8        10        12       14        16        18       20
CDEA Office in Uvs Aimag (completed in June 2012) - Lawyers
Equipment                                                                               20
20
Furniture                                                                              20
20
Waiting hail                                            12        14                                           02013
Administrative address                                                                            20                    02012
20
Location                                                  3        15
0                  5                  10                 15                 20                 25
Table III b-1: User Satisfaction Survey on Administrative Court Management Software (Capital City Courts)
Survey Question     # of Responses                                        Answers collected
3        It's easy.
82


﻿casc, complaint, and casc       12        It's relatively manageable.
procedure information            1         It's difficult to enter data due to incomprehensible UI elements.
into the software?                         Recommendation: Lack of edit function makes difficulties. Overall user feedback positive. Some complaints
include overlong and complicated data entry procedures, repetitive processes, and unnecessary automation of
certain elements.
10        Yes.
Dos heALRTsyt1                    No.
ctlp dourmeadie? Recommendation: The system is invaluable in certain situations. For instance, declaring court meeting dates,
improving the decision announcement process. Doesn't work sometimes.
Is it possible to reduce        12        The "reminder" function of the software is useful to avoid procedural errors.
procedural crrors               2         The "reminder" function prevents all possible procedural errors.
than ks to thcALERT              1         The system fails to provide assistance that would result in a reduction of procedural errors.
system?                                    Recommendation: Possible to achieve with optimal programming.
Recommendation: Include a direct link to the error in the alert message so it is easier to track. The information
contained in the alert message is too comprehensive.
to the ALERTI system?
Docs the software help          4         Inclusion of court decisions in the software makes it easier and faster for the end user.
facilitate the process of       10         Auto filled data fields such as case parties and nature of claim etc. saves time for the user.
issuing decrees, orders'        4          Inclusion of example court decisions in the software is counter-productive. The judge must make their own
and other official                         decision.
documents?                      2          While auto filled data fields save time, if the data gets changed, wrong data would get entered.
8         It's both concise and easy to understand
1         It violates section 72 of the Administrative Procedure Code; it should therefore be reverted.
2         While it's comprehensible, prefer another design.
Recommendation: It may be best to keep the old format for entered data. Be advised that the new format is too
design-centered. A function to import data from MS Word is needed. Is it possible to add a grammar proofing
function?
11         We are able to retrieve wanted news and studies from the software easily and quickly.
Is it fast and easy to                    There are problems in retrieving information from the software.
retrieve necessary               1         While fast, it's sometimes impossible to retrieve all necessary data from the software. Generally positive.
information and reports                    Recommendation: While the software is fast, it may be helpful if it was able to check if its registry has an error.
from the software?                         Sometimes, reports come incomplete. Also, make certain admin rights available to judges, which will make it easier
to conduct studies. Make it so that all judges and judges' assistants are able to access reports.
Does the software               4         Yes
shorten the time                2         No
83


﻿d for the case           7         While additional time is needed to feed data into the software, it also enables quicker access to information, which
ement process?                    has an overall positive effect.
Recommendation: Once people learn to use the software better, it will get more efficient. Judges' assistants
2         currently have to use the software every hour, which is inefficient. Do technical adjustments so the software doesn't
freeze, or slow down. Currently the software involves tons of user input.
9         Systems handbook is easy to understand and use.
handbook casy to        4         The handbook is incomprehensible, difficult to use, and lacks necessary information
Recommendation: Basically positive feedback received. Didn't have a chance to study the handbook in detail.
Recommendation: Add courtrooms. It's currently impossible to know which courtroom has a court in session.
re ended changes                  Also, color printing would make it easier to understand.
tthhand book?
Unnecessary (1)            2                 3                  4              Invaluable (5)
Registration of complaints and new cases                               1                 3                  5                    8
Complaint resolution                               1                   2                 1                  4                    11
Case entry                                         1                   1                 2                  6                    5
Announcement                                       2                   1                 3                  6                    3
Third party summons                                1                   1                 2                  5                    5
Printing of decrees, decisions, and orders         1                   1                 5                  7                    7
Scheduling court sessions (Court calendar)         2                   1                 2                  3                    8
Compiling court and judge reports                                                        3                  3                    14
Collecting evidence                                1                   2                 5                  4                    4
Case transfer                                      1                                     5                  8                    2
Court proceedings                                  1                   6                 2                  3                    4
Others: case lifetime                                                                                                            2
Table III b-2: User Satisfaction Survey on Administrative Court Management Software (Aimag Courts)
Survey Question      # of Responses                                           Answers collected
Is t as t ete apel,    12        It's easy
It's difficult to enter data due to incomprehensible U elements.
84


﻿into tesoftware?                         Recommendation: Generally positive. No edit function makes things difficult.
Does th ALEIRT system          27        Yes
help yu remember               1         No
critic  deadlines?                       Recommendation: The system is invaluable. But it doesn't work sometimes.
Is it  sible to reduce         21        The "reminder" function of the software is useful to avoid procedural errors.
proceural crrors               13        The "reminder" function prevents all possible procedural errors.
thank to the ALERT             2         The system fails to provide assistance that results in reduction of procedural errors.
system?                                  Recommendation: Keep it simple. Believe it is possible. Remember to fix the error so it stops not working.
Is there anything you                    Recommendation: Add plaintiff s deadline to give response. Make it possible to edit later, if decision number is
wou   like to see added                  entered incorrectly. If the case has clerical errors, make it so that upper level court gets a warning. Make warnings
to the ALERT system?                     repeatable.
Does   e software help         23        Inclusion of court decisions in the software makes it easier and faster for the end user.
facilie the process of         17        Auto filled data fields such as case parties and nature of claim etc. saves time for the user.
issuin decrees, orders,                  Inclusion of example court decisions in the software is counter-productive. The judge must make their own
and or official                         decision.
documents?                     4         While auto filled data fields save time, if the data gets changed, wrong data would get entered.
Is the  w and changed          35        It's both concise and easy to understand
intcrfae to the court          4         It violates s.72 of the Administrative Procedure Code. Should be reverted.
case, dge's order, and                   While it's comprehensible, prefer another design.
decre section                            Recommendation: The fact that it's possible to pick an empty template is very useful.
comprhensible?
Is it  t and easy to          31        We are able to retrieve wanted news and studies from the software easily and quickly.
retrie  necessary                        There are problems in retrieving information from the software.
information and reports        5         While fast, it's sometimes impossible to retrieve all necessary data from the software. Generally positive.
from che software?                       Recommendation: It's better than the previous version.
Dos hesotwre23                   Yes
shorte the time                IN
18        While additional time is needed to feed data into the software, it also enables quicker access to information, which
has an overall positive effect.
Recommendation: Once people learn to use the software better, it will get more efficient.
26        Systems handbook is easy to understand and use.
8         The handbook is incomprehensible, difficult to use, and lacks necessary information
Recommendation: The handbook is missing some software functions. Add role responsibilities.
Wha are the                              Recommendation: Haven't studied it thoroughly yet. Generally the handbook is easy to understand, but wouldn't
recommcnded changes                      hurt if it were better. Add role responsibilities. Would have been better if the tasks assigned to secretaries and
to the handbook?                         assistants were defined separately. It was helpful that the handbook was included on the help menu of the software
85


﻿in file format Add more ontabulatd mfomation. Include all sofare fumctionselIf it's impossible edit later, make
Table III c- 1: List of Trainings Provided to the Court Decision Enforcement Officer
How to change the Legal Ethics Attitude of  Jnay2,21                      2                L
Lawyers
On Pension                                February 1, 2013               123             CDEA
Protection of State Employees' Rights     February 8, 2013                79             Law Enforcement University
On Corruption                             February 15, 2013               91             Independent Authority Against Corruption
On  nfrcmet o AmiisratveCort   February 18, 2013               80              Capital City Administrative Court
Decisions
Company Law                               February 25, 2013               79             Law Enforcement University
Coercive Auction of Immovable Assets      March 1, 2013                   81
Representing at the Court, Gathering of   Mrh1,2381Capital City Court
Evilence
Noncustodial Sanctions Procedure          March 29, 2013                  79             Capital City Prosecutor Office
Reform in the Criminal Law                April 5, 2013                   79             Advocacy office
Civil law                                 April 12, 2013                  81             Law School of Mongolian National University
The Psychology of Communication           April 19, 2013                 123             NLI
Verbal Communication                      April 19, 2013                 123             NLI
StrssMaagmet:HowtoPrvet ndApril 22, 2013                       79              Lady Center, financed by EJSSP
Reduce Stress
Organizational Psychology                 April 26, 2013                 122             Social Science School of Mongolian National University
Archiving                                 May 10, 2013                    79             General Authority for Archive
Introduction of Newly Adopted Regulations  May 17, 2013                  129             Capital City CDE Office
Methodology of Entering Data into the     My3,21                           9CE
Registration System
Forum on Intensification of Noncustodial  Spebr1,2321CDEA, Prosecutor's and Police's Office of Bayangol
Sanctions Procedure                                                                      District
Table III c-2: Enforcement Rates
86


﻿2010                               2011                                2012                         As of August 31, 2013
CDEA Offices
e/s       366           252       68.9       358           286       79.9       375            299       79.7       284            145       51.1
Arkhangai Aimag
am     469983.5      303036.5     64.5     365039.6      278090.8    76.2     384583.2       284317.3    73.9     427883.3      195609.8     45.7
e/s       574           398       69.3       468           364       77.8       367            266       72.5       462            245       53.0
Bayan-UIgii Aimag
am     722736.2      461892.8     63.9    566590.8      362950.7     64.1     1124124.1     440666.3     39.2     922601.4      138820.9     15.0
.       e/s      546           360       65.9       458           307        67.0       396           310        78.3       330           187        56.7
am     759339.4      572063.3     75.3    560849.6      424236.3     75.6     387475.0       319915.0    82.6     776062.1      592819.1     76.4
e/s       427           300                  403           290                  352            247                  426            210
573306.8      325306.2             543649.6      333167.3              750607.0      496799.4             809787.4       260933.2
e/s       469           389       82.9       365           302       82.7       342            287       83.9       241            86        35.7
Govi-Altai Almag                                                                                                                                  _______
am     533085.9      426499.7     80.0    317512.9      260254.8     82.0     395750.9       326886.7    82.6     583495.9      206692.6     35.4
e/s       454           272       59.9       294           192       65.3       223            146       65.5       162            81        50.0
Govi-Sumber Almag                                    _
am     532719.1      193396.8     36.3    351362.3      178416.5     50.8     274693.9       139583.1    50.8     236919.4       62543.3     26.4
e/s       849           561       66.1       691           458       66.3       701            467       66.6       742            272       36.7
Darkhan-Uui Aimag
am     2287513.0     1662134.8    72.7    2021261.4     1475388.4    73.0     2060647.8     1526076.0    74.1    4300008.8      1493916.5    34.7
. .          e/s      793           447       56.4       689           396        57.5       606           409        67.5       478           220        46.0
Dornogovi Almag
am     599825.9      441115.5     73.5    510562.1      367687.3     72.0     841497.8       674772.9    80.2    1441838.3      474529.0     32.9
e/s      1475           815       55.3      1099           716       65.2       905            683       75.5       1179           767       65.1
Dornod Aimag
am     611186.3      292602.7     47.9    360056.4      252608.2     70.2     660829.8       552024.9    83.5     838624.8      312105.1     37.2
e/s       482           386       80.1       379           304       80.2       359            288       80.2       244            142       58.2
Dundgovi Almag
am     146742.4      106275.9     72.4    204471.6      154904.2     75.8     419419.3       354542.4    84.5     285188.5      136465.0     47.9
e/s       315           267       84.8       212           190       89.6       261            232       88.9       229            156       68.1
Zavkhan Almag                                                                                                                                     _______
am     604852.4      529690.9     87.6    377409.1      333358.7     88.3     464788.6       387765.1    83.4     466525.2      226069.5     48.5
e/s      1795           850       47.4      1656           681       41.1       1725           869       50.4       1239           340       27.4
Orkhon Aimag
am     5362984.4     3019240.4    56.3    5924652.0     3442914.7    58.1     5872678.3     2667306.6    45.4    13727463.5     9043654.5    65.9
e/s       680           613       90.1       907           847       93.4       585            551       94.2       473            331       70.0
Uvurkhangai Almag
am     495857.4      461969.6     93.2    351015.9      329244.8     93.8     273552.1       258577.5    94.5     429163.5      186593.3     43.5
Umnugovi Aimag      e/s       523           300       57.4       525           381       72.6       442            330       74.7       332            189       56.9
87


﻿arn    1133105.0      663150.0    58.5    828907.0      483905.0     58.4     1374662.0     1145077.0    83.3    2441217.0      1882493.0    77.1
15          e/s       456           343       75.2       324           230       71.0        289           216       74.7       314            184       58.6
Sukhbaatar Aimag    am      486985.1      362783.5    74.5     349436.9      265578.6    76.0     370001.9       272917.7    73.8     345210.9       161812.0    46.9
e/s      1069           811       75.9       909           569       62.6       923            558       60.5       801            331       41.3
Selenge Aimag
am     4053543.6     1486562.6    36.7    3451268.1     2316968.0    67.1     1842211.3     606545.8     32.9    2548830.3      784565.6     30.8
e/s       741           451       60.9       811           589       72.6       773            539       69.7       756            346       45.8
Tuv Aimag
am     1233891.1     884013.7     71.6    1161278.5      844186.6    72.7     1396819.3     1094421.0    78.4    1366167.3      351220.5     25.7
e/s       789           454                  681           351                  787            542727                              366
1055017.3     866781.8             1221096.4     1079123.4             556421.4      467070.3              798774.2      567473.8
e/s       419           366       87.4       336           275       81.8       350            297       84.9       181            104       57.5
Khovd Aimnag                                         ___
arn    1139406.5     1042051.4    91.5    1042084.8      936747      89.9     655728.1       580180      88.5     949836.3       557318      58.7
e/s       462           378       81.8       445           372       83.6       474            408       86.1       418            279       66.7
ar n   482561.4      396064.4     82.1     726174.8     647467.1     89.2     805304.7       732502.0    91.0    1265148.7      718276.5     56.8
e/s       403           289       71.7       335           241       71.9       323            246       76.2       339            168       49.6
Khentii Aimnag
ar     538134.4      265626.5     49.4    922437.1       510804.8    55.4     511500.7       378651.4    74.0     672428.8      254563.8     37.9
CDEA of the Capital  e/s     10288         5403       52.5      8980          5287       58.9       9735           5736      58.9       9437          3594       38.1
City                ar    168692360.8    67647622.5   40.1   166157936.1    67656056.6   40.7    201427909.3    75421572.4   37.4    657540942.7   390147399.5   59.3
Baganuur District of  e/s     474           345       72.8       467           363       77.7        333           255       76.6       299            115       38.5
UB                  ar      589068.0      436360.2    74.1     480308.5      334050.8    69.5     537382.5       386651.5    72.0     706188.3       240063.3    34.0
Khorkhorin Soum of  e/s       204           180       88.2       170           143       84.1        175           158       90.3       109            82        75.2
Uvurkhangai Aimag   ar      151964.5      139682.7    91.9     195211.8      188072.2    96.3      78566.6       73921.6     94.1     44010.9        27101.3     61.6
Mandal Soum of      e/s       235           181       77.0       193           158       81.9       249            206       82.7       210            122       58.1
Selenge Aimag       ar      169446.3      119004.7    70.2     183287.2      117454.0    64.1      287780.6      217833.5    75.7     401237.7       136371.7    34.0
e/s     25,288        15,411               22,155         14,292               22,050         14,545               20,412         9,062
Total
a     193,425,616.7  83,104,929.1        189,173,860.5  83,573,636.3        223,754,936.2  89,806,577.2         694,325,555.2  409,159,410.8
88


﻿90/E                 95 E                  10°E                 101E                                         MONGOLIA
ENHANCED JUSTICE SECTOR
SERVICES PROJECT
PROJECT WORKS:
COURT DECISIONS ENFORCEMENT AGENCY   NATIONAL CAPITAL
R U S S l A N   F E D E    A T l 0 N                                                              AIMAG (PROVINCE) CAPITALS
MONGOLIAINTER-SOUM COURT BUILDINGS
SOUM (DISTRICT) BOUNDARIES
AIMAG COURT BUILlDING
AIMAG (PROVINCE) BOUNDARIES
LEGAL AID CENTERS FOR MINORITIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
PROJECT SITES
11°E                   11°'E                   12°'E
50o
SOP                 lö rnom  --                                                                                                                               - - -5 4
---he -- ia Is      I Uni ofTh
A -sou                                                                  Sukhbaatar
laantigoM dn                           KHnVSGL-
TvS,¯ SELEN0E
BAYAop eOR KHg                                                                              DAR   ~                     D VORNtD
oso gel hdybalsan
ZAKANBLAN                                           ULAANB ATARk-            KherlenSoum'
(Jr läntS                                        A RUL)NG                 ANBAATAR                KHIENP4
orsele un undns r\ooo
TsetserofÖndörkhaan
X(                                 dT                                                 Darkhan     Baruun Urt
Bayankhlongore/                             Gov S      &MERs
y u aig'                      Arvaykýheer ,Cor'                          o   u       SKB
Altay)
V R -      Mand.a'gv9°--------
GOV'ALTAY,            BAYAN-,       "/      14---------
KHN0    R    KHNA              DUNGOV             Saynshand.
DORN060V'
Zammyn-uud,
SouM
Dalanzadgad
ThisMap Des n Un-f The
World Bank. Tebunais
any othr in  m  t a  shownter
on this map go not imply, on                                                                                                    1 2  50  75  10Klmtr
the part of he World Bank                                                                                                                                       A40°*
på.~ ~ ~   ~ I.                                 cI    N    A                                                        5----M_      75     1Mie
-T


